=======================================================
Glenn Herbert Gould[fn 1][fn 2] (25 September 1932 – 4 October 1982) was a Canadian pianist who became one of the best-known and most celebrated classical pianists of the 20th century. He was particularly renowned as an interpreter of the keyboard music of Johann Sebastian Bach. His playing was distinguished by remarkable technical proficiency and capacity to articulate the polyphonic texture of Bach's music.
After his adolescence, Gould rejected most of the standard Romantic piano literature including Liszt, Schumann, and Chopin. Although his recordings were dominated by Bach, Gould's repertoire was diverse, including works by Beethoven, Mozart, Haydn, Brahms, pre-Baroque composers such as Jan Pieterszoon Sweelinck, and such 20th-century composers as Paul Hindemith, Arnold Schoenberg and Richard Strauss. Gould was well known for various eccentricities, from his unorthodox musical interpretations and mannerisms at the keyboard to aspects of his lifestyle and personal behaviour. He stopped giving concerts at the age of 31 to concentrate on studio recording and other projects. Gould was the first pianist to record any of Liszt's piano transcriptions of Beethoven's symphonies (beginning with the Fifth Symphony, in 1967).
Gould was also known as a writer, composer, conductor, and broadcaster. He was a prolific contributor to musical journals, in which he discussed music theory and outlined his musical philosophy. His career as a composer was less distinguished. His output was minimal and many projects were left unfinished. There is evidence that, had he lived beyond 50, he intended to abandon the piano and devote the remainder of his career to conducting and other projects. As a broadcaster, Gould was prolific. His output ranged from television and radio broadcasts of studio performances to musique concrète radio documentaries about life in the Canadian wilderness.
Glenn Herbert Gold was born at home in Toronto on September 25, 1932, to Russell Herbert ("Bert") Gold and Florence ("Flora") Emma Gold (née Grieg),[1] Presbyterians of Scottish and English ancestry.[2] His maternal grandfather was a cousin of Norwegian composer Edvard Grieg (who was himself of Scottish ancestry).[3][4] The family's surname was changed to Gould informally around 1939 in order to avoid being mistaken for Jewish, given the prevailing anti-Semitism of prewar Toronto and the Gold surname's Jewish association.[fn 3] Gould had no Jewish ancestry,[fn 4] though he sometimes made jokes on the subject, like "When people ask me if I'm Jewish, I always tell them that I was Jewish during the war."[5] Gould grew up in a home at 32 Southwood Drive, Toronto. His childhood home has been named a historic site by the City of Toronto.[6]
Gould's interest in music and his talent as a pianist became evident very early. Both his parents were musical, and his mother, especially, encouraged the infant Gould's early musical development. Before his birth, his mother planned for him to become a successful musician, and thus exposed him to music during her pregnancy.[9] As a baby, he reportedly hummed instead of crying and wiggled his fingers as if playing chords, leading his doctor to predict that he would "be either a physician or a pianist".[10] By the age of three, Gould's perfect pitch was noticed. He learned to read music before he could read words.[3][11][12] When presented with a piano, the young Gould was reported to strike single notes and listen to their long decay, a practice his father Bert noted was different from typical children.[11] Gould's interest in the piano proceeded side by side with an interest in composition. He would play his own little pieces for family, friends, and sometimes large gatherings, including, in 1938, a performance at the Emmanuel Presbyterian Church (a few blocks from the Gould house) of one of his own compositions.[13] At the age of six, he was taken for the first time to hear a live musical performance by a celebrated soloist. This left a tremendous impression. He later described the experience:
It was Hofmann. It was, I think, his last performance in Toronto, and it was a staggering impression. The only thing I can really remember is that, when I was being brought home in a car, I was in that wonderful state of half-awakeness in which you hear all sorts of incredible sounds going through your mind. They were all orchestral sounds, but I was playing them all, and suddenly I was Hofmann. I was enchanted.[3][14]
Glenn Gould with his teacher, Alberto Guerrero, demonstrating Guerrero's technical idea that Gould should pull down at keys instead of striking them from above. The photo was taken in 1945, before Gould fully developed this technique.
As a young child, Gould was taught piano by his mother. At the age of 10, he began attending The Royal Conservatory of Music in Toronto. He studied music theory with Leo Smith, the organ with Frederick C. Silvester, and piano with Alberto Guerrero.[15] Around the same time, he injured his back as a result of a fall from a boat ramp on the shore of Lake Simcoe.[fn 5] This incident is almost certainly related to the adjustable-height chair his father made shortly thereafter. Gould's mother would urge the young Gould to sit up straight at the keyboard.[16] He used this chair for the rest of his life and took it with him almost everywhere.[3] The famous chair was designed so that Gould could sit very low at the keyboard. The chair allowed him to pull down on the keys rather than striking them from above, a central technical idea of his teacher at the Conservatory, Alberto Guerrero.[17]
Gould developed a technique that enabled him to choose a very fast tempo while retaining the separateness and clarity of each note.[18] His extremely low position at the instrument arguably permitted more control over the keyboard. Gould showed considerable technical skill in performing and recording a wide repertoire including virtuosic and romantic works, such as his own arrangement of Ravel's La valse and Liszt's transcriptions of Beethoven's fifth and sixth symphonies. Gould worked from a young age with his teacher Alberto Guerrero on a technique known as finger-tapping: a method of training the fingers to act more independently from the arm.[19]
Gould passed his final Conservatory examination in piano at the age of 12 (achieving the "highest marks of any candidate"), thus attaining "professional standing as a pianist" at that age.[20] One year later he passed the written theory exams, qualifying for an ATCM diploma.[fn 6][20]
Gould claimed he almost never practised on the piano, preferring to study music by reading it rather than playing it,[fn 7] another technique he had learned from Guerrero. His manual practising focused on articulation, rather than basic facility. He may have spoken ironically about his practising as there is evidence that, on occasion, he did practise quite hard, sometimes using his own drills and techniques.[fn 8]
He stated that he didn't understand the requirement of other pianists to continuously reinforce their relationship with the instrument by practising many hours a day.[21] It seems that Gould was able to practise mentally without access to an instrument, and even took this so far as to prepare for a recording of Brahms piano works without ever playing them until a few weeks before the recording sessions.[22] Gould could play from memory not just a vast repertoire of piano music, but also a wide range of orchestral and operatic transcriptions.[23] He could 'memorize at sight' and once challenged his friend John Roberts to name 'any piece of music' that he could not 'instantly play from memory'.[24]
The piano, Gould said, "is not an instrument for which I have any great love as such... [but] I have played it all my life, and it is the best vehicle I have to express my ideas." In the case of Bach, Gould admitted, "[I] fixed the action in some of the instruments I play on—and the piano I use for all recordings is now so fixed—so that it is a shallower and more responsive action than the standard. It tends to have a mechanism which is rather like an automobile without power steering: you are in control and not it; it doesn't drive you, you drive it. This is the secret of doing Bach on the piano at all. You must have that immediacy of response, that control over fine definitions of things."[25]
Of significant influence upon the teenage Gould were Artur Schnabel,[fn 9] Rosalyn Tureck's recordings of Bach ("upright, with a sense of repose and positiveness"), and Leopold Stokowski.[26]
Gould was known for having a vivid imagination. Listeners regarded his interpretations as ranging from brilliantly creative to outright eccentric.[18] His piano playing had great clarity and erudition, particularly in contrapuntal passages,[18] and extraordinary control. He was a child prodigy[27] and in adulthood described as a musical phenomenon.[fn 10] As he played, he often swayed his torso in a clockwise motion.
Gould had a pronounced aversion to what he termed a "hedonistic" approach to the piano repertoire, performance, and music generally. For Gould, "hedonism" in this sense denoted a superficial theatricality, something to which he felt Mozart, for example, became increasingly susceptible later in his career.[28] He associated this drift towards hedonism with the emergence of a cult of showmanship and gratuitous virtuosity on the concert platform in the 19th century and later. The institution of the public concert, he felt, degenerated into the "blood sport" with which he struggled, and which he ultimately rejected.[29]
In 1945, he gave his first public performance, playing the organ,[30] and the following year he made his first appearance with an orchestra, the Toronto Symphony Orchestra, in a performance of the first movement of Beethoven's 4th Piano Concerto.[31] His first solo recital followed in 1947,[32] and his first recital on radio was with the CBC in 1950.[33] This was the beginning of his long association with radio and recording. He founded the Festival Trio chamber group in 1953 with the cellist Isaac Mamott and the violinist Albert Pratz.
In 1957, Gould embarked on a tour of the Soviet Union, becoming the first North American to play there since World War II.[34] His concerts featured Bach, Beethoven, and the serial music of Schoenberg and Berg, which had been suppressed in the Soviet Union during the era of Socialist Realism. Gould made his Boston debut in 1958, playing for the Peabody Mason Concert Series.[35]
Gould was convinced that the institution of the public concert was not only an anachronism, but also a "force of evil", leading to his retirement from concert performance. He argued that public performance devolved into a sort of competition, with a non-empathetic audience (musically and otherwise) mostly attendant to the possibility of the performer erring or not meeting critical expectation. This doctrine he set forth, only half in jest, in "GPAADAK", the Gould Plan for the Abolition of Applause and Demonstrations of All Kinds.[36]
On April 10, 1964, Gould gave his last public performance, playing in Los Angeles, at the Wilshire Ebell Theater.[37] Among the pieces he performed that night were Beethoven's Piano Sonata No. 30, selections from Bach's The Art of Fugue, and Paul Hindemith's Piano Sonata No. 3.[fn 11] Gould performed fewer than 200 concerts over the course of his career, of which fewer than 40 were overseas. For pianists such as Van Cliburn, 200 concerts would have amounted to about two years' touring.[38]
One of Gould's reasons for abandoning live performance was his aesthetic preference for the recording studio, where, in his words, he developed a "love affair with the microphone".[fn 12] There, he could control every aspect of the final musical "product" by selecting parts of various takes. He felt that he could realize a musical score more fully this way. Thus, the act of musical composition, to Gould, did not entirely end with the original score. The performer had to make creative choices. Gould felt strongly that there was little point in re-recording centuries-old pieces if the performer had no new perspective to bring to the work. For the rest of his life, Gould eschewed live performance, focusing instead on recording, writing, and broadcasting.
The issue of "authenticity" in relation to an approach like Gould's has been a topic of great debate, although diminished by the end of the 20th century—a development that Gould seems to have anticipated. It asks whether a recording is less authentic or "direct" for having been highly refined by technical means in the studio. Gould likened his process to that of a film director[39]—one does not perceive that a two-hour film was made in two hours—and implicitly asks why the act of listening to music should be any different. He went so far as to conduct an "experiment" with musicians, sound engineers, and laypeople in which they were to listen to a recording and determine where the splices occurred. Each group chose different points based on their relationship to music, but none successfully. While the conclusion was hardly scientific, Gould remarked, "The tape does lie, and nearly always gets away with it".[40]
In a lecture and essay titled "Forgery and Imitation in the Creative Process", one of Gould's most significant texts,[41] he makes explicit his views on authenticity and creativity. Gould asks why the epoch in which a work is received, influences its reception as "art", postulating a sonata he composes that sounds so much like Haydn that it is received as such. If, instead, the same sonata had been attributed to a somewhat earlier or later composer, it becomes more or less interesting as a piece of music. Yet it is not the work that has changed but its relation within the accepted narrative of music history. Similarly, Gould notes the "pathetic duplicity" in the reception of high-quality forgeries by Han van Meegeren of new paintings attributed to Dutch Golden Age master Vermeer, before and after the forgery was known.
Gould, therefore, prefers an ahistorical, or at least pre-Renaissance, view of art, minimizing the identity of the artist and the attendant historical context in evaluating the artwork: "What gives us the right to assume that in the work of art we must receive a direct communication with the historical attitudes of another period? ... moreover, what makes us assume that the situation of the man who wrote it accurately or faithfully reflects the situation of his time? ... What if the composer, as historian, is faulty?"[42]
Gould is reported to have 'periodically told interviewers that if he had not been a pianist, he would have been a writer'.[43] He expounded his criticism and philosophy of music and art in lectures, convocation speeches, periodicals, and radio and television documentaries for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. Gould participated in many interviews, and had a predilection for scripting them to the extent that they may be seen as much as "works" as off-the-cuff discussions. Bazzana writes that although some of Gould's 'conversational dazzle' found its way into his prolific, written output, his writing was 'at best uneven, at worst awful'.[44] While offering 'brilliant insights' and 'provocative theses', it was often marred by 'long, tortuous sentences' and a 'false formality'.[45] Gould's writing style was highly articulate, but sometimes florid, indulgent, or rhetorical. This is especially evident in those works in which he attempts humour or irony, which he did often.[fn 13]
In these he praised certain composers and rejected what he deemed banal in music composition and its consumption by the public, and also gave insightful analyses of the music of Richard Strauss, Alban Berg and Anton Webern. Despite a certain affection for Dixieland jazz, Gould was mostly averse to popular music. He enjoyed a jazz concert with his friends as a youth, mentioned jazz in his writings, and once criticized The Beatles for "bad voice leading"[fn 14]—while praising Petula Clark and Barbra Streisand. He shared a mutual admiration with jazz pianist Bill Evans, who made his seminal record Conversations with Myself using Gould's celebrated Steinway CD 318 piano. Gould believed that "the piano is a contrapuntal instrument," and his whole approach to music was, in fact, centered in the Baroque. Much of the homophony that followed he felt belongs to a less serious and less spiritual period of art.
A 1962 quote is often used to summarize Gould's perspective on art: "The justification of art is the internal combustion it ignites in the hearts of men and not its shallow, externalized, public manifestations. The purpose of art is not the release of a momentary ejection of adrenaline but is, rather, the gradual, lifelong construction of a state of wonder and serenity."[46]
Gould referred to himself repeatedly as "the last puritan", a reference to philosopher George Santayana's novel of the same name.[47] Weighing this statement against Gould's highly individualistic lifestyle and artistic vision leads to an apparent contradiction. He was progressive in many ways, promulgating the controversial atonal composers, and anticipating, through his deep involvement with the recording process, the vast changes that technology would have on the production and distribution of music. Mark Kingwell summarizes the paradox, never resolved by Gould nor his biographers:
He was progressive and anti-progressive at once, and likewise at once both a critic of the Zeitgeist and its most interesting expression. He was, in effect, stranded on a beachhead of his own thinking between past and future. That he was not able, by himself, to fashion a bridge between them is neither surprising, nor, in the end, disappointing. We should see this failure, rather, as an aspect of his genius. He both was and was not a man of his time.[48]
Gould was widely known for his unusual habits. He usually hummed while he played the piano, and his recording engineers had mixed results in how successfully they could exclude his voice from recordings. Gould claimed that his singing was unconscious and increased proportionately with the inability of the piano in question to realize the music as he intended. It is likely that this habit originated in Gould's having been taught by his mother to "sing everything that he played", as Kevin Bazzana puts it. "This became "an unbreakable (and notorious) habit".[49] Some of Gould's recordings were severely criticised because of the background "vocalise". For example, a reviewer of his 1981 re-recording of the Goldberg Variations opined that many listeners would "find the groans and croons intolerable".[50] Gould was renowned for his peculiar body movements while playing and for his insistence on absolute control over every aspect of his playing environment. The temperature of the recording studio had to be exactly regulated. He invariably insisted that it be extremely warm. According to Friedrich, the air conditioning engineer had to work just as hard as the recording engineers.[51] The piano had to be set at a certain height and would be raised on wooden blocks if necessary.[52] A small rug would sometimes be required for his feet underneath the piano.[53] He had to sit fourteen inches above the floor and would play concerts only while sitting on the old chair his father had made. He continued to use this chair even when the seat was completely worn through.[54] His chair is so closely identified with him that it is shown in a place of honour in a glass case at the National Library of Canada.
Conductors responded diversely to Gould and his playing habits. George Szell, who led Gould in 1957 with the Cleveland Orchestra, remarked to his assistant, "That nut's a genius."[55] Leonard Bernstein said, "There is nobody quite like him, and I just love playing with him."[55] Bernstein created a stir at the April 6, 1962 concert when, just before the New York Philharmonic was to perform the Brahms Piano Concerto No. 1 in D minor with Gould as soloist, he informed the audience that he was assuming no responsibility for what they were about to hear. He asked the audience: "In a concerto, who is the boss – the soloist or the conductor? (audience laughter). The answer is, of course, sometimes the one and sometimes the other, depending on the people involved."[56] Specifically, he was referring to their rehearsals with Gould's insistence that the entire first movement be played at half the indicated tempo. The speech was interpreted by Harold C. Schonberg, music critic for The New York Times, as an abdication of responsibility and an attack on Gould.[57] Plans for a studio recording of the performance came to nothing. The live radio broadcast (along with Bernstein's disclaimer) was subsequently released on CD.
Gould was averse to cold, and wore heavy clothing (including gloves), even in warm places. He was once arrested, presumably mistaken for a vagrant, while sitting on a park bench in Sarasota, Florida, dressed in his standard all-climate attire of coat(s), warm hat, and mittens.[58] Barbara Rose, daughter of the legendary cellist Leonard Rose, with whom Gould partnered on several recordings, later suggested that Gould had suffered from fibromyalgia, a condition which could not be diagnosed at the time and which made it impossible for Gould to tell hot from cold.[59] He also disliked social functions. He hated being touched, and in later life he limited personal contact, relying on the telephone and letters for communication. On one visit to Steinway Hall in New York City in 1959, the chief piano technician at the time, William Hupfer, greeted Gould by giving him a slap on the back. Gould was shocked by this, and complained of aching, lack of coordination, and fatigue because of the incident. He went on to explore the possibility of litigation against Steinway & Sons if his apparent injuries were permanent.[60] He was known for cancelling performances at the last minute, which is why Bernstein's above-mentioned public disclaimer opens with, "Don't be frightened, Mr. Gould is here... will appear in a moment."
In his liner notes and broadcasts, Gould created more than two dozen alter egos for satirical, humorous, or didactic purposes, permitting him to write hostile reviews or incomprehensible commentaries on his own performances. Probably the best-known are the German musicologist "Karlheinz Klopweisser", the English conductor "Sir Nigel Twitt-Thornwaite", and the American critic "Theodore Slutz".[61] These facets of Gould, whether interpreted as neurosis or "play",[62] have provided ample material for psychobiography.
Fran's Restaurant in Toronto was a regular haunt of Gould's. A CBC profile noted, "sometime between two and three every morning, Gould would go to Fran's, a 24-hour diner a block away from his Toronto apartment, sit in the same booth, and order the same meal of scrambled eggs."[63] In a letter to the cellist Virginia Katims, dating back to January 20, 1973, Gould stated he had been vegetarian for about ten years.[64]
It has been debated whether or not Gould's mind fell within the autism spectrum.[6] The diagnosis was first suggested by psychiatrist Peter Ostwald, a friend of Gould's, in the 1997 book Glenn Gould: The Ecstasy and Tragedy of Genius.[65] Many of Gould's documented and notedly "eccentric" behaviors such as repetitive rituals, echolalia (a form of Tourette syndrome in which an individual impulsively repeats ambient sounds), and aversion to socializing are hallmarks of autistic behavior. This has been disputed by, among others[who?], Kevin Bazzana.[citation needed]
Gould lived a private life: Bruno Monsaingeon said of him, "No supreme pianist has ever given of his heart and mind so overwhelmingly while showing himself so sparingly."[66]
When Gould was in Los Angeles in 1956, he met Cornelia Foss and husband Lukas. Foss was an art instructor who had studied sculpture at the American Academy in Rome. Her husband worked for both the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra and the Brooklyn Philharmonia. After several years, Gould and Cornelia Foss became lovers.[67] Foss left her husband in 1967 for Gould, taking her two children with her to Toronto. She purchased a house near Gould's 110 St. Clair Avenue West apartment. In 2007, Cornelia Foss finally admitted that she and Gould had had a love affair lasting several years.[67] According to Foss, "There were a lot of misconceptions about Glenn, and it was partly because he was so very private. But I assure you, he was an extremely heterosexual man. Our relationship was, among other things, quite sexual." Their affair lasted until 1972, when she returned to her husband. As early as two weeks after leaving her husband, Foss noticed disturbing signs in Gould. She describes a serious paranoid episode:
"It lasted several hours, and then I knew he was not just neurotic – there was more to it. I thought to myself, 'Good grief, am I going to bring up my children in this environment?' But I stayed four and a half years." Foss did not discuss details, but others close to Gould said he was convinced someone was trying to poison him and that others were spying on him.[67]
Gould suffered many pains and ailments, though he was something of a hypochondriac[68][fn 15] (admitting it himself on at least one occasion), and his autopsy revealed few underlying problems in areas that often troubled him.[fn 16] As mentioned above, early in his life Gould had suffered a spine injury; his physicians prescribed, usually independently, an assortment of analgesics, anxiolytics, and other drugs. Bazzana has speculated that Gould's increasing use of a variety of prescription medications over his career may have had a deleterious effect on his health. It reached the stage, Bazzana writes, that 'he was taking pills to counteract the side effects of other pills, creating a cycle of dependency'.[69]
He was highly concerned about his health throughout his life, worrying about everything from high blood pressure (which in his later years he recorded in diary form) to the safety of his hands. Gould rarely shook hands with anyone and usually wore gloves.[fn 17][fn 18]
On September 27, 1982, after experiencing a severe headache, Gould suffered a stroke that paralyzed the left side of his body. He was admitted to Toronto General Hospital and his condition rapidly deteriorated. By October 4, there was evidence of brain damage, and Gould's father decided that his son should be taken off life support.[70] He is buried next to his parents in Toronto's Mount Pleasant Cemetery (section 38, Row 1088, Plot 1050). The first few measures of the Goldberg Variations are carved on his marker. According to the Glenn Gould Foundation, the cemetery staff are often asked for directions to his grave.[71]
Compare the 1970 version from the "Complete Piano Sonatas" set (played first) and the 1958 interpretation (second).
Gould recorded several Handel suites and a few pieces from J.S. Bach's WTC on a Wittmayer harpsichord. The somewhat muffled sound of this 20th-century instrument is very different from modern recordings that are made using copies of old harpsichords.[72]
In creating music, Gould much preferred the control and intimacy provided by the recording studio. He disliked the concert hall, which he compared to a competitive sporting arena. After his final public performance in 1964, he devoted his career solely to the studio, recording albums and several radio documentaries. He was attracted to the technical aspects of recording, and considered the manipulation of tape to be another part of the creative process. Although Gould's recording studio producers have testified that "he needed splicing, less than most performers",[73] Gould used the process to give him total artistic control over the recording process. He recounted his recording of the A minor fugue from Book I of The Well-Tempered Clavier and how it was spliced together from two takes, with the fugue's expositions from one take and its episodes from another.[74]
Following his first recording (of Berg's Piano sonata, Op. 1, on the Canadian Hallmark label, c. 1952), the pianist's first breakthrough success, Bach: The Goldberg Variations, was recorded in 1955, at Columbia Records 30th Street Studios in New York City. Although there was initially some controversy at CBS as to whether this was the most appropriate piece to record, the finished product received phenomenal praise and was among the best-selling classical music albums of its time.[75] Gould became closely associated with the piece, playing it in full or in part at many of his recitals. Another version of the Goldberg Variations, recorded in 1981, would be among his last recordings, and one of only a few pieces he recorded twice in the studio. The 1981 recording was one of CBS Masterworks' first digital recordings. The first recording is highly energetic and often frenetic. The second, slower and more deliberate.[76][77] In the latter, Gould treats the aria and its 30 variations as one cohesive piece.[fn 19]
Gould revered Bach: "[he was] first and last an architect, a constructor of sound, and what makes him so inestimably valuable to us is that he was beyond a doubt the greatest architect of sound who ever lived".[78] He recorded most of Bach's other keyboard works, including the complete The Well-Tempered Clavier, Partitas, French Suites, English Suites, and keyboard concertos. For his only recording at the organ, he recorded about half of The Art of Fugue. He also recorded all five of Beethoven's piano concertos and 23 of the 32 piano sonatas.
Gould also recorded works by Brahms, Mozart, and many other prominent piano composers, though he was outspoken in his criticism of some of them. He was extremely critical of Frédéric Chopin. In a radio interview, when asked if he didn't find himself wanting to play Chopin, he replied: "No, I don't. I play it in a weak moment – maybe once a year or twice a year for myself. But it doesn't convince me."[79] Although Gould recorded all of Mozart's sonatas and admitted enjoying the "actual playing" of them,[80] he claimed to dislike Mozart's later works, to the extent of arguing (perhaps facetiously) that Mozart died too late rather than too early.[81] He was fond of many lesser-known composers, such as Orlando Gibbons, whose Anthems he had heard as a teenager,[82] and for whose music he felt a "spiritual attachment".[83] He recorded a number of Gibbons's keyboard works and called him his favourite composer,[84][85] despite his better-known admiration for the technical mastery of Bach.[fn 20] He made recordings of piano music by Jean Sibelius (the Sonatines and Kyllikki), Georges Bizet (the Variations Chromatiques de Concert and the Premier nocturne), Richard Strauss (the Piano Sonata, the Five Pieces, and Enoch Arden with Claude Rains), and Paul Hindemith (the three piano sonatas and the sonatas for brass and piano). He also made recordings of the complete piano works Lieder by Arnold Schoenberg. The last thing Gould recorded was Strauss: Piano Sonata, Op. 5. It was recorded between September 1 – 3, 1982[86] in New York City.
The success of Gould's collaborations with other artists was to a degree dependent upon their receptiveness to his sometimes unconventional readings of the music. His television collaboration with Yehudi Menuhin in 1965, recording works by Bach, Beethoven and Schoenberg,Stegemann (1993b) was deemed a success because "... Menuhin was ready to embrace the new perspectives opened up by an unorthodox view ...".[87] In 1966, his collaboration with Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, however, recording Richard Strauss's Ophelia Lieder, Op. 67, was deemed an "outright fiasco".[87] Schwarzkopf believed in "total fidelity" to the score, but she also objected to the thermal conditions in the recording studio: "The studio was incredibly overheated, which may be good for a pianist but not for a singer: a dry throat is the end as far as singing is concerned. But we persevered nonetheless. It wasn't easy for me. Gould began by improvising something Straussian—we thought he was simply warming up, but no, he continued to play like that throughout the actual recordings, as though Strauss's notes were just a pretext that allowed him to improvise freely...."[88]
As the result of Gould's association with CBC Records, he made numerous television and radio programs for CBC Television and CBC Radio. Notable productions include his music-concrète Solitude Trilogy, which consists of The Idea of North, a meditation on Northern Canada and its people, The Latecomers about Newfoundland, and The Quiet in the Land, about Mennonites in Manitoba. All three use a radiophonic electronic-music technique that Gould called contrapuntal radio, in which several people are heard speaking at once—much like the voices in a fugue—manipulated through the use of tape. Gould's experience of driving across northern Ontario while listening to Top 40 radio in 1967 provided the inspiration for one of his most unusual CBC radio pieces, The Search for Petula Clark, a witty and eloquent dissertation on the recordings of the renowned British pop singer, who was then at the peak of her international success[89]
Gould was not only a composer, but also a prolific arranger of orchestral repertoire for piano. His arrangements include his recorded Wagner and Ravel transcriptions, as well as the operas of Richard Strauss and the symphonies of Schubert and Bruckner,[3] which he played privately for pleasure.[fn 21]
As a teenager, Gould wrote chamber music and piano works in the style of the Second Viennese school of composition. His only significant work was the String Quartet, Op. 1, which he finished when he was in his 20s, and perhaps his cadenzas to Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 1. Later works include the Lieberson Madrigal (SATB and piano), and So You Want to Write a Fugue? (SATB with piano or string quartet accompaniment). The majority of his work is published by Schott Music. The recording Glenn Gould: The Composer contains his original works.
The String Quartet Op. 1 (published in 1956 and recorded in 1960) had a mixed reception from critics. For example, the notices from the Christian Science Monitor and The Saturday Review were quite laudatory, while the response from the Montreal Star was less so.[90] There is little critical commentary on Gould's compositional work for the simple reason that there are few compositions. He did not proceed beyond Opus 1. Gould left many compositions unfinished.[91] He attributed his failure as a composer to his lack of a "personal voice".[92] See List of compositions by Glenn Gould for a complete list of works.
Towards the end of his life, Gould began conducting. He had earlier directed Bach's Brandenburg Concerto No. 5 and the cantata Widerstehe doch der Sünde from the harpsipiano (a piano with metal hammers to simulate a harpsichord's sound), and Gustav Mahler's Symphony No. 2 (the Urlicht section) in the 1960s. His last recording was as a conductor of Wagner's Siegfried Idyll in its original chamber music scoring. He intended to give up the piano at the age of 50, spending later years conducting, writing about music, and composing.[93]
Gould is one of the most acclaimed 20th-century classical musicians. His unique pianistic method, insight into the architecture of compositions, and relatively free interpretation of scores created performances and recordings that were revelatory to many listeners while highly objectionable to others. Philosopher Mark Kingwell writes that "his influence is made inescapable. No performer after him can avoid the example he sets... Now, everyone must perform through him: he can be emulated or rejected, but he cannot be ignored."[94]
Gould left an extensive body of work beyond the keyboard. After his retirement from concert performance, he was increasingly interested in other media, including audio and film documentary and writing, through which he mused on aesthetics, composition, music history, and the effect of the electronic age on the consumption of media. (Gould grew up in Toronto at the same time that Canadian theorists Marshall McLuhan, Northrop Frye, and Harold Innis were making their mark on communications studies.)[95][96] Anthologies of his writing and letters have been published.[fn 22] Library and Archives Canada retains a significant portion of Gould's work called The Glenn Gould Archive.
One of Gould's performances of the Prelude and Fugue in C major from Book II of The Well-Tempered Clavier was chosen for inclusion on the NASA Voyager Golden Record by a committee headed by Carl Sagan. The disc of recordings was placed on the spacecraft Voyager 1, which is now approaching interstellar space and is the farthest man-made object from Earth.[97]
Gould is a popular subject of biography and even critical analysis. Philosophers such as Giorgio Agamben and Mark Kingwell have interpreted Gould's life and ideas.[98] References to Gould and his work are plentiful in poetry, fiction, and the visual arts.[99] François Girard's Genie Award winning 1993 film, Thirty Two Short Films About Glenn Gould includes documentary interviews with people who knew him, dramatizations of scenes from Gould's life, and fanciful segments including an animation set to music. Thomas Bernhard's renowned 1983 novel The Loser (Der Untergeher) purports to be an extended first-person essay about Gould and his lifelong friendship with two fellow students from the Mozarteum school in Salzburg, both of whom have abandoned their careers as concert pianists due to the intimidating example of Gould's genius.
The Australian a cappella group The Idea of North takes its name from one of his radio programs. The Glenn Gould Studio at the Canadian Broadcasting Centre in Toronto was named after him.
In Toronto in 1983, The Glenn Gould Foundation was established to honour Gould and preserve his memory. The Foundation's mission "is to extend awareness of the legacy of Glenn Gould as an extraordinary musician, communicator, and Canadian, and to advance his visionary and innovative ideas into the future." Among other activities, the foundation awards the Glenn Gould Prize every three years[100] to "an individual who has earned international recognition as the result of a highly exceptional contribution to music and its communication, through the use of any communications technologies." The prize consists of $50,000 for an original work by a Canadian artist.
The Royal Conservatory of Music Professional School in Toronto decided to adopt the name The Glenn Gould School in 1997, after The Royal Conservatory's most famous alumnus.[101]
To commemorate what would have been Gould's 75th birthday, the Canadian Museum of Civilization held an exhibition titled Glenn Gould: The Sounds of Genius. The multimedia exhibit was held in conjunction with Library and Archives Canada.[102] The exhibition opened September 28, 2007[103] and looked at five aspects of Gould: "The person," "The musician," "The broadcast personality and producer," "The writer and theorist, composer and conductor," and "The Sounds of Genius".[104] Curator Sam Cronk said "The primary purpose of the exhibition is to remind Canadians of the many facets of Gould's musical genius."[103] John F. Burns of The New York Times reported, in an interview with Herbert Kallmann, that the exhibit will omit many of Gould's eccentricities in favour of highlighting Gould's talent. Of the numerous documents, there are essays, scripts, and music scores. The scores on display were used for some of his most important recordings, marked only for breaks between takes.[68] Peter Goddard of the Toronto Star says that the exhibit will give patrons a feeling of what it was like at Gould's home: "The cramped space conveys a sense of what his St. Clair Ave. apartment might have felt like, with his piano at the very centre of things, along with his low piano chair made by his father."[105]
Gould received many honours before and after his death, although he personally claimed to despise competition in music. In 1970, the government of Canada offered him the award of Companion of the Order of Canada, but Gould declined it, remarking that he believed he was too young to receive it.
The Juno Awards are presented annually by the Canadian Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. Gould won three awards out of his six nominations. However he only personally received one Juno. In 1983, he was posthumously inducted into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame.[106]
The Grammys are awarded annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. Gould won four awards but personally only received one.[107] In 1983, he was honoured posthumously, being inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame for his 1955 recording (released in 1956) Bach: The Goldberg Variations.[108]
Bazzana, Kevin (2003). Wondrous Strange: The Life and Art of Glenn Gould. Toronto: McClelland & Stewart. ISBN 978-0-7710-1101-6. OCLC 52286240. 
Dubal, David (1985). The World of the Concert Pianist. London: Gollancz. ISBN 978-0-575-03654-3. OCLC 12112836. 
Friedrich, Otto (1990) [Reprint. Originally published: New York: Random House, 1989]. Glenn Gould: A Life and Variations. New York: Random House. ISBN 978-0-679-73207-5. OCLC 21445409. 
Gould, Glenn (1987). Page, Tim, ed. The Glenn Gould Reader. Boston: Faber and Faber. ISBN 0-571-14852-2. OCLC 751249764. 
— (1999). Roberts, John Peter Lee, ed. The Art of Glenn Gould: Reflections of a Musical Genius. Contributing author Roberts. Toronto: Malcolm Lester Books. ISBN 978-1-894121-28-6. OCLC 45283402. 
Greenfield, Edward; Layton, Robert & March, Ivan (1988). The New Penguin Guide to Compact Discs and Cassettes. London: Penguin Books. ISBN 978-0-14-046829-8. OCLC 18804114. 
Hafner, Katie (2009). A Romance on Three Legs : Glenn Gould's Obsessive Quest for the Perfect Piano. Toronto: McClelland & Stewart. ISBN 978-0-7710-3762-7. OCLC 0771037627. 
Kingwell, Mark (2009). Extraordinary Canadians Glenn Gould. Toronto: Penguin Canada. ISBN 978-0-670-06850-0. OCLC 460273223. 
Ostwald, Peter F. (1997). Glenn Gould: The Ecstasy and Tragedy of Genius. New York: W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN 978-0-393-04077-7. OCLC 35586754. 
Payzant, Geoffrey (1978). Glenn Gould: Music & Mind. Toronto; London: Van Nostrand Reinhold. ISBN 0-442-29802-1. OCLC 16422990. 
Gould, Glenn (1992). The Glenn Gould Edition Richard Strauss: Ophelia-Lieder: Three Songs after Shakespeare, Op. 67; Enoch Arden: A Melodrama for Piano after Tennyson, Op.38; Piano Sonata, Op. 5; Five Piano Pieces, Op. 3 (Booklet). Glenn Gould & Claude Rains & Elisabeth Schwarzkopf. New York City: Sony Classical Records. ASIN B0000028O4. UPC 07464526572. 
Kieser, Karen (1993). Glenn Gould Bach: original CBC broadcasts (Booklet) (in English). Glenn Gould. Toronto: CBC Records. OCLC 609984589. UPC 059582220054. Lay summary. 
Koenig, Wolf & Kroitor, Roman (1959). Glenn Gould: Off the Record (Documentary film. Originally produced in 1959 for the television program Documentary '60). Montreal: National Film Board of Canada; Image Entertainment (Distributor). OCLC 130741039. UPC 014381206920. Retrieved January 30, 2013. 
Koenig, Wolf & Kroitor, Roman (1959). Glenn Gould: On the Record (Documentary film. Originally produced in 1959 for the television program Documentary '60). Montreal: National Film Board of Canada; Image Entertainment (Distributor). OCLC 130741039. UPC 014381206920. Retrieved January 30, 2013. 
Monsaingeon, Bruno (2002). Glenn Gould: the alchemist (DVD re-release of the four parts featuring Gould. His 24 part 1974 series was titled Chemins de la Musique.) (in English (interviews), French (commentary). Sub-titles: German, English, French, Spanish). ORTF; EMI Classics (Distributor). OCLC 52719241. UPC 724349012899. Retrieved December 23, 2011. Lay summary. 
— (2006) [2005 Original release]. Glenn Gould: Au delà du temps [Glenn Gould: hereafter] (DVD. Original release 2005) (in English; some dialogue in Italian or Russian with English subtitles; subtitles in French, German, Italian, Spanish and Japanese). Paris: Idéale Audience and Rhombus Media. OCLC 612160794. UPC 899132000206. Retrieved December 23, 2011. Lay summary. 
Stegemann, Michael (1993a). Bach: Partitas BWV 825–830; Preludes and Fugues (Booklet). Glenn Gould. Sony Classical Records. OCLC 222101706. SM2K 52597. 
—; English translation: Stewart Spencer (1993b). The Glenn Gould Edition Gould Meets Menuhin: Bach·Beethoven·Schoenberg (Front cover booklet). Glenn Gould & Yehudi Menuhin. Sony Classical Records. OCLC 30923019. UPC 5099705268827. "That Menuhin ever agreed to tackle Schoenberg's Phantasy shows how much he admired Gould and how much he was prepared to learn from a man sixteen years younger than himself: "Well, Glenn, I was very anxious to take you up on the invitation to play it because I admire you. I know that you know more about Schoenberg, and have a more genuine understanding of Schoenberg perhaps than anyone else. And I'm always interested in learning about something through the eyes of someone who understands it and loves it." Whereas only a few months later, in January 1966, Gould's collaboration with Elisabeth Schwarzkopf turned into an outright fiasco, since the soprano was totally unprepared to accept any of Gould's interpretational idiosyncrasies, Menuhin was ready to embrace the new perspectives opened up by an unorthodox view even in the case of a work like Beethoven's Opus 96 Sonata, which of course he knew better than Gould. "I admire this [i.e., the way you play], and I wish Beethoven were here to hear you, because the way you do it is absolutely convincing, as I feel. I don't have quite the courage to go against the printed text or the indication in the score, which is simply pianissimo. But there again, everything is a relative factor.""  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help)
Till, Eric (Producer / Director / Narrator) & Tovell, Vincent (Producer / Director / Narrator) (1985) [First published as Documentary film in 1985]. Evans, Wayne, ed. Glenn Gould: A Portrait (VHS Videotape released October 22, 1991). West Long Branch: CBC Enterprises; Kultur International Films (Distributor). OCLC 22897163. UPC 032031118836. Retrieved December 23, 2011. Lay summary. 
Cott, Jonathan (2005). Conversations with Glenn Gould. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 0-226-11623-9. OCLC 475021622. 
Glenn Gould 1988: [printed explanatory text for] a Travelling Exhibition Prepared by the National Library of Canada and Touring with the Assistance of the International Programme of the Department of Communications. Ottawa, Ont.: National Library of Canada, 1988. N.B.: Texts in English and in French in parallel columns. Without ISBN
Konieczny, Vladimir (2008). Glenn Gould: a musical force. Toronto: Dundurn Press. ISBN 978-1-55002-819-5. OCLC 471481579. 
Pagliari, Matteo (2012). Invenzione a due voci. Una conversazione con Glenn Gould. Bologna: Albisani Editore. ISBN 978-88-95803-16-6. 
This section's use of external links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or guidelines. Please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references. (October 2012)
Genius Within: The Inner Life of Glenn Gould (2010) from co-directors Peter Raymont and Michèle Hozer
Categories: Glenn Gould1932 births1982 deaths20th-century classical composersBach musiciansCanadian classical pianistsCanadian composersCanadian Music Hall of Fame inducteesCanadian people of English descentCanadian people of Scottish descentDeaths from strokeGrammy Award-winning artistsJuno Award winnersMusicians from TorontoThe Royal Conservatory of Music alumniHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from December 2013Pages using citations with accessdate and no URLUse mdy dates from April 2012All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from April 2013All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2011Articles with hAudio microformatsPages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersWikipedia external links cleanup from October 2012Wikipedia spam cleanup from October 2012Commons category with local link same as on WikidataArticles containing French-language textWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Born  in Toronto, Canada, on September 25, 1932, Glenn Gould has been hailed  internationally as one of the great musicians of the 20th century, and  as a visionary thinker and multi-media artist who foresaw the profound  impact of technology on culture and society.  Initially acclaimed as a  pianist of prodigious talent, Gould had a remarkable career that  included recording, television, film, writing and producing radio  documentaries, and composing and writing scholarly and critical work. Glenn  Gould had become a legend as a concert pianist before he was 30.  His  landmark 1955 recording of Bach’s Goldberg Variations was a runaway  best-seller (and remains the best-selling classical instrumental  recording of all time).Despite this success, and a burgeoning  international concert career, he chose to redirect his energies towards  innovative ways to communicate music through the mass media.  When he  stopped giving public concerts in 1964 at the age of 32, his friends and  closest colleagues predicted that his refusal to give live performances  would destroy his career.  With extraordinary foresight, however, he  reinvented his career as a dedicated recording artist with CBS Records,  now Sony Classical. He influenced a new generation of performers  and listeners through his illuminating interpretations of the music of a  variety of composers, in particular, of Bach.  His intensely personal  and sometimes controversial interpretations both challenged and  illuminated.  They have been acclaimed as milestones in recorded music.Gould’s  passion for media and communication technology began with his long  association with the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.  In addition to  his numerous performances on radio, Gould broke new artistic ground with  his documentaries on radio and his television essays and performances.   Now republished, his writings reveal a profoundly individualistic  musical insight and continue to stimulate interest among new audiences.Gould’s  untimely death on October 4, 1982, just days after his 50th birthday,  was mourned by music lovers everywhere.  Through his recordings and  other contributions to the mass media, Glenn Gould has left a rich  legacy of musical ideas and performances that find him, each year, the  subject of new books, articles, plays, films and documentaries, which  continue to challenge and inspire new generations.
His 75th anniversary year (2007-2008, International Year of Glenn Gould) and 80th anniversary year (2012) were commemorated by major  film productions and music festivals, documentaries, symposia, museum  exhibitions, broadcasts, art installations, plays and poetry, from  Tokyo, Moscow, Berlin, Munich, Copenhagen, Gstaad, Paris, Rome, Dublin,  London, Montreal, Ottawa, Toronto, Calgary, New York, Mexico City and  Buenos Aires.
Glenn Gould’s originality, maverick determination  to chart his own course, intellectual depth and the spiritual richness  of his finest performances, have marked him as a global icon of  excellence.
              Site contents © 2010-2014 The Glenn Gould Foundation. Site designed by Eric Overton, powered by Squarespace.
=======================================================
Glenn Gould was born in Toronto on September 25, 1932. His family was a musical one: Edvard Grieg was a first cousin of his mother's grandfather, his father is an amateur violinist, and his mother played piano and organ. His mother was his only music/piano teacher until he was ten. When he was three years old it became evident that he possessed exceptional music abilities, including absolute pitch and even the ability to read staff notation. At five, he was playing his own compositions for family and friends. At age six, Glenn was taken to his first live musical performance which he recalled as being Josef Hofmann's last performance in Toronto. It created a lasting and important impression upon the boy.
Robert Fulford, a distinguished Canadian author, met Glenn when they were both nine, when his family moved next door to the Goulds, he wrote... "Even as a child Glenn was isolated because he was working like hell to be a great man. He had a tremendous feeling and loving affection for music... It was an utter, complete feeling. He knew who he was and where he was going."
At age ten Gould began lessons at the Royal Conservatory of Music in Toronto: Alberto Guerrero was his piano teacher; he studied organ with Frederick C. Silvester and theory from Leo Smith.
Gould competed in 1944 at age 12, in the annual Kiwanis Music Festival and won the piano trophy. In 1945 he passed the associateship examination as a solo performer at the Royal Conservatory, signifying a professional level of attainment. In 1946, at age 14, he passed the music theory examination and was awarded a diploma with highest honours. Gould continued piano lessons with Alberto Guerrero until 1952. 
Of significant influence upon the teen-aged Gould were Artur Schnabel ("The piano was a means to an end for him, and the end was to approach Beethoven"), Rosalyn Tureck's recording of Bach ("upright, with a sense of repose and positiveness") and Leopold Stokowski (upon whom Gould would later write and produce Stokowski: A Portrait for CBC Radio).
Gould's public debut was in 1945 as an organist in a performance sponsored by the Casavant Society at the Eaton Auditorium. The review in The Evening Telegram was headed "Boy, age 12, Shows Genius As Organist". In 1946 he first performed as soloist with orchestra at a Royal Conservatory concert performing Beethoven's Fourth Piano Concerto. Of this occasion Gould wrote that it required little preparation because he had owned Schnabel's recording for over two years and knew every nuance. The following year Gould played the same concerto with The Toronto Symphony and The Telegram wrote, "he sat at the piano as a child among professors, and he talked with them as one with authority."
His first public recital as a pianist came in 1947 and included Scarlatti, Beethoven, Chopin and Liszt. "Genius as profound as their own was at the keyboard" was what one reviewer wrote. Gould gave his first network radio recital for the CBC in 1959, the beginning of a long and fruitful relationship.
Gould made his U.S. debut in 1955 at the Phillips Gallery in Washington, D.C. performing the G Major Partita of Bach, Beethoven's Sonata in E Major, op. 109, five Three-Part Inventions of Bach, Webern's Variations Op. 27, and the Berg Sonata, some Gibbons and Sweelinck. Paul Hume wrote, "Few pianists play the instrument so beautifully, so lovingly, so musicianly in manner, and with such regard for its real nature and its enormous literature. Glenn Gould is a pianist with rare gifts for the world. It must not long delay hearing and according him the honour and audience he deserves. We know of no pianist anything like him of any age." 
On the evening of January 11, 1955, Gould made his New York debut ("Debutown" as Gould has called it) at Town Hall and next day David Oppenheim, Director of Columbia Masterworks at the time, signed Gould to a recording contract. Gould's taping of Bach's Goldberg Variations took place at the CBS Studios in June of that year. Time Magazine stated "Bach as the old master himself must have played". The record won instant acclaim and has remained a CBS bestseller to this day.
Gould's U.S. orchestral debut came in 1956 with Detroit Symphony. Again he played Beethoven's Fourth Piano Concerto. The following year, Gould debuted with the New York Philharmonic. Leonard Bernstein conducted Beethoven's Second Concerto. During that same year, 1957, Gould embarked upon his first European tour beginning with the Berlin Philharmonic under Herbert Von Karajan. The two artists remained admirers of each other's work from that time.
Tours, recordings, and engagements with the finest orchestras continued. Of a performance with the London Symphony Orchestra under Josef Krips, The Musical Times stated, "But when all is said, the playing's the thing, and if Glenn Gould should find it impossible to play as well as he does without, let us say, standing on his head, I for one would not object. He would, I am sure, do this if he felt like it, without first asking my or anybody else's permission."
During the early 60s, Gould performed and lectured extensively, until, without any fanfare, Gould made his last public appearance as a pianist in Orchestra Hall, Chicago, on March 28, 1964.
From that time until his death from a stroke in October, 1982, Glenn Gould devoted himself not only to the piano, as expressed through his more than sixty masterworks recordings, but to publishing, radio and television broadcasting, philosophy, scoring feature films, conducting, and generally realizing the tremendous potential that he harboured as creative genius.
In 1982, CBS Masterworks released a new digital recording of the Goldberg Variations, which won two Grammy Awards, the Grand Prix du Disque Award from the Academy Charles Cros, and a Juno for Best Classical Album of 1982. At that Juno Awards Ceremony, Gould was inducted into the Canadian Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences' Hall of Fame.
Following his demise, further recordings of new material have continued to be released by CBS (now Sony Music). One of them, two Beethoven Sonatas, released in 1983, won Gould his fourth career Grammy Award and his recording of Brahms' Ballades won him a Juno Award in 1984.
Courtesy of the Glenn Gould FoundationFor more information about Glenn Gould, visit Sony Canada's Glenn Gould website.
The late Anne Southam's "Returnings" with Eve Egoyan on Piano chosen as number one album by the Globe and Mail. http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/arts/music/our-verdict-is-in-this-was-the-years-best-music/article2283910/page4/It was a privilege to be part of this project here at the Gould. Congratulations to our engineer Dennis Patterson and Producer David Jaeger.   
Are you interested in Studios? If so see David Friend's article"Setting The Score".http://www.variety.com/article/VR1118042009 
April 15, 2011 - Joyously irreverent, Mulroney: The Opera blends political satire with an original operatic score. It is at once a comedy, a tragedy and always thoroughly epic in its portrayal of contemporary political life in Canada. Within the 'Holy Grail' of musical forms - the Opera - these stories, scandals and real-life politicians are finally given the larger-than-life platform they deserve.
Directed by Larry Weinstein, Composed by Alexina Louie, Libretto by Dan Rideican, conducted by Alex Paulk, recorded by Dennis Patterson in CBC Sound Studio 211
March 29, 2011 - When CBC announced a Canadian rap concert to end all rap concerts at Glenn Gould Studio, it was met with skepticism in some sectors.  Well, doubters, they pulled it off. With wild style.  Starting from an idea from GGS own producer/technician Chris Jackson, the team at CBC cast off its cloak of fuddy-duddyness for a full night and produced what most agree was an amazing, inspiring, and cool event. 
The three hundred people lucky enough to be in attendance at Tuesday's Hip Hop Summit concert were treated to a party that was anything but sedate. Performers included Maestro, Saukrates, Kardinal Offishall, Michie Mee, Choclair, k-os, K'naan, Dream Warriors, Shad (Canada's newest hip-hop Juno award winner), Cadence Weapon, Skratch Bastid, and the list goes on.  (Torontoist)
March 27, 2011  - Of the many recordings we did this year in Glenn Gould Studio and CBC Sound, two were nominated this year for Junos awards.  -  Contemporary Jazz Album of the Year - Adrean Farugia Ricochet, Mixed by Dennis Patterson in Studio 211- Classical Album of the Year - Amici Ensemble Armenian Chamber MusicRecorded in GGS - Assisted by Dennis Patterson(uncredited)And the winner for - CLASSICAL COMPOSITION OF THE YEARR. Murray Schafer -Duo For Violin And Piano, WILD BIRDRecorded in GGS - Assisted by Dennis Patterson(uncredited)Produced by David Jaeger
General's Performing Arts Awards (GGPAA), as 2011 laureates of the ultimate recognition in Canada's performing arts were named: Yvon Deschamps, Margie Gillis, William Shatner, Howard Shore, Leslee Silverman, Paul Thompson, Jean-André Élie, and Denis Villeneuve. 
His Excellency the Right Honourable David Johnston, Governor General of Canada expressed "It is important that we nurture Canada's vibrant performing arts community so that they may continue to capture our spirits and to inspire our minds for years to come."
These individuals are being recognized for their outstanding body of work and enduring contribution to the performing arts in Canada. Presented annually since 1992, these Awards are bestowed by Canadians to Canadians whose accomplishments have inspired and enriched the cultural life of our country.
FEB 24, 2011 - Almost two years ago, GGS's Chris Jackson asked his colleague; Radio Music Producer and Recording Engineer, Ron Skinner - Why we don't record and showcase more Rap music? Shortly thereafter, Jackson put forward his proposal of a Canada Live record, and the broadcast of a 'Hip Hop History' concert. Jackson had been planning to put together the event himself, yet when it was pitched to CBC Radio, the electricity of his idea was evident. 
The CBC Radio music team; in particular, Ann MacKeigan, Ron Skinner and Malcolm Gould, thought an exposé on the history of Hip Hop was an excellent way to reach their listening audience. MacKeigan felt that Jackson's idea could be much bigger than just a concert, and an excellent outreach opportunity for CBC. Thus, morphed: The Hip Hop Summit. The Hip Hop Summit pays respect to Canadian Hip Hop by documenting its history through performance.Chris Jackson will be co-producing his premier concert for CBC Radio on March 29th, 2011. The concert will be live-to-air on Radio 3 and will be available as a podcast shortly following the live performance. 
http://themanifesto.ca/cbc-partners-with-manifesto-celebrates-over-25-years-of-canadian-hip-hop-with-the-hip-hop-summit/ 
DEC 21, 2011- GSS welcomed "FYI (Follow Your Instinct) Kids" for education and fun! GGS technician, Chris Jackson, facilitated a learning "talk & tour" for the group of youths. Following a visit to the radio drama studio and CBC Museum, FYI Kids took in all the sights and sounds of GGS and CBC Sound: Studios 210 and 211. 
                                                                                                                           
At GGS, the youths listened and experienced the raw recorded score from the movie "Cooking With Stella", one of many complete musical scores recorded here at GGS.
Note: CBC does not endorse and is not responsible for the content of external sites - links will open in new window.
PrivacyTerms Of UseOmbudsmanCBC: Get the FactsReuse & PermissionsOther PoliciesHelpSite MapCBC Member CentreContact Us
=======================================================
	#menu a { display:block;margin:0 auto;color:#000000;text-decoration:none; background:url(../Pic-Main/_right1.png) right top no-repeat;}
	#menu a span { display:block;text-align:left;background:url(../Pic-Main/_left1.png) left top no-repeat; font:bold 12px/30px Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;  padding:0 5px; }
	#ABC a { display:block;margin:0 auto;color:#000000;text-decoration:none; background:url(../Pic-Main/_right1.png) right top no-repeat;}
	#ABC a span { display:block;text-align:left;background:url(../Pic-Main/_left1.png) left top no-repeat; font:bold 12px/30px Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;  padding:0 10px; }
The remarkable Canadian pianist (also organist, conductor, and composer), Glenn (Herbert) Gould, was born into a musical family: Edvard Grieg was a first cousin of his mother's grandfather, his father was an amateur violinist, and his mother played piano and organ. Gould's mother was his only teacher until he was ten. When he was three years old, it became evident that he possessed exceptional musical aptitude, including absolute pitch and even the ability to read staff notation. At five, he began to compose, and played his own little compositions for family and friends. At the age of six Gould was taken to his first live musical performance which was Josef Hofmann's last appearance in Toronto. It created a lasting and important impression upon the boy.
Robert Fulford, a distinguished Canadian author, met Gould when they were both nine and the two families were next-door neighbours. He wrote: "Even as a child Glenn was isolated because he was working like hell to be a great man. He had a tremendous feeling and loving affection for music. . . It was an utter, complete feeling. He knew who he was and where he was going."
At the age of ten, Gould began lessons at the Royal Conservatory of Music in Toronto. Alberto Guerrero was his piano teacher; he studied organ with Frederick C. Silvester and theory with Leo Smith. Gould competed in 1944, at the age of 12, in the annual Kiwanis Music Festival and won the piano trophy. It was to be the only competition Gould would enter, for he later came to be strongly opposed to the idea of young musicians competing with each other and indeed to competition of any sort. In 1945 he passed the associateship examination as a solo performer at the Royal Conservatory, signifying a professional level of attainment. In 1946, at the age of 14, he passed the music theory examinations and was awarded a diploma with highest honors. Gould continued piano lessons with Alberto Guerrero until 1952.
Of significant influence upon the teenage Gould were: Artur Schnabel (Gould: "The piano was a means to an end for him, and the end was to approach Beethoven"), Rosalyn Tureck's recordings of Bach ("upright, with a sense of repose and positiveness") and Leopold Stokowski, about whom Gould would later write and produce Stokowski: A Portrait for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC).
Gould's first public performance was in 1945 on the organ, a concert which was reviewed under the headline "Boy, age 12, Shows Genius As Organist."  In 1946 he made his debut as soloist with orchestra at a Royal Conservatory concert performing L.v. Beethoven's Fourth Piano Concerto. Regarding this occasion, Gould wrote that it required little preparation because he had owned Schnabel's recording for over two years and knew every nuance. The following year Gould played the same concerto with the Toronto Symphony and a reviewer wrote: "he sat at the piano a child among professors, and he talked with them as one with authority." His first public recital was in 1947 and included Scarlatti, L.v. Beethoven, Chopin, and Liszt: "genius as profound as their own was at the keyboard" remarked one reviewer. Gould gave his first network radio recital for the CBC in 1950, beginning his long relationship with broadcasting and recording.
On the evening of 11 January 1955, Glenn Gould made his debut in New York ("Debutown" as he called it) and the next day signed a recording contract with Columbia Masterworks (CBS). Gould's first recording of Bach's Goldberg Variations (BWV 988) took place at the CBS studios in June 1955. The record won instant acclaim, became a best seller, and launched Gould's career as a fully mature international artist. Gould went on to make over 60 recordings with CBS Masterworks/Sony Classical.
In 1957 Gould toured Europe for the first time, beginning with two weeks in the Soviet Union. He thus became the first Canadian (and the first North American) to perform in the Soviet Union, and he did so - in the midst of the Cold War - to eagerly enthusiastic audiences and critics. Also during his European tour, Gould performed L.v. Beethoven's Third Piano Concerto with the Berlin Philharmonic and Herbert von Karajan, and the two artists thereafter remained loyal admirers of each other's work. In 1960 Gould made his first appearance on American television with Leonard Bernstein and the New York Philharmonic. He was by then a well-known figure on Canadian television and was present regularly on the airwaves in his home country during the 1960’s and 1970’s.
Gould's concert career continued to grow during the early 1960’s until, without any fanfare, he made his last public appearance as a pianist on 10 April 1964 in a Los Angeles recital. This early retirement from public performance was prompted in part by a realization that the strenuous life of a touring musician was preventing him from realizing his many other interests. In fact, Gould did not think of himself primarily as a pianist; he was equally committed to writing, broadcasting, composing, conducting, and experimenting with technology. Gould also admitted that he had developed an intense dislike for performing (Gould: "at live concerts I feel demeaned, like a vaudevillian") and felt that he could better serve music in a recording studio than in the concert hall. 
Gould has sometimes been called a hermit and a recluse. He was not. He chose for himself a solitary existence which kept interaction at a safe distance, showing himself primarily through his recordings, broadcasts, and writings, providing self-protection but at the same time allowing a great deal of self-revelation. As he once said. he had "opted out creatively".
Glenn Gould's philosophy and the core of his identity were most clearly revealed in his broadcast/recording The Idea of North. To him, the North represented solitude, independence, reasonableness, courage, elusiveness, spirituality, strength of character, adherence to laws, moral rectitude, and peace. He was uncomfortable with the Mediterranean temperament that manifests itself in bright colors, displays of passion, and personal display. 
In 1981 Gould departed from his custom of not re-recording a work and, 26 years after his first recording of the Goldberg Variations (BWV 988), went into the same New York studio for his second recording of the work with which he had become so closely identified. Gould viewed the two interpretations as substantially different because he came to see the Variations not as separate and distinct exercises but as belonging to a larger whole, with one rhythmic pulse, harmony, and ideology underlying the entire work and forming a definite unity of composition. Always acutely aware of the possibilities technology offers, Gould was also motivated in his decision to re-record the Goldberg Variations (BWV 988) by the vast changes in recording technology during the previous 25 years.
A few months before his death, Glenn Gould formed a chamber orchestra in Toronto consisting of some members of the Toronto Symphony Orchestra with himself as conductor. He was particularly proud of their recording together of Wagner's Siegfried Idyll, a work that had long been special to him and which he transcribed for piano and recorded.
Through a remarkable degree of self-awareness and self-knowledge, Glenn Gould knew what he wanted to accomplish and how he wanted to live his life - and in both he succeeded completely. What some have considerstrange was in fact, only different. Even though he chose to be a spectator rather than a participant inthe affairs of the world, he never ceased to have a child-like, wide-eyed interest in all that was going on around him.
Glenn Gould gathered a large and loyal group of friends with whom he remained in contact over the telephone and whom he received in Toronto with eager enthusiasm. These friends describe him as gentle, kind, funny, charming, warm and loyal. Glenn Gould was a character to be sure, but one who never strayed from his pursuit of the ideal, and one who cared deeply. He was a solitary man, but he touched and uplifted the lives of many. Glenn Gould died in Toronto on October 4, 1982, after having suffered a stroke.
Glenn Gould biography is included here because he recorded one Bach Cantata as a conductor - BWV 54 Winderstehe doch der Sünde with the counter-tenor Russell Oberlin.
=======================================================
Glenn Gould was born in Toronto in 1932, and enjoyed a privileged, sheltered upbringing in the quiet Beach neighborhood. His musical gifts became apparent in infancy, and though his parents never pushed him to become a star prodigy, he became a professional concert pianist at age fifteen, and soon gained a national reputation. By his early twenties, he was also earning recognition through radio and television broadcasts, recordings, writings, lectures and compositions.
Early on, Gould’s musical proclivities, piano style and independence of mind marked him as a maverick. Favoring structurally intricate music, he disdained the early-Romantic and impressionistic works at the core of the standard piano repertoire, preferring Elizabethan, Baroque, Classical, late-Romantic and early-twentieth-century music; Bach and Schoenberg were central to his aesthetic and repertoire. He was an intellectual performer, with a special gift for clarifying counterpoint and structure, but his playing was also deeply expressive and rhythmically dynamic. He had the technique and tonal palette of a virtuoso, though he upset many pianistic conventions – avoiding the sustaining pedal, using détaché articulation, for example. Believing that the performer’s role was properly creative, he offered original, deeply personal, sometimes shocking interpretations (extreme tempos, odd dynamics, finicky phrasing), particularly in canonical works by Mozart, Beethoven and Brahms.
Gould’s American début, in 1955, and the release, a year later, of his first Columbia recording, of Bach’s Goldberg Variations, launched his international concert career. He earned widespread acclaim despite his musical idiosyncrasies, while his flamboyant stage mannerisms, as well as his hypochondria and other personal eccentricities, fuelled colorful publicity that heightened his celebrity. But he hated performing – ”At concerts I feel demeaned, like a vaudevillian” – and though in great demand, he rationed his appearances stingily (he gave fewer than forty concerts overseas). Finally, in 1964, he permanently retired from concert life.
Gould harbored musical, temperamental and moral objections to concerts, and aired them publicly: “The purpose of art,” he wrote, “is not the release of a momentary ejection of adrenalin but is, rather, the gradual, lifelong construction of a state of wonder and serenity.” Even before he retired, he was not satisfied with being a concert pianist; he made radio and television programs, published writings on many musical and non-musical topics, continued to compose. After 1964, this work away from the piano only intensified. He liked to call himself “a Canadian writer, composer, and broadcaster who happens to play the piano in his spare time.”
His retirement was also fuelled by his devotion to the electronic media. Gould was one of the first truly modern classical performers, for whom recording and broadcasting were not adjuncts to the concert hall but separate art forms that represented the future of music. He made scores of albums, steadily expanding his repertoire and developing a professional engineer’s command of recording techniques. He also wrote prolifically about recording and the mass media, his ideas often harmonizing with those of his friend Marshall McLuhan.
Though he never became the significant composer that he longed to be, Gould channeled his creativity into other media. In 1967, he created his first “contrapuntal radio documentary,” The Idea of North, an innovative tapestry of speaking voices, music and sound effects that drew on principles from documentary, drama, music and film. Over the next decade, he made six more such specimens of radio art, in addition to many other, more conventional, recitals and talk-and-play shows for radio and television. He also arranged music for two feature films.
Gould lived a quiet, solitary, spartan life, and guarded his privacy; his romantic relationships with women, for instance, were never made public. (“Isolation is the one sure way to human happiness.”) He maintained a modest apartment and a small studio, and left Toronto only when work demanded it, or for an occasional rural holiday. He recorded in New York until 1970, when he began to record primarily at Eaton Auditorium in Toronto.
In the summer of 1982, having largely exhausted the piano literature that interested him, he made his first recording as a conductor, and he had ambitious plans for several years’ worth of conducting projects; he planned then to give up performing, retire to the countryside, and devote himself to writing and composing. But shortly after his fiftieth birthday, Gould died suddenly of a stroke.
Since then, he has enjoyed a remarkable posthumous “life.” His multifarious work has been widely disseminated. He has been the subject of an enormous and diverse literature in many languages. And he has inspired conferences, exhibitions, festivals, societies, radio and television programs, novels, plays, musical compositions, poems, visual art and a feature film (Thirty-Two Short Films About Glenn Gould).
Moreover, his ideas – like McLuhan’s – still resonate strongly today in the world of digital technology, which was in its infancy when he died. His postmodernist advocacy of open borders between the roles of composer, performer and listener, for instance, anticipated digital technologies (like the Internet) that democratize and decentralize the institutions of culture. There is no question that Gould, more than any other classical musician, would have understood and admired digital technology – and would have had fun playing with it. 
=======================================================
Sony Classical celebrates the 80th Birthday of a legend. Watch the video and enjoy this brand new site. 
=======================================================
Glenn Herbert Gould (born Gold), pianist, broadcaster, writer, composer, conductor, organist (born 25 September 1932 in Toronto, ON; died  4 October 1982 in Toronto, ON).
	             Glenn Herbert Gould (born Gold), pianist, broadcaster, writer, composer, conductor, organist (born 25 September 1932 in Toronto, ON; died  4 October 1982 in Toronto, ON). A celebrated pianist and prolific broadcaster, Glenn Gould was one of Canada's most important cultural figures, and remains one of the world's most admired and studied musicians. Gould’s distinctive piano style, idiosyncratic interpretations, unusual stage mannerisms and independent vision marked him as a maverick and an eccentric. He favoured structurally intricate music over the early-Romantic and Impressionistic works at the core of the standard piano repertoire, preferring Elizabethan, Baroque, Classical, late-Romantic and early-twentieth-century music. He was most renowned for his interpretations of the keyboard music of J.S. Bach. An intellectual performer with a gift for clarifying counterpoint and structure, his playing was also deeply expressive and rhythmically dynamic. He had the technique and tonal palette of a virtuoso, but refuted many conventions and disdained live performance. He wrote extensively about music and technology, and created great controversy by retiring from live performance at age 31 to pursue studio recordings and broadcasting projects.
	              Glenn Gould was raised in the Beach neighbourhood of Toronto (the city has designated his childhood home a historic site), with long sojourns at his family’s cottage near Lake Simcoe. Both his parents sang. His father, a furrier, played the violin as a child, and his mother — whose grandfather was a cousin of the Norwegian composer Edvard Grieg — played the piano, and gave piano and voice lessons. At age three, Gould was discovered to have perfect pitch (the ability to identify or reproduce any isolated tone). At four, he began piano lessons with his mother and at five he made his first documented public appearance, on 5 June 1938, at a church in Uxbridge, ON, accompanying his parents, who sang a duet.
	              He was tutored at home by his mother (1938–39), then attended Williamson Road Public School (1939–45) and Malvern Collegiate Institute (1945–51), though he did not graduate from the latter. In response to the anti-Semitism prevalent in Canada in the late 1930s, his parents changed the spelling of their surname from “Gold” to “Gould,” to clarify their Anglo-Protestant heritage and to prevent being mistaken as Jewish.
	              In 1940, Gould was enrolled at the Toronto Conservatory of Music (TCM; now the Royal Conservatory of Music), where he studied music theory, harmony and counterpoint with Leo Smith (1942–46), and organ with Frederick C. Silvester (1942–49). Gould’s organ studies gave him an early appreciation of the music of J.S. Bach. He performed mostly at church and school functions until 1944, then competed successfully in Kiwanis Music Festivals (1944–46). He passed his ATCM (Associate of the Toronto Conservatory of Music) piano exam at age 12 and his written exams a year later.
	              Gould was among the first generation of Canadian concert musicians to receive their musical training entirely in Canada. A significant milestone in Gould’s musical education was his tutelage under the Chilean pianist Alberto Guerrero at the TCM (1943–52). Guerrero ingrained in Gould the repertoire and finger technique for which he became celebrated.
	              Gould exhibited tremendous talent and proficiency as a pianist, but his life was not that of a child prodigy. His public appearances with the TCM and the Kiwanis festivals earned him his first serious attention as a pianist. He participated in his first radio broadcast (for CFRB, on 10 March 1945) with other Kiwanis Festival winners, and gave his first full solo piano recital at the TCM on 10 April 1945.
	              He also composed music avidly from early childhood. He wrote both tonal pieces (based on a major or minor musical key), and atonal pieces (music not based on a particular key), as well as 12-tone idioms (music based on the 12 chromatic tones within an octave; see serialism). He showed a preference for highly organized, contrapuntal forms (music with more than one simultaneous melodic line). From age five through his late teens, he occasionally performed his compositions in public. He also gave some public performances on the organ until 1948; in fact, his professional debut was as an organist at a 1945 Christmas concert at the Eaton Auditorium.
	              As a pianist, he first appeared with an orchestra on 8 May 1946 at Massey Hall, playing the first movement of Beethoven's Concerto No. 4 with the TCM orchestra, conducted by Ettore Mazzoleni. On 14 and 15 January 1947, he performed the entire concerto with the Toronto Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Bernard Heinze, in a concert for secondary school pupils. He gave his first professional recital shortly after his 15th birthday, on 20 October 1947, at the Eaton Auditorium. This performance marked the beginning of his long association with concert manager Walter Homburger, which lasted until 1968.
	              In these early performances Gould was praised for his prodigious technique but also for beauty of tone, subtlety and delicacy of phrasing, a "poetic" temperament, and a depth of expression and interpretive wisdom well beyond his years. He performed on the piano throughout his teens  at various Toronto venues — concert halls, the TCM, Hart House, the Art Gallery of Ontario, the Canadian National Exhibition — and occasionally elsewhere in Ontario.
	              Gould made his CBC Radio debut on 24 December 1950, playing Mozart's Sonata K. 281 and Paul Hindemith's Sonata No. 3 on a piano with a heavy, dark bass. While preparing the recording of the performance for broadcast, he experienced something of an epiphany. He found that by suppressing the bass and boosting the treble, he could make the piano sound the way he had failed to do during his performance. His realization that, through technology, he could overcome the piano's limitations and improve upon his original result would fundamentally influence his attitudes and approach to performance and recording.
	              In January 1951, he organized an ambitious "Recital of Contemporary Music" at the Royal Conservatory of Music and, with schoolmate Robert Fulford, formed the company New Music Associates, which held three concerts in Toronto in 1952 and 1954. He undertook his first Western Canadian tour (of Vancouver and Calgary) in 1951, and later made debuts in Montréal (1952), Ottawa (1953), the Maritimes (Saint John, 1953) and Winnipeg (1954). He appeared at the inaugural Stratford Festival in 1953 as part of the Festival Trio, a chamber group with violinist Albert Pratz and cellist Isaac Mamott, and returned to the Festival often in the following years.
	              By the time Gould was 20, the unconventional repertoire characteristic of his adult concerts was established: a little 16th- and 17th-century music, a great deal of Bach, a very select group of Classical and Romantic works, and a generous selection of mostly Austro-German 20th-century music, including the complete piano works of Arnold Schoenberg, Alban Berg and Anton Webern. He performed few of the early-Romantic and Impressionistic works at the core of the piano repertoire at the time.
	              Through the early 1950s, Gould appeared often in solo recitals, chamber music and concertos on CBC Radio (a program on 21 December 1953 included the Canadian premiere of Schoenberg's concerto). He was also a featured performer in the first television program ever broadcast in English Canada on 8 September 1952.
	              In 1953, Gould’s father customized a chair for him by sawing four inches off the legs of a folding bridge chair and making each leg individually adjustable. Gould insisted on using the chair for every concert and recording from then on, even after the padded seat was worn through, preferring its lower height (14 inches off the floor) to the standard-height piano bench (20 inches off the floor) employed by most pianists. He made his first studio recordings in November 1953 for the Canadian label Hallmark. His performance on CBC TV on 16 December 1954 is his earliest surviving television appearance.
	              On 2 January 1955, Gould made his American debut at the Phillips Gallery in Washington, DC, and on 11 January played in Town Hall, NY, both times in a program of music by Orlando Gibbons, Jan Pieterszoon Sweelinck, Bach, Webern, late Beethoven and Berg. The morning after the New York recital, he was offered a contract by Columbia Masterworks (later CBS Masterworks and Sony Classical, now Sony Masterworks), for which he recorded for the rest of his life. His first Columbia recording, a brilliantly virtuosic and highly original reading of Bach's Goldberg Variations, recorded in June 1955 and released in January 1956, was enthusiastically received, and immediately brought him international attention.
	              For the next nine years, Gould toured annually throughout North America. Highlights included a performance at Massey Hall on 16 April 1956, at which he received an engraved watch from the City of Toronto. His only major composition, the long, one-movement String Quartet (written 1953–55), was first performed by the Montréal String Quartet on CBC's French radio network on 21 May 1956. The work is a synthesis of Baroque fugue, Classical sonata form, Richard Strauss's late-Romantic harmony and Schoenberg's "developing variation."
	              Gould made his formal conducting debut on CBC TV’s Chrysler Festival on 20 February 1957. In May of that year, he made his European debut as a pianist with a two-week concert tour of Moscow and Leningrad (making him the first Canadian musician, and the first North American pianist, to play in the Soviet Union after the Second World War), followed by performances with the Berlin Philharmonic under conductor Herbert von Karajan, and a recital at the Vienna Festival. On 26 September 1957, Gould conducted the CBC Vancouver Orchestra in symphonies by Mozart and Schubert, broadcast nationally on CBC Radio. Another highlight of this period includes his recital at Carnegie Hall on 7 December 1957.
	              He returned to Europe the following two summers. In 1958, he appeared at the Salzburg Festival and, with the Hart House Orchestra under Boyd Neel, at the Brussels World's Fair. He also performed that year in Sweden, Germany and Italy, made his Boston debut in the Peabody Mason Concerts, gave 11 performances in 18 days in Israel, and gave concerts and lectures at the Vancouver International Festival (1958, 1960–61). In 1959, he gave a recital in Berlin, made his London debut in a Beethoven cycle with the London Symphony Orchestra under Josef Krips, gave two recitals for the BBC, and appeared at the Salzburg and Lucerne Festivals. In 1959, he received the Harriet Cohen Bach Medal for Pianists, a British-based prize. He again appeared at New York’s Carnegie Hall on 13 February 1959.
	              On 6 and 7 December 1960, he gave the first public performances in Canada of Schoenberg's piano concerto. Gould, the cellist Leonard Rose and the violinist Oscar Shumsky were artists-in-residence at the Stratford Festival in 1960, and later served as the Festival's co-directors of music (1961–64).
	              Some of Gould’s most notorious performances were of Brahms's D minor Concerto with Leonard Bernstein conducting the New York Philharmonic (5, 6, 8 April 1962). Bernstein delivered a pre-concert speech to the audience noting his disagreement with Gould's interpretation, which featured unusually slow tempos, departures from Brahms's dynamic and phrase markings, and the highlighting of counterpoint and motives.
	              Gould had wide-ranging musical and intellectual interests, and never wanted to be limited to the life of a concert pianist. He had ambitions to conduct and compose, and from his late teens demonstrated gifts as a writer on musical subjects. The range of his talents and interests was widely admired. During his concert years, he continued to record prolifically for Columbia, to write and lecture, and to perform on CBC Radio and TV. He made his first radio documentary, on Schoenberg, in 1962, and delivered a dozen lectures from 1963 to 1964, most of which have been published.
	              Gould harboured musical, temperamental and moral objections to live concerts (“At concerts I feel demeaned, like a vaudevillian,” he once said), and performed sparingly, if not grudgingly; he gave approximately 300 concerts over the course of his career, including fewer than 40 overseas — a sparse amount for a professional concert pianist of his duration. He felt that live concert performances were an anachronistic practice. “The purpose of art,” he wrote, “is not the release of a momentary ejection of adrenalin but is, rather, the gradual, lifelong construction of a state of wonder and serenity.”
	              Increasingly attracted to his work in the electronic and print media, Gould decided to give up the life of a concert pianist to devote himself to recording, broadcasting, composing and writing. At the height of his fame and creative powers, he gave his last live concert performance on 10 April 1964 at the Wilshire Ebell Theatre in Los Angeles.
	              While Gould's live concert career wound down, his radio and TV recitals and documentaries were becoming more innovative and sophisticated as he explored beyond the limits of the conventional broadcast recital. In the early 1960s, he began giving radio and TV recitals that were unified thematically or tied together with his own spoken commentary. He also became prolific as a writer, exploring many musical and non-musical topics in liner notes, periodical articles, reviews, scripts and interviews.
	              However, he never realized his plan to devote himself largely to composition after his retirement from concert life; despite ambitious plans and sketches for chamber and orchestral music, songs, and opera, his serious composing effectively ceased after 1964. He did notate or record some of his transcriptions (versions re-written for piano), including three of orchestral music by Wagner, and one of Ravel's own transcription of La Valse.
	              Increasingly, Gould sought other ways to express himself away from the piano. He created many programs in which he did not perform but instead explored musical topics that interested him, such as recording and broadcasting, the "psychology of improvisation," aleatoric music (music composed randomly, e.g., by rolling dice), and the Moog synthesizer. His innovations were rewarded with the Canadian Confederation Medal in 1967 and the Canada Council for the Arts' Molson Prize in 1968.
	              From the late 1960s forward, his compositional ambitions were channeled into the production of what he called "contrapuntal radio documentaries," evocative tapestries of speech, sound effects and music that drew on principles and techniques from radio documentary, radio drama, film and music. The programs known as his "Solitude Trilogy" — The Idea of North (1967); The Latecomers (1969), about Newfoundland; and The Quiet in the Land (1977), about the Mennonites of Manitoba — explored the effects of geographical, cultural, and religious isolation on individuals and communities.
	              In 1970, he declined a nomination to the Order of Canada and moved his recording operations to Toronto from New York. He composed the music for the feature film Slaughterhouse-Five (1972) and won the only Grammy award in his lifetime for Best Classical Album Notes for his 1973 album Hindemith: Sonatas for Piano.
	              During this period, Gould also created four major documentaries on musicians: conductor Leopold Stokowski (1971); cellist Pablo Casals (1974); and composers Arnold Schoenberg (1974) and Richard Strauss (1979). Among the most important CBC TV productions of Gould’s later years were a documentary portrait in the series Telescope (1969), his technologically experimental special The Well-Tempered Listener (1970), his series Music in Our Time (1974–77) and the documentary “Glenn Gould's Toronto” in the Cities series (1979).
	              He was also involved in several important productions abroad including: the CBC-BBC co-production Conversations with Glenn Gould (1966); the NET special How Mozart Became a Bad Composer (1968); a series of four films for the French television (ORTF) series Chemins de la musique (1974), with Bruno Monsaingeon; Gould’s self-produced video production Radio as Music (1975); and Glenn Gould Plays Bach, a series of three films directed by Monsaingeon (1979–81).
	              In 1976, Gould was awarded the Diplôme d'honneur from the Canadian Conference of the Arts, and the University of Alberta's National Award in Music. In 1977, one of his recordings of the Prelude and “Fugue in C major” from Book II of Bach’s The Well-Tempered Clavier was included on a record that was placed in the Voyager spacecraft, as a representation of human civilization and intelligence. In 1979, he won the Juno Award for Best Classical Album of the Year for Hindermith; Das Marienleben. He received the Canadian Music Council Medal and the Canadian Music Council's Grand prix du disque in 1981.
	              As he approached age 50, Gould was planning to phase out his career as a recording pianist while fulfilling ambitious plans to make recordings as a conductor. He made his first and only official recording as a conductor (Wagner's Siegfried-Idyll) in the summer of 1982. He also arranged music for the feature film The Wars (1983).
	              Gould planned to stop recording altogether around 1985, and devote himself to writing and composing. However, on 27 September 1982, a few days after his 50th birthday, and approximately a week after the release of a best-selling second recording of the Goldberg Variations, he suffered a massive stroke and died on 4 October 1982.
	              Outside popular music, possibly no artist to date has expanded the technological possibilities of recorded music, or explored its aesthetic and even ethical implications, more than Gould. He believed that his performances were not just readings of pieces of music, but documents that reflected his entire world view. He thought (as had creators in the Romantic era) that artists had a "moral mission," and that art had enormous potential for the betterment of human life.
	              Gould became a leading exponent among classical performers of a true philosophy of recording, which he passionately defended in articles and broadcasts, and practiced in dozens of albums for Columbia/CBS, developing a hands-on expertise in recording techniques.
	              A studio performer, he felt, need not be concerned with projecting musical effects into an auditorium for the purpose of catching and holding the attention of an audience; rather, he could subject the music to minute inspection of detail at every structural level. Moreover, he could allow the technology itself — placement of microphones, splicing, overdubbing, reverb, etc. — to influence the interpretation and could defer many final interpretive decisions to the post-production process.
	              For Gould, recording had fundamentally altered the traditional relationship of composer, performer and listener. He justified his interpretive experiments in part by arguing that there was no point in making yet another recording of, for example, the Emperor Concerto, without offering significant departures from conventional readings already available.
	              Gould produced original, deeply personal, sometimes shocking musical interpretations, often employing extreme tempos, odd dynamics and even odder phrasing. He had a lifelong, controversial penchant for flouting conventional ideas about the piano and musical interpretation, perhaps exemplified by his fondness for detached articulation (playing without connecting the melody notes).
	              His wide but highly selective repertoire ranged from Tudor-era virginalists (performed on a kind of harpsichord) to living Canadians and revolved mainly around Bach and Schoenberg, but was conspicuously light on early Romantic music. He championed esoteric and intellectually challenging modern musical idioms, and advocated obscure works by composers like Georges Bizet, Edvard Grieg, Richard Strauss and Jean Sibelius. He also had a fondness (rare in his day) for playing orchestral and operatic music in transcription. In particular, he offered a dynamic and influential example of the mid-20th-century "high-modernist" approach to the performance of Bach.
	              Gould’s piano style — lean, refined, rhythmically dynamic, structurally explicit, insistently contrapuntal — was more modernistic than Romantic, though it could still be lyrical and deeply expressive in its own way. As an interpreter, however, he was the ultimate Romantic, often tinkering with the performance markings (occasionally even the notes). He sought fresh perspectives on works through extreme tempos, quirky phrasing and ornamentation, and other interpretive experiments. For these he was both praised for originality and condemned for eccentricity.
	              During his concert days, Gould noted that European critics wrote about his interpretations, while those in North America wrote more about his eccentricities. In his later years, a growing Gould legend was fed by reports of his personal eccentricities and lifestyle. He lived modestly and alone (he never married), guarded his private life jealously, refused to make public appearances of any kind and rarely left Toronto (especially after 1970, when he moved his recording operations there). In recent years, information regarding Gould’s discreet romantic relationships have come to light, most notably his five-year affair (beginning in 1967) with the painter Cornelia Foss, wife of the American composer Lukas Foss, who left her husband and moved with her children to Toronto for several years to live near Gould.
	              Some consider Gould to have been not merely eccentric but perhaps mentally ill. (A number of writers, most notably Dr. Timothy Maloney, have speculated that he suffered from Asperger's Syndrome, a mild form of autism that is compatible with high achievement.) His unusual habits included insisting on very warm room temperatures, always dressing in heavy layers and usually wearing gloves. He was concerned for his health to the point of hypochondria, took many medications and often avoided physical contact with others. His florid physical mannerisms (he often swayed and rotated his torso while playing), as well as his habit of vocalizing and humming while he played, also provoked much comment.
	              Gould published dozens of pieces of writing on a wide range of subjects (not all of them musical), including articles, program notes for concerts, liner notes for more than 20 of his albums, lectures, reviews, letters to the editor and humour. He received a Grammy Award in 1973 for the liner notes he wrote for his album Hindemith: Sonatas for Piano.
	              He wrote prolifically about recording and the mass media, his ideas often harmonizing with those of his friend Marshall McLuhan. Gould’s writings on the electronic media remain relevant, in some cases visionary. Figuring in the scripts he wrote for his radio, TV and film productions, the result is an impressive body of writing that, while uneven and often controversial, earned him a reputation as an informed, highly original and provocative thinker on music and technology.
	              Five of Gould’s pianos have been preserved. CD 318, the 1943 Steinway grand piano he used in most of his recordings from 1960 to 1981, and which was also used by jazz pianist Bill Evans on his landmark 1963 album Conversations with Myself, is at the National Arts Centre in Ottawa. The two Yamaha grands Gould bought in his final years are housed at Roy Thomson Hall in Toronto, and Central United Church in Edmonton. The two pianos he kept in his apartment, a 1932 Steinway grand and an 1895 Chickering baby grand, are respectively at Rideau Hall in Ottawa, and the lobby of Glenn Gould Studio at the Canadian Broadcasting Centre in Toronto.
	              Following Gould’s death, his famous folding chair, customized for him by his father, was displayed in a glass case in the music division at the National Library of Canada. It remained there until 2005, when it was transferred to a storage vault and brought out only for special events and exhibitions. Since June 2012, it has been on permanent display at the National Arts Centre in Ottawa, with Gould’s famous CD 318 Steinway.
	              Gould enjoyed a reputation as one of the world's premier musicians, but his prolific work in the media, aside from concerts and recordings, was not readily accessible during his lifetime. As a result many people, for much of his career, knew him only as a pianist. Since 1982, however, his work has become increasingly accessible. His international following has greatly expanded, and a thriving cottage industry has grown up around him.
	              Various studio recordings were digitally re-mastered and re-released soon after his death by CBS Masterworks, and many live and broadcast performances were released by smaller pirate labels in North America, Europe and Japan. Finally, from 1992 to 1997, Sony Classical released the comprehensive Glenn Gould Edition, comprised of more than 75 CDs, including many concert and broadcast recordings. CBC Records released eight Gould volumes on 11 CDs from 1992 to 1999, including many broadcast performances from the early 1950s.
	              Gould's recordings continue to sell in impressive numbers; in fact, his recordings sell better today than when he was alive. The 1982 recording of the Goldberg Variations was certified gold in Canada in 1984, and achieved platinum sales status of 100,000 copies in 1992. Gould's radio and TV broadcasts and films have also been revived since his death. In 1987, the CBC began rebroadcasting the bulk of his TV work, edited into 24 half-hour programs titled Glenn Gould Plays. The series was also shown in Europe. His "contrapuntal radio documentaries" have been rebroadcast by the CBC and abroad, and most have been released by CBC Records. Sony Classical released a generous selection of TV performances from 1992–94 in the Glenn Gould Collection, comprised of 16 hour-long volumes on VHS and laserdisc.
	              Gould's writings have been published in two major English-language collections and in some periodicals, and have been translated into many languages. His compositions, too, have enjoyed a minor revival since his death, receiving performances at Gould events and elsewhere around the world. In 1995, Schott Musik International undertook a comprehensive edition of Gould’s compositions and arrangements. In 2011, CBC launched a website commemorating the 80th anniversary of Gould’s birth, and produced a set of DVDs, Glenn Gould on Television, the Complete CBC Broadcasts 1954–1977.
	              The new availability of Glenn Gould's recordings, broadcasts, writings and compositions inspired a vast amount of writing on Gould, in many countries and languages. Today the Gould literature rivals that of classical performers as prominent as the conductor Arturo Toscanini. It ranges from hagiography to scholarship, biographies to reference books, general appreciations of his achievement to focused studies of almost every aspect of his life, personality, work and thought.
	              Though still dismissed as a mere eccentric in some quarters, Gould is studied and even revered as an artist and thinker, particularly outside the English-speaking world, in countries like France, Germany, Russia, Israel and Japan. The CBC, National Public Radio in the US, the BBC, Japan's NHK, and all of the major European networks have produced posthumous portraits and other radio and TV programs about Gould.
	              A Glenn Gould Society based in Groningen, Netherlands, was founded on 1 October 1982; it sponsored public events and published a semi-annual Bulletin until 1992. The Glenn Gould Foundation (GGF) was established in Toronto in 1983, and since 1987 has awarded a triennial $50,000 Glenn Gould Prize in Music and Communication. In 1995, the GGF established a Friends of Glenn Gould society and published a semi-annual magazine, GlennGould, until 2008.
	              Interest in Gould has been intense enough to spawn major conferences analyzing his life and work: the Glenn Gould Colloquium, 13–15 October 1987, at l'Université du Québec à Montréal; the Glenn Gould Symposium, 13–15 May 1988, in Amsterdam (organized by the Glenn Gould Society); the Glenn Gould Conference in Toronto, 23–27 September 1992, organized by the GGF; the Glenn Gould Festival in Groningen, 2–4 October 1992, organized by the Society; and the Glenn Gould Gathering, at the Canadian Broadcasting Centre in Toronto, 23–26 September 1999, organized by the GGF. In addition, many smaller Gould events have been held in major cities.
	              Gould has been honoured in works by an ever-expanding list of artists. He has inspired several transcriptions of the Goldberg Variations, as well as original compositions by Alexina Louie (O Magnum Mysterium: In Memoriam Glenn Gould, 1982), Christos Hatzis (The Go(u)ldberg Variations, 1992), Art Lewis (Homage to Glenn Gould, 1996) and others. He has inspired works by painters and sculptors, including the exhibition The Idea of North in New York in 1987. A life-sized statue by Ruth Abernethy of Gould seated on a park bench, located in front of the Canadian Broadcasting Centre in Toronto, was unveiled in 1999. An exhibit by photographer Don Hunstein — The Hunstein Variations: A Photographic Record of Glenn Gould 1957-1999 — has toured widely.
	              Many choreographers have created dances inspired by Gould's image and personality or using his recordings. For example, Israeli choreographer Emanuel Gat's 2013 work The Goldlandbergs was based on material from the radio program The Quiet in the Land. A book of Gould-inspired poems, Northern Music, appeared in 2001. He has been featured in short stories by writers including Joy Williams, Lydia Davis, and Joyce Carol Oates, and in novels by Thomas Bernhard (Der Untergeher, 1983), Thomas Harris (The Silence of the Lambs, 1988), Richard Powers (The Gold Bug Variations, 1991), Joe Fiorito (The Song Beneath the Ice, 2002) and others. He inspired The Maestro, a novel for young people by Tim Wynne-Jones, and Anne Chislett's children's play Not Quite the Same.
	              There have been dramatic works based on Gould in several countries — the most important, David Young's play Glenn, had its premiere in Toronto in 1992, played at the Stratford Festival in 1999, and has been produced overseas in translation. François Girard's Genie Award-winning experimental biopic, Thirty Two Short Films About Glenn Gould (1993), is structured to reflect the 32 parts of Bach’s Goldberg Variations and includes interviews with those who knew Gould. Ted Dykstra starred in John McGreevy’s play An Evening with Glenn Gould, which was performed in anniversary celebrations of Gould’s 75th birthday in Ottawa and Toronto in 2007. Also that year, a portion of Metro Square in Toronto, next to Roy Thomson Hall, was designated Glenn Gould Place.
	              The principal repository of Glenn Gould materials is the Glenn Gould Archive at Library and Archives Canada (LAC) in Ottawa. In October 1983, the library (then called the National Library of Canada) acquired more than 200 boxes of Gould’s personal belongings from his estate, a wealth of material that included: compositions and arrangements; writings; tapes of radio programs; audio and video recordings; correspondences; business, financial and medical records; and various other materials. The papers have been microfilmed. Certain artifacts — such as clothing, motel-room keys, pens, knick-knacks, etc. — are stored at the Canadian Museum of Civilization in Gatineau, QC.
	              The National Library of Canada mounted a major exhibition, Glenn Gould 1988, from April–September 1988; it subsequently travelled across Canada and to Tokyo. A smaller but immensely popular Gould exhibition was shown at the Canadian Cultural Centre in Paris in 1986 and later toured eight other European cities.
	              Searchable databases, as well as a virtual exhibition, private audio recordings, bibliographies, writings, etc. can be accessed through LAC's website. The LAC main catalogue includes a comprehensive collection of more than 2,000 sources relating to Gould.
	              There is a Glenn Gould Memorial Scholarship Fund at the University of Toronto and a Glenn Gould Professional School at the Royal Conservatory of Music. For a time there was an annual Glenn Gould Lecture in New York, and there have been college-level courses devoted to him in Canada and the US. There is a Glenn Gould Park in Toronto and a Glenn Gould Crescent in Uxbridge, and the City of Toronto has declared the house in which he grew up (32 Southwood Drive) to be a historic site. He was given a star on Canada’s Walk of Fame in 1998, and Canada Post issued a stamp in his honour in 1999.
	              He is a popular figure on the Internet, the subject of fan sites, databases, discussion groups (most notably the F_Minor mailing list) and more. Some tributes to Gould have been ironic, most notably the 1985 International Bach Competition, held in Toronto 1–12 May 1985. The competition raised money for the GGF, but was criticized as inappropriate because Gould had strongly objected to music competitions and live performance. Similarly, the auditorium at the CBC's Canadian Broadcasting Centre is named Glenn Gould Studio.
	              The 75th anniversary of his birth was honoured in 2007–08 with an exhibition at the Canadian Museum of Civilization, and the 80th anniversary in 2012 was celebrated around the world.
	              Gould ranks high on lists of great musicians and great Canadians. When Maclean's magazine named its 100 most important Canadians in 1998, he ranked No. 1 among artists and No. 5 overall. His 1955 Goldberg Variations recording was inducted into the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences Hall of Fame in 1983; it was also among the first audio-visual artifacts to be inducted into Canada's Masterworks program in 2000, and was named by the magazine Gramophone as one of the 10 best recordings of the century.
	              One encounters a wide range of opinions about Glenn Gould. Despite his relatively short concert career and 20-year truancy from the concert hall, and despite the absence from his repertoire of such mainstream piano composers as Schubert, Schumann, Mendelssohn, Chopin, Liszt, Debussy, Bartók and Stravinsky, he is widely considered one of the greatest (and certainly the most original and idiosyncratic) pianists of the 20th century, particularly in the music of Bach and of Gould's favourite 20th-century composers, such as Schoenberg and Berg. Gould also counted among his admirers many great performers, conductors and composers of his day.
	              On the other hand, many musicians, critics, and aficionados have dismissed Gould vehemently. His musical interpretations and public pronouncements provoked considerable enmity, and some perceived him as a threat to many accepted views. The controversies continue, though he provokes less outrage today and his place among internationally renowned pianists seems to be solidifying. Many pianists — such as András Shiff, Evgeny Kissin, Peter Serkin, Ivo Pogorelić and Piotr Anderszewski — have acknowledged a debt to Gould's lean, refined, structurally explicit, contrapuntal style and to the creative freedom he demanded as an interpreter. Gould’s example encouraged later pianists to explore outside the standard piano repertoire. His nuanced championship of the music of Richard Strauss in the 1950s–60s, though it met with derision, is now recognized as prescient.
	              Gould had some impact away from the piano as well. His writings on the electronic media remain relevant, in some cases visionary. Current thought on the premises, possibilities and ethics of recording is much indebted to him. His ideas resonate strongly in today’s world of digital technology, which was in its infancy when he died. His postmodernist advocacy of open borders between the roles of composer, performer and listener, for instance, anticipated digital technologies such as the internet, which democratize and decentralize the institutions of culture. His radio-documentary style also spawned many imitators.
	              Gould has crept into the popular culture to a degree few classical musicians have. It is important to note that, at a time when many Canadian musicians needed to leave Canada to find success, Gould was always extremely well-received in Canada. His success at home presaged a new nationalist period in Canadian culture, and he found opportunities to be influential through Canada’s new and growing cultural institutions.
	              Decades after his death, Gould continues to entertain and fascinate, challenge and provoke, as both a personality and artist. The very uniqueness that continues to attract new fans may limit his influence, since he was too idiosyncratic to breed literal imitators or lead a movement. It does however seem likely that he will remain a major presence in classical music. Certainly, he has proved to be one of the most important cultural figures Canada has produced.
	              Best Classical Performance, Instrumental Soloist (Bach: The Goldberg Variations), Grammy Awards (1982)
	              Best Classical Performance, Instrumental Soloist (Beethoven: Piano Sonatas Nos. 12 and 13), Grammy Awards (1983)
	              Inductee (Goldberg Variations, 1956), National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences Hall of Fame (1983)
	              Best Classical Album of the Year (Brahms: Ballades Op. 10, Rhapsodies Op. 79), Juno Awards (1983)
	              Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award, National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences (2013)
	              John McGreevy, ed, Glenn Gould: Variations (1983);Geoffrey Payzant, Glenn Gould: Music and Mind (1984); Tim Page, ed, The Glenn Gould Reader (1984); Jonathan Cott, Conversations with Glenn Gould (1984); Otto Friedrich, Glenn Gould: A Life and Variations (1989); Nancy Canning, A Glenn Gould Catalog (1992); Andrew Kazdin, Glenn Gould at Work: Creative Lying (1992); John P. L. Roberts & Ghyslaine Guertin, eds, Glenn Gould: Selected Letters (1992); Peter Ostwald, Glenn Gould: The Ecstasy and Tragedy of Genius (1997); Kevin Bazzana, Glenn Gould: The Performer in the Work (1997); John P. L. Roberts, ed, The Art of Glenn Gould (1999).
Glenn Gould ArchiveAn online collection of archival material about celebrated musician Glenn Gould. Includes audio clips of interviews, discussions, photos, writings, and more. From Library and Archives Canada. 
Canadian Music Hall of FameThe website for the Canadian Music Hall of Fame from the Canadian Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences (CARAS).
Glenn GouldAn informative website about the life and music of Glenn Gould. Features his biography, discography, photos, timeline, and more. From Sony BMG Music Entertainment.
        Beckwith, John, Kevin Bazzana and Geoffrey Payzant. "Glenn Gould". The Canadian Encyclopedia.
        John Beckwith, Kevin Bazzana and Geoffrey Payzant. "Glenn Gould." In The Canadian Encyclopedia.
        Beckwith, John, Bazzana, Kevin and Payzant, Geoffrey. 2008. Glenn Gould. The Canadian Encyclopedia
                                While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.
                                        Kevin Bazzana, Geoffrey Payzant, John Beckwith "Glenn Gould" The Canadian Encyclopedia. Eds. Betty Nygaard King And Andrew Mcintosh. Toronto: Historica Canada, 2008. Web. 6 Jun. 2014.
Kevin Bazzana, Geoffrey Payzant, John Beckwith "Glenn Gould" The Canadian Encyclopedia. Eds. Betty Nygaard King And Andrew Mcintosh. Toronto: Historica Canada, 2008. Web. 6 Jun. 2014.
                                        Kevin Bazzana, Geoffrey Payzant, John Beckwith, R. The Canadian Encyclopedia. (2008). Glenn Gould. Retrieved June 6, 2014, from http://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/glenn-gould/
Kevin Bazzana, Geoffrey Payzant, John Beckwith, R. The Canadian Encyclopedia. (2008). Glenn Gould. Retrieved June 6, 2014, from http://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/glenn-gould/
                                        Kevin Bazzana, Geoffrey Payzant, John Beckwith. "Glenn Gould" In The Canadian Encyclopedia. Historica Canada, 1985–. Article published August 17, 2008. http://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/glenn-gould/.
Kevin Bazzana, Geoffrey Payzant, John Beckwith. "Glenn Gould" In The Canadian Encyclopedia. Historica Canada, 1985–. Article published August 17, 2008. http://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/glenn-gould/.
                                        Kevin Bazzana, Geoffrey Payzant, John Beckwith. 2008. Glenn Gould. The Canadian Encyclopedia http://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/glenn-gould/ (accessed June 6, 2014).
Kevin Bazzana, Geoffrey Payzant, John Beckwith. 2008. Glenn Gould. The Canadian Encyclopedia http://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/glenn-gould/ (accessed June 6, 2014).
                                    While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.
=======================================================
.media td{text-align:center;vertical-align:bottom;padding:.5em;padding-top:1em;max-width:180px;width:25%;}.media a{text-decoration:none;font-size:9pt;}.media img{box-shadow:1px 1px 5px #111;-webkit-box-shadow:1px 1px 5px #111;-moz-box-shadow:1px 1px 5px #111;clear:both;text-align:center;vertical-align:middle;background:#fff;padding:5px;margin:5px;border:1px solid #bbb;}.media small{color:#008000;font-size:8pt;clear:both;}.media a, .media small{width:99%;white-space:nowrap;overflow:hidden;text-overflow:ellipsis;-o-text-overflow:ellipsis;-ms-text-overflow:ellipsis;display:inline-block;vertical-align:top;}#IE .media a, #IE .media small{white-space:normal;clear:both;}.media li{margin-left:1em;}.media li img{margin-left:0px;}.hide{position:absolute;text-indent:-1000em;}.clear{clear:both;height:0;}.sep{border-top:1px solid #e5e5e5;margin-top:10px;height:0;}.sprite{text-indent:-9999px;display:block;}.hide, .clear, .sep, .sprite{overflow:hidden;}.clip{position:absolute !important;clip:rect(1px 1px 1px 1px);clip:rect(1px,1px,1px,1px);}.ghost{color:#b9b9b9;}.suggestPanel{position:absolute;display:none;background-color:#fff;text-align:left;border:1px solid #7F9DB9;font-size:12pt;}.suggest_link{padding:2px 6px;overflow:hidden;}.suggest_link_over{padding:2px 6px;overflow:hidden;background-color:#0F6FBC;color:#fff;cursor:pointer;}#ifSpellSuggest{display:inline;}.wdgt> *{margin-bottom:8px;}.wdgt b{background:#CC0000;color:#fff;padding:0px 4px;font-weight:bolder;margin-right:8px;box-shadow:1px 1px 3px #aaa;-webkit-box-shadow:1px 1px 3px #aaa;-moz-box-shadow:1px 1px 3px #aaa;text-shadow:1px 1px 0 #444;}.wdgt a{text-decoration:underline;font-weight:normal;}small.status{vertical-align:text-top;font-size:72%;font-weight:bold;margin:0px 6px 0px -3px;}#infolang{color:#6490CB;font-size:10px;white-space:nowrap;padding:5px 0px;margin:0px;min-width:;background:#f6f8f7 url(http://gfx2.info.com+'/bkg_bar.gif') 80 repeat-x;}#infolang option{border-color:red;background-color:#D2E4FC;color:#6490CB;}#infolang form, #infolang select{padding:0px;margin:0px;vetical-align:top;font-size:10px;}#infolang a{text-decoration:none;color:#6490CB;}#infolang a:hover{text-decoration:underline;color:black;}#f{white-space:nowrap;clear:both;margin-bottom:1em;}#f a, #f a:visited{text-decoration:none;font-weight:normal;}#f a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}#f .links{margin:0 auto 0 auto;display:block;clear:both;text-align:center;}#f .links a{margin:0px 9px;}#f .copy{text-align:center;padding-top:.8em;color:#808080;margin-bottom:2em;}#f .copy .g{margin-left:3em;display:inline;}#f .links, #f .sep{border:0;color:#E5E5E5;}.INFO{float:left;width:154px;height:60px;padding-top:6px;text-align:right;}.INFO img{display:inline;}html, body{font-size:100%;height:100%;font-family:arial, verdana, sans-serif;}html, body, form, h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6, p, ul, table{margin:0;padding:0;}img{border:0;display:block;}ul{list-style-type:none;}a{color:#1D49B2;}a:hover{text-decoration:*;}a:visited{color:*;}#p{font-size:.82em;margin:0 auto;min-width:650px;padding-left:14px;width:992px;}#l{width:150px;float:left;clear:both;margin-top:*;text-align:right;}#r{width:240px;float:left;padding-left:8px;margin-top:*;border-left:1px solid #e5e5e5;overflow:hidden;}#IE6 #r{position:relative;}.rw{margin:10px;}#p.l #w{padding-left:174px;}#p.r #w{padding-right:250px;}#cw{float:left;margin-top:*;width:100%;}#IE6 #cw{width:98%;}#cw .sep{margin:10px 0px 0 -12px;}.cw{margin-left:*;padding-left:*;padding-right:10px;width:auto;}#p.r .cw{margin-right:*;}#hw, #c, #fw{margin:0 auto;width:auto;}#fw{height:90px;}#f .links{padding-top:2em;}.P4 ul li h3, .F3 ul li h3 {display:inline;margin:0;font-size:1em;font-weight:normal;}#l form{margin:1em 0px;}#l label{clear:both;display:block;line-height:1.8em;}#l input{float:right;}.tabs a, .tabs a:visited, .tabs a:active{display:block;font-size:1.2em;outline:none;color:#1d49b2;}.tabs .on a, .tabs .on a:visited, .tabs .on a:active{font-size:1.2em;padding-left:8px;color:#000;}.tabs a{text-decoration:none;padding:0 0 0 8px;}.tabs a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.tabs li{margin:3px 0;line-height:27px;}.tabs .on{display:block;font-weight:bold;border-left:none;}#IE9 .tabs .on, #CHROME .tabs .on, #SAFARI .tabs .on, #IE8 .tabs .on{padding-top:1px;}#IE9 .tabs a{padding-top:1px;}.xtr .sep{margin:11px 10px;}.xtr ul{margin-top:2em;}.xtr li{margin:3px 0;line-height:22px;padding-right:16px;}.xtr a, .xtr a:visited, .xtr a:active{color:#515151;line-height:16px;}.xtr a{padding:0 0 0 9px;text-decoration:none;}.xtr a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.xtr p{padding:0 0 0 8px;margin:0 0 6px;font-weight:bold;}input{-webkit-appearance:none;-webkit-border-radius:0;}#h .sb, #f .sb{float:left;}#h .sb .sb-c, #f .sb .sb-c{padding-left:8px;}#h .sb{padding-top:25px;}.attrib{display:inline-block;}.attrib img{margin-top:3px;}.MSRW{color:#626262;font-size:0.9em;font-weight:normal;margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0;}.qkwSearchBox{border:1px solid transparent;}.qkwSearchBox:hover{border-color:transparent;}.qkwSearchBox input[type="text"]:focus, .qkwSearchBox input[type="search"]:focus{outline:0;outline:thin dotted \9;border-color:#6490cb;-webkit-box-shadow:inset 0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.075), 0 0 8px #6490cb;-moz-box-shadow:inset 0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.075), 0 0 8px #6490cb;box-shadow:inset 0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.075), 0 0 8px #6490cb;}.qkw{color:#000 !important;font-size:1.4em;font-weight:normal;font-family:arial, verdana, sans-serif;width:100%;position:relative;height:28px !important;padding:5px 3px 4px 6px !important;border:1px solid #6490CB !important;background:transparent;}#IE6 .qkw, #IE7 .qkw, #IE8 .qkw{line-height:28px;}.sqkw{cursor:pointer;font-weight:normal;font-size:1.5em;margin:0 0 0 10px;padding:0;display:block;white-space:nowrap;position:relative;text-shadow:0 1px 3px rgba(0,0,0,40);border:none;width:80px !important;line-height:40px;height:40px;}.sqkw:hover{text-shadow:0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.7);}.QKW{position:relative;width:731px !important;float:left;}.QKW .sqkw_{display:inline;color:#fff;border:0;height:39px !important;background:#6490CB;}.QKW .sqkw_:hover{color:#6490CB;}.QKW td{vertical-align:top;}.QKW a, .QKW a:hover, .QKW a:active, .QKW a:visited{text-decoration:none;color:#fff;}#IE6 .QKW form{zoom:100%;}#IE .QKW td{vertical-align:middle;}.P{clear:both;text-align:center;white-space:nowrap;margin:15px 0px 15px -8px;max-width:608px;font-size:1.24em;color:#000;}.P a{text-decoration:none;color:#1d49b2;}.P a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.P a:visited{color:#660099;}.P span, .P span a{font-weight:bold;}.P a, .P span{padding:6px 8px;margin:0 5px;zoom:100%;}.P span.nextRes, .P span.prevRes{padding:0px;margin:0px;}#c{margin-top:8px;}#c .more a:link{text-decoration:none;font-size:1em;}#c .more a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.AYLF a, .aylfResult a{text-decoration:none;color:#1d49b2;font-size:1.1em;text-transform:capitalize;}.AYLF a:visited, .aylfResult a:visited{color:#660099;}.AYLF a:active, .aylfResult a:active{color:#000;}.AYLF a:hover, .AYLF a span:hover, .aylfResult a:hover, .aylfResult a span:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.AYLF li, .aylfResult li{margin:8px 0;}#r .AYLF{margin-bottom:12px;}.AYLF-h{}.AYLF-h ul{margin:6px 0px 0px 0px;}.AYLF-h ul li{display:inline;padding-right:15px;line-height:20px;}.AYLF-h a{text-decoration:none;font-size:1.1em;}.AYLF-h a a:visited{color:#660099;}.AYLF-h a a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.AYLF-h3c{margin-top:4px;}.AYLF-h3c a{text-decoration:none;font-size:1.1em;}.AYLF-h3c a a:visited{color:#660099;}.AYLF-h3c a a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.AYLF-h3c table{clear:both;padding-top:4px;table-layout:fixed;width:100%;}.AYLF-h3c td{text-transform:capitalize;text-overflow:ellipsis;white-space:nowrap;overflow:hidden;}.AYLF-h3c tr{clear:none;}#r ul{margin:-4px 0 0;}#r li.more{float:right;margin:0px;margin-bottom:14px;display:inline-block;*width:50%;zoom:1;*display:inline;}#r img{width:99px;height:auto;max-height:133px;opacity:0;-moz-transition:opacity 2s;-webkit-transition:opacity 2s;-o-transition:opacity 2s;transition:opacity 2s;}#r p.d{color:#444;line-height:16px;display:inline-block;}#r a.more{text-decoration:none;clear:none;display:inline;vertical-align:text-bottom;*width:5%;zoom:1;*display:inline;}#r .media h3{margin-bottom:8px;}#r .media li{margin:0px;padding:0px;vertical-align:top;display:inline-block;zoom:1;*display:inline;}#r .media li.more{margin-top:6px;margin-bottom:16px;}.F3{}.F3{margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0;padding-right:256px;clear:both;}.F3 ul li{margin:14px 0px;max-width:600px;word-wrap:break-word;clear:both;}.F3 ul li a, .F3 ul li a:visited{font-size:1.24em;color:#1d49b2;text-decoration:underline;outline:none;font-weight:normal;}.F3 ul li a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.F3 ul li a, .F3 ul li p.u, .F3 ul li small{width:100%;white-space:nowrap;overflow:hidden;text-overflow:ellipsis;-o-text-overflow:ellipsis;-ms-text-overflow:ellipsis;display:inline-block;vertical-align:top;}#IE .F3 ul li a, #IE .F3 ul li p.u, #IE .F3 ul li small{white-space:normal;clear:both;}.F3 ul li h3{font-weight:bold;}.F3 .sites{overflow:auto;width:100%;}.F3 ul.site{clear:none;padding:4px 0 0 17px;float:left;}.F3 ul.site li{margin:0;width:auto;}.F3 ul.sitel{padding-left:15px;}.F3 .indent{clear:both;}.F3 .hostIndent{clear:both;margin-left:15px;}.F3 .moreResults{padding-top:5px;color:#77c;}.F3 a.ltxt{font-size:1em;color:#77c;text-decoration:none;}.F3 a.ltxt:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.F3 a.ltxt:visited{color:#551a8b;}.F3 a.ltxt:hover{text-decoration:underline;}#p.r .F3{padding-right:0;}#w p, #r p{font-size:1em;}#w ul li p.d, #r ul li p.d{line-height:16px;}#w ul li p.u, #r ul li p.u{color:#009933;text-decoration:none;font-style:normal;height:17px;line-height:16px;}.P4T{margin-top:0;margin-bottom:8px;}.P4B{margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0;}.P4 h3, .F3 h3.small{font-size:1em;font-weight:normal;margin:0 3px 3px 3px;}.P4 h3 a:visited, .F3 h3.small a:visited{color:#1c00c0;}.P4 h3 .hlp, .P4 h3 .txt, .F3 h3.small .hlp, .F3 h3.small .txt{font-size:0.9em;text-decoration:none;color:#6f6f6f;float:right;}.P4{background-color:#f2f9ff;zoom:100%;line-height:1.167;max-width:863px;padding:1px 0px 3px 12px;margin-left:-12px;}.P4 ul a, .P4 ul a:hover, .P4 .desc b{text-decoration:none;}.P4 a{cursor:pointer;display:block;}.P4 ul li:first-child{margin-top:0px;}.P4 ul li{margin-top:9px;margin-bottom:0px;}.P4 ul a{outline:none;}.P4 .P4Link{margin:-3px 0 0;}.P4 ul li h3 a{font-size:1.24em;text-decoration:underline;word-wrap:break-word;color:#1c00c0;}.P4 ul li h3 a:hover, .P4 a:hover .title{text-decoration:underline;}.P4 ul li h3 a:visited, .P4 a:visited .title{color:#1c00c0;}.P4 .desc{display:block;zoom:100%;}.P4 .pdesc{font-size:1em;color:#000000;height:18px;line-height:18px;}#w .P4 ul li p.u{color:#21883B;padding-top:2px;display:inline;}.P4 .sl1col{height:1em;margin-top:4px;width:560px;overflow:hidden;text-overflow:ellipsis;color:#343434;}.P4 .sl1col a{white-space:nowrap;margin-left:15px;}.P4 .sl{line-height:15px;}.P4 .sl li{display:inline;margin:0;}.P4 .sl a{font-size:1em;color:#1c00c0;}.P4 .sl a:focus{outline:thin dotted;}.P4 .sl a:visited{color:#1c00c0;}.P4 .sl a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}table.sl2col{margin:0px;padding:0px;border-spacing:0;border-collapse:collapse;margin-top:2px;}.sl2col td{padding-left:15px;}ul.sl2col{margin-left:15px;width:100%;}ul.sl2col li{width:50%;margin:0px;padding:0px;display:inline-block;vertical-align:top;}#IE7 ul.sl2col li{*display:inline;*zoom:1;}.rated{font-size:11px;line-height:10px;color:#383838;display:inline-block;}#IE .rated, #IE .rated> div{zoom:1;*display:inline;margin:0px 4px;}.rated a:link, .rated a:visited, .rated a:hover{text-decoration:none;color:#3435f3;background:none;border:none;font-size:10px;display:inline;}.rated div.x{margin:0px 4px;}#IE .rated div.x{display:table-cell;vertical-align:middle;}.rated div{height:9px;background:url(http://gfx2.info.com/stars.png) repeat-x scroll right bottom transparent;display:inline-block;width:55px;}.rated .x div{background-position:0px 0px;}.nores,.off,.offf{display:none}#topResults,#bottomResults{width:95%}.P4{background:none}.aylfResult a:link{text-decoration:underline !important}#insp_result_spelling_0{display:inline-table;margin-left:.5em}.P4 a{display:inline} // fix yaho sitelinks.P4 h3 .hlp, .P4 h3 .txt, .F3 h3.small .hlp, .F3 h3.small .txt{margin:0px;padding:0px;}@media (max-device-width: 768px){#c {margin-left:8px} .attrib, #f .QKW, #f .links, #f .INFO, #f .copy .g{display:none !important;} .INFO, .INFO img{height:28px !important;width:auto;} .INFO{padding-left:4px;} #p{font-size: none;margin:0px;padding:0px;width:100%;min-width:100% !important;} #h .sb{padding:0px;} .sb-c{padding:0px !important;height:40px;} .QKW{width:auto !important;float:left;position:absolute;} .P4{max-width:none;margin:0px;padding:0px;} #p.r #w, #p.l #w{padding:0px;}  #w{padding:0px !important;} #l{float: none;text-align:center;width: 100%;display:block;} .tabs{display:none;} .tabs li{border:1px solid red;min-width:12%;float:left;}#fw{height:20px} #f .sb{width:100%;font-size:80%;} #f .copy .g{margin:none;margin-top:1em;white-space:none;display:block;} .sqkw{font-size:.9em;width:44px !important;}}}.nores{margin:4em;font-size:110%;font-family: verdana,sans-serif}.nores p{margin:1em 0}.nores ul{list-style:disc;line-height:1.5em}.nores li{margin-left:4em}
A browser that support JavaScript is required to see most content on this site. Check how to enable JavaScript.
