=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
ArnieAustrian OakConan the RepublicanStyrian OakThe GovernatorThe Running ManConan the GovernorThe Machine    
          Arnold Schwarzenegger is an Austrian/American actor, politician and businessman who started his career out as a weight-lifter. Born July 30, 1947 in Thal, Styria, Austria, Schwarzenegger with a keen interest in physical fitness and seemingly indomitable drive, parlayed his notoriety as a five-time Mr. Universe and seven-time Mr. Olympia champion to turn himself into a Hollywood movie star and public personality. After a series of false starts as the dumb-beefcake in several poor films Schwarzenegger got his big break in the title role of director John Milius's Conan the Barbarian (1982). Several sequels followed but the actor wisely played against the heroic type to take the eponymous villain role in The Terminator (1984) with director 'James Cameron' and making the line, "I'll be back" a catch-phrase of the mid-80s. Schwarzenegger solidified his place as an action hero in films like Predator (1987), Total Recall (1990), _Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1992)_ and True Lies (1994), but proved to have wider range than anyone expected by pulling off comedic roles too, which he did in Twins (1988), Kindergarten Cop (1990), and others. In April, 1986 he married TV correspondent, Maria Shriver (a relation to the Kennedy political dynasty) and the couple had 4 children. Eventually a string of less-than-successfully received pictures, such as Jingle All the Way (1996), Eraser (1996), End of Days (1999), The 6th Day (2000), and Collateral Damage (2002) proved that the "Austrian Oak," as he had been nicknamed during his weight-lifting years, could be felled.In October of 2003 Schwarzenegger, running as a Republican, was elected Governor of California in a special recall election of then governor Gray Davis. The "Governator," as Schwarzenegger came to be called, held the office until 2011. Upon leaving the Governor's mansion it was revealed that he had fathered a child with the family's live-in maid and Shriver filed for divorce.He is currently in The Expendables 2 (2012) and expected to next be seen in The Last Stand (2013), Escape Plan (2013) and The Unknown Soldier.
          Growing up in a small, isolated village in Austria, he turned to bodybuilding as his ticket to a better life. Prior to that he served a mandatory one year in the Austrian military (beginning in 1965). After conquering the world as arguably the greatest bodybuilder who ever lived, he went to America to make his name in motion pictures. Hampered by his impossible name and thick accent, success eluded him for many years. It wasn't until he found the tailor-made role of Conan that he truly came into his own as a performer. A succession of over-the-top action films made him an international box office star. By alternating violent action films with lighter, comedic fare, he has solidified his position as one of the most popular - if not the most popular - movie stars in the world. After his long, and successful movie career, he ran in the California recall. He is now the Governor of California, yet another celebrity to be elected to the position.
          With an almost unpronounceable surname and a thick Austrian accent, who would have ever believed that a brash, quick talking bodybuilder from a small European village would become one of Hollywood's biggest stars, marry into the prestigious Kennedy family, amass a fortune via shrewd investments and one day be the Governor of California!?The amazing story of uber-star Arnold Schwarzenegger is a true "rags to riches" story of the penniless immigrant making it in the land of opportunity, the United States of America. Arnold was born on July 30th, 1947 in the town of Thal, Austria and, from a young age, he took a keen interest in physical fitness and bodybuilding, going on to compete in several minor contests in Europe. However, it was when he emigrated to the United States in 1968 at the tender age of 21 that his star began to rise. Up until the early 1970's, bodybuilding had been viewed as a rather oddball sport, or even a mis-understood "freak show" by the general public, however two entrepreneurial Canadian brothers Ben Weider and Joe Weider set about broadening the appeal of "pumping iron" and getting the sport respect, and what better poster boy could they have to lead the charge, then the incredible "Austrian Oak", Arnold Schwarzenegger. Over roughly the next decade, beginning in 1970, Schwarzenegger dominated the sport of competitive bodybuilding winning five Mr. Universe titles and seven Mr. Olympia titles and, with it, he made himself a major sports icon, he generated a new international audience for bodybuilding, gym memberships worldwide swelled by the tens of thousands and the Weider sports business empire flourished beyond belief and reached out to all corners of the globe.However, Schwarzenegger's horizons were bigger than just the landscape of bodybuilding and he debuted on screen as "Arnold Strong" in the low budget Hercules in New York (1969), then director Bob Rafelson cast Arnold in Stay Hungry (1976) alongside Jeff Bridges and Sally Field, for which Arnold won a Golden Globe Award for "Best Acting Debut in a Motion Picture". The mesmerizing Pumping Iron (1977) covering the 1975 Mr Olympia contest in South Africa has since gone on to become one of the key sports documentaries of the 20th century, plus Arnold landed other acting roles in the comedy The Villain (1979) opposite Kirk Douglas, and he portrayed Mickey Hargitay in the well- received TV movie The Jayne Mansfield Story (1980). But, what Arnold really needed was a super hero / warrior style role in a lavish production that utilized his chiseled physique, and gave him room to show off his growing acting talents and quirky humor.Conan the Barbarian (1982) was just that role. Inspired by the Robert E. Howard short stories of the "Hyborean Age" and directed by gung ho director John Milius, and with a largely unknown cast, save Max von Sydow and James Earl Jones, "Conan" was a smash hit worldwide and an inferior, although still enjoyable sequel titled Conan the Destroyer (1984) quickly followed. If "Conan" was the kick start to Arnold's movie career, then his next role was to put the pedal to the floor and accelerate his star status into overdrive. Director James Cameron had until that time only previously directed one earlier feature film titled Piranha Part Two: The Spawning (1981), which stank of rotten fish from start to finish - however Cameron hadpenned a fast paced, science fiction themed film script that called for an actor to play an unstoppable, ruthless predator - The Terminator (1984). Made on a relatively modest budget, the high voltage action / science fiction thriller The Terminator (1984) was incredibly successful worldwide, and began one of the most profitable film franchises in history. The dead pan phrase "I'll be back" quickly became part of popular culture across the globe. Schwarzenegger was in vogue with action movie fans, and the next few years were to see Arnold reap box office gold in roles portraying tough, no-nonsense individuals who used their fists, guns and witty one-liners to get the job done. The testosterone laden Commando (1985), Raw Deal (1986), Predator (1987), The Running Man (1987) and Red Heat (1988) were all box office hits and Arnold could seemingly could no wrong when it came to picking winning scripts. The tongue-in-cheek comedy Twins (1988) with co-star Danny DeVito was a smash and won Arnold new fans who saw a more comedic side to the muscle- bound actor once described by Australian author / TV host Clive James as "a condom stuffed with walnuts".The spectacular Total Recall (1990) and "feel good" Kindergarten Cop (1990) were both solid box office performers for Arnold, plus he was about to return to familiar territory with director James Cameron in Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991). The second time around for the futuristic robot, the production budget had grown from the initial film's $6.5 million to an alleged $100 million for the sequel, and it clearly showed as the stunning sequel bristled with amazing special effects, bone-crunching chases & stunt sequences, plus state of the art computer-generated imagery. Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991) was arguably the zenith of Arnold's film career to date and he was voted "International Star of the Decade" by the National Association of Theatre Owners. Remarkably, his next film Last Action Hero (1993) brought Arnold back to Earth with a hard thud as the self-satirizing, but confusing plot line of a young boy entering into a mythical Hollywood action film confused movie fans even more and they stayed away in droves making the film an initial financial disaster. Arnold turned back to good friend, director James Cameron and the chemistry was definitely still there as the "James Bond" style spy thriller True Lies (1994) co-starring Jamie Lee Curtis and Tom Arnold was the surprise hit of 1994!Following the broad audience appeal of True Lies (1994), Schwarzenegger decided to lean towards more family-themed entertainment with Junior (1994) and Jingle All the Way (1996), but he still found time to satisfy his hard-core fan base with Eraser (1996), as the chilling "Mr. Freeze" in Batman & Robin (1997) and battling dark forces in the supernatural action of End of Days (1999). The science fiction / conspiracy tale The 6th Day (2000) played to only mediocre fan interest, and Collateral Damage (2002) had it's theatrical release held over for nearly a year after the tragic events of Sept 11th 2001, but it still only received a lukewarm reception. It was time again to resurrect Arnold's most successful franchise and, in 2003, Schwarzenegger pulled on the biker leathers for the third time for Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (2003). Unfortunately, directorial duties passed from James Cameron to Jonathan Mostow and the deletion of the character of "Sarah Connor" aka Linda Hamilton and a change in the actor playing "John Connor" - Nick Stahl took over from Edward Furlong - making the third entry in the "Terminator" series the weakest to date.Schwarzenegger contributed cameo roles to The Rundown (2003), Around the World in 80 Days (2004) and The Kid & I (2005) and took political office in 2003 as the Governor of California, effectively suspending his film career for the foreseeable future.Schwarzenegger married TV journalist Maria Shriver in April, 1986 and the couple have four children.
        Many of his films have his characters doing feats of strength to match his muscular look, e.g. Commando (1985) where he is first seen in the film carrying a whole tree trunk on his shoulder.
        Frequently has some type of action scene in bathrooms. (Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (2003), True Lies (1994) and Kindergarten Cop (1990).
        Films often have a chase sequence or action scene in a shopping mall. (Commando (1985), Kindergarten Cop (1990), Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991), True Lies (1994) and Jingle All the Way (1996)).
        His characters are often family men who are protecting their children and his other characters often smoke cigars.
      Children with Maria Shriver: Katherine Schwarzenegger (born on December 13, 1989), Christina Maria Aurelia (born on July 23, 1991), Patrick Schwarzenegger (born on September 18, 1993) and Christopher Sargent Shriver (born on September 27, 1997). Joseph Baena, born on October 2, 1997 with Mildred Patricia Baena who was housekeeper in the family until 2011.
      Called by the Guinness Book of World Records, "the most perfectly developed man in the history of the world."
      He reprised his Terminator character for the theme park attraction T2 3-D: Battle Across Time (1996), a short film which uses an enhanced 3-D process that makes the film really appear to jump out at the audience.
      His wife Maria Shriver is a niece of the late President John F. Kennedy and Senators Robert F. Kennedy and Ted Kennedy.
      1979: Graduated from University of Wisconsin-Superior with a major in international marketing of fitness and business administration.
      Was considered for the title role in the 1970s TV series The Incredible Hulk (1978), but was reportedly deemed not tall enough. His former bodybuilding competitor, Lou Ferrigno, ultimately won the part.
      After leaving Austria for the first time, he came to England to work, earning under £30 a week.
      1996: Received an Honorary Doctorate from his alma mater, the University of Wisconsin-Superior, in recognition of his charitable works.
      At his bodybuilding peak his chest was 57", waist 34", biceps 22", thighs 28½", calves 20", and his competition weight was 235 lbs (260 lbs off-season).
      September 2001: He and Warner Bros. agreed to postpone the release of Collateral Damage (2002) indefinitely in the wake of the September 11th terrorist attacks on America. The plot centers around a firefighter who lost his family in a terrorist bomb attack.
      9/7/01: Sues International Game Technology for the unauthorized use of his voice and likeness in slot machine games. His lawyer told the press he was seeking $20 million in damages, which is the amount he believes he would have received had he approved the use.
      Childhood friends stated that he often said his goals in life were to move to America, become an actor, and marry a Kennedy. He accomplished all three.
      Underwent a genioplasty -- a procedure in which his jaw has been moved back so that it no longer juts out.
      Was the first private citizen in the U.S. to own a Humvee (High Mobility Multi-Purpose Wheeled Vehicle).
      May 2002: Lobbied to promote anti-juvenile delinquency initiative on California ballot that would commit the state to allocate $400 million for extracurricular activities and tutoring for students, kindergarten through ninth grade.
      1/29/03: Underwent surgery for a torn rotator cuff as a result of an injury on the set of Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (2003). Was in a sling for three to four weeks, but it was not expected to delay the completion of the movie.
James Cameron originally wanted him for the role of Kyle Reese in The Terminator (1984), but after reading the script, Arnold asked Cameron to let him play the part of the Machine. Cameron replied "No, no! Reese is the star! He's the big hero! And the Terminator hardly has any lines!" but Arnold asked him to "trust me".
      8/6/03: Announced his candidacy for the Governorship of California on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno (1992).
      Suffered a back injury (among other various assorted injuries) while filming Conan the Barbarian (1982) when the dogs who were chasing him jumped him from behind and he fell down the rock he was climbing to escape them.
      In Demolition Man (1993), Sandra Bullock's character Lenina Huxley is telling Sylvester Stallone's character John Spartan about the Arnold Schwarzenegger Presidential Library, explaining that, based on the sheer popularity of Schwarzenegger's movies, a Constitutional amendment was passed in order for Schwarzenegger to run for President, which, according to Huxley, he did. In 2003, ten years after this film's release, Schwarzenegger ran for the office of Governor of California, and won the election on 7 October 2003. While Schwarzenegger is not eligible to run for the presidency by present laws (as a naturalized citizen, not a native-born citizen as required by the Constitution), most past presidents have been governors of their respective home states. Some members of Congress are currently considering an amendment to the Constitution to allow foreign-born US citizens to be allowed to run for the Presidency, specifically with Schwarzenegger in mind, although other members of Congress are strongly opposed to the idea.
      His mother was Aurelia Jadrny (2 July 1922 - 2 August 1998) and his father was Gustav Schwarzenegger (Graz, 17 August 1907 - 1 December 1972), married in Murzsteg, 20 October 1945. His mother's surname is Czech.
      Turned down the role of John McClane in Die Hard (1988). The role went to Bruce Willis instead. Ironically, Willis has a line in the film where he says that the terrorists "have enough explosives to orbit Arnold Schwarzenegger".
      TV Guide selected Arnold Schwarzenegger's announcement on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno (1992) to run for Governor of California as the greatest TV moment of 2003.
      Said that filming the climatic fight at the end of Predator (1987) was made difficult by the fact that the late Kevin Peter Hall, who played the Predator, couldn't see through his mask.
      Has the record for winning the most major bodybuilding events in history, 13 (1 Mr. Junior Western Europe, 7 Mr. Olympias, and 5 Mr. Universes).
      After he had started lifting weights as a teenager, he noticed that his body was becoming disproportionate. His arms, shoulders and chest were developing nicely, but his calves and lower legs weren't coming along as he wanted. To motivate himself to work harder on his calves, he cut off all of his pants (trousers) at the knee. Walking around like that, people would look at (and maybe even laugh at) the big man with 'chicken' legs. It worked.
      His father, Gustav Schwarzenegger, nicknamed him "Cinderella" as a child and his older brother, Meinhard, constantly picked on him growing up. Both men were killed while driving under the influence.
      Only the second governor in California's history to be born in a foreign country. John Downey, the 7th Governor of California, was born in Ireland and served from 1860-1862.
      Stumped for President George W. Bush the weekend before his re-election in Ohio, as Schwarzenegger has always had a strong relationship with Ohio.
      Has played a character who died in only four of his films: The Terminator (1984), Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991), End of Days (1999) and Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (2003).
      Was considered for the role of the gentle giant Fezzik in the 1970s when William Goldman's book "The Princess Bride" was first proposed to be made into a film (The Princess Bride (1987)).
      Had his first romantic scene in a movie with actress Sandahl Bergman, in Conan the Barbarian (1982).
      Is good friends with fellow bodybuilder Sven-Ole Thorsen who, ironically, portrayed "Thorgrim," one of his leading foes, in Conan the Barbarian (1982).
      Turned down a request to reprise his Conan character in Kull the Conqueror (1997) (originally titled "Conan the Conqueror"). Also, he was supposed to play Conan in Red Sonja (1985), though ultimately, a new character was created who was essentially Conan in everything but name.
      Is the only person to receive Razzie nominations for Worst Actor, Worst Supporting Actor and Worst Screen Couple (with himself cloned) in the same year. All for the same movie, The 6th Day (2000).
      His life strangely mirrors the life of Conan from Conan the Barbarian (1982). Conan was born in a small village and grew up to be a physically powerful man, due to years of slavery. After winning great fame as a gladiator, he is given to wine and women, but later rejects this hedonistic lifestyle and goes on to perform great heroic feats and eventually is crowned king. Arnold was born in a small Austrian town and took up weightlifting as he got older. After achieving success as a bodybuilder, he indulged in drug abuse and womanizing, but he later rejected this and went on to become a vocal supporter of social causes, and was eventually elected governor of California.
      Performed many of his own stunts in his films, owing largely to the fact that it was hard to find stunt doubles who matched his size. Billy D. Lucas, Joel Kramer and Peter Kent eventually became his personal stunt doubles and close friends.
      His famous line "I'll be back", which originated from The Terminator (1984), was originally written as "I'll come back".
      Initially refused to star in Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (2003) because James Cameron, who created the character and directed the first two films, would not be directing the third installment. Arnold tried to persuade Cameron to do the third film but Cameron declined and, feeling that the Terminator character was as much Arnold's as it was his own, Cameron advised Arnold to just do the third film and ask for a lot of money.
      While filming the behind the scenes documentary for the special edition DVD of Conan the Barbarian (1982), the microphone hit him in the head at the end of the interview, to which he immediately joked "You see, I can't even do an interview about Conan without getting hurt".
      Was the spokesperson for Japanese DirecTV, a competitor to Quentin Tarantino's endorsed local satellite TV operator SkyperfecTV.
      Was considered for the title role in Flash Gordon (1980). The part eventually went to Sam J. Jones instead, because producer Dino De Laurentiis felt Schwarzenegger's German accent was ill-suited for this role. DeLaurentiis (in his heavy Italian accent) told Schwarzenegger, "You have an accent! I cannot use you for Flash Gordon! No! Flash Gordon has no accent! I cannot use you! No!" Ironically, Jones had to temporarily get rid of his own Texas accent for said role.
      While filming Predator (1987) he became close friends with co- star Jesse Ventura, who was also later elected a state governor (Minnesota).
John Milius originally intended him to do the narration of Conan the Barbarian (1982) but the studio didn't trust his accent, so the narration was performed by Mako instead, who played the wizard.
      Withdrew from the city of Graz the right to use his name in association with its soccer stadium and returned his "Ehrenring" (ring of honor) after some politicians in the town had started a campaign against Schwarzenegger due to his refusal to stop the execution of convicted killer Stanley Tookie Williams (20 December 2005).
      The Green Party of Austria has resolved to strip Schwarzenegger of his Austrian citizenship due to his support for the death penalty.
      12/12/05: As governor, he refused to grant clemency to convicted quadruple murderer and former gang leader Stanley Tookie Williams, who had been on Death Row for 24 years.
      November 2005: He was soundly defeated on all four propositions of his "special election", which cost the state of California an estimated $45 million. Schwarzenegger accepted personal responsibility for the defeat, and appointed a Democrat as his new Chief of Staff.
      February 2005: He and his 12-year-old son Patrick were injured in a traffic accident when a car ran into Arnold's motorcycle. Patrick was in a sidecar. Arnold received 15 stitches.
      He has been nominated for a Razzie Award as Worst Actor eight times during his career, and in 2004 received a special award for being the "Worst Razzie Loser of Our First 25 Years."
      His performance as The Terminator in the "Terminator" films is ranked #40 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time.
      Was asked to reprise his "Dutch" character from the first Predator (1987) film for the sequel, but he declined because he didn't like the script. He chose to do Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991) instead.
      Children - Katherine Eunice (born December 13, 1989), Christina Maria Aurelia (born July 23, 1991), Patrick Arnold (born September 18, 1993) and Christopher Sargent Shriver (September 27, 1997).
      He keeps the sword he used in Conan the Barbarian (1982) in the Governor's office in California.
      Although German is his native language, all his movies have been dubbed into German by Thomas Danneberg for the German-speaking market because his strong Austrian accent doesn't fit with the type of roles he plays.
      1992: He joined President George Bush in New Hampshire and asked voters to "send a message to Pat Buchanan: Hasta la vista, baby".
      Was considered for the role of Judge Dredd in Judge Dredd (1995) in the early development stages. The part went to fellow Planet Hollywood founder Sylvester Stallone.
      In his childhood considered John Wayne his idol and role model. As Governor of California, he issued a proclamation making 26 May 2007 "John Wayne Day" in the state.
      Producer Joel Silver wanted Schwarzenegger to play "Doctor Manhattan" in a film adaptation of Alan Moore's graphic novel Watchmen (2009) at one point.
      Acted with another future governor, Jesse Ventura, of Minnesota, in Predator (1987) and The Running Man (1987).
      Had stitches in his hand from the taking-off-airplane-to-tarmac stunt he performed for Commando (1985).
      Late October 2007: Personally flew to Malibu, CA, to survey the damage done by wildfires before any other politician, including the President.
      Was attached to do another film adaptation of the pulp hero Doc Savage (after the failed 1975 film) in the late 1990s, but the project never got off the ground.
      Publicly endorsed his close friend Senator John McCain's bid to win the Republican nomination for the 2008 presidential election.
      He ended his association with Planet Hollywood early in 2000, saying the investment had not had the level of success he had expected.
      He saved a man's life while on vacation in Hawaii in 2004 by swimming into the sea to rescue him from drowning.
      Considered for the role of "Robert Neville" in I Am Legend (2007) back in 1996, with Ridley Scott as the director.
      As an environmentally conscious politician, always uses carbon credits when flying between his governor's office in Sacramento to his house in L.A., California.
      Turned down the role of Animal Mother in Full Metal Jacket (1987) and opted to do The Running Man (1987) instead.
      Due to the dismal failure of Conan the Destroyer (1984), Schwarzenegger rarely ever did sequels to his own movies. He's turned down sequels to Commando (1985), Predator (1987), Total Recall (1990) and True Lies (1994), as well as the third Conan film which became Kull the Conqueror (1997). The only exception he ever made was Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991) and Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (2003).
      Honored by the Congressional Award in Washington, DC on June 25, 2002 with the Horizon Award. The Horizon Award is a special recognition from the Joint Leadership of the United States Congress and the Congressional Award Board of Directors. The Horizon Award is presented to individuals from the private sectors who have contributed to expanding opportunities for all Americans through their own personal contributions, and who have set exceptional examples for young people through their successes in life.
      With the exception of Around the World in 80 Days (2004), in which he only appeared in a supporting role, has starred in three movies with the word "Day" in the title, and all three make a biblical reference: Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991), End of Days (1999) and The 6th Day (2000).
      Has been crucified in two movies: Conan the Barbarian (1982) and End of Days (1999), where he was tied to a cross.
      Was seriously considered for the role of "Dr. Manhattan/Jon Osterman" in one of the many failed attempts at adapting Alan Moore's "Watchmen" into film. Ultimately, director Zack Snyder cast Billy Crudup for the 2009 adaptation.
      The character "Arnold the Pitbull", featured on Tiny Toon Adventures (1990), voiced by Rob Paulsen, was a parody of him.
      Before he became a household name, Schwarzenegger appeared with bodybuilding buddies Franco Columbu and Frank Zane on the sleeve of Grand Funk Railroad's 1974 album "All the Girls in the World Beware!!!" Band member faces were cleverly superimposed on their muscle-bound bodies.
      Trophies won as athlete: 1965 Mr. Europe Jr.. Held in Germany. 1966 Best Builed Man of Europe/Mr. Europe/International Powerlifting-Championship/. All 3 events held in Germany. 1967 NABBA Mr. Universe Amateurs. Held in London. 1968 NABBA Mr. Universe Proffesional. Held in London. 1968 National Championship Weightlifting. Held in Germany. 1968 IFBB Mr. International. Held in Mexico. 1969 IFBB Mr. Universe Amateurs. Held in New York. 1969/1970 NABBA Mr. Universe Proffesional. Both times held in London. 1970 Mr. World. Held in Columbus, Ohio. 1970-1975 5 times in a row IFBB Mr. Olympia. Held in New York 1970/1973/1974, Paris 1971, Essen 1972, Pretoria 1975. 1980 For the 6th time IFBB Mr. Olympia. Held in Sydney, Australia.
      While in office as governor, a Burger King promotion poster for the triple whopper stated "it's so big and beefy it just might run for governor".
      Parents feared he was gay when he was a teenager because he worshipped bodybuilders. His mother Aurelia phoned a doctor because she thought her son was 'turning south' due to all the pictures of oiled up males on his bedroom walls.
      In 1968 Joe Weider brought Schwarzenegger to Los Angeles and gave him $100 a week to write articles for his magazines that endorsed Weider products. Weider died at age 93 in March 2013.
      In recognition of his unparalleled achievements in bodybuilding and lifelong devotion to physical fitness, he was inducted into the National Fitness Hall of Fame in 2005. Being its first class, that makes him a Charter Member.
      (around Christmas) Broke his leg when skiing with his family in Sun Valley, Idaho, USA. [December 2006]
      Refused to take the salary for Governor of California. Uses private jet at his own expense. [December 2003]
      Copenhagen, Denmark: Giving out the Sustainia Award, which recognizes outstanding performance within the area of sustainability. Also attended a book signing for his new autobiography. [October 2012]
      First introduced to wife-to-be Maria Shriver by NBC's Tom Brokaw at a charity tennis tournament in 1977.
      He passed on lead roles in The Saint (1997) and The Rock (1996). He later stated he regretted passing on the former role.
      I was always interested in proportion and perfection. When I was 15 I took off my clothes and looked in the mirror. When I stared at myself naked, I realized that to be perfectly proportioned I would need 20-inch arms to match the rest of me.
      [Interview in "Starlog" magazine in 1991, explaining his reluctance to do sequels to most of his successful films from the '80s] There's so little time to do all the things I want to do that I can't see any reason to get bogged down in sequels.
      Everything I have ever done in my life has always stayed. I've just added to it . . . but I will not change. Because when you are successful and you change, you are an idiot.
      I love the Hong Kong style of action movies, but that only looks good for small guys. The reason why the whole style was developed over there was because those guys were very puny guys - they're not powerful-looking guys, they're also not powerful guys. There's no weightlifting champion coming out of Hong Kong - maybe in the bantam division or the lightweight division or something like that, but normally you don't have really strong men coming out of there . . . they had to learn a technique that small people can do that are as effective as the big guy's strength. So that's where the martial arts came from.
      In the beginning I was selfish. It was all about, "How do I build Arnold? How can I win the most Mr. Universe and Mr. Olympic contests? How can I get into the movies and get into business?" I was thinking about myself . . . As I've grown up, got older, maybe wiser, I think your life is judged not by how much you have taken but by how much you give back.
      [during his campaign for California governor, about his history of "misbehavior"] Where I did make mistakes, or maybe go overboard sometimes . . . I regret that. This is a different Arnold.
      [on his fight scenes with the female T-X in Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (2003)] How many times do you get away with this - to take a woman, grab her upside down and bury her face in a toilet bowl? The thing is you can do it, because, in the end, I didn't do it to a woman - she's a machine. We could get away with it without being crucified by who knows what group.
      [on his decision to run for governor of California] It was the most difficult decision in my life - except the one in 1978 when I decided to get a bikini wax.
      [after being pelted with an egg at a political rally] This guy owes me bacon now . . . you can't have egg without bacon.
      ponding to criticism during a televised debate] I just realized I have the perfect part for you in "Terminator 4."
      [victory speech after having won election as Governor of California] I will not fail, I will not disappoint you, I will not let you down.
      There's a lot of people who want me to get out of acting and want me to run for governor. I think it's mostly movie critics.
      I took more abuse in Predator (1987) than I did in Conan the Barbarian (1982). I fell down that waterfall [40 feet] and swam in this ice-cold water for days and for weeks was covered in mud. It was freezing in the Mexican jungle. They had these heat lamps on all the time, but they were no good. If you stayed in front of the lamps, the mud dried. Then, you had to take it off and put new mud on again. It was a no-win situation. The location was tough. Never on flat ground. Always on a hill. We stood all day long on a hill, one leg down, one leg up. It was terrible.
      erring to Democrats at a political rally in Ontario, California, in 2004] If they don't have the guts to come up here in front of you and say, "I don't want to represent you, I want to represent those special interests, the unions, the trial lawyers" . . . if they don't have the guts, I call them girlie men.
      [at the 2004 Republican National Convention] Speaking of acting, one of my movies was called True Lies (1994). It's what the Democrats should have called their convention.
      President [George Bush] knows you can't reason with people that are blinded by hate. But let me tell you something: Their hate is no match for our decency, their hate is no match for the leadership and the resolve of George Bush.
      [Talking about his Conan the Barbarian (1982) director]: John Milius used to call himself the dog trainer. Guess who were the dogs?
      [From an interview about his reaction to reading the original The Terminator (1984) screenplay] I have read a lot of action adventure scripts, and this definitely was one of the best. I knew that I wanted to play the part of the Terminator as soon as I started reading.
      [About being taken seriously] I don't care. The important thing to me is that I'm doing work that people enjoy out there, that the movie makes good money, that the studio makes the money back, and that I'm having a great time at what I'm doing. I don't even consider myself serious. So how do I expect people to take me serious? I think this whole Hollywood thing has to be taken much looser . . . it's just entertainment.
      "There were various stepping-stones in my career. One of them was Conan the Barbarian (1982), because it was the first time I did a film with that kind of budget and I had the title role. The next big stepping-stone was The Terminator (1984). With "The Terminator", I think people became aware of the fact that I didn't really have to take my shirt off or run around and expose my muscles in order to sell tickets. After I did "The Terminator" and we had seen it be more successful than the Conan films, people then sent me a variety of different kinds of scripts - all in the action-adventure genre, but they were not muscle movies or Viking movies or pirate movies or anything like that.
      [Talking about playing the Terminator] I had to act like a cyborg, which meant I couldn't show any kind of human fear or reaction to the fire, explosions, or gunfire that was going off around me. That can be difficult when you're walking through a door with its frame on fire, trying to reload a gun, and at the same time thinking in the back of your mind that people have accidents doing these kinds of stunts and that it might be my turn.
      [About more sequels to The Terminator (1984)] I don't necessarily want to leave the magic of the Terminator movies behind, and who says we have to? According to what we know about the future, there were hundreds of Terminators built. The story of the Terminator could go on forever.
      [From an interview expressing concern over making Conan the Destroyer (1984) less brutal than its predecessor, Conan the Barbarian (1982)] I think it's a mistake. I know Sylvester Stallone made an extra $20 million because he got a PG rating for Rocky III (1982), but it's a matter of how much you want to stay within the character's reality. Can you slaughter people and never see blood? Is it possible? You must have battles. That's part of life, war, and the world of Conan.
      [Talking about director Richard Fleischer] The first day Fleischer came to see me work out, he told me, "Arnold, could you put on some more muscles?" I couldn't believe it! It turned out that Fleischer thought [John Milius'] decision to keep Conan clothed throughout the first film was a mistake. Fleischer believes that people want to see my body much more often than they did the first time around, so they will. I spend most of my time in Conan the Destroyer (1984) fighting off people while I'm dressed in a loincloth.
      [About the dog accident while making Conan the Barbarian (1982)] One of them hit me too soon. It caught me off guard and I went right over the ledge. I fell ten feet and landed on my back. I was covered with scratches and bruises. It was probably a pretty good beginning for this movie, though. It set the tone for the whole time we were there. This was going to be fun . . . but dangerous.
      [on Warren Beatty] There are some people who are close to him that say he is just starving for attention, and that's the way he gets attention. Other people said, "Look, he's not working and he just feels like he should maybe get involved in politics". Instead, I just think that maybe he is jealous that I did jump in. I find it silly, because I respect his work.
      Well, I think because a lot of people don't know why I'm a Republican, I came first of all from a socialistic country which is Austria and when I came over here in 1968 with the presidential elections coming up in November, I came over in October, I heard a lot of the press conferences from both of the candidates, [Hubert H. Humphrey] and [Richard Nixon], and Humphrey was talking about more government is the solution, protectionism, and everything he said about government involvement sounded to me more like Austrian socialism. Then when I heard Nixon talk about it, he said open up the borders, the consumers should be represented there ultimately and strengthen the military and get the government off our backs. I said to myself, "What is this guy's party affiliation?" I didn't know anything at that point. So I asked my friend, "What is Nixon?" He's a Republican. And I said, "I am a Republican". That's how I became a Republican."
      [on refusing to grant clemency to condemned killer Stanley Tookie Williams] After studying the evidence, searching the history, listening to the arguments and wrestling with the profound consequences, I could find no justification for granting clemency. The facts do not justify overturning the jury's verdict, or the decisions of the courts in this case.
      [After undergoing heart surgery in 1997] We made, actually, history, because it was the first time ever that doctors could prove that a lifelong Republican has a heart.
      As a kid - as a kid I saw socialist - the socialist country that Austria became after the Soviets left. Now don't misunderstand me: I love Austria and I love the Austrian people. But I always knew that America was the place for me. In school, when the teacher would talk about America, I would daydream about coming here. I would daydream about living here. I would sit there and watch for hours American movies, transfixed by my heroes, like John Wayne. Everything about America seemed so big to me, so open, so possible.
      I have no sexual standards in my head that say this is good or this is bad. Homosexual - that only means to me that he enjoys sex with a man and I enjoy sex with a woman. It's all legitimate to me.
      I didn't think about money. I thought about the fame, about just being the greatest. I was dreaming about being some dictator of a country or some savior like Jesus.
      I'm 6'2". I've heard rumors that I'm really much shorter in real life like 5'6" or something like that - which is ridiculous. I can assureyou this is not the case. People look up to me, and not just because I do a lot of work in the community. I mean, most people really look up to me.
      California will not wait for our federal government to take strong action on global warming. We won't wait for the federal government. We will move forward because we know it's the right thing to do. We will lead on this issue and we will get other western states involved. I think there's not great leadership from the federal government when it comes to protecting the environment.
      Money doesn't make you happy. I now have $50 million but I was just as happy when I had $48 million.
      [in a 1987 interview] I have to give the audiences what they enjoy seeing while I try to bring in a little something new, with different movies, different time periods and all those things. But what's important is to entertain the people -- everything else means nothing.
      [on his late friend and role model, body builder Reg Park]: Reg was a dear friend, an extraordinary mentor and a personal hero. Other than my parents, there may be no single person who had more to do with me becoming the person I am today than Reg. He was like a second father to me. It was Reg who impressed upon me how hard I would have to work if I wanted to achieve my dreams. I'll always remember him making me do calf-raises with 1,000 pounds at 5 o'clock in the morning.
      [on Terminator Salvation (2009)] I think it's cool to continue on with the franchise, in case I want to jump over again and get into the acting after I'm through here (as Governor of California).
      There are such high standards and now there are always new standards being set for action. You see that with Iron Man (2008) and with The Dark Knight (2008) and that other film this summer, um, Wanted (2008). That was an excellent movie! There was this train coming down from a bridge, falling, and they're fighting inside the train car. Jesus, that is unbelievable that you can do that. To have the imagination to write it and the talent to shoot it and make it real on the screen. It's a whole new dimension.
      With Batman and Terminator, those big movies, there's a certain expectation and if you don't live up to it, if the movie is not a 10, then the business will be soft. If Terminator Salvation (2009) is pushing it forward, it will be breaking records all the time. If director McG has the T4 and the kind of shots that has the audience thinking, 'Now how did he do that?' -- then it is 'Terminator' and you can blow everyone away and every record at the box office.
      [on Terminator Salvation (2009)] I hope they do well, and I hope it is a huge hit. I do hope it creates a spectacle on the screen. That is what James Cameron created.
      [on watching Will Ferrell movies] In those you howl for two hours and you feel like you get a six-pack of ab muscles from all the laughs!
      [on Terminator Salvation (2009)] I wasn't sure who the Terminator was. I don't know if there is one or if he's the star or the hero. These are the things that determine the success and how strong the movie will be.
      I know California is supposed to be a place where dreams come true, but my life has gone way beyond the dream. My dream was to come to America, become the greatest bodybuilder of all time and do what Reg Park had done by going into Hercules movies. And if that worked out, I was going to build a gym business and then live happily ever after. Then all of a sudden I shot right by my dream. I stopped doing the strong man stuff, did the Terminator movies and became the highest-paid actor in Hollywood. I got $30 million for Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (2003), you know.
      [on the death of Michael Jackson] Michael was a pop phenomenon who never stopped pushing the envelope of creativity. Though there were serious questions about his personal life, Michael was undoubtedly a great entertainer and his popularity spanned generations and the globe.
      [on the death of Patrick Swayze] Patrick Swayze was a talented and passionate artist who struck a memorable chord with audiences throughout the world. He played a wide range of characters both on stage and in movies and his celebrated performances made the hard work of acting look effortless - which I know from experience is not easy. As a fan and as an actor, I admired Patrick and I know that he will be dearly missed. On behalf of all Californians, Maria and I send our deepest condolences to Patrick's family, friends and fans.
      [on Sylvester Stallone in The Expendables (2010)] It is a great inspiration for people to see someone at his age still at the top of his game -- acting, writing, directing, doing his own stunts and fight scenes -- I mean, what an amazing talent. And for him to still be so athletic and be able to rip off his shirt and have a six-pack is just unbelievable.
      [on the death of Tony Curtis] Tony Curtis was a Hollywood icon, a great performer and artist and devoted family man. I saw his extraordinary talent and ability to inspire generations of Americans firsthand on the set of Christmas in Connecticut (1992)' and will always remember our times together.
      [on a return to movies when his term as Governor of California ends] I have no idea. So it depends if someone comes with a great script or a great idea...you know, would I still have the patience to sit on the set and to do a movie for three months or six months? All of those things, I don't know, but I did have a meeting with James Cameron, we talked about some very important things.
      The meaning of life is not simply to exist, to survive, but to move ahead, to go up, to achieve, to conquer.
      (On the power of visualizing your goals) When I was very young, I visualized myself being and having what it was that I wanted. The mind is really so incredible. Before I won my first Mr. Universe, I walked around the tournament like I owned it. The title was already mine. I had won it so many times in my mind that there was no doubt I would win it. Then, when I moved on to the movies, the same thing. I visualized myself being a successful actor and earning big money. I could feel and taste success. I just knew it would happen.
      [on the passing of Elaine Kaufman] Elaine was an early supporter of my acting career and would often call to let me know when an influential writer or producer came in so I could stop and schmooze.
      [on Terminator Salvation (2009)] The last one was awful. It tried hard, not that they didn't try, the acting and everything - it missed the boat.
      [on visiting Venice, California] This place is insane. You never have to smoke a joint. You just go on a bicycle ride in the morning, inhale, and you live off everyone else.
      [on his career as a bodybuilder] I had a very clear vision of where I wanted to go. You realize you have to pay no attention to the naysayers. When you learn those lessons in sports, you can apply those lessons for the rest of your life.
      [on his Governor's salary] I didn't take a penny of my salary during my terms. After all, it was petty cash compared to what you make in the movies.
      You can't have a life full of successes. In bodybuilding, I tried bench-pressing 500lb many times and failed. That's how you get there. You have to be daring.
      They're writing right now Terminator: Genesis (2015). There have been some writers on it for the last year-and-a-half and they could not pull it off. We have told them over and over that they are going in the wrong direction, now they've finally got rid of those writers and they've got new really quality writers. Now they're going in the right direction. I think this year the script will be finished and we will be able to go into pre-production.
      [on the death of his mentor Joe Weider] He advised me on my training, on my business ventures, and once, bizarrely, claimed I was a German Shakespearean actor to get me my first acting role in --Hercules in New York (1969) even though I barely spoke English. He was there for me constantly throughout my life, and I will miss him dearly.
      [his father] A lot of sons would have been crippled by his demands, but instead the discipline rubbed off on me. I turned it into drive.
      When you grow up in a harsh environment, you never forget how to withstand physical punishment, even long after the hard times end.
      If you wanted a girl, you had to make an effort to have a conversation, not just drool like a horny dog.
      After coming to California, I posed in the heights above Malibu. Bodybuilders like this spot because the ridges in the distance seem little and your muscles look bigger than the mountains.
      Nights without sleep don't mean you can't perform at a high level the next day and days without food don't mean you'll starve.
      When you have a relationship in a foreign language, you have to be extra careful not to miscommunicate.
      I couldn't believe how difficult learning a new language could be. Pronunciations were especially dangerous.
      [Mr Universe, Mr World and Mr Olympia] Winning all three would be like unifying the heavyweight title in boxing: it would make me the undisputed world champion. Mr World was by far the biggest bodybuilding event I'd ever seen.
      In bodybuilding I was king of the mountain, but in everyday LA I was just another immigrant struggling to learn English and make a life. I was glad to be away living my own life.
      [after his father had a stroke] It was painful and upsetting to see a man who had been so smart and so strong lose his coordination and his ability to think. He died not long after.
      If millions of people came to see my movies someday, it was important that they know where the muscles came from.
      I wanted to promote bodybuilding, both so that more people would take part and to benefit my career. If I wanted to promote bodybuilding to a new audience, I'd have to find my own way.
      [on Jack Nicholson, 'Warren Beatty', and Roman Polanski] They all had such enormous passion for their profession.
      [endorsing bodybuilding publicly] It was a boost for bodybuilding in America; suddenly the sport had a face and a personality.
      In bodybuilding, you try to suppress emotions and march forwards with determination; in acting its the opposite.
      [on Maria Shriver] If I hadn't been her style and she hadn't been mine, we never would have ended up together. Maria meshed with everything that I was, what I stood for, and what I was doing. I got addicted to her. Maria was such a forceful personality that she would just run over guys. She wanted to be unique and different.
      In politics, when disputes arise and camps form, you have to grasp what's happening and move very quickly.
      I could go on for hours about what draws me to Maria (Shriver) but still never fully explain the magic.
      [on Conan the Barbarian] There was no stunt double because it would have been difficult to find someone with a body like mine.
      Dino (De Laurentiis) had a reputation for getting things done. He was very powerful in that way, and people in Hollywood knew it and didn't mess with him.
      My character and his stolen Harley were a perfect combo of cyborg and machine in Terminator 2: Judgment Day.
      Our first major decision as a couple (he and Maria Shriver) was to find a house and call it our place.
      When people come to me with a movie concept or a script, I always ask "What is the poster? What is the image? What are we trying to sell here?"
Danny DeVito is a master of comedy, loves stogies, and cooks pasta on the set-no wonder he made such a great twin.
      Sylvester Stallone, Bruce Willis and I had great fun opening Planet Hollywood restaurants around the world.
      The outside world looked at our relationship (he and Maria Shriver) in a simple-minded way, as a juicy success story. According to this way of thinking, Maria becomes part of my trophy collection.
      [on Maria Shriver] She brought a great foundation of knowledge and was a great partner to work with because we both grew.
      I'd always advanced by starting with a clear vision and working as hard as possible to achieve it.
      For Maria (Shriver) to go out and be in front of the camera was a real declaration of independence.
      I was Conan, and millions of dollars were being spent to make me shine. For the first time, I felt like the star.
      [on Oprah Winfrey] She was talented and aggressive, and you could tell she believed in herself.
      An aspect of being a Kennedy cousin (Maria Shriver) was that you were never completely free. Since there were so many cousins, the number of command performances were high.
      (John) Milius always pushed the envelope. Conan (the Barbarian) has stunts that have since been outlawed from movies. The bloodshed in Conan seems tame by today's standards. At the time, the film introduced a whole new dimension of violence on screen. Actors had five quarts of blood strapped to their chests, the same amount in the human body. Whenever it was spilled, Milius shot it against a light background to get the full carnage.
      I was really annoyed by the way that powerful studio executives kowtowed to the members of the ratings board.
      My definition of living is to have excitement always; that's the difference between living and existing.
      I was amazed to see how negative most of the people in Hollywood remained toward Reagan during his presidency. He represented the values that had brought me to America. The US was the greatest country with the best opportunities and now that it was my home, I wanted to keep it that way and make it even better. After the turmoil and gloom of the 1970s, Americans voted for Reagan because he reminded them of their strength.
      [the outrageous and conservative sides to his personality] I wanted to feel comfortable in both worlds.
      You do a movie or a book, you promote the hell out of it, you travel the world as if its your marketplace, and in the meantime, you work out and take care of business and explore even more.
      When I learned about The Terminator, I loved the idea that he was a machine that never had to sleep.
      For me, the question was always how to fit in all the stuff I want to do. I seldom saw my life as hectic, the thought rarely crossed my mind.
      When you promote a movie, you want to win over everybody. If you give political speeches, you are bound to turn off somebody.
      I kept quiet about politics whenever I visited Austria. I never wanted to be perceived as some wise guy coming back and telling people what to do.
      I always believed in shooting for the top, and to become an American is like becoming a member of the winning team.
      [on bodybuilding competitions] You can't just pose on stage like a robot and then walk off; people will never get to know your personality.
      At the top of the ladder, there was always room for one more. The more people who stay on the bottom, the more crowded it becomes.
      [on James Cameron] The women he married, although a long list, were women you didn't want to mess with.
      [on James Cameron] A control freak, he has eyes in the back of his head. He knows the name of everyone on the set and no screwup gets past him; if you screw up he'll make a scene publicly and embarrass you.
      You should marry when you're set financially and the toughest struggles of your career are behind you. Most marriages break up over financial issues.
      [Maria Shriver's portrait in his art collection] Among these beautiful images, Maria's was the gem.
      [on Jacqueline Kennedy] She had an amazing ability to ask questions that would make you wonder "how did she know that"? She always made people feel welcome.
      Gitte (Brigitte Nielsen) had a personality filled with laughter and fun mixed with a great hunger for attention.
      When you make a movie, you can never really predict what will turn out to be the most repeated line.
      You can over-think anything. There are always negatives. The more you know, the less you tend to do something.
      I'm always comparing life to a climb, not just because there's a struggle but also because I find at least as much joy in the climbing as in reaching the top. I pictured marriage as a whole mountain range of fantastic challenges.
      [on Grace Jones] An interesting non-actor; talented and entertaining, she could not do anything low-key.
      The makeup trailer is the place on the set where everyone talks. If anybody's worried about anything, that's where you see it. It's the mother of all beauty salons. The makeup trailer is all about a soothing atmosphere, because you're getting ready for a scene.
      [on his wedding day] I loved watching Maria (Shriver) coming up the aisle. She looked so regal but at the same time, she radiated warmth and happiness.
      I was riding the great wave of action movies. They became as important to the 1980s as Westerns were in the 1950s.
      [on John McTiernan] If a director of his caliber had done the sequel to Predator, the movie could have become a major franchise on a par with The Terminator or Die Hard.
      Stallone and I were the leading forces in the genre. We created work for up and coming action stars like Chuck Norris, Jean-Claude Van Damme, Dolph Lundgren and Bruce Willis. Clint (Eastwood) began to show more muscle as a result. The body was key. The era had arrived where muscular men were viewed as attractive. Looking physically heroic had become the aesthetic.
      Early in my movie career, the hardest thing was giving up control. In bodybuilding, everything had been up to me. In movies, you depend on others right from the start.
      Whenever I finished filming a movie, my job was only half done. Every film had to be nurtured in the marketplace. Some of the greatest artists never sold much because they didn't know how. No matter what I did in life, I was aware that you had to sell it.
      Listening made me a more effective promoter. You have to cultivate your audience and expand it with each new film. Nurturing a movie means paying attention to the distributors. You do the things they feel are important because they go all out in pushing the theatres.
      When I had a good director, my movies went through the roof because I was directed well. If I had a director who was confused with no compelling vision for the movie, it would fizzle. I didn't make The Terminator the success that it was; it was James Cameron's vision that made the movie great.
      Everything in life has a funny side. I'd always been the perfect target for jokes; there was so much material to work from.
      Meeting comedians helped me to understand comedy. I really liked being around people who are funny.
      [on Total Recall] Working with Sharon (Stone) will always be a challenge. She was a sweetie off the set but needed tons of attention on-set. There are just some actors who need more attention. People just have their hang-ups and insecurities and acting definitely brings that out.
      In acting you take criticism so much more personally. You get upset, but every job has its downside.
      [on 'Paul Verhoeven' and Total Recall] So many things he said were brilliant. He had a masterful vision. He had enthusiasm, and did a great job. I was proud my interest and passion helped to bring about the movie. But the experience also proves how important marketing is - how important it is to tell the people what this is about; really blow up their skirt and make them say, "I have to go see this movie."
      A Special Achievement Oscar is how the Motion Picture Academy honors an accomplishment for which there is no set category.
      When I see a great performer, I always start to dream. Maybe its the Leo in me, the perpetual performer who always wants to be the center of attention.
      Starting with something disarming and funny is a good way to stand out. You become more likable, and people receive your information much better. Whenever I watched a comedy, I always thought "I could have done that!" But if I was going to branch into comedies, I would need someone to be my cheerleader.
      [on Total Recall] For me, it connected with the sense I had sometimes that my life was too good to be true.
      It wouldn't matter if you watched Total Recall 20 years from now, you could still enjoy it. There's just something very appealing about futuristic movies if they have great action and believable characters.
      [on The Running Man] It was totally screwed up by hiring a first-time director and not giving him time to prepare.
      [his first impression of 'Paul Verhoeven' on Total Recall] A skinny, intense-looking Dutch guy.
      [on Danny DeVito] He's the opposite of a crazy Hollywood personality and the Milton Berle of comic acting.
      [his singing ability] I'm no Frank Sinatra. The only time I sing in real life is at the end of a party when I want the guests to leave.
      [on _George Bush (I)_ Sr] He had tremendous strength of character and will. This was our next President, the real American hero. He had a casual approach to campaigning; not everything had to be perfect.
      I am a patriotic American. I saw Ronald Reagan and George Bush (Sr) take an economy that looked like Pee-wee Herman and make it look like Superman.
      Eisenhower and Kennedy championed fitness as a way for America to stand strong against the Soviets.
      Fitness is important for all Americans, not just athletes. A lot of schools have great athletic programs but not great fitness programs.
      [when his first child was born] Fuck! This is my first baby. You can be so overwhelmed by something that billions of people in history have done. And from that moment on, your life as a couple has changed. But as long as you love the baby, you'll figure it out, just like with everything you love doing. Caring for babies is hardwired into the brain.
      Humour was what made me stand out from other action leads. It opened up the (action) movie and made it appealing to more people.
      [on The Terminator, Commando, Predator and Total Recall] They all focused on the universal theme of good vs evil.
      Fitness is fun. I felt very strongly that I had to carry to all 50 states the message that fitness was a national priority.
      Hiking in the Alps I'd sometimes wear loud obnoxious Hawaiian shorts just to get a rise out of the Lederhosen traditionalists.
      [on James Cameron] [He] is a big believer in surprising the audience. His knowledge of science and the world of the future went way beyond the ordinary.
      [on Terminator 2] It was typical (James) Cameron genius to have character development in a machine.
      My friendship with the President (George Bush Sr) quickly became a very big part of my life. It was warm from the time we first met during the Reagan years.
      You can't have people just like your movie, you need them to be passionate. Word of mouth is what makes movies big, because while you can put in millions to promote the movie on the first weekend, you can't afford to do that every week.
      [on George Bush Sr] If you had talent and did him a favour or he liked you, he would push you forward whether it made sense or not. He was a different breed, a sweetheart of a guy. The fact he put such trust in me had a powerful effect. I felt there would never, ever be a time, no matter what happened, when I would violate that trust or let the man down.
      America wouldn't be the land of the free if it wasn't the home of the brave. When you see the work they do and the risks they take, you realize what we owe our military.
      [on Planet Hollywood] A glitzy new moneymaking machine. It was not just an event; it was the beginning of an empire.
      I came to America because it's the greatest place in the world, and I'm going to do everything I can to keep it the greatest place.
      I've always felt appreciative of the armed forces because I've benefited from the American dream, and their courage and determination is what safeguards it.
      [during Conan the Destroyer] I'm finally getting paid a million dollars for a movie, but now (Sylvester) Stallone's making 3 million, I feel like I'm standing still.
      If I heard an idea or saw a script that was exceptionally good and triggered something in me, I wanted to make that movie.
      Clint (Eastwood) was one of the few Hollywood personalities who had his head screwed on straight.
      I figured that the idea of eventually ending up in politics was not that far fetched when someone like (Richard) Nixon suggested it.
      Cubans are geniuses. They have the best climate, they have the best soil, and they have the tradition: generations of people who are passionate about rolling cigars and who are always looking for ways to make the cigars ever more perfect. When you look at a cigar and it has those thick veins in it, it's either a cheaper cigar or someone wasn't paying attention. As with everything, it's important to have a great-looking label. Cuban cigars truly are as good as people say. You can sniff out the fakes ones within seconds.
      When you feel good about someone and you know specifically why, it's not difficult at all to speak from the heart.
      I thought I was the poster boy for the American dream. I came to the US virtually broke, worked hard, kept focused on my goal, and made it. This really was the land of opportunity. If a kid like me could do it, anybody could. I had a fire inside of me to succeed. Anything is possible, but you have to do your end of the work. Making money was never my only goal, but money opened the door to interesting investments.
      The most important thing was not how much you make, but how much you invest, how much you keep. I never wanted to join the long list of famous entertainers and athletes who wiped out financially. My goal was to get rich and stay rich.
      I wanted big investments that were interesting, creative and different. Conservative bets didn't interest me. I was proud to pay taxes on the money I earned. I could tolerate big risks in exchange for big returns, but I'm always open to new ideas.
      Singapore Airlines had the best reputation in the airline business. The Boeing 747 was the ballsiest airliner.
Stan Winston's special effects studio was torture; on The Terminator, it took 30 minutes for the cement to dry when designing the prosthetics to cover my face. The first time I went through it I got very anxious and thought of pleasant memories to endure it. My heart surgery reminded me of all that.
      The more you promote yourself as the ultimate action hero, the more people form a larger than life perception of you.
      Planet Hollywood opened in Moscow, Sydney, Helsinki, London, San Antonio Texas (drawing 100,000 spectators) and Paris. Planet Hollywood was like The Beatles.
      Sometimes when you look at a deal, you see less danger and you're too willing to take the plunge. The more risky things are, the more upside there is.
      I'd hear guys bragging about their new Gulfstream IV or IV-SP and I'd get to say, "That's great guys. Let me talk about my 747..." It was a great conversation stopper.
      [on Maria Shriver] She had a tendency to blow things up into high drama, even things that weren't life and death, whereas I would play everything down. I'm a person who does not like to talk about things over and over. I make quick decisions, I don't ask opinions, and I don't think over the same things. I want to move on. She's an outward processor, while I keep things bottled up.
      There's a moment going into surgery that I really hate. The moment when the anesthesia takes hold, when you know you're going out, losing consciousness and don't know if you'll ever wake up from it.
      on [Planet Hollywood] I'd love to do it again, only to have it managed better. Whoopi (Goldberg), Bruce (Willis), Sly (Stallone) and all the other big-name participants would tell you that Planet Hollywood was fun. With the huge parties, openings, premieres, we met people all over the world and had the time of our lives.
      She (Maria Shriver) is a very good writer, with an unbelievable vocabulary and grace with words.
      After I came to America, I learned to think a bit more about my family rather than just myself. With my mother I built a good relationship where she and I really communicated. I loved doing things for my mother. She deserved to be treated like a queen. She was buried next to my father because they were so connected.
      Independent producers are the saviours in Hollywood because they'll take risks that the big studios won't.
      I love shooting at night because I have a lot of energy at night and I get lots of inspiration.
      [on heart surgery] It gave me energy beyond belief. I feel like a totally new person. And I no longer had to convince people that I still had a pulse.
      [on being governor] He can bring a vision to the state; you get blamed for everything and you get credit for everything. It's high risk, high reward. I felt tremendous loyalty and pride about California. I wanted America to stay the bastion of free enterprise and protect it from following Europe in the direction of bureaucracy and stagnation. You make a big mistake to lock in programs that require you to keep spending at boom-time levels.
      The more I read up on California, the more it was like bad news piled on top of bad news. We can't continue this way. We need change.
      I was fiscally conservative, pro-business, against raising taxes, pro-choice, pro-gay, pro-lesbian, pro-environment, pro-reasonable gun control, pro-reasonable social safety net.
      We needed to avoid trying to win over the press and instead play to the people. I was all about leadership and major projects and reforms that could attract massive public support.
      I pride myself on being able to juggle many tasks. I got a college education while bodybuilding, married Maria (Shriver) in the middle of filming Predator, and made Kindergarten Cop and Terminator 2 while launching Planet Hollywood.
      [winning the title of Mr Universe] It is my lifetime realized. I am very happy to be Mr Universe. I say it again, it sounds so good. I am very happy to be Mr Universe. My thanks to everyone in England who have helped me. They have been very kind to me. Thank you all.
      Los Angeles stood out because it was the only big city that had after-school programs in every one of its 90 elementary schools. State officials and lawmakers just didn't see after-school programs as important. After-school programs not only help the kids but also reduce the strain on the teachers. Young kids relate better to young people, especially after a whole day of teachers and school. They want counsellors in jeans and with spiky hair, who can serve as parent figures but who don't look like them - not that many retired teachers want to go back to work.
      The reason I wanted to be healthy was that I never wanted to ask anyone for money. It was so against my grain.
      I had a track record of organizing summits across fifty states. I loved seeing wounded veterans and entertaining them and thanking them for their great work.
      I never argued with people who underestimated me. If the accent and the muscles and the movies made people think I was stupid, it worked to my advantage.
      Its hard for any governor to make the changes that were needed. I loved it when people say that something can't be done. That's when I really get motivated; I like to prove them wrong. And I liked the idea of working on something bigger than me.
      [California] It is the place in the world where everyone wants to go. It was wrapped in problems, but it was also heaven.
      There is a disconnect between the people of California and the politicians of California. We the people are doing our job: work hard, pay taxes, raise our families. The politicians are not doing their job. They fiddle, they fumble, and they fail. These words resonated more strongly than any movie script I'd read.
      [Baghdad] The wild driving, the poverty, no money and a leadership vacuum - like California right now.
      I was not the least bit intimidated by the thought of a campaign. It was like every other major decision I'd faced. I thought about winning. I knew it would happen. I was locked in automatic pilot.
      [why he wanted to become governor of California] I'm tired of this acting stuff. I need a new challenge.
      When I met Maria [Shriver], she was full of life, excitement, and hunger for the world. She wanted to be a rebel, not have a job on Capitol Hill.
      Making a career decision had always been an incredible high. Making a career decision as a husband and a father was a whole different deal.
      Is firefighting a macho enough profession for an action hero? The real life heroism at Ground Zero laid that question to rest.
      Elected officials usually hate ballot initiatives because they reduce their power and make the state harder to govern.
      I wanted to know what it really took to run for office, given that I wasn't a typical candidate.
      I always paid close attention to focus groups and surveys and in politics, opinion research plays an even bigger role.
      For me, talking convincingly about the future was easy: all I had to do was point to what we'd achieved since I came into office.
      California politics was this big centrifuge that forced voters, policies and parties away from the center. I challenged Californians to stop yielding to the far left and the far right and return to the center. Centrist does not mean weak, or watered down or warmed over. It means well balanced and well grounded. The American people are instinctively centrist. So should be our government. America's political parties should return to the center, where the people are. The left and the right don't have a monopoly on conscience.
      We are not waiting for politics, for our problems to get worse, or for the federal government. Because the future does not wait. Not only can we lead California into the future, we can show the nation and the world how to get there.
      [politics] You get so immersed in the job there are side effects on the people you love. Even if you succeed in protecting your wife and kids from the public spotlight, they feel they're sharing and losing you.
      Trying to reform health care had almost destroyed Bill Clinton's presidency. I'd always thought it was a disgrace that the greatest country in the world didn't provide a health care system for all of its people, as many European countries do. Our health care reform became America's, and California led the way.
      The California Republican Party should be a right of center party that occupies the broad middle of California.
      Even when acting in a movie, I would not shoot a stunt if I hadn't rehearsed it a minimum of ten times.
      President Bush (Jr) was always available to talk. If I raised only one issue at a time, I would get a fair hearing.
      It's painful to have just endorsed things that you now have no money for. I felt like a schmuck backing out on commitments I wanted to make but could no longer afford. The consequences of cuts are not just dollars, but people. We're all getting screwed. I was forced to make unpopular decisions that nobody, least of all me, was happy about.
      All great movements in history start out on a grassroots level, not in places like Washington or Paris or Moscow or Beijing.
      Budget negotiations are no different than grueling five hour weight lifting sessions in the gym. The joy of working out is that with each painful rep you get a step closer to achieving your goal. I was deeply frustrated with party leaders and the press for not making plain the budget history.
      When I stepped up to the podium, I was overwhelmed to realize I was standing where John F Kennedy, Nelson Mandela and Mikhail Gorbachev had all addressed the UN before me.
      Six years of ups and downs forged me as a governor. I had more forward momentum than ever before. I felt more like a hungry eagle rather than a lame duck.
      The key to real permanent reform is being in sync with the hearts and minds of the people. We had rattled so many cages on the left and the right with our reforms.
      Of all the things I've done with my life, nothing is seared in my memory more than looking into the eyes of someone who has just lost everything he loved in the world.
      Being governor was more complex and challenging than I had imagined. That's the problem of presenting yourself as the Governator. You can do miracles but not the kind that require wearing a cape and being able to fly. As governor, you're neither a solitary champion nor a star. Compared to making a movie, when you accomplish something in government, the satisfaction is so much larger and long lasting. In a movie, you are entertaining people for a few hours in a dark theatre. In government, you are affecting entire lives; generations even.
      I've always idolized (Mikhail) Gorbachev because of the courage it took to dismantle the political system that he grew up under. For Gorbachev to have the guts to embrace change rather than further oppress his people or pick fights with the West has always amazed me.
      [lying to Maria Shriver about his infidelity] Instead of doing the right thing, I'd just put the truth in a mental compartment and locked it up where I didn't deal with it every day.
      [on his illegitimate son] Politically, I didn't feel it was anybody's business because I hadn't campaigned on family values. If I was going to talk about bad behavior, I wanted to do it on my own timetable.
      Although Maria (Shriver) and I remain separated, I still try to treat everyone as if we are together. Maria has a right to be bitterly disappointed and never look at me the same way again.
      What had made my career fun for more than 30 years was sharing it with Maria (Shriver). We'd done everything together and now there was no one to come home to.
      You start reading scripts and visualizing the scene and how to direct it, how to choreograph the stunt, and then you get into it and then you look forward to doing it.
      [University of Southern California] It prides itself on being neither conservative nor liberal but open minded. It operates by promoting discussion to draw the best ideas from the brightest minds across the political spectrum.
      The great leaders always talk about things that are much bigger than themselves. They say working for a cause that will outlive us is what brings meaning and joy. The more I'm able to accomplish in the world, the more I agree.
      I always wanted to be an inspiration for people, but I never set out to be a role model in everything. It's never been my goal to set an example in everything I do.
      I don't believe that violence on-screen creates violence on the street or in the home. Otherwise there would have been no murders before movies were invented, and the Bible is full of them.
      I prefer being way out there, shocking people. Rebelliousness is part of what drove me from Austria. Being outrageous is a way to succeed. No one could put me in a mold. Being different was right up my alley.
      Impossible was a word I loved to ignore when I was governor. The only way to make the possible possible is to try the impossible. If you fail, so what? That's what everybody expects. But if you succeed, you make the world a much better place.
      Never follow the crowd. Go where it's empty. It's easier to stand out when you aim straight for the top.
      You can do the finest work and if people don't know, you have nothing! The most important thing is to make people aware.
      [on Muhammad Ali] I always admired him because he was a champion, had a great personality, and he was generous and always thoughtful toward others. If all athletes could be like him, the world would be better off.
      Don't overthink. If you think all the time, the mind cannot relax. Part of us needs to go through life instinctively. Turning off your mind is an art. Knowledge is extremely important for making decisions. The more knowledge you have, the more you're free to rely on your instincts. The more you know, the more you hesitate. When you are not confident of your decision-making process, it will slow you down. Overthinking is why people can't sleep at night: it cripples you.
      To test yourself and grow, you have to operate without a safety net. Forget Plan B. If there is no Plan B, then Plan A has to work.
      What are the odds for an Austrian farm boy to come to America and become the greatest bodybuilding champion of all time, to get in the movie business, marry a Kennedy, and then get elected governor of the biggest state in the United States?
      If government is not taking in enough revenue because of an economic slowdown, then everyone should chip in and sacrifice.
      Writing out my goals became second nature, and so did the conviction that there are no shortcuts. It took hundreds and even thousands of repetitions for me to learn to hit a great three-quarter back pose, deliver a punchline, dance the tango in True Lies, paint a beautiful birthday card, and say "I'll be back" just the right way.
      I have come to feel great affection for the peoples of the world, because they have always been so welcoming to me, whether as a bodybuilder, a movie star, a private citizen, or as governor of the great state of California.
      Don't blame your parents. They've done their best for you, and if they've left you with problems, those problems are now yours to solve. I could channel my upbringing in a positive way rather than complain. I could use it to have a vision, set goals, find joy. I don't have to lick my wounds. Sometimes you have to appreciate the very people and circumstances that traumatized you. Today I hail the strictness of my upbringing, and the fact I didn't have anything I wanted in Austria, because those were the very factors that made me hungry; it put fuel on the fire in my belly. It drove and motivated me.
      [on his infidelity] It was one of those stupid things that I promised myself never to do. A lot of people, no matter how successful or unsuccessful in life, make stupid choices involving sex.
      Secrecy is just part of me. I keep things to myself no matter what. I'm not a person who was brought up to talk.
      Take care of your body and your mind. Focusing on the body was no problem for me. I realized that the mind is a muscle and we should train it too. If world leaders have time to work out, so do you.
      [Gorbachev dismantling the USSR] I'm amazed by the courage it took to not go for immediate gratification but to look for the best direction for the country in the long run. To me Gorbachev is a hero, at the same level as Nelson Mandela, who overcame the anger and despair of 27 years in prison. When given the power to shake the world, both of them chose to build rather than destroy.
      [on Pope John Paul II balancing his duties with an exercise regime] If that guy can do it, I've got to get up even earlier!
      Be hungry for success, hungry to make your mark, hungry to be seen and to be heard and to have an effect. And as you move up and become successful, make sure also to be hungry for helping others. Don't rest on your laurels. Too many former athletes spend their lives talking about how great they were 20 years ago. So many accomplished people just coast. They wish they could still be somebody and not just talk about the past. There is much more to life than being the greatest at one thing. We learn so much when we're successful, so why not use what you've learned, use your connections and do more with them? If you have a talent or skill that makes you happy, use it to improve your neighborhood. And if you feel a desire to do more, then go all out. You'll have plenty of time to rest when you're in the grave. Live a risky and spicy life and like Eleanor Roosevelt said, "every day do something that scares you." We should all stay hungry!
      Memoirs are about looking back, but I've lived my life by the opposite principle. At home I have a hundred photo albums starting with my childhood in Austria, and I never look at them. I'd rather do another project or make another movie and learn from looking forward!
      [on his autobiography, Total Recall] Digging up and piecing together memories proved to be as difficult as I imagined, and yet what made the work unexpectedly enjoyable was the help I got from others. I found myself swapping stories with old friends from the worlds of bodybuilding, business, sports, Hollywood and politics - a large cast of characters. I'm grateful to all of them for helping me recreate the past and for making it immediate and friendly. Finally, I thank my family. They were generous in helping me make sure this memoir delivers on its name. And thanks especially to Maria (Shriver), for her patience with the project and for remaining as always the person I could go to whenever I got stuck.
      If I accomplished and solidified my position in the bodybuilding world, from then on, I would be on a roll. Nobody would stop me.
      When you're not on camera, stay in character, act your part, giving it everything you have in order to draw the best out of the actor who is being filmed.
      It was very difficult for me in the beginning - I was told by agents and casting people that my body was 'too weird', that I had a funny accent, and that my name was too long. You name it, and they told me I had to change it. Basically, everywhere I turned, I was told that I had no chance.
      A few months ago, I got rear-ended by this guy. He took off, and I chased him. I will admit I drove at a slightly excessive speed. I cut him off, and two guys jumped out of the car looking tough. But when they saw me, they just said, 'Oh shit! The Terminator!' They were nice, and gave me their information.
      [on Terminator: Genesis (2015)] It will be challenging because it will be a new director, and it will be a really action-packed movie. And sometimes it does get more difficult when you're 66 years old and doing this kind of action, versus when you're in your 30s or 40s!
      [on his eighties rivalry with Sylvester Stallone] We had a competition. And here's a perfect example of how competition is healthy, because he was trying to out-do me. But I was also trying to out-do him. So who benefited? The fans. I was training harder, he was training harder. It was a competition of who has more muscles, who has more cuts, who has the lower body fat, who uses the biggest guns, who kills the most people, who has the most creative killings, and this went on and on and on. So the movies became better and better because of it. And eventually, we grew up, right?" he said. We were doing Planet Hollywood together and we were laughing about it on the plane when we flew around. We've become very good friends, and I'm a big supporter of Sly, because I really always thought I admired him, even though there was competition. He's a great director, he's a great writer, a great actor, a great producer and also a fantastic artist. His paintings are great. And he's a great family man. He has it all.
=======================================================
Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger (/ˈʃwɔrtsənɛɡər/; German: [ˈaɐnɔlt ˈalɔʏs ˈʃvaɐtsənɛɡɐ]; born July 30, 1947) is an Austrian-born American actor, film producer, businessman, investor, writer, philanthropist, former professional bodybuilder and politician. Schwarzenegger served two terms as the 38th Governor of California from 2003 until 2011.
Schwarzenegger began weight training at the age of 15. He won the Mr. Universe title at age 20 and went on to win the Mr. Olympia contest seven times. Schwarzenegger has remained a prominent presence in bodybuilding and has written many books and articles on the sport. Schwarzenegger gained worldwide fame as a Hollywood action film icon. He was nicknamed the "Austrian Oak" and the "Styrian Oak" in his bodybuilding days, "Arnie" during his acting career and more recently "The Governator" (a portmanteau of "Governor" and "The Terminator" – one of his best-known movie roles).[2]
As a Republican, he was first elected on October 7, 2003, in a special recall election to replace then-Governor Gray Davis. Schwarzenegger was sworn in on November 17, 2003, to serve the remainder of Davis's term. Schwarzenegger was then re-elected on November 7, 2006, in California's 2006 gubernatorial election, to serve a full term as governor, defeating Democrat Phil Angelides, who was California State Treasurer at the time. Schwarzenegger was sworn in for his second term on January 5, 2007.[3] In 2011, Schwarzenegger completed his second term as governor, and it was announced that he had separated from Maria Shriver, his wife for the last 25 years; she is a member of the influential Kennedy family, as a niece of the late Democratic US President John F. Kennedy.
Schwarzenegger was born in Thal, Austria, a village bordering the Styrian capital Graz, and was christened Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger.[4] His parents were the local police chief, Gustav Schwarzenegger (17 August 1907 – 13 December 1972), and Aurelia (née Jadrny; 29 July 1922 – 2 August 1998). Gustav served in World War II, after he voluntarily applied to join the Nazi Party in 1938.[5] Gustav served with the German Army as a Hauptfeldwebel of the Feldgendarmerie and was discharged in 1943 after contracting malaria. They were married on October 20, 1945 – Gustav was 38, and Aurelia was 23-years-old. According to Schwarzenegger, both of his parents were very strict: "Back then in Austria it was a very different world, if we did something bad or we disobeyed our parents, the rod was not spared."[6] He grew up in a Roman Catholic family who attended Mass every Sunday.[7][8]
Gustav had a preference for his older son, Meinhard (17 July 1946 – 20 May 1971), over Arnold.[9] His favoritism was "strong and blatant," which stemmed from unfounded suspicion that Arnold was not his biological child.[10] Schwarzenegger has said his father had "no patience for listening or understanding your problems."[7] Schwarzenegger had a good relationship with his mother and kept in touch with her until her death.[11] In later life, Schwarzenegger commissioned the Simon Wiesenthal Center to research his father's wartime record, which came up with no evidence of Gustav's being involved in atrocities, despite Gustav's membership in the Nazi Party and SA.[9] Schwarzenegger's father's background received wide press attention during the 2003 California recall campaign.[12] At school, Schwarzenegger was apparently in the middle but stood out for his "cheerful, good-humored and exuberant" character.[7] Money was a problem in their household; Schwarzenegger recalled that one of the highlights of his youth was when the family bought a refrigerator.[10]
As a boy, Schwarzenegger played several sports, heavily influenced by his father.[7] He picked up his first barbell in 1960, when his soccer coach took his team to a local gym.[4] At the age of 14, he chose bodybuilding over soccer as a career.[13][14] Schwarzenegger has responded to a question asking if he was 13 when he started weightlifting: "I actually started weight training when I was 15, but I'd been participating in sports, like soccer, for years, so I felt that although I was slim, I was well-developed, at least enough so that I could start going to the gym and start Olympic lifting."[6] However, his official website biography claims: "At 14, he started an intensive training program with Dan Farmer, studied psychology at 15 (to learn more about the power of mind over body) and at 17, officially started his competitive career."[15] During a speech in 2001, he said, "My own plan formed when I was 14 years old. My father had wanted me to be a police officer like he was. My mother wanted me to go to trade school."[16] Schwarzenegger took to visiting a gym in Graz, where he also frequented the local movie theaters to see bodybuilding idols such as Reg Park, Steve Reeves, and Johnny Weissmuller on the big screen.[6] When Reeves died in 2000, Schwarzenegger fondly remembered him: "As a teenager, I grew up with Steve Reeves. His remarkable accomplishments allowed me a sense of what was possible, when others around me didn't always understand my dreams. Steve Reeves has been part of everything I've ever been fortunate enough to achieve." In 1961, Schwarzenegger met former Mr. Austria Kurt Marnul, who invited him to train at the gym in Graz.[4] He was so dedicated as a youngster that he broke into the local gym on weekends, when it was usually closed, so that he could train. "It would make me sick to miss a workout... I knew I couldn't look at myself in the mirror the next morning if I didn't do it."[6] When Schwarzenegger was asked about his first movie experience as a boy, he replied: "I was very young, but I remember my father taking me to the Austrian theaters and seeing some newsreels. The first real movie I saw, that I distinctly remember, was a John Wayne movie."[6]
On 20 May 1971, his brother, Meinhard, died in a car accident.[4] Meinhard had been drinking and was killed instantly. Schwarzenegger did not attend his funeral.[10] Meinhard was due to marry Erika Knapp, and the couple had a three-year-old son, Patrick. Schwarzenegger would pay for Patrick's education and help him to immigrate to the United States.[10] Gustav died the following year from a stroke.[4] In Pumping Iron, Schwarzenegger claimed that he did not attend his father's funeral because he was training for a bodybuilding contest. Later, he and the film's producer said this story was taken from another bodybuilder for the purpose of showing the extremes that some would go to for their sport and to make Schwarzenegger's image more cold and machine-like in order to fan controversy for the film.[17] Barbara Baker, his first serious girlfriend, has said he informed her of his father's death without emotion and that he never spoke of his brother.[18] Over time, he has given at least three versions of why he was absent from his father's funeral.[10]
In an interview with Fortune in 2004, Schwarzenegger told how he suffered what "would now be called child abuse" at the hands of his father: "My hair was pulled. I was hit with belts. So was the kid next door. It was just the way it was. Many of the children I've seen were broken by their parents, which was the German-Austrian mentality. They didn't want to create an individual. It was all about conforming. I was one who did not conform, and whose will could not be broken. Therefore, I became a rebel. Every time I got hit, and every time someone said, 'you can't do this,' I said, 'this is not going to be for much longer, because I'm going to move out of here. I want to be rich. I want to be somebody.'"[5]
Schwarzenegger served in the Austrian Army in 1965 to fulfill the one year of service required at the time of all 18-year-old Austrian males.[4][15] During his army service, he won the Junior Mr. Europe contest.[14] He went AWOL during basic training so he could take part in the competition and spent a week in military prison: "Participating in the competition meant so much to me that I didn't carefully think through the consequences." He won another bodybuilding contest in Graz, at Steirer Hof Hotel (where he had placed second). He was voted best built man of Europe, which made him famous. "The Mr. Universe title was my ticket to America – the land of opportunity, where I could become a star and get rich."[16] Schwarzenegger made his first plane trip in 1966, attending the NABBA Mr. Universe competition in London.[15] He would come in second in the Mr. Universe competition, not having the muscle definition of American winner Chester Yorton.[15]
Charles "Wag" Bennett, one of the judges at the 1966 competition, was impressed with Schwarzenegger and he offered to coach him. As Schwarzenegger had little money, Bennett invited him to stay in his crowded family home above one of his two gyms in Forest Gate, London, England. Yorton's leg definition had been judged superior, and Schwarzenegger, under a training program devised by Bennett, concentrated on improving the muscle definition and power in his legs. Staying in the East End of London helped Schwarzenegger improve his rudimentary grasp of the English language.[19][20] Also in 1966, Schwarzenegger had the opportunity to meet childhood idol Reg Park, who became his friend and mentor.[21] The training paid off and, in 1967, Schwarzenegger won the title for the first time, becoming the youngest ever Mr. Universe at the age of 20.[15] He would go on to win the title a further three times.[14] Schwarzenegger then flew back to Munich, training for four to six hours daily, attending business school and working in a health club (Rolf Putzinger's gym where he worked and trained from 1966–1968), returning in 1968 to London to win his next Mr. Universe title.[15] He frequently told Roger C. Field, his English coach and friend in Munich at that time, "I'm going to become the greatest actor!"[22]
Schwarzenegger, who dreamed of moving to the U.S. since the age of 10, and saw bodybuilding as the avenue through which to do so,[23] realized his dream by moving to the United States in September 1968 at the age of 21, speaking little English.[4][14] There he trained at Gold's Gym in Venice, Los Angeles, California, under Joe Weider. From 1970 to 1974, one of Schwarzenegger's weight training partners was Ric Drasin, a professional wrestler who designed the original Gold's Gym logo in 1973.[24] Schwarzenegger also became good friends with professional wrestler "Superstar" Billy Graham. In 1970, at age 23, he captured his first Mr. Olympia title in New York, and would go on to win the title a total of seven times.[15]
Immigration law firm Siskind & Susser have stated that Schwarzenegger may have been an illegal immigrant at some point in the late 1960s or early 1970s because of violations in the terms of his visa.[25] LA Weekly would later say in 2002 that Schwarzenegger is the most famous immigrant in America, who "overcame a thick Austrian accent and transcended the unlikely background of bodybuilding to become the biggest movie star in the world in the 1990s".[23]
In 1977, Schwarzenegger's autobiography/weight-training guide Arnold: The Education of a Bodybuilder was published and became a huge success.[4] After taking English classes at Santa Monica College in California, he earned a BA by correspondence from the University of Wisconsin–Superior, where he graduated with a degree in international marketing of fitness and business administration in 1979.[26]
Schwarzenegger is considered among the most important figures in the history of bodybuilding, and his legacy is commemorated in the Arnold Classic annual bodybuilding competition. Schwarzenegger has remained a prominent face in the bodybuilding sport long after his retirement, in part because of his ownership of gyms and fitness magazines. He has presided over numerous contests and awards shows.
For many years, he wrote a monthly column for the bodybuilding magazines Muscle & Fitness and Flex. Shortly after being elected Governor, he was appointed executive editor of both magazines, in a largely symbolic capacity. The magazines agreed to donate $250,000 a year to the Governor's various physical fitness initiatives. When the deal, including the contract that gave Schwarzenegger at least $1 million a year, was made public in 2005, many criticized it as being a conflict of interest since the governor's office made decisions concerning regulation of dietary supplements in California.[29] Consequently, Schwarzenegger relinquished the executive editor role in 2005.[29] American Media Inc., which owns Muscle & Fitness and Flex, announced in March 2013 that Schwarzenegger had accepted their renewed offer to be executive editor of the magazines.[29]
The magazine MuscleMag International has a monthly two-page article on him, and refers to him as "The King".
One of the first competitions he won was the Junior Mr. Europe contest in 1965.[4] He won Mr. Europe the following year, at age 19.[4][15] He would go on to compete in, and win, many bodybuilding contests. His bodybulding victories included five Mr. Universe (4 – NABBA [England], 1 – IFBB [USA]) wins, and seven Mr. Olympia wins, a record which would stand until Lee Haney won his eighth consecutive Mr. Olympia title in 1991.
Schwarzenegger continues to work out even today. When asked about his personal training during the 2011 Arnold Classic he said that he was still working out a half an hour with weights every day.[30]
During Arnold's early years in bodybuilding, he also competed in several Olympic weightlifting and powerlifting contests. Arnold won two weightlifting contests in 1964 and 1965, as well as two powerlifting contests in 1966 and 1968.[28]
In 1967, Schwarzenegger competed in and won the Munich stone-lifting contest, in which a stone weighing 508 German pounds (254 kg/560 lbs.) is lifted between the legs while standing on two foot rests.
Schwarzenegger presented awards at the USA Weightlifting Hall of Fame in 2011 in Columbus, Ohio. In photo: 1987 world champion American Karyn Marshall.
Schwarzenegger's goal was to become the greatest bodybuilder in the world, which meant becoming Mr. Olympia.[4][15] His first attempt was in 1969, when he lost to three-time champion Sergio Oliva. However, Schwarzenegger came back in 1970 and won the competition, making him the youngest ever Mr. Olympia at the age of 23, a record he still holds to this day.[15]
He continued his winning streak in the 1971–74 competitions.[15] In 1975, Schwarzenegger was once again in top form, and won the title for the sixth consecutive time,[15] beating Franco Columbu. After the 1975 Mr. Olympia contest, Schwarzenegger announced his retirement from professional bodybuilding.[15]
Months before the 1975 Mr. Olympia contest, filmmakers George Butler and Robert Fiore persuaded Schwarzenegger to compete, in order to film his training in the bodybuilding documentary called Pumping Iron. Schwarzenegger had only three months to prepare for the competition, after losing significant weight to appear in the film Stay Hungry with Jeff Bridges. Lou Ferrigno proved not to be a threat, and a lighter-than-usual Schwarzenegger convincingly won the 1975 Mr. Olympia.
Schwarzenegger came out of retirement, however, to compete in the 1980 Mr. Olympia.[4] Schwarzenegger was training for his role in Conan, and he got into such good shape because of the running, horseback riding and sword training, that he decided he wanted to win the Mr. Olympia contest one last time. He kept this plan a secret, in the event that a training accident would prevent his entry and cause him to lose face. Schwarzenegger had been hired to provide color commentary for network television, when he announced at the eleventh hour that while he was there: "Why not compete?" Schwarzenegger ended up winning the event with only seven weeks of preparation. After being declared Mr. Olympia for a seventh time, Schwarzenegger then officially retired from competition.
Schwarzenegger has admitted to using performance-enhancing anabolic steroids while they were legal, writing in 1977 that "steroids were helpful to me in maintaining muscle size while on a strict diet in preparation for a contest. I did not use them for muscle growth, but rather for muscle maintenance when cutting up."[31] He has called the drugs "tissue building."[32]
In 1999, Schwarzenegger sued Dr. Willi Heepe, a German doctor who publicly predicted his early death on the basis of a link between his steroid use and his later heart problems. As the doctor had never examined him personally, Schwarzenegger collected a US$10,000 libel judgment against him in a German court.[33] In 1999, Schwarzenegger also sued and settled with The Globe, a U.S. tabloid which had made similar predictions about the bodybuilder's future health.[34]
See also: Arnold Schwarzenegger filmography and List of awards and nominations received by Arnold Schwarzenegger
Schwarzenegger wanted to move from bodybuilding into acting, finally achieving it when he was chosen to play the role of Hercules in 1970's Hercules in New York. Credited under the name "Arnold Strong," his accent in the film was so thick that his lines were dubbed after production.[14] His second film appearance was as a deaf mute hit-man for the mob in director Robert Altman's The Long Goodbye (1973), which was followed by a much more significant part in the film Stay Hungry (1976), for which he was awarded a Golden Globe for New Male Star of the Year. Schwarzenegger has discussed his early struggles in developing his acting career. "It was very difficult for me in the beginning – I was told by agents and casting people that my body was 'too weird', that I had a funny accent, and that my name was too long. You name it, and they told me I had to change it. Basically, everywhere I turned, I was told that I had no chance."[6]
Schwarzenegger drew attention and boosted his profile in the bodybuilding film Pumping Iron (1977),[13][14] elements of which were dramatized. In 1991, Schwarzenegger purchased the rights to the film, its outtakes, and associated still photography.[35] Schwarzenegger auditioned for the title role of The Incredible Hulk, but did not win the role because of his height. Later, Lou Ferrigno got the part of Dr. David Banner's alter ego. Schwarzenegger appeared with Kirk Douglas and Ann-Margret in the 1979 comedy The Villain. In 1980 he starred in a biographical film of the 1950s actress Jayne Mansfield as Mansfield's husband, Mickey Hargitay.
Schwarzenegger's breakthrough film was the sword-and-sorcery epic Conan the Barbarian in 1982, which was a box-office hit.[13] This was followed by a sequel, Conan the Destroyer, in 1984, although it was not as successful as its predecessor.[36] In 1983, Schwarzenegger starred in the promotional video "Carnival in Rio". In 1984, he made his first appearance as the eponymous character, and what some would say was his acting career's signature role, in James Cameron's science fiction thriller film The Terminator.[13][14][37] Following this, Schwarzenegger made Red Sonja in 1985.[36]
During the 1980s, audiences had an appetite for action films, with both Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone becoming international stars.[14] Schwarzenegger's roles reflected his sense of humor, separating his roles from more serious action hero films. The alternative-universe comedy thriller Last Action Hero featured a poster of the movie Terminator 2: Judgment Day, which, in the alternate universe, starred Stallone. He made a number of successful films, such as Commando (1985), Raw Deal (1986), The Running Man (1987), Predator (1987), and Red Heat (1988).
Twins (1988), a comedy with Danny DeVito, also proved successful. Total Recall (1990) netted Schwarzenegger $10 million and 15% of the film's gross. A science fiction script, the film was based on the Philip K. Dick short story "We Can Remember It for You Wholesale". Kindergarten Cop (1990) reunited him with director Ivan Reitman, who directed him in Twins. Schwarzenegger had a brief foray into directing, first with a 1990 episode of the TV series Tales from the Crypt, entitled "The Switch", and then with the 1992 telemovie Christmas in Connecticut. He has not directed since.
Schwarzenegger's commercial peak was his return as the title character in 1991's Terminator 2: Judgment Day, which was the highest-grossing film of 1991. In 1993, the National Association of Theatre Owners named him the "International Star of the Decade".[4] His next film project, the 1993 self-aware action comedy spoof Last Action Hero, was released opposite Jurassic Park, and did not do well at the box office. His next film, the comedy drama True Lies (1994), was a popular spy film, and saw Schwarzenegger reunited with James Cameron.
That same year, the comedy Junior was released, the last of Schwarzenegger's three collaborations with Ivan Reitman and again co-starring Danny DeVito. This film brought him his second Golden Globe nomination, this time for Best Actor – Musical or Comedy. It was followed by the action thriller Eraser (1996), the Christmas comedy Jingle All The Way (1996), and the comic book-based Batman & Robin (1997), in which he played the villain Mr. Freeze. This was his final film before taking time to recuperate from a back injury. Following the critical failure of Batman & Robin, his film career and box office prominence went into decline. He returned with the supernatural thriller End of Days (1999), later followed by the action films The 6th Day (2000) and Collateral Damage (2002), both of which failed to do well at the box office. In 2003, he made his third appearance as the title character in Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines, which went on to earn over $150 million domestically.[38]
In tribute to Schwarzenegger in 2002, Forum Stadtpark, a local cultural association, proposed plans to build a 25-meter (82 ft) tall Terminator statue in a park in central Graz. Schwarzenegger reportedly said he was flattered, but thought the money would be better spent on social projects and the Special Olympics.[39]
His film appearances after becoming Governor of California included a three-second cameo appearance in The Rundown, and the 2004 remake of Around the World in 80 Days. In 2005, he appeared as himself in the film The Kid & I. He voiced Baron von Steuben in the Liberty's Kids episode "Valley Forge". He had been rumored to be appearing in Terminator Salvation as the original T-800; he denied his involvement,[40] but it was later revealed that he would appear briefly via his image being inserted into the movie from stock footage of the first Terminator movie.[41][42] Schwarzenegger appeared in Sylvester Stallone's The Expendables, where he made a cameo appearance.
In January 2011, just weeks after leaving office in California, Schwarzenegger announced that he was reading several new scripts for future films, one of them being the World War II action drama With Wings as Eagles, written by Randall Wallace, based on a true story.[43][44] On March 6, 2011, at the Arnold Seminar of the Arnold Classic, Schwarzenegger revealed that he was being considered for several films, including sequels to The Terminator and remakes of Predator and The Running Man, and that he was "packaging" a comic book character.[45] The character was later revealed to be the Governator, star of the comic book and animated series of the same name. Schwarzenegger inspired the character and co-developed it with Stan Lee, who would have produced the series. Schwarzenegger would have voiced the Governator.[46][47][48][49]
On May 20, 2011, Schwarzenegger's entertainment counsel announced that all movie projects currently in development were being halted: "Schwarzenegger is focusing on personal matters and is not willing to commit to any production schedules or timelines."[50] On July 11, 2011, it was announced that Schwarzenegger was considering a comeback film despite his legal problems.[51] He appeared in The Expendables 2 (2012),[52] and starred in The Last Stand (2013), his first leading role in 10 years, and Escape Plan (2013), his first co-starring role alongside Sylvester Stallone. He starred in Sabotage, released in March 2014. He will reprise his role as Conan the Barbarian in The Legend of Conan[53][54] and is set to star in a fifth Terminator movie Terminator: Genesis.[55]
Schwarzenegger has been a registered Republican for many years. As an actor, his political views were always well known as they contrasted with those of many other prominent Hollywood stars, who are generally considered to be a liberal and Democratic-leaning community. At the 2004 Republican National Convention, Schwarzenegger gave a speech and explained why he was a Republican:[56]
I finally arrived here in 1968. What a special day it was. I remember I arrived here with empty pockets but full of dreams, full of determination, full of desire. The presidential campaign was in full swing. I remember watching the Nixon–Humphrey presidential race on TV. A friend of mine who spoke German and English translated for me. I heard Humphrey saying things that sounded like socialism, which I had just left.
But then I heard Nixon speak. He was talking about free enterprise, getting the government off your back, lowering the taxes and strengthening the military. Listening to Nixon speak sounded more like a breath of fresh air. I said to my friend, I said, "What party is he?" My friend said, "He's a Republican." I said, "Then I am a Republican." And I have been a Republican ever since.
In 1985, Schwarzenegger appeared in Stop the Madness, an anti-drug music video sponsored by the Reagan administration. He first came to wide public notice as a Republican during the 1988 Presidential election, accompanying then-Vice President George H.W. Bush at a campaign rally.[57]
Schwarzenegger's first political appointment was as chairman of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports, on which he served from 1990 to 1993.[4] He was nominated by George H. W. Bush, who dubbed him "Conan the Republican". He later served as Chairman for the California Governor's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports under Governor Pete Wilson.
Between 1993 and 1994, Schwarzenegger was a Red Cross ambassador (a ceremonial role fulfilled by celebrities), recording several television/radio public service announcements to donate blood.
In an interview with Talk magazine in late 1999, Schwarzenegger was asked if he thought of running for office. He replied, "I think about it many times. The possibility is there, because I feel it inside."[58] The Hollywood Reporter claimed shortly after that Schwarzenegger sought to end speculation that he might run for governor of California.[58] Following his initial comments, Schwarzenegger said, "I'm in show business – I am in the middle of my career. Why would I go away from that and jump into something else?"[58]
Schwarzenegger announced his candidacy in the 2003 California recall election for Governor of California on the August 6, 2003 episode of The Tonight Show with Jay Leno.[14] Schwarzenegger had the most name recognition in a crowded field of candidates, but he had never held public office and his political views were unknown to most Californians. His candidacy immediately became national and international news, with media outlets dubbing him the "Governator" (referring to The Terminator movies, see above) and "The Running Man" (the name of another one of his films), and calling the recall election "Total Recall" (yet another movie starring Schwarzenegger). Schwarzenegger declined to participate in several debates with other recall replacement candidates, and appeared in only one debate on September 24, 2003.[59]
President George W. Bush meets with Schwarzenegger after his successful election to the California Governorship
On October 7, 2003, the recall election resulted in Governor Gray Davis being removed from office with 55.4% of the Yes vote in favor of a recall. Schwarzenegger was elected Governor of California under the second question on the ballot with 48.6% of the vote to choose a successor to Davis. Schwarzenegger defeated Democrat Cruz Bustamante, fellow Republican Tom McClintock, and others. His nearest rival, Bustamante, received 31% of the vote. In total, Schwarzenegger won the election by about 1.3 million votes. Under the regulations of the California Constitution, no runoff election was required. Schwarzenegger was the second foreign-born governor of California after Irish-born Governor John G. Downey in 1862.
As soon as Schwarzenegger was elected governor, Willie Brown said he would start a drive to recall the governor. Schwarzenegger was equally entrenched in what he considered to be his mandate in cleaning up gridlock. Building on a catchphrase from the sketch "Hans and Franz" from Saturday Night Live (which partly parodied his bodybuilding career), Schwarzenegger called the Democratic State politicians "girlie men".[60]
Schwarzenegger's early victories included repealing an unpopular increase in the vehicle registration fee as well as preventing driver's licenses being given out to illegal immigrants, but later he began to feel the backlash when powerful state unions began to oppose his various initiatives. Key among his reckoning with political realities was a special election he called in November 2005, in which four ballot measures he sponsored were defeated. Schwarzenegger accepted personal responsibility for the defeats and vowed to continue to seek consensus for the people of California. He would later comment that "no one could win if the opposition raised 160 million dollars to defeat you".
Schwarzenegger then went against the advice of fellow Republican strategists and appointed a Democrat, Susan Kennedy, as his Chief of Staff. Schwarzenegger gradually moved towards a more politically moderate position, determined to build a winning legacy with only a short time to go until the next gubernatorial election.
Schwarzenegger ran for re-election against Democrat Phil Angelides, the California State Treasurer, in the 2006 elections, held on November 7, 2006. Despite a poor year nationally for the Republican party, Schwarzenegger won re-election with 56.0% of the vote compared with 38.9% for Angelides, a margin of well over one million votes.[61] In recent years, many commentators have seen Schwarzenegger as moving away from the right and towards the center of the political spectrum. After hearing a speech by Schwarzenegger at the 2006 Martin Luther King, Jr. breakfast, San Francisco mayor Gavin Newsom said that, "[H]e's becoming a Democrat [... H]e's running back, not even to the center. I would say center-left".
It was rumored that Schwarzenegger might run for the United States Senate in 2010, as his governorship would be term-limited by that time. This turned out to be false.[62][63]
With Schwarzenegger and Senator Dianne Feinstein behind him, President George W. Bush comments on wildfires and firefighting efforts in California, October 2007
Wendy Leigh, who wrote an unofficial biography on Schwarzenegger, claims he plotted his political rise from an early age using the movie business and bodybuilding as building blocks to escape a depressing home.[9] Leigh portrays Schwarzenegger as obsessed with power and quotes him as saying, "I wanted to be part of the small percentage of people who were leaders, not the large mass of followers. I think it is because I saw leaders use 100% of their potential – I was always fascinated by people in control of other people."[9] Schwarzenegger has said that it was never his intention to enter politics, but he says, "I married into a political family. You get together with them and you hear about policy, about reaching out to help people. I was exposed to the idea of being a public servant and Eunice and Sargent Shriver became my heroes."[23] Eunice Kennedy Shriver was sister of John F. Kennedy, and mother-in-law to Schwarzenegger; Sargent Shriver is husband to Eunice and father-in-law to Schwarzenegger. He cannot run for president as he is not a natural born citizen of the United States. In The Simpsons Movie (2007), he is portrayed as the President, and in the Sylvester Stallone movie, Demolition Man (1993, ten years before his first run for political office), it is revealed that a constitutional amendment passed which allowed Schwarzenegger to run for President.[64]
Schwarzenegger is a dual Austrian/United States citizen.[65] He holds Austrian citizenship by birth and has held U.S. citizenship since becoming naturalized in 1983. Being Austrian and thus European, he was able to win the 2007 European Voice campaigner of the year award for taking action against climate change with the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 and plans to introduce an emissions trading scheme with other US states and possibly with the EU.[66]
Because of his personal wealth from his acting career, Schwarzenegger did not accept his governor's salary of $175,000 per year.[67]
Schwarzenegger's endorsement in the Republican primary of the 2008 U.S. Presidential election was highly sought; despite being good friends with candidates Rudy Giuliani and Senator John McCain, Schwarzenegger remained neutral throughout 2007 and early 2008. Giuliani dropped out of the Presidential race on January 30, 2008, largely because of a poor showing in Florida, and endorsed McCain. Later that night, Schwarzenegger was in the audience at a Republican debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in California. The following day, he endorsed McCain, joking, "It's Rudy's fault!" (in reference to his friendships with both candidates and that he could not make up his mind). Schwarzenegger's endorsement was thought to be a boost for Senator McCain's campaign; both spoke about their concerns for the environment and economy.[68]
In its April 2010 report, Progressive ethics watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington named Schwarzenegger one of 11 "worst governors" in the United States because of various ethics issues throughout Schwarzenegger's term as governor.[69][70]
Governor Schwarzenegger played a significant role in opposing Proposition 66, a proposed amendment of the Californian Three Strikes Law, in November 2004. This amendment would have required the third felony to be either violent or serious to mandate a 25-years-to-life sentence. In the last week before the ballot, Schwarzenegger launched an intensive campaign[71] against Proposition 66.[72] He stated that "it would release 26,000 dangerous criminals and rapists".[73]
Although he began his tenure as governor with record high approval ratings (as high as 89% in December 2003), he left office with a record low 23%,[74] only one percent higher than that of Gray Davis's when he was recalled in October 2003.
During his initial campaign for governor, allegations of sexual and personal misconduct were raised against Schwarzenegger, dubbed "Gropegate".[75] Within the last five days before the election, news reports appeared in the Los Angeles Times recounting allegations of sexual misconduct from several individual women, six of whom eventually came forward with their personal stories.[76]
Three of the women claimed he had grabbed their breasts, a fourth said he placed his hand under her skirt on her buttock. A fifth woman claimed Schwarzenegger tried to take off her bathing suit in a hotel elevator, and the last said he pulled her onto his lap and asked her about a sex act.[75]
Schwarzenegger admitted that he has "behaved badly sometimes" and apologized, but also stated that "a lot of [what] you see in the stories is not true". This came after an interview in adult magazine Oui from 1977 surfaced, in which Schwarzenegger discussed attending sexual orgies and using substances such as marijuana.[77] Schwarzenegger is shown smoking a marijuana joint after winning Mr. Olympia in the 1975 documentary film Pumping Iron. In an interview with GQ magazine in October 2007, Schwarzenegger said, "[Marijuana] is not a drug. It's a leaf. My drug was pumping iron, trust me."[78] His spokesperson later said the comment was meant to be a joke.[78]
British television personality Anna Richardson settled a libel lawsuit in August 2006 against Schwarzenegger, his top aide, Sean Walsh, and his publicist, Sheryl Main.[79] A joint statement read: "The parties are content to put this matter behind them and are pleased that this legal dispute has now been settled."[79] Richardson claimed they tried to tarnish her reputation by dismissing her allegations that Schwarzenegger touched her breast during a press event for The 6th Day in London.[80] She claimed Walsh and Main libeled her in a Los Angeles Times article when they contended she encouraged his behavior.[79]
In 2005, Peter Pilz, from the Austrian Green Party, demanded that parliament revoke Schwarzenegger's Austrian citizenship due to his decision not to prevent the executions of Donald Beardslee and Stanley Williams, causing damage of reputation to Austria, where the death penalty is abolished since 1968. This demand was based on Article 33 of the Austrian Citizenship Act that states: A citizen, who is in the public service of a foreign country, shall be deprived of his citizenship, if he heavily damages the reputation or the interests of the Austrian Republic.[65] Pilz claimed that Schwarzenegger's actions in support of the death penalty (prohibited in Austria under Protocol 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights) had indeed done damage to Austria's reputation. Schwarzenegger explained his actions by referring to the fact that his only duty as Governor of California was to prevent an error in the judicial system.
On September 27, 2006 Schwarzenegger signed a bill creating the nation's first cap on greenhouse gas emissions. The law set new regulations on the amount of emissions utilities, refineries and manufacturing plants are allowed to release into the atmosphere. Schwarzenegger also signed a second global warming bill that prohibits large utilities and corporations in California from making long-term contracts with suppliers who do not meet the state's greenhouse gas emission standards. The two bills are part of a plan to reduce California's emissions by 25 percent to 1990s levels by 2020. In 2005, Schwarzenegger issued an executive order calling to reduce greenhouse gases to 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050.[81]
Schwarzenegger signed another executive order on October 17, 2006 allowing California to work with the Northeast's Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative. They plan to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by issuing a limited amount of carbon credits to each power plant in participating states. Any power plants that exceed emissions for the amount of carbon credits will have to purchase more credits to cover the difference. The plan took effect in 2009.[82] In addition to using his political power to fight global warming, the governor has taken steps at his home to reduce his personal carbon footprint. Schwarzenegger has adapted one of his Hummers to run on hydrogen and another to run on biofuels. He has also installed solar panels to heat his home.[83]
In respect of his contribution to the direction of the US motor industry, Schwarzenegger was invited to open the 2009 SAE World Congress in Detroit, on April 20, 2009.[84]
In 2011, Arnold Schwarzenegger founded the R20 Regions of Climate Action to develop a sustainable, low carbon economy.[85]
In October 2013, the New York Post reported that Schwarzenegger was exploring a future run for President. The former California governor would face a constitutional hurdle; Article II, Section I, Clause V nominally prevents individuals who are not natural-born citizens of the United States from assuming the office. He has reportedly been lobbying legislators about a possible constitutional change, or filing a legal challenge to the provision. Columbia University law professor Michael Dorf observed that Arnold's possible lawsuit could ultimately win him the right to run for the office, noting, "The law is very clear, but it’s not 100 percent clear that the courts would enforce that law rather than leave it to the political process."[86]
Schwarzenegger has had a highly successful business career.[9][23] Following his move to the United States, Schwarzenegger became a "prolific goal setter" and would write his objectives at the start of the year on index cards, like starting a mail order business or buying a new car – and succeed in doing so.[18] By the age of 30, Schwarzenegger was a millionaire, well before his career in Hollywood. His financial independence came from his success as a budding entrepreneur with a series of successful business ventures and investments.
In 1968, Schwarzenegger and fellow bodybuilder Franco Columbu started a bricklaying business. The business flourished thanks to the pair's marketing savvy and an increased demand following the 1971 San Fernando earthquake.[87][88] Schwarzenegger and Columbu used profits from their bricklaying venture to start a mail order business, selling bodybuilding and fitness-related equipment and instructional tapes.[4][87]
Schwarzenegger rolled profits from the mail order business and his bodybuilding competition winnings into his first real estate investment venture: an apartment building he purchased for $10,000. He would later go on to invest in a number of real estate holding companies.[89][90]
In 1992, Schwarzenegger and his wife opened a restaurant in Santa Monica called Schatzi On Main. Schatzi literally means "little treasure," colloquial for "honey" or "darling" in German. In 1998, he sold his restaurant.[91]
Schwarzenegger was a founding celebrity investor in the Planet Hollywood chain of international theme restaurants (modeled after the Hard Rock Cafe) along with Bruce Willis, Sylvester Stallone and Demi Moore. Schwarzenegger severed his financial ties with the business in early 2000.[92][93] Schwarzenegger said the company had not had the success he had hoped for, claiming he wanted to focus his attention on "new US global business ventures" and his movie career.[92]
He also invested in a shopping mall in Columbus, Ohio. He has talked about some of those who have helped him over the years in business: "I couldn't have learned about business without a parade of teachers guiding me... from Milton Friedman to Donald Trump... and now, Les Wexner and Warren Buffett. I even learned a thing or two from Planet Hollywood, such as when to get out! And I did!"[16] He has significant ownership in Dimensional Fund Advisors, an investment firm.[94] Schwarzenegger is also the owner of Arnold's Sports Festival, which he started in 1989 and is held annually in Columbus, Ohio. It is a festival that hosts thousands of international health and fitness professionals which has also expanded into a three-day expo. He also owns a movie production company called Oak Productions, Inc. and Fitness Publications, a joint publishing venture with Simon & Schuster.[95]
In 1969, Schwarzenegger met Barbara Outland (later Barbara Outland Baker), an English teacher he lived with until 1974.[96] Schwarzenegger talked about Barbara in his memoir in 1977: "Basically it came down to this: she was a well-balanced woman who wanted an ordinary, solid life, and I was not a well-balanced man, and hated the very idea of ordinary life."[96] Baker has described Schwarzenegger as "[a] joyful personality, totally charismatic, adventurous, and athletic" but claims towards the end of the relationship he became "insufferable – classically conceited – the world revolved around him".[97] Baker published her memoir in 2006, entitled Arnold and Me: In the Shadow of the Austrian Oak.[98] Although Baker, at times, painted an unflattering portrait of her former lover, Schwarzenegger actually contributed to the tell-all book with a foreword, and also met with Baker for three hours.[98] Baker claims, for example, that she only learned of his being unfaithful after they split, and talks of a turbulent and passionate love life.[98] Schwarzenegger has made it clear that their respective recollection of events can differ.[98] The couple first met six to eight months after his arrival in the U.S—their first date was watching the first Apollo Moon landing on television.[18] They shared an apartment in Santa Monica for three and a half years, and having little money, would visit the beach all day, or have barbecues in the back yard.[18] Although Baker claims that when she first met him, he had "little understanding of polite society" and she found him a turn-off, she says, "He's as much a self-made man as it's possible to be—he never got encouragement from his parents, his family, his brother. He just had this huge determination to prove himself, and that was very attractive ... I'll go to my grave knowing Arnold loved me."[18]
Schwarzenegger met his next paramour, Sue Moray, a Beverly Hills hairdresser's assistant, on Venice Beach in July 1977. According to Moray, the couple led an open relationship: "We were faithful when we were both in LA ... but when he was out of town, we were free to do whatever we wanted."[10] Schwarzenegger met Maria Shriver at the Robert F. Kennedy Tennis Tournament in August 1977, and went on to have a relationship with both women until August 1978, when Moray (who knew of his relationship with Shriver) issued an ultimatum.[10]
On April 26, 1986, Schwarzenegger married television journalist Maria Shriver, niece of President John F. Kennedy, in Hyannis, Massachusetts. The Rev. John Baptist Riordan performed the ceremony at St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church.[99] They have four children: Katherine Eunice Schwarzenegger (born December 13, 1989 in Los Angeles); Christina Maria Aurelia Schwarzenegger (born July 23, 1991 in Los Angeles);[100] Patrick Arnold Shriver Schwarzenegger (born September 18, 1993 in Los Angeles);[101] and Christopher Sargent Shriver Schwarzenegger (born September 27, 1997 in Los Angeles).[102] Schwarzenegger lives in a 11,000-square-foot (1,000 m2) home in Brentwood.[103][104] The divorcing couple currently own vacation homes in Sun Valley, Idaho and Hyannis Port, Massachusetts.[105] They attended St. Monica's Catholic Church.[106]
On May 9, 2011, Shriver and Schwarzenegger terminated their relationship after 25 years of marriage, with Shriver moving out of the couple's Brentwood mansion.[107][108][109] On May 16, 2011, the Los Angeles Times revealed that Schwarzenegger had fathered a son more than fourteen years earlier with an employee in their household, Mildred Patricia 'Patty' Baena.[110][111][112] "After leaving the governor's office I told my wife about this event, which occurred over a decade ago," Schwarzenegger said in a statement issued to The Times. In the statement, Schwarzenegger did not mention that he had confessed to his wife only after Shriver had confronted him with the information, which she had done after confirming with the housekeeper what she had suspected about the child.[113]
Fifty-year-old Baena, of Guatemalan origin, was employed by the family for 20 years and retired in January 2011.[114] The pregnant Baena was working in the home while Shriver was pregnant with the youngest of the couple’s four children.[115] Baena's son with Schwarzenegger, Joseph,[116] was born on October 2, 1997;[117] Shriver gave birth to Christopher on September 27, 1997.[118] Schwarzenegger says it took seven or eight years before he found out that he had fathered a child with his housekeeper. It wasn't until the boy "started looking like me, that's when I kind of got it. I put things together," the action star and former California governor, told 60 Minutes.[119] Schwarzenegger has taken financial responsibility for the child "from the start and continued to provide support."[120] KNX 1070 radio reported that in 2010 he bought a new four-bedroom house, with a pool, for Baena and their son in Bakersfield, about 112 miles (180 km) north of Los Angeles.[121] Baena separated from her husband, Rogelio, in 1997, a few months after Joseph's birth, and filed for divorce in 2008.[122] Baena's ex-husband says that the child's birth certificate was falsified and that he plans to sue Schwarzenegger for engaging in conspiracy to falsify a public document, a serious crime in California.[123]
Schwarzenegger has consulted an attorney, Bob Kaufman. Kaufman has earlier handled divorce cases for celebrities such as Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon.[124][125] Schwarzenegger will keep the Brentwood home as part of their divorce settlement and Shriver has purchased a new home nearby so that the children may travel easily between their parents' homes. They will share custody of the two minor children.[126] Schwarzenegger came under fire after the initial petition did not include spousal support and a reimbursement of attorney's fees.[53] However, he claims this was not intentional and that he signed the initial documents without having properly read them.[53] Schwarzenegger has filed amended divorce papers remedying this.[53][127]
After the scandal, actress Brigitte Nielsen came forward and stated that she too had an affair with Schwarzenegger while he was in a relationship with Shriver,[128] saying, "Maybe I wouldn't have got into it if he said 'I'm going to marry Maria' and this is dead serious, but he didn't, and our affair carried on."[128] When asked in 2014 "Of all the things you are famous for ... which are you least proud of?", Schwarzengger replied "I'm least proud of the mistakes I made that caused my family pain and split us up".[129]
Schwarzenegger was born with a bicuspid aortic valve, an aortic valve with only two leaflets (a normal aortic valve has three leaflets).[130][131] Schwarzenegger opted in 1997 for a replacement heart valve made of his own transplanted tissue; medical experts predicted he would require heart valve replacement surgery in the following two to eight years as his valve would progressively degrade. Schwarzenegger apparently opted against a mechanical valve, the only permanent solution available at the time of his surgery, because it would have sharply limited his physical activity and capacity to exercise.[132]
On December 9, 2001, he broke six ribs and was hospitalized for four days after a motorcycle crash in Los Angeles.[133]
Schwarzenegger saved a drowning man's life in 2004 while on vacation in Hawaii by swimming out and bringing him back to shore.[134]
On January 8, 2006, while Schwarzenegger was riding his Harley Davidson motorcycle in Los Angeles, with his son Patrick in the sidecar, another driver backed into the street he was riding on, causing him and his son to collide with the car at a low speed. While his son and the other driver were unharmed, the governor sustained a minor injury to his lip, requiring 15 stitches. "No citations were issued", said Officer Jason Lee, a Los Angeles Police Department spokesman.[135] Schwarzenegger did not obtain his motorcycle license until July 3, 2006.[136]
Schwarzenegger tripped over his ski pole and broke his right femur while skiing in Sun Valley, Idaho, with his family on December 23, 2006.[137] On December 26, 2006, he underwent a 90-minute operation in which cables and screws were used to wire the broken bone back together. He was released from the St. John's Health Center on December 30, 2006.[138]
Schwarzenegger's private jet made an emergency landing at Van Nuys Airport on June 19, 2009, after the pilot reported smoke coming from the cockpit, according to a statement released by the governor's press secretary. No one was harmed in the incident.[139]
Schwarzenegger's official height of 6'2" (1.88 m) has been brought into question by several articles. In his bodybuilding days in the late 1960s, he was measured to be 6'1.5" (1.87 m), a height confirmed by his fellow bodybuilders.[140][141] However, in 1988 both the Daily Mail and Time Out magazine mentioned that Schwarzenegger appeared noticeably shorter.[142] Prior to running for Governor, Schwarzenegger's height was once again questioned in an article by the Chicago Reader.[143] As Governor, Schwarzenegger engaged in a light-hearted exchange with Assemblyman Herb Wesson over their heights. At one point, Wesson made an unsuccessful attempt to, in his own words, "settle this once and for all and find out how tall he is" by using a tailor's tape measure on the Governor.[144] Schwarzenegger retaliated by placing a pillow stitched with the words "Need a lift?" on the five-foot-five inch (165 cm) Wesson's chair before a negotiating session in his office.[145] Bob Mulholland also claimed Schwarzenegger was 5'10" (1.78 m) and that he wore risers in his boots.[146] The debate on Schwarzenegger's height has spawned a website solely dedicated to the issue,[147] and his page remains one of the most active on CelebHeights.com, a website which discusses the heights of celebrities.[140] Men's Health magazine has estimated his height at 5'10".[27]
Schwarzenegger's autobiography, Total Recall, was released in October 2012. He devotes one chapter called "The Secret" to his extramarital affair. The majority of his book is about his successes in the three major chapters in his life: bodybuilder, actor, and Governor of California.[148]
Schwarzenegger's net worth had been conservatively estimated at $100–$200 million.[149] After separating from his wife, Maria Shriver, in 2011, it has been estimated that his net worth has been approximately $400 million, and even as high as $800 million, based on tax returns he filed in 2006.[150][151] Over the years as an investor, he invested his bodybuilding and movie earnings in an array of stocks, bonds, privately controlled companies, and real estate holdings worldwide, so a more accurate estimation of his net worth is difficult to calculate, particularly in light of declining real estate values owing to economic recessions in the United States and Europe. In June 1997, Schwarzenegger spent $38 million of his own money on a private Gulfstream jet.[152] Schwarzenegger once said of his fortune, "Money doesn't make you happy. I now have $50 million, but I was just as happy when I had $48 million."[9] He has also stated, "I've made many millions as a businessman many times over."[16]
He bought the first Hummer manufactured for civilian use in 1992, a model so large, 6,300 lb (2,900 kg) and 7 feet (2.1 m) wide, that it is classified as a large truck and U.S. fuel economy regulations do not apply to it. During the gubernatorial recall campaign he announced that he would convert one of his Hummers to burn hydrogen. The conversion was reported to have cost about US$21,000. After the election, he signed an executive order to jump-start the building of hydrogen refueling plants called the California Hydrogen Highway Network, and gained a U.S. Department of Energy grant to help pay for its projected US$91,000,000 cost.[153] California took delivery of the first H2H (Hydrogen Hummer) in October 2004.[154]
Arnold Schwarzenegger has been involved with the Special Olympics for many years after they were founded by his ex-mother-in-law, Eunice Kennedy Shriver.[155] In 2007, Schwarzenegger was the official spokesperson for the Special Olympics which were held in Shanghai, China.[156] Schwarzenegger believes that quality school opportunities should be made available to children who might not normally be able to access them.[157] In 1995, he founded the Inner City Games Foundation (ICG) which provides cultural, educational and community enrichment programming to youth.[157] ICG is active in 15 cities around the country and serves over 250,000 children in over 400 schools countrywide.[157] He has also been involved with After-School All-Stars, and founded the Los Angeles branch in 2002.[158] ASAS is an after school program provider, educating youth about health, fitness and nutrition.
On February 12, 2010, Schwarzenegger took part in the Vancouver Olympic Torch relay. He handed off the flame to the next runner, Sebastian Coe.[159]
Schwarzenegger is a lifelong supporter and "friend of Israel", and has participated in L.A.'s Pro-Israel rally[160] among other similar events.[161]
Schwarzenegger's home town of Graz had its soccer stadium named The Arnold Schwarzenegger Stadium in his honor. It is the home of both Grazer AK and Sturm Graz. After the Stanley Williams execution and street protests in Schwarzenegger's hometown, several local politicians began a campaign to remove his name from the stadium. In response, Schwarzenegger said "to spare the responsible politicians of the city of Graz further concern, I withdraw from them as of this day the right to use my name in association with the Liebenau Stadium", and set a deadline of two days to remove his name. Graz officials removed Schwarzenegger's name from the stadium in December 2005.[162] It is now officially titled UPC-Arena.
The Sun Valley Resort has a short ski trail called Arnold's Run, named after Schwarzenegger in 2001.[163] The trail is categorized as a black diamond, or most difficult, for its terrain.
People in Thal, Austria, celebrated Schwarzenegger's 60th birthday by throwing a party. Officials proclaimed "A Day for Arnold" on July 30, 2007. The mayor sent Schwarzenegger the enameled sign, Thal 145, the number of the house where Schwarzenegger was born, declaring "This belongs to him. No one here will ever be assigned that number again".[164]
Schwarzenegger, Arnold; with Douglas Kent Hall (1977). Arnold: The Education of a Bodybuilder. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-0-671-22879-8.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help)
Schwarzenegger, Arnold; with Douglas Kent Hall (1979). Arnold's Bodyshaping for Women. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-0-671-24301-2.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help)
Schwarzenegger, Arnold; with Bill Dobbins (1981). Arnold's Bodybuilding for Men. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-0-671-25613-5.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help)
Schwarzenegger, Arnold; with Bill Dobbins (1998). The New Encyclopedia of Modern Bodybuilding (rev. ed.). New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-0-684-84374-2.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help)
Andrews, Nigel (2003). True Myths: The Life and Times of Arnold Schwarzenegger: From Pumping Iron to Governor of California (rev. ed.). New York: Bloomsbury. ISBN 978-1-58234-465-2. 
Blitz, Michael; and Louise Krasniewicz (2004). Why Arnold Matters: The Rise of a Cultural Icon. New York: Basic Books. ISBN 978-0-465-03752-0.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help)
Borowitz, Andy (2004). Governor Arnold: A Photodiary of His First 100 Days in Office. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-0-7432-6266-8. 
Sexton, Colleen A. (2005). Arnold Schwarzenegger. Minneapolis: Lerner Publications. ISBN 978-0-8225-1634-7. 
Schwarzenegger, Arnold (2012). Total Recall. United States: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-1-84983-971-6. 
Complete text and audio of Governor Schwarzenegger's Speech to the United Nations on Global Climate Change AmericanRhetoric.com, September 24, 2007
Complete text, audio, video of Governor Schwarzenegger's 2004 Republican National Convention Address AmericanRhetoric.com
Schwarzenegger competing in Mr. Universe (1969) courtesy of British Pathe at YouTube (requires Adobe Flash)
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Arnold_Schwarzenegger&oldid=610974888"					
Categories: Arnold Schwarzenegger1947 birthsLiving people20th-century American male actors20th-century American businesspeople20th-century American writers20th-century Austrian male actors20th-century Austrian writers21st-century American male actors21st-century American businesspeople21st-century American writersAmerican actor–politiciansAmerican athlete–politiciansAmerican autobiographersAmerican bodybuildersAmerican education writersAmerican exercise and fitness writersAmerican health activistsAmerican instructional writersAmerican investorsAmerican male film actorsAmerican male video game actorsAmerican philanthropistsAmerican publishers (people)American real estate businesspeopleAmerican restaurateursAmerican Roman CatholicsAustrian autobiographersAustrian bodybuildersAustrian emigrants to the United StatesAustrian film directorsAustrian film producersAustrian health activistsAustrian investorsAustrian male film actorsAustrian male video game actorsAustrian philanthropistsAustrian publishers (people)Austrian real estate businesspeopleAustrian restaurateursAustrian Roman CatholicsAustrian soldiersBusinesspeople from Los Angeles, CaliforniaCalifornia RepublicansFilm directors from CaliforniaFilm producers from CaliforniaGovernors of CaliforniaKennedy familyLaureus World Sports Awards winnersMale actors from Los Angeles, CaliforniaNew Star of the Year (Actor) Golden Globe winnersPeople from GrazRepublican Party state governors of the United StatesShriver familySportspeople from Los Angeles, CaliforniaUniversity of California regentsUniversity of Wisconsin–Superior alumniWriters from Los Angeles, CaliforniaHidden categories: Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesUse mdy dates from March 2012Biography with signatureArticles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2013Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersArticles with DMOZ linksWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
This world-famous athlete and actor was born in Thal, Austria in 1947, and by the age of 20 was dominating the sport of competitive bodybuilding, becoming the youngest person ever to win the Mr. Universe title. 
By generating a new international audience for bodybuilding, Schwarzenegger turned himself into a sports icon. With his sights set on Hollywood, he emigrated to America in 1968 and went on to win five Mr. Universe titles and seven Mr. Olympia titles before retiring to dedicate himself to acting. Later, he would go on to earn a college degree from the University of Wisconsin and proudly became a U.S. citizen. 
Schwarzenegger, who worked under the pseudonym Arnold Strong in his first feature, Hercules in New York, quickly made a name for himself in Hollywood. In 1977, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association recognized him with a Golden Globe for New Male Star of the Year for his role in Stay Hungry opposite Sally Field. His big break came in 1982 when the sword and sorcery epic, Conan the Barbarian, hit box office gold.
In 1984, Schwarzenegger blew up the screen and catapulted himself into cinema history as the title character in Jim Cameron’s sci-fi thriller, Terminator.
 He is the only actor to be in both categories of the American Film Institute’s “Hundred Years of Heroes and Villains” for roles he played in the Terminator series. Other memorable characters include roles in Commando, Predator, Twins, Total Recall, True Lies, Eraser, Collateral Damage, Terminator 3: Rise Of The Machines and a cameo in Sylvester Stallone’s homage to action films, The Expendables and an expanded role in The Expendables 2, among others. To date, his films have grossed over $3 billion worldwide.							
He gratefully served the people of California as the state’s 38th governor from 2003 to 2010. First elected in California’s historic recall election, Governor Schwarzenegger ushered in an era of innovative leadership and extraordinary public service. 
But it is Schwarzenegger’s commitment to giving something back to his state and to his country through public service that gives him the most satisfaction; donating his time, energy, and personal finances to serving others all over the world. 
Schwarzenegger acts as Chairman of the After School All-Stars, a nationwide after-school program, and serves as coach and international torch-bearer for Special Olympics. He also served as Chairman of the President’s Council on Physical Fitness and Sports under George H. W. Bush and as Chair of the California Governor's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports under Governor Pete Wilson.Most notably, Schwarzenegger made California a world leader on renewable energy and combating climate change with the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, set a revolutionary political reform agenda, and became the first governor in decades to invest in rebuilding California’s critical infrastructure with his Strategic Growth Plan. He also dedicated himself to promoting physical education and after-school programs, and continues to commit his time, energy and personal finances to charitable organizations around the world.
Schwarzenegger is currently back in Hollywood making films and working on his autobiography, Total Recall: My Unbelievably True Life Story, due out this fall.>						
Excited to see one of my favorite issues getting some well-deserved attention over @reddit. Join the discussion: reddit.com/r/politics/com…
Excited to see the promise of our first statewide open primary. I hope we continue to see less extremism: mercurynews.com/california/ci_…
=======================================================
From bodybuilder to blockbuster action star to comedy king to politician, we look at the remarkable life of a young Austrian boy who has courageously followed his every dream.
Arnold Schwarzenegger was born in July 1947. He was raised in a strict catholic household by his parents, who instilled in him a strong sense of ambition.From a young age Arnie wanted to be a body builder and started to train and lift weights at 15. His ambition was to become the greatest bodybuilder of all time.He was even known to break into the gym and train until he would collapse from total exhaustion. His dream was finally realised when, at the age of 18, he went AWOL from the Austrian army to take part in the bodybuilding competition which was to earn him the title Mr Europa Junior.This little move also earned him a short stint in prison. Two years, and much muscle pumping later, Arnie became the youngest ever Mr Universe.Arnie studied marketing at the University of Munich for two years before leaving for America, at the invitation of muscle entrepreneur, Joe Weider, to study Business and Economics.Arnie's body building success continued as he picked up the title of Mr Olympia seven times and Mr Universe five times.His first attempts at a movie career were under the guise of Arnold Black, starring in low-budget movies such as 'Hercules in New York' in 1969.His first big break came in the comedy 'Stay Hungry' in 1976 for which he won a Golden Globe for Best Acting Debut in a Motion Picture, leading to further successes in cult-films such as the 'Conan' series and the 'Terminator' series.In 1982, he played a role ideal for him - a warrior in 'Conan The Barbarian' – which became a smash hit all over the globe. This was followed by the slightly less successful 'Conan The Destroyer' in 1984.'Conan' kick-started his career but his next role catapulted him into stardom. He played the villain in 'Terminator' in 1984, which became a worldwide success and led to Arnie's catchphrase 'I'll be back'.He then appeared in 'Commando' (1985), 'Raw Deal' (1986), 'Predator' (1987), 'The Running Man' (1987) and 'Red Heat' (1988), which were all box office smashes. Arnie then tried his hand at comedy starring in the 1988 film 'Twins' alongside Danny DeVito.In 1990, he cemented his acting career with the successful 'Total Recall' and 'Kindergarten Cop', which was another light-hearted role. He then returned to the Terminator, starring in the sequel 'Terminator 2: Judgement Day', which had a larger budget than the previous film, in 1991. This was arguably the highlight of his career.His 1993 film 'Last Action Hero' ended up being a flop in comparison but his 'I'll be back' phrase came true in 1994 when he starred in the surprise hit of the year 'True Lies'.Arnie then focused on family-friendly entertainment in the form of 'Junior' (1994) and 'Jingle All The Way' (1996) before playing darker roles in 'Eraser' (1996), 'Batman & Robin' (1997) and 'End of Days' (1999).This was followed by 'Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines' (2003), which was the weakest in the franchise, 'Welcome To The Jungle' (2003), 'Around The World in 80 Days' (2004) and 'The Kid and I' in 2005.Arnie has whole-heartedly embraced the American way, loving the country from the moment he arrived, believing that the US has a much more positive outlook on life and aspirations than his home country. So much so that Arnie became a naturalised citizen in 1983.Arnie has previously held positions within the American Government as chairman of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports in 1990 and the weight lifting trainer for the Special Olympics weight training team.More recently Arnie ran in the California elections for Governor and won, becoming the 38th Governor of California in 2003, taking a break from acting. He returned to film in 2010 in an uncredited role in 'The Expendables', and appearedr in 'The Expendables 2', followed by 'The Last Stand', 'Unknown Soldier' and 'The Swan' in 2013.He married Maria Shriver in 1986 and they have four children together. They are currently undertaking divorce proceedings after the revelation that Schwarzenegger had a love child with another woman.
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesCash for College! 54 Scholarships Worth $10&#044;000 or MoreErikson's Psychosocial Stages Summary ChartHow to Control Carpenter BeesQuiz - What's Your Leadership Style? [About Psychology]College Interview Questions
 For a policeman's son born in a tiny village near Graz, Austria, Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger has done pretty well for himself. On August 6, 2003 he announced his candidacy in California's recall election on NBC's "Jay Leno Show." On the night of October 7 the Austrian-American actor made his victory speech in Los Angeles, introduced by Jay Leno. Although Gray Davis had made fun of Arnold's Austrian accent during the race, Schwarzenegger managed to turn the contest into a two-man race between him and Davis, and to prove that the political scene in California is a horse of a different color (zu Deutsch: Da pfeifft es aus einem anderen Loch).
Immediately after Schwarzenegger's announcement we were inundated with movie-title puns such as Total Recall and Governator, but in the end, Arnold proved the joke was on Gray Davis. To cast a little more light on the main figure in this amazing election, here is a brief biography with some related links on the topic of Arnold Schwarzenegger as a political figure, and even some related German vocabulary.
1947 - Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger is born on July 30 in the hamlet of Thal bei Graz, about 10 km (6 mi) from Graz, the capital of Styria (die Steiermark).
1947 - Arnold is the second son of Aurelia Jadrny Schwarzenegger and policeman Gustav Schwarzenegger (Gendarmerie-Kommandant).
1971 - Arnold's older brother Meinhard is killed in an auto accident. Meinhard's son now lives and works in Los Angeles.
1972 - Gustav Schwarzenegger dies in Weiz, Styria, where he had been transferred as a police official. Arnold does not attend his father's funeral.
1977 - Meets TV journalist Maria Shriver, a member of the Kennedy clan, at a tennis tournament; wins his 7th Mr. Olympia title
1986 - Schwarzenegger and Maria Schriver marry on August 26. They currently have four children: Katherine, Christina, Patrick, and Christopher.
1990 - Named chairman of President George Bush's Council on Physical Fitness. In following years Schwarzenegger will be active in promoting the Special Olympics and as a prominent figure in Republican politics at the state and national level.
  He may be California's first Austrian governor, but Arnold's not the state's first foreign one. Other U.S. states have also had foreign-born governors, including German-speaking ones!
Related ArticlesArnold Schwarzenegger: Austria Photo 11California Recall Jokes and Funny One-LinersArnold Schwarzenegger: Austria Photo 7Arnold Schwarzenegger: Austria Photo 12Arnold Schwarzenegger: Austria Photo 4
Thank You And You Are Welcome In GermanVerb ConjugatorVerbs 'Haben' and 'Sein'How To Write A Letter in GermanGerman Travel Phrases
German Names for Boys - JungennamenGerman Names for Girls - MaedchennamenLearn German GreetingsThe Many Ways to Say You're Thankful in GermanOnline German Course
Audio / ListeningVocabularyCultureLessonsGrammarReading GermanSpeaking GermanWriting GermanGerman TravelTeaching GermanTranslating GermanBlog
German LanguageAbout.comEducationGerman LanguageAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
=======================================================
ul.multicol2,ul.multicol3 {float:left;width:100%;margin:0;padding:0;list-style:none;text-align:center}
Arnold SchwarzeneggerBodybuilder / Actor / State GovernorBorn: 30 July 1947Birthplace: Thal, AustriaBest known as: The star of the Terminator movies who became governor of CaliforniaOnce the world's leading bodybuilder, Arnold Schwarzenegger went on to become one of Hollywood's biggest stars and then the governor of California.  Nicknamed "The Austrian Oak," Arnold Schwarzenegger started pumping iron when he was a teenager and in 1965 won the Mr. Europe Junior title.  He went on to win five Mr. Universe titles (both amateur and professional) and was named Mr. Olympia seven times (1970-75 and 1980).  After a few small roles in the movies, he appeared in the documentary Pumping Iron (1977) and played a bodybuilder in the movie Stay Hungry (1976, with Sally Field), and his natural charisma led to more movies and recognition.  Schwarzenegger starred in the hit movie Conan The Barbarian in 1982 and was suddenly a movie star.  He had another big hit in 1984, starring in James Cameron's The Terminator.  During the 1980s he was a top box office draw, mostly appearing in action films, but also adding comedy to his repertoire.  Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991) was even more successful than the first movie, and Arnold Schwarzenegger became one of the highest paid actors in show business.  During the 1990s, Schwarzenegger continued to make big-budget thrillers and earned a reputation for being a crack businessman and a conservative Republican.  He reprised the Terminator role in 2003's Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines. In August 2003, Schwarzenegger announced on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno that he would run for governor of California in a special October recall election.  He won the recall on 7 October 2003, replacing Gray Davis as governor. He was re-elected to a new term in 2006.  Term limits prevented him from running again, and he was succeeded as governor by Jerry Brown in 2011.Extra credit: Arnold Schwarzenegger became a U.S. citizen in 1983. However, he is barred by the U.S. Constitution from running for president because he was born outside the United States... Arnold Schwarzenegger married television broadcaster and Kennedy family member Maria Shriver on 26 April 1986. They announced in May of 2011 that they had separated. They have four children: Katherine Eunice (b. 1989), Christina Maria Aurelia (b. 1991), Patrick Arnold (b. 1993) and Christopher Sargent Shriver (b. 1997).  Maria Shriver's mother, Eunice Kennedy Shriver, founded the Special Olympics, and Schwarzenegger has been a supporter of that group... One of his movies, The Last Action Hero (1993), is often mentioned as a famous Hollywood flop... Rainier Wolfcastle, a musclebound actor on the cartoon series The Simpsons, is loosely based on Arnold Schwarzenegger. The fairy character of Jorgen Von Strangle in the cartoon show The Fairly OddParents is also modeled loosely on Schwarzenegger... Another bodybuilder-turned-actor is Lou Ferrigno.Copyright © 1998-2014			by Who2?, LLC. All rights reserved.More on Arnold Schwarzenegger from Infoplease:
Arnold Schwarzenegger, - Arnold Schwarzenegger, Austrian-born movie star and body builder, was elected governor of ...Arnold Schwarzenegger - Arnold Schwarzenegger Governor of California, actor, bodybuilder Born: 7/30/1947 Birthplace: Graz, ...Arnold Schwarzenegger - Biography of Arnold Schwarzenegger, The star of the Terminator movies who became governor of CaliforniaCollateral Damage - Collateral Damage Director: Andrew Davis Writers: Andrew Davis and Peter Griffiths Warner Bros.; R; ...End of Days - End of Days Director: Peter Hyams Writer: Andrew Marlowe Universal Pictures; R; 115 minutes ...
Warning: fsockopen(): php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
Warning: fsockopen(): unable to connect to :3128 (php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known) in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
=======================================================
      Sign in with your Google Account (YouTube, Google+, Gmail, Orkut, Picasa, or Chrome) to like DaPumpRoom's video.
      Sign in with your Google Account (YouTube, Google+, Gmail, Orkut, Picasa, or Chrome) to dislike DaPumpRoom's video.
      Sign in with your Google Account (YouTube, Google+, Gmail, Orkut, Picasa, or Chrome) to add DaPumpRoom's video to your playlist.
