=======================================================
Aristotle, Plato, Heraclitus, Neoplatonism, Descartes, Goethe, Spinoza, Leibniz, Rousseau, Böhme, Kant, Fichte, Hölderlin, Schelling, Adam Smith
Adorno, Barth, Bauer, Bosanquet, Bradley, Brandom, Butler,[1] Carové, Croce, Danto, Derrida, Dilthey, Doull, Engels, Erdmann, Fackenheim, Feuerbach, Fischer, Fukuyama, Gans, Gentile, Hinrichs, Heine, Kaufmann, Kierkegaard, Kojève, Küng, Lukács, Marcuse, Marx, Michelet, Nietzsche, Oppenheim, Pippin, Rose, Rosenkranz, Russon, Sartre, Singer, Strauss, Taylor, Žižek
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (German: [ˈɡeɔɐ̯k ˈvɪlhɛlm ˈfʁiːdʁɪç ˈheːɡəl]; August 27, 1770 – November 14, 1831) was a German philosopher, and a major figure in German Idealism. His historicist and idealist account of reality revolutionized European philosophy and was an important precursor to Continental philosophy and Marxism.
Hegel developed a comprehensive philosophical framework, or "system", of absolute idealism to account in an integrated and developmental way for the relation of mind and nature, the subject and object of knowledge, psychology, the state, history, art, religion, and philosophy. In particular, he developed the concept that mind or spirit manifested itself in a set of contradictions and oppositions that it ultimately integrated and united, without eliminating either pole or reducing one to the other. Examples of such contradictions include those between nature and freedom, and between immanence and transcendence.
Hegel influenced writers of widely varying positions, including both his admirers and his detractors.[2] Karl Barth compared Hegel to a "Protestant Aquinas".[3] Maurice Merleau-Ponty wrote, "All the great philosophical ideas of the past century—the philosophies of Marx and Nietzsche, phenomenology, German existentialism, and psychoanalysis—had their beginnings in Hegel...".[4] Michel Foucault has contended that contemporary philosophers may be "doomed to find Hegel waiting patiently at the end of whatever road we travel".[5] Hegel's influential conceptions are those of speculative logic or "dialectic", "absolute idealism". They include "Geist" (spirit), negativity, sublation (Aufhebung in German), the "Master/Slave" dialectic, "ethical life" and the importance of history.
Hegel was born on August 27, 1770 in Stuttgart, in the Duchy of Württemberg in southwestern Germany. Christened Georg Wilhelm Friedrich, he was known as Wilhelm to his close family. His father, Georg Ludwig, was Rentkammersekretär (secretary to the revenue office) at the court of Karl Eugen, Duke of Württemberg.[6] Hegel's mother, Maria Magdalena Louisa (née Fromm), was the daughter of a lawyer at the High Court of Justice at the Württemberg court. She died of a "bilious fever" (Gallenfieber) when Hegel was thirteen. Hegel and his father also caught the disease but narrowly survived.[7] Hegel had a sister, Christiane Luise (1773–1832), and a brother, Georg Ludwig (1776–1812), who was to perish as an officer in Napoleon's Russian campaign of 1812.[8]
At age of three Hegel went to the "German School". When he entered the "Latin School" two years later, he already knew the first declension, having been taught it by his mother.
In 1776 Hegel entered Stuttgart's Gymnasium Illustre. During his adolescence Hegel read voraciously, copying lengthy extracts in his diary. Authors he read include the poet Klopstock and writers associated with the Enlightenment, such as Christian Garve and Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. Hegel's studies at the Gymnasium were concluded with his Abiturrede ("graduation speech") entitled "The abortive state of art and scholarship in Turkey."[9]
At the age of eighteen Hegel entered the Tübinger Stift (a Protestant seminary attached to the University of Tübingen), where two fellow students were to become vital to his development - poet Friedrich Hölderlin, and philosopher-to-be Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling. Sharing a dislike for what they regarded as the restrictive environment of the Seminary, the three became close friends and mutually influenced each other's ideas. They watched the unfolding of the French Revolution with shared enthusiasm. Schelling and Hölderlin immersed themselves in theoretical debates on Kantian philosophy, from which Hegel remained aloof. Hegel at this time envisaged his future as that of a Popularphilosoph, i.e., a "man of letters" who serves to make the abstruse ideas of philosophers accessible to a wider public; his own felt need to engage critically with the central ideas of Kantianism did not come until 1800.
Having received his theological certificate (Konsistorialexamen) from the Tübingen Seminary, Hegel became Hofmeister (house tutor) to an aristocratic family in Bern (1793–96). During this period he composed the text which has become known as the "Life of Jesus" and a book-length manuscript titled "The Positivity of the Christian Religion". His relations with his employers becoming strained, Hegel accepted an offer mediated by Hölderlin to take up a similar position with a wine merchant's family in Frankfurt, where he moved in 1797. Here Hölderlin exerted an important influence on Hegel's thought.[10] While in Frankfurt Hegel composed the essay "Fragments on Religion and Love".[11] In 1799 he wrote another essay entitled "The Spirit of Christianity and Its Fate",[12] unpublished during his lifetime.
Also in 1797, the unpublished and unsigned manuscript of "The Oldest Systematic Program of German Idealism" was written. It was written in Hegel's hand but thought to have been authored by Hegel, Schelling, Hölderlin, or by all three.
In 1801 Hegel came to Jena with the encouragement of his old friend Schelling, who held the position of Extraordinary Professor at the University there. Hegel secured a position at the University as a Privatdozent (unsalaried lecturer) after submitting a Habilitationsschrift (dissertation) on the orbits of the planets. Later in the year Hegel's first book, The Difference Between Fichte's and Schelling's Systems of Philosophy, was completed. He lectured on "Logic and Metaphysics" and gave joint lectures with Schelling on an "Introduction to the Idea and Limits of True Philosophy" and held a "Philosophical Disputorium". In 1802 Schelling and Hegel founded a journal, the Kritische Journal der Philosophie ("Critical Journal of Philosophy"), to which they each contributed pieces until the collaboration was ended when Schelling left for Würzburg in 1803.
In 1805 the University promoted Hegel to the position of Extraordinary Professor (unsalaried), after Hegel wrote a letter to the poet and minister of culture Johann Wolfgang von Goethe protesting at the promotion of his philosophical adversary Jakob Friedrich Fries ahead of him.[13] Hegel attempted to enlist the help of the poet and translator Johann Heinrich Voß to obtain a post at the newly renascent University of Heidelberg, but failed; to his chagrin, Fries was later in the same year made Ordinary Professor (salaried) there.[14]
His finances drying up quickly, Hegel was now under great pressure to deliver his book, the long-promised introduction to his System. Hegel was putting the finishing touches to this book, the Phenomenology of Spirit, as Napoleon engaged Prussian troops on October 14, 1806, in the Battle of Jena on a plateau outside the city. On the day before the battle, Napoleon entered the city of Jena. Hegel recounted his impressions in a letter to his friend Friedrich Immanuel Niethammer:
I saw the Emperor – this world-soul – riding out of the city on reconnaissance. It is indeed a wonderful sensation to see such an individual, who, concentrated here at a single point, astride a horse, reaches out over the world and masters it . . . this extraordinary man, whom it is impossible not to admire.[15]
Although Napoleon chose not to close down Jena as he had other universities, the city was devastated and students deserted the university in droves, making Hegel's financial prospects even worse. The following February Hegel's landlady Christiana Burkhardt (who had been abandoned by her husband) gave birth to their son Georg Ludwig Friedrich Fischer (1807–31).[16]
In March 1807, aged 37, Hegel moved to Bamberg, where Niethammer had declined and passed on to Hegel an offer to become editor of a newspaper, the Bamberger Zeitung. Hegel, unable to find more suitable employment, reluctantly accepted. Ludwig Fischer and his mother (whom Hegel may have offered to marry following the death of her husband) stayed behind in Jena.[17]
He was then, in November 1808, again through Niethammer, appointed headmaster of a Gymnasium in Nuremberg, a post he held until 1816. While in Nuremberg Hegel adapted his recently published Phenomenology of Spirit for use in the classroom. Part of his remit being to teach a class called "Introduction to Knowledge of the Universal Coherence of the Sciences", Hegel developed the idea of an encyclopedia of the philosophical sciences, falling into three parts (logic, philosophy of nature, and philosophy of spirit).[18]
Hegel married Marie Helena Susanna von Tucher (1791–1855), the eldest daughter of a Senator, in 1811. This period saw the publication of his second major work, the Science of Logic (Wissenschaft der Logik; 3 vols., 1812, 1813, 1816), and the birth of his two legitimate sons, Karl Friedrich Wilhelm (1813–1901) and Immanuel Thomas Christian (1814–1891).
Having received offers of a post from the Universities of Erlangen, Berlin, and Heidelberg, Hegel chose Heidelberg, where he moved in 1816. Soon after, in April 1817, his illegitimate son Ludwig Fischer (now ten years old) joined the Hegel household, having thus far spent his childhood in an orphanage.[19] (Ludwig's mother had died in the meantime.)[20]
Hegel published The Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences in Outline (1817) as a summary of his philosophy for students attending his lectures at Heidelberg.
In 1818 Hegel accepted the renewed offer of the chair of philosophy at the University of Berlin, which had remained vacant since Johann Gottlieb Fichte's death in 1814. Here he published his Philosophy of Right (1821). Hegel devoted himself primarily to delivering his lectures; his lecture courses on aesthetics, the philosophy of religion, the philosophy of history, and the history of philosophy were published posthumously from lecture notes taken by his students. His fame spread and his lectures attracted students from all over Germany and beyond.
Hegel was appointed Rector of the University in 1830, when he was 60. He was deeply disturbed by the riots for reform in Berlin in that year. In 1831 Frederick William III decorated him for his service to the Prussian state. In August 1831 a cholera epidemic reached Berlin and Hegel left the city, taking up lodgings in Kreuzberg. Now in a weak state of health, Hegel seldom went out. As the new semester began in October, Hegel returned to Berlin, with the (mistaken) impression that the epidemic had largely subsided. By November 14 Hegel was dead. The physicians pronounced the cause of death as cholera, but it is likely he died from a different gastrointestinal disease.[21] He is said to have uttered the last words "And he didn't understand me" before expiring.[22] In accordance with his wishes, Hegel was buried on November 16 in the Dorotheenstadt cemetery next to Fichte and Solger.
Hegel's son Ludwig Fischer had died shortly before while serving with the Dutch army in Batavia; the news of his death never reached his father.[23] Early the following year Hegel's sister Christiane committed suicide by drowning. Hegel's remaining two sons - Karl, who became a historian, and Immanuel, who followed a theological path - lived long and safeguarded their father's Nachlaß and produced editions of his works.
Hegel's thinking can be understood as a constructive development within the broad tradition that includes Plato and Immanuel Kant. To this list one could add Proclus, Meister Eckhart, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, Plotinus, Jakob Böhme, and Jean-Jacques Rousseau. What all these thinkers share, which distinguishes them from materialists like Epicurus, the Stoics, and Thomas Hobbes, and from empiricists like David Hume, is that they regard freedom or self-determination both as real and as having important ontological implications, for soul or mind or divinity. This focus on freedom is what generates Plato's notion (in the Phaedo, Republic, and Timaeus) of the soul as having a higher or fuller kind of reality than inanimate objects possess. While Aristotle criticizes Plato's "Forms", he preserves Plato's cornerstones of the ontological implications for self-determination: ethical reasoning, the soul's pinnacle in the hierarchy of nature, the order of the cosmos, and an assumption with reasoned arguments for a prime mover. Kant imports Plato's high esteem of individual sovereignty to his considerations of moral and noumenal freedom, as well as to God. All three find common ground on the unique position of humans in the scheme of things, known by the discussed categorical differences from animals and inanimate objects.
In his discussion of "Spirit" in his Encyclopedia, Hegel praises Aristotle's On the Soul as "by far the most admirable, perhaps even the sole, work of philosophical value on this topic".[24] In his Phenomenology of Spirit and his Science of Logic, Hegel's concern with Kantian topics such as freedom and morality, and with their ontological implications, is pervasive. Rather than simply rejecting Kant's dualism of freedom versus nature, Hegel aims to subsume it within "true infinity", the "Concept" (or "Notion": Begriff), "Spirit", and "ethical life" in such a way that the Kantian duality is rendered intelligible, rather than remaining a brute "given."
The reason why this subsumption takes place in a series of concepts is that Hegel's method, in his Science of Logic and his Encyclopedia, is to begin with basic concepts like Being and Nothing, and to develop these through a long sequence of elaborations, including those already mentioned. In this manner, a solution that is reached, in principle, in the account of "true infinity" in the Science of Logic's chapter on "Quality", is repeated in new guises at later stages, all the way to "Spirit" and "ethical life", in the third volume of the Encyclopedia.
In this way, Hegel intends to defend the germ of truth in Kantian dualism against reductive or eliminative programs like those of materialism and empiricism. Like Plato, with his dualism of soul versus bodily appetites, Kant pursues the mind's ability to question its felt inclinations or appetites and to come up with a standard of "duty" (or, in Plato's case, "good") which transcends bodily restrictiveness. Hegel preserves this essential Platonic and Kantian concern in the form of infinity going beyond the finite (a process that Hegel in fact relates to "freedom" and the "ought"[25]), the universal going beyond the particular (in the Concept), and Spirit going beyond Nature. And Hegel renders these dualities intelligible by (ultimately) his argument in the "Quality" chapter of the "Science of Logic." The finite has to become infinite in order to achieve reality. The idea of the absolute excludes multiplicity so the subjective and objective must achieve synthesis to become whole. This is because, as Hegel suggests by his introduction of the concept of "reality",[26] what determines itself—rather than depending on its relations to other things for its essential character—is more fully "real" (following the Latin etymology of "real": more "thing-like") than what does not. Finite things don't determine themselves, because, as "finite" things, their essential character is determined by their boundaries, over against other finite things. So, in order to become "real", they must go beyond their finitude ("finitude is only as a transcending of itself"[27]).
The result of this argument is that finite and infinite—and, by extension, particular and universal, nature and freedom—don't face one another as two independent realities, but instead the latter (in each case) is the self-transcending of the former.[28] Rather than stress the distinct singularity of each factor that complements and conflicts with others—without explanation—the relationship between finite and infinite (and particular and universal, and nature and freedom) becomes intelligible as a progressively developing and self-perfecting whole.
The obscure writings of Böhme had a strong effect on Hegel. Böhme had written that the Fall of Man was a necessary stage in the evolution of the universe. This evolution was, itself, the result of God's desire for complete self-awareness. Hegel was fascinated by the works of Kant, Rousseau, and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, and by the French Revolution. Modern philosophy, culture, and society seemed to Hegel fraught with contradictions and tensions, such as those between the subject and object of knowledge, mind and nature, self and Other, freedom and authority, knowledge and faith, the Enlightenment and Romanticism. Hegel's main philosophical project was to take these contradictions and tensions and interpret them as part of a comprehensive, evolving, rational unity that, in different contexts, he called "the absolute idea" or "absolute knowledge".
According to Hegel, the main characteristic of this unity was that it evolved through and manifested itself in contradiction and negation. Contradiction and negation have a dynamic quality that at every point in each domain of reality—consciousness, history, philosophy, art, nature, society—leads to further development until a rational unity is reached that preserves the contradictions as phases and sub-parts by lifting them up (Aufhebung) to a higher unity. This whole is mental because it is mind that can comprehend all of these phases and sub-parts as steps in its own process of comprehension. It is rational because the same, underlying, logical, developmental order underlies every domain of reality and is ultimately the order of self-conscious rational thought, although only in the later stages of development does it come to full self-consciousness. The rational, self-conscious whole is not a thing or being that lies outside of other existing things or minds. Rather, it comes to completion only in the philosophical comprehension of individual existing human minds who, through their own understanding, bring this developmental process to an understanding of itself. Hegel's thought is revolutionary to the extent that it is a philosophy of absolute negation: as long as absolute negation is at the center, systematization remains open, and makes it possible for human beings to became subjects.[29]
"Mind" and "Spirit" are the common English translations of Hegel's use of the German "Geist". Some[who?] have argued that either of these terms overly "psychologize" Hegel,[citation needed] implying a kind of disembodied, solipsistic consciousness like ghost or "soul." Geist combines the meaning of spirit—as in god, ghost or mind—with an intentional force. In Hegel's early philosophy of nature (draft manuscripts written during his time at the University of Jena), Hegel's notion of "Geist" was tightly bound to the notion of "Aether" from which Hegel also derived the concepts of space and time; however in his later works (after Jena) Hegel did not explicitly use his old notion of "Aether" any more.[30]
Central to Hegel's conception of knowledge and mind (and therefore also of reality) was the notion of identity in difference, that is that mind externalizes itself in various forms and objects that stand outside of it or opposed to it, and that, through recognizing itself in them, is "with itself" in these external manifestations, so that they are at one and the same time mind and other-than-mind. This notion of identity in difference, which is intimately bound up with his conception of contradiction and negativity, is a principal feature differentiating Hegel's thought from that of other philosophers.
Hegel made the distinction between civil society and state in his Elements of the Philosophy of Right.[31] In this work, civil society (Hegel used the term "bürgerliche Gesellschaft" though it is now referred to as Zivilgesellschaft in German to emphasize a more inclusive community) was a stage in the dialectical relationship that occurs between Hegel's perceived opposites, the macro-community of the state and the micro-community of the family.[32] Broadly speaking, the term was split, like Hegel's followers, to the political left and right. On the left, it became the foundation for Karl Marx's civil society as an economic base;[33] to the right, it became a description for all non-state aspects of society, including culture, society and politics.[34] This liberal distinction between political society and civil society was followed by Alexis de Tocqueville.[33] In fact, Hegel's distinctions as to what he meant by civil society are often unclear. For example, while it seems to be the case that he felt that a civil-society such as the German society in which he lived was an inevitable movement of the dialectic, he made way for the crushing of other types of "lesser" and not fully realized types of civil society, as these societies were not fully conscious or aware, as it were, as to the lack of progress in their societies. Thus, it was perfectly legitimate in the eyes of Hegel for a conqueror, such as Napoleon, to come along and destroy that which was not fully realized.
According to Hegel, "Heraclitus is the one who first declared the nature of the infinite and first grasped nature as in itself infinite, that is, its essence as process. The origin of philosophy is to be dated from Heraclitus. His is the persistent Idea that is the same in all philosophers up to the present day, as it was the Idea of Plato and Aristotle."[35] For Hegel, Heraclitus's great achievements were to have understood the nature of the infinite, which for Hegel includes understanding the inherent contradictoriness and negativity of reality, and to have grasped that reality is becoming or process, and that "being" and "nothingness" are mere empty abstractions. According to Hegel, Heraclitus's "obscurity" comes from his being a true (in Hegel's terms "speculative") philosopher who grasped the ultimate philosophical truth and therefore expressed himself in a way that goes beyond the abstract and limited nature of common sense and is difficult to grasp by those who operate within common sense. Hegel asserted that in Heraclitus he had an antecedent for his logic: "... there is no proposition of Heraclitus which I have not adopted in my logic."[36]
Hegel cites a number of fragments of Heraclitus in his Lectures on the History of Philosophy.[37] One to which he attributes great significance is the fragment he translates as "Being is not more than Non-being", which he interprets to mean
Heraclitus does not form any abstract nouns from his ordinary use of "to be" and "to become" and in that fragment seems to be opposing any identity A to any other identity B, C, etc., which is not-A. Hegel, however, interprets not-A as not existing at all, not nothing at all, which cannot be conceived, but indeterminate or "pure" being without particularity or specificity.[38] Pure being and pure non-being or nothingness are for Hegel pure abstractions from the reality of becoming, and this is also how he interprets Heraclitus. This interpretation of Heraclitus cannot be ruled out, but even if present is not the main gist of his thought.
For Hegel, the inner movement of reality is the process of God thinking, as manifested in the evolution of the universe of nature and thought; that is, Hegel argued that, when fully and properly understood, reality is being thought by God as manifested in a person's comprehension of this process in and through philosophy. Since human thought is the image and fulfillment of God's thought, God is not ineffable (so incomprehensible as to be unutterable) but can be understood by an analysis of thought and reality. Just as humans continually correct their concepts of reality through a dialectical process, so God himself becomes more fully manifested through the dialectical process of becoming.
For his god Hegel does not take the logos of Heraclitus but refers rather to the nous of Anaxagoras, although he may well have regarded them the same, as he continues to refer to god's plan, which is identical to God. Whatever the nous thinks at any time is actual substance and is identical to limited being, but more remains to be thought in the substrate of non-being, which is identical to pure or unlimited thought.
The universe as becoming is therefore a combination of being and non-being. The particular is never complete in itself but to find completion is continually transformed into more comprehensive, complex, self-relating particulars. The essential nature of being-for-itself is that it is free "in itself"; that is, it does not depend on anything else, such as matter, for its being. The limitations represent fetters, which it must constantly be casting off as it becomes freer and more self-determining.[39]
Although Hegel began his philosophizing with commentary on the Christian religion and often expresses the view that he is a Christian, his ideas of God are not acceptable to some Christians, although he has had a major influence on 19th- and 20th-century theology. At the same time, an atheistic version of his thought was adopted instead by some Marxists, who, stripping away the concepts of divinity, styled what was left dialectical materialism, which some saw as originating in Heraclitus.
This section possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (October 2012)
As a graduate of a Protestant seminary, Hegel’s theological concerns were reflected in many of his writings and lectures.[40] Hegel's thoughts on the person of Jesus Christ stood out from the theologies of the Enlightenment. In his posthumous book, The Christian Religion: Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion Part 3, he espouses that, "God is not an abstraction but a concrete God...God, considered in terms of his eternal Idea, has to generate the Son, has to distinguish himself from himself; he is the process of differentiating, namely, love and Spirit". This means that Jesus as the Son of God is posited by God over against himself as other. Hegel sees both a relational unity and a metaphysical unity between Jesus and God the Father. To Hegel, Jesus is both divine and Human. Hegel further attests that God (as Jesus) not only died, but "...rather, a reversal takes place: God, that is to say, maintains himself in the process, and the latter is only the death of death. God rises again to life, and thus things are reversed."
Walter Kaufmann has argued that there was great stress on the sharp criticisms of traditional Christianity appearing in Hegel's so-called early theological writings. Kaufmann admits that Hegel treated many distinctively Christian themes, and "sometimes could not resist equating" his conception of spirit (Geist) "with God, instead of saying clearly: in God I do not believe; spirit suffices me."[41] Kaufmann also points out that Hegel's references to God or to the divine—and also to spirit—drew on classical Greek as well as Christian connotations of the terms. Kaufmann goes on:
"In addition to his beloved Greeks, Hegel saw before him the example of Spinoza and, in his own time, the poetry of Goethe, Schiller, and Holderlin, who also liked to speak of gods and the divine. So he, too, sometimes spoke of God and, more often, of the divine; and because he occasionally took pleasure in insisting that he was really closer to this or that Christian tradition than some of the theologians of his time, he has sometimes been understood to have been a Christian"[42]
In addition to his beloved Greeks, Hegel saw before him the example of Spinoza and, in his own time, the poetry of Goethe, Schiller, and Holderlin, who also liked to speak of gods and the divine. So Hegel, too according to Kaufmann, sometimes spoke of God and, more often, of the divine; and because Hegel occasionally took pleasure in insisting that he was really closer to this or that Christian tradition than some of the theologians of his time, he has sometimes been understood to have been a Christian[43][44]
Kaufmann's own understanding of Hegel's disbelief in a supernatural God (which has been affirmed by other Hegel scholars such as Findlay, Tucker, C. Solomon, Hippolyte, Kojeve, Beiser, Pinkard, Westphal, and Wheat) is evidently to the contrary:
The religious views of the later Hegel were remote from all forms of traditional Christianity, but he no longer heeded his own emphatic dictum that philosophy should beware of being edifying, and tried to show that he could be more inspiring, and sound more Christian, than Schleiermacher and other liberal theologians. He came to emphasize what his philosophy had in common with Christianity—what is heard gladly. He had not always been a tired old man...[45]
Hegel published four books during his lifetime: the Phenomenology of Spirit (or Phenomenology of Mind), his account of the evolution of consciousness from sense-perception to absolute knowledge, published in 1807; the Science of Logic, the logical and metaphysical core of his philosophy, in three volumes, published in 1812, 1813, and 1816 (revised 1831); Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences, a summary of his entire philosophical system, which was originally published in 1816 and revised in 1827 and 1830; and the Elements of the Philosophy of Right, his political philosophy, published in 1820. During the last ten years of his life, he did not publish another book but thoroughly revised the Encyclopedia (second edition, 1827; third, 1830).[46] All four are of considerable interest but the first two are unquestionably Hegel's masterpieces.[47] In his political philosophy, he criticized Karl Ludwig von Haller's reactionary work, which claimed that laws were not necessary. He also published some articles early in his career and during his Berlin period. A number of other works on the philosophy of history, religion, aesthetics, and the history of philosophy were compiled from the lecture notes of his students and published posthumously. Hegel's thought is not just a philosophical system, but a system which knows about its own relationship to the rest of experience which is not philosophy, and knows above all that its own knowing cannot exhaust this relationship.[48]
The French Revolution for Hegel constitutes the introduction of real individual political freedom into European societies for the first time in recorded history. But precisely because of its absolute novelty, it is also unlimited with regard to everything that preceded it: on the one hand the upsurge of violence required to carry out the revolution cannot cease to be itself, while on the other, it has already consumed its opponent. The revolution therefore has nowhere to turn but onto its own result: the hard-won freedom is consumed by a brutal Reign of Terror. History, however, progresses by learning from its mistakes: only after and precisely because of this experience can one posit the existence of a constitutional state of free citizens, embodying both the benevolent organizing power of rational government and the revolutionary ideals of freedom and equality. Hegel's remarks on the French revolution led German poet Heinrich Heine to label him "The Orléans of German Philosophy".
There are views of Hegel's thought as a representation of the summit of early 19th-century Germany's movement of philosophical idealism. It would come to have a profound impact on many future philosophical schools, including schools that opposed Hegel's specific dialectical idealism, such as Existentialism, the historical materialism of Marx, historism, and British Idealism.
Hegel's influence was immense both within philosophy and in the other sciences. Throughout the 19th century many chairs of philosophy around Europe were held by Hegelians, and Søren Kierkegaard, Ludwig Feuerbach, Marx, and Friedrich Engels—among many others—were all deeply influenced by, but also strongly opposed to, many of the central themes of Hegel's philosophy. After less than a generation, Hegel's philosophy was suppressed and even banned by the Prussian right-wing, and was firmly rejected by the left-wing in multiple official writings.
After the period of Bruno Bauer, Hegel's influence did not make itself felt again until the philosophy of British Idealism and the 20th century Hegelian Western Marxism that began with György Lukács. The more recent movement of communitarianism has a strong Hegelian influence.
Some of Hegel's writing were intended for those with advanced knowledge of philosophy, although his "Encyclopedia" was intended as a textbook in a university course. Nevertheless, like many philosophers, Hegel assumed that his readers would be well-versed in Western philosophy, up to and including René Descartes, Hume, Kant, Fichte, and Schelling. For those wishing to read his work without this background, introductions to and commentaries about Hegel can contribute to comprehension, although the reader is faced with multiple interpretations of Hegel's writings from incompatible schools of philosophy. The German philosopher Theodor W. Adorno devoted an essay to the difficulty of reading Hegel and asserted that there are certain passages where it is impossible to decipher what Hegel meant. Difficulties within Hegel's language and thought are magnified for those reading Hegel in translation, since his philosophical language and terminology in German often do not have direct analogues in other languages. For example, the German word "Geist" has connotations of both "mind" and "spirit" in English. English translators have to use the "phenomenology of mind" or "the phenomenology of spirit" to render Hegel's "Phaenomenologie des Geistes", thus altering the original meaning. Hegel himself argued, in his "Science of Logic", that the German language was particularly conducive to philosophical thought and writing.
One especially difficult aspect of Hegel's work is his innovation in logic. In response to Immanuel Kant's challenge to the limits of pure reason, Hegel developed a radically new form of logic, which he called speculation, and which is today popularly called dialectics. The difficulty in reading Hegel was perceived in Hegel's own day, and persists into the 21st century. To understand Hegel fully requires paying attention to his critique of standard logic, such as the law of contradiction and the law of the excluded middle. Many philosophers who came after Hegel and were influenced by him, whether adopting or rejecting his ideas, did so without fully absorbing his new speculative or dialectical logic.[citation needed]
According to Kaufmann, the basic idea of Hegel's works, especially the Phenomenology of the Spirit is that a philosopher should not "confine him or herself to views that have been held but penetrate these to the human reality they reflect." In other words, it is not enough to consider propositions, or even the content of consciousness; "it is worthwhile to ask in every instance what kind of spirit would entertain such propositions, hold such views, and have such a consciousness. Every outlook in other words, is to be studied not merely as an academic possibility but as an existential reality."[49]
How would a human being come to see the world this way or that? And to what extent does the road on which a point of view is reached color the view? Moreover, it should be possible to show how every single view in turn is one-sided and therefore untenable as soon as it is embraced consistently. Each must therefore give way to another, until finally the last and most comprehensive vision is attained in which all previous views are integrated. That way the reader would be compelled – not by rhetoric or by talk of compelling him, but by the successive examination of forms of consciousness – to rise from the lowest and least sophisticated level to the highest and most philosophical; and on the way he would recognize stoicism and skepticism, Christianity, and Enlightenment, Sophocles and Kant.[50]
Many sympathetic commentators have argued that this is surely one of the most imaginative and poetic conceptions ever to have occurred to any philosopher. Kaufmann even argues that the parallel between Hegel's Phenomenology and Dante's journey "through hell and purgatory to the blessed vision meets the eye." He also makes a comparison with Goethe's Faust claiming that "two quotations from ‘The First Part of the Tragedy’ could have served Hegel as mottoes." The first of these passages (lines 1770-75) Kaufmann argues Hegel knew from Faust: A Fragment (1790)": "And what is portioned out to all mankind, I shall enjoy deep in myself, contain; Within my spirit summit and abyss, Pile on my breast their agony and bliss, And thus let my own self grow into theirs, unfettered.[51]
These lines express much of the spirit of the book Kaufmann writes: "Hegel is not treating us to a spectacle, letting various forms of consciousness pass in review before our eyes to entertain us as he considers it necessary to re-experience what the human spirit has gone through in history and he challenges the reader to join him in this Faustian undertaking." [52] Hegel asks readers not merely to read about such possibilities but according to Kaufmann, to "identify with each in turn until their own self has grown to the point where it is contemporary with world spirit. The reader, like the author, is meant to suffer through each position, and to be changed as he/she proceeds from one to the other. Mea res agitur: my own self is at stake. Or, as Rilke put it definitively in the last line of his great sonnet on an “Archaic Torso of Apollo”: du must dein Leben andern – you must change your life.” [52]
Hegel's writing style and language has also been a source of criticism.Schopenhauer for example, called Hegel "this Caliban of the spirit." [53] He also spoke of "Hegel's philosophy of absolute nonsense." [54] Abserwitzig meaning insane is a word that recurs frequently in Schopenhauer's remarks about Hegel, along with the claims that Hegel had no Geist at all.[55]
Kaufmann claims that while it is "widely considered bad form to speak irreverently about Kant, disrespect for Hegel is still good form. Many writers and lecturers enjoy making scurrilous remarks about Hegel while others -- and sometimes actually the very same people -- make use of his ideas without giving credit to him."[56]
Some historians have spoken of Hegel's influence as represented by two opposing camps. The Right Hegelians, the allegedly direct disciples of Hegel at the Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität, advocated a Protestant orthodoxy and the political conservatism of the post-Napoleon Restoration period. The Left Hegelians, also known as the Young Hegelians, interpreted Hegel in a revolutionary sense, leading to an advocation of atheism in religion and liberal democracy in politics.
In more recent studies, however, this paradigm has been questioned.[57] No Hegelians of the period ever referred to themselves as "Right Hegelians"; that was a term of insult originated by David Strauss, a self-styled Left Hegelian. Critiques of Hegel offered from the Left Hegelians radically diverted Hegel's thinking into new directions and eventually came to form a disproportionately large part of the literature on and about Hegel.[citation needed]
The Left Hegelians also spawned Marxism, which inspired global movements, encompassing the Russian Revolution, the Chinese Revolution, and myriad revolutionary practices up until the present moment.
Twentieth-century interpretations of Hegel were mostly shaped by British Idealism, logical positivism, Marxism, and Fascism. The Italian Fascist Giovanni Gentile, according to Benedetto Croce, "...holds the honor of having been the most rigorous neo-Hegelian in the entire history of Western philosophy and the dishonor of having been the official philosopher of Fascism in Italy."[58] However, since the fall of the USSR, a new wave of Hegel scholarship arose in the West, without the preconceptions of the prior schools of thought. Walter Jaeschke and Otto Pöggeler in Germany, as well as Peter Hodgson and Howard Kainz in America are notable for their recent contributions to post-USSR thinking about Hegel.
In previous modern accounts of Hegelianism (to undergraduate classes, for example), especially those formed prior to the Hegel renaissance, Hegel's dialectic was most often characterized as a three-step process, "thesis, antithesis, synthesis"; namely, that a "thesis" (e.g. the French Revolution) would cause the creation of its "antithesis" (e.g. the Reign of Terror that followed), and would eventually result in a "synthesis" (e.g. the constitutional state of free citizens). However, Hegel used this classification only once, and he attributed the terminology to Kant. The terminology was largely developed earlier by Fichte. It was spread by Heinrich Moritz Chalybäus in accounts of Hegelian philosophy, and since then the terms have been used as descriptive of this type of framework.
The "thesis-antithesis-synthesis" approach gives the sense that things or ideas are contradicted or opposed by things that come from outside them. To the contrary, the fundamental notion of Hegel's dialectic is that things or ideas have internal contradictions. From Hegel's point of view, analysis or comprehension of a thing or idea reveals that underneath its apparently simple identity or unity is an underlying inner contradiction. This contradiction leads to the dissolution of the thing or idea in the simple form in which it presented itself and to a higher-level, more complex thing or idea that more adequately incorporates the contradiction. The triadic form that appears in many places in Hegel (e.g. being-nothingness-becoming, immediate-mediate-concrete, abstract-negative-concrete) is about this movement from inner contradiction to higher-level integration or unification.
For Hegel, reason is but "speculative", not "dialectical".[59] Believing that the traditional description of Hegel's philosophy in terms of thesis-antithesis-synthesis was mistaken, a few scholars, like Raya Dunayevskaya, have attempted to discard the triadic approach altogether. According to their argument, although Hegel refers to "the two elemental considerations: first, the idea of freedom as the absolute and final aim; secondly, the means for realising it, i.e. the subjective side of knowledge and will, with its life, movement, and activity" (thesis and antithesis) he doesn't use "synthesis" but instead speaks of the "Whole": "We then recognised the State as the moral Whole and the Reality of Freedom, and consequently as the objective unity of these two elements." Furthermore, in Hegel's language, the "dialectical" aspect or "moment" of thought and reality, by which things or thoughts turn into their opposites or have their inner contradictions brought to the surface, what he called "aufhebung", is only preliminary to the "speculative" (and not "synthesizing") aspect or "moment", which grasps the unity of these opposites or contradiction.
It is widely admitted today[60] that the old-fashioned description of Hegel's philosophy in terms of "thesis-antithesis-synthesis" is inaccurate. Nevertheless, such is the persistence of this misnomer that the model and terminology survive in a number of scholarly works.
In the last half of the 20th century, Hegel's philosophy underwent a major renaissance. This was due to (a) the rediscovery and reevaluation of Hegel as a possible philosophical progenitor of Marxism by philosophically oriented Marxists, (b) a resurgence of the historical perspective that Hegel brought to everything, and (c) an increasing recognition of the importance of his dialectical method. Lukács' History and Class Consciousness (1923) helped to reintroduce Hegel into the Marxist canon. This sparked a renewed interest in Hegel reflected in the work of Herbert Marcuse, Adorno, Ernst Bloch, Dunayevskaya, Alexandre Kojève and Gotthard Günther among others. Marcuse, in Reason and Revolution (1941), made the case for Hegel as a revolutionary and criticized Leonard Trelawny Hobhouse's thesis that Hegel was a totalitarian.[61] The Hegel renaissance also highlighted the significance of Hegel's early works, i.e., those written before the Phenomenology of Spirit. The direct and indirect influence of Kojève's lectures and writings (on the Phenomenology of Spirit, in particular) mean that it is not possible to understand most French philosophers from Jean-Paul Sartre to Jacques Derrida without understanding Hegel.[citation needed] The Swiss theologian Hans Küng has also advanced contemporary scholarship in Hegel studies.
Beginning in the 1960s, Anglo-American Hegel scholarship has attempted to challenge the traditional interpretation of Hegel as offering a metaphysical system: this has also been the approach of Z.A. Pelczynski and Shlomo Avineri. This view, sometimes referred to as the 'non-metaphysical option', has had a decided influence on many major English language studies of Hegel in the past 40 years. U.S. neoconservative political theorist Francis Fukuyama's controversial book The End of History and the Last Man (1992) was heavily influenced by Kojève.[62]
Late 20th-century literature in Western Theology that is friendly to Hegel includes works by such writers as Walter Kaufmann (1966), Dale M. Schlitt (1984), Theodore Geraets (1985), Philip M. Merklinger (1991), Stephen Rocker (1995), and Cyril O'Regan (1995).
Recently, two prominent American philosophers, John McDowell and Robert Brandom (sometimes, half-seriously, referred to as the Pittsburgh Hegelians), have produced philosophical works exhibiting a marked Hegelian influence. Each is avowedly influenced by the late Wilfred Sellars, also of Pittsburgh, who referred to his seminal work, Empiricism and the Philosophy of Mind (1956) as a series of "incipient Méditations Hegeliennes" (in homage to Edmund Husserl's 1931 treatise, Meditations Cartesiennes).
Beginning in the 1990s, after the fall of the USSR, a fresh reading of Hegel took place in the West. For these scholars, fairly well represented by the Hegel Society of America and in cooperation with German scholars such as Otto Pöggeler and Walter Jaeschke, Hegel's works should be read without preconceptions. Marx plays a minor role in these new readings, and some contemporary scholars have suggested that Marx's interpretation of Hegel is irrelevant to a proper reading of Hegel. Some American philosophers associated with this movement include Lawrence Stepelevich, Rudolf Siebert, Richard Dien Winfield, and Theodore Geraets.
Criticism of Hegel has been widespread in the 19th and the 20th centuries; a diverse range of individuals including Arthur Schopenhauer, Marx, Kierkegaard, Friedrich Nietzsche, Bertrand Russell, G. E. Moore, Eric Voegelin and A. J. Ayer have challenged Hegelian philosophy from a variety of perspectives. Among the first to take a critical view of Hegel's system was the 19th Century German group known as the Young Hegelians, which included Feuerbach, Marx, Engels, and their followers. In Britain, the Hegelian British Idealism school (members of which included Francis Herbert Bradley, Bernard Bosanquet, and, in the United States, Josiah Royce) was challenged and rejected by analytic philosophers Moore and Russell; Russell, in particular, considered "almost all" of Hegel's doctrines to be false.[63] Regarding Hegel's interpretation of history, Russell commented, "Like other historical theories, it required, if it was to be made plausible, some distortion of facts and considerable ignorance."[64] Logical positivists such as Ayer and the Vienna Circle criticized both Hegelian philosophy and its supporters, such as Bradley.
Hegel's contemporary Schopenhauer was particularly critical, and wrote of Hegel's philosophy as "a pseudo-philosophy paralyzing all mental powers, stifling all real thinking".[65] Kierkegaard criticized Hegel's 'absolute knowledge' unity.[66] Scientist Ludwig Boltzmann also criticized the obscure complexity of Hegel's works, referring to Hegel's writing as an "unclear thoughtless flow of words".[67] In a similar vein, Robert Pippin wrote that Hegel had "the ugliest prose style in the history of the German language".[68] Russell stated in his Unpopular Essays (1950) and A History of Western Philosophy (1945) that Hegel was "the hardest to understand of all the great philosophers". Karl Popper wrote that "there is so much philosophical writing (especially in the Hegelian school) which may justly be criticized as meaningless verbiage".[69]
Popper also makes the claim in the second volume of The Open Society and Its Enemies (1945) that Hegel's system formed a thinly veiled justification for the absolute rule of Frederick William III, and that Hegel's idea of the ultimate goal of history was to reach a state approximating that of 1830s Prussia. Popper further proposed that Hegel's philosophy served not only as an inspiration for communist and fascist totalitarian governments of the 20th century, whose dialectics allow for any belief to be construed as rational simply if it could be said to exist. Scholars such as Kaufmann and Shlomo Avineri have criticized Popper's theories about Hegel.[70] Isaiah Berlin listed Hegel as one of the six architects of modern authoritarianism who undermined liberal democracy, along with Rousseau, Claude Adrien Helvétius, Fichte, Saint-Simon, and Joseph de Maistre.[71]
Walter Kaufmann has argued that as unlikely as it may sound, it is not the case that Hegel was unable to write clearly, but that Hegel felt that "he must and should not write in the way in which he was gifted."[72] The only person who saw this clearly and stated it beautifully was Nietzsche according to Kaufmann. Though Nietzsche was not a Hegel scholar, Kaufmann, quotes Nietzsche from the Dawn Esprit and Morality:
"The Germans, who have mastered the secret of being boring with esprit, knowledge and feeling, and who have accustomed themselves to experience boredom as something moral, are afraid of French esprit because it might prick out the eyes of morality - and yet this dread is fused with tempation, as in the bird faced by the rattlesnake. Perhaps none of the famous Germans had more esprit than Hegel; but he also felt such a great German dread of it that this created his peculiar bad style. For the essence of this style is that a core is enveloped, and enveloped once more and again, until it scarcley peeks out, bashful and curious - as 'young women peek out of their veils', to speak with the old woman-hater Aeschylus. But this core is a witty, often saucy idea about the most intellectual matters, a subtle and daring connecting of words, such as belongs in the company of thinkers, as a side dish of science - but in these wrappings it presents itself as abstruse science itself and by all means as supremely moral boredom. Thus the Germans had a form of esprit permitted to them, and they enjoyed it with such extravagant delight that Schopenhauer's good, very good intelligence came to a halt confronted with it: his life long, he blustered against the spectacle the Germans offered him, but he never was able to explain it to himself." [73]
The Difference Between Fichte's and Schelling's Systems of Philosophy, tr. H. S. Harris and Walter Cerf, 1977
Science of Logic, tr. W. H. Johnston and L. G. Struthers, 2 vols., 1929; tr. A. V. Miller, 1969; tr. George di Giovanni, 2010
Enzyklopädie der philosophischen Wissenschaften, 1817; 2nd ed. 1827; 3rd ed. 1830 (Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences)
(Pt. I:) The Logic of Hegel, tr. William Wallace, 1874, 2nd ed. 1892; tr. T. F. Geraets, W. A. Suchting and H. S. Harris, 1991; tr. Klaus Brinkmann and Daniel O. Dahlstrom 2010
Lectures on the Philosophy of History (also translated as Lectures on the Philosophy of World History) 1837
Francke, Kuno, Howard, William Guild, Schiller, Friedrich, 1913-1914 "The German classics of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries: masterpieces of German literature translated into English Vol 7, Jay Lowenberg, The Life of Georg Wilhelm Freidrich Hegel". Retrieved 2010-09-24. 
Gouin, Jean-Luc, 2000. Hegel ou de la Raison intégrale, suivi de : « Aimer Penser Mourir : Hegel, Nietzsche, Freud en miroirs », Montréal (Québec), Éditions Bellarmin, 225 p. ISBN 2-89007-883-3
Kaufmann, Walter, 1965. Hegel: A Reinterpretation. New York: Doubleday (reissued Notre Dame IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1978)
Singer, Peter, 2001. Hegel: A Very Short Introduction. New York: Oxford University Press (previously issued in the OUP Past Masters series, 1983)
Scruton, Roger, "Understanding Hegel" in The Philosopher on Dover Beach, Manchester: Carcanet Press, 1990. ISBN 0-85635-857-6
Stern, Robert (2013). The Routledge guide book to Hegel's Phenomenology of spirit (second ed.). Abingdon, Oxon New York: Routledge. ISBN 9780415664455. 
Stirling, James Hutchison, The Secret of Hegel: Being the Hegelian System in Origin Principle, Form and Matter, London: Oliver & Boyd
Tucker, Robert C., Philosophy and Myth in Karl Marx, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1961, chapters 1 ("The Self as God in German Philosophy"), 2 ("History as God's Self-Realization"), and 3 ("The Dialectic of Aggrandizement")
Adorno, Theodor W., 1994. Hegel: Three Studies. MIT Press. Translated by Shierry M. Nicholsen, with an introduction by Nicholsen and Jeremy J. Shapiro, ISBN 0-262-51080-4.
Beiser, Frederick C. (ed.), 1993. The Cambridge Companion to Hegel. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-38711-6.
Althaus, Horst, 1992. Hegel und die heroischen Jahre der Philosophie. Munich: Carl Hanser Verlag. Eng. tr. Michael Tarsh as Hegel: An Intellectual Biography, Cambridge: Polity Press, 2000
Hondt, Jacques d', 1998. Hegel: Biographie. Calmann-Lévy /// Review (2009) of this biography and of that of Horst Althaus (1999), in the French journal Nuit Blanche : doi:10.1522/030141313 Le Commissaire et le Détective
Pinkard, Terry P., 2000. Hegel: A Biography. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-49679-9.
Löwith, Karl, 1964. From Hegel to Nietzsche: The Revolution in Nineteenth-Century Thought. Translated by David E. Green. New York: Columbia University Press.
Rockmore, Tom, 1993. Before and After Hegel: A Historical Introduction to Hegel's Thought. Indianapolis: Hackett. ISBN 0-87220-648-3.
Haering, Theodor L., 1929, 1938. Hegel: sein Wollen und sein Werk, 2 vols. Leipzig (repr. Aalen: Scientia Verlag, 1963)
Lukács, Georg, 1948. Der junge Hegel. Zürich and Vienna (2nd ed. Berlin, 1954). Eng. tr. Rodney Livingstone as The Young Hegel, London: Merlin Press, 1975.ISBN 0-262-12070-4
Forster, Michael N., 1989. Hegel and Skepticism. Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 0-674-38707-4
Maker, William, 1994. Philosophy Without Foundations: Rethinking Hegel. State University of New York Press. ISBN 0-7914-2100-7.
Pippin, Robert B., 1989. Hegel's Idealism: the Satisfactions of Self-Consciousness. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-37923-7.
Verene, Donald P., 2007. Hegel's Absolute: An Introduction to Reading the Phenomenology of Spirit. Albany: State University of New York Press
Winfield, Richard Dien, 1989. Overcoming Foundations: Studies in Systematic Philosophy. Columbia University Press. ISBN 0-231-07008-X.
Žižek, Slavoj, 2012. Less Than Nothing: Hegel and the Shadow of Dialectical Materialism. London: Verso
Beiser, Frederick C., ed. 1993. The Cambridge Companion to Hegel. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press.
Braver, Lee. A Thing of This World: a History of Continental Anti-Realism. Northwestern University Press: 2007. ISBN 978-0-8101-2380-9
Bristow, William, 2007. Hegel and the Transformation of Philosophical Critique. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-929064-4
Davis, Walter A., 1989. Inwardness and Existence: Subjectivity in/and Hegel, Heidegger, Marx and Freud. University of Wisconsin Press.
Doull, James (2000). "Hegel's "Phenomenology" and Postmodern Thought". Animus 5. ISSN 1209-0689. Retrieved August 9, 2011. 
Doull, James; Jackson, F.L. (2003). "The Idea of a Phenomenology of Spirit". Animus 8. ISSN 1209-0689. Retrieved August 17, 2011. 
Findlay, J. N., 1958. The Philosophy of Hegel: An Introduction and Re-Examination. New York: Collier.
Hyppolite, Jean, 1946. Genèse et structure de la Phénoménologie de l'esprit. Paris: Aubier. Eng. tr. Samuel Cherniak and John Heckman as Genesis and Structure of Hegel's "Phenomenology of Spirit", Evanston: Northwestern University Press, 1979. ISBN 0-8101-0594-2.
Kalkavage, Peter, 2007. The Logic of Desire: An Introduction to Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit. Philadelphia: Paul Dry Books. ISBN 978-1-58988-037-5.
Kaufmann, Walter, 1966. Hegel: A Reinterpretation, New York: Doubleday Anchor Books (hardcover published 1965).
Kojève, Alexandre, 1947. Introduction à la lecture de Hegel. Paris: Gallimard. Eng. tr. James H. Nichols, Jr., as Introduction to the Reading of Hegel: Lectures on the Phenomenology of Spirit, Basic Books, 1969. ISBN 0-8014-9203-3
Pinkard, Terry, 1994. Hegel's Phenomenology: The Sociality of Reason. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press.
Scruton, Roger, "Understanding Hegel" in The Philosopher on Dover Beach, Manchester: Carcanet Press, 1990. ISBN 0-85635-857-6
Stern, Robert (2013). The Routledge guide book to Hegel's Phenomenology of spirit (second ed.). Abingdon, Oxon New York: Routledge. ISBN 9780415664455. 
Tucker, Robert, 1961. Philosophy and Myth in Karl Marx. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press.
Westphal, Kenneth R., 2003. Hegel's Epistemology: A Philosophical Introduction to the Phenomenology of Spirit. Indianapolis: Hackett. ISBN 0-87220-645-9
Burbidge, John, 2006. The Logic of Hegel's Logic: An Introduction. Broadview Press. ISBN 1-55111-633-2
Houlgate, Stephen, 2005. The Opening of Hegel's Logic: From Being to Infinity. Purdue University Press. ISBN 1-55753-257-5
Rinaldi, Giacomo, 1992. A History and Interpretation of the Logic of Hegel Lewiston: Edwin Mellen Press. ISBN 0-7734-9509-6
Schäfer, Rainer, 2001. Die Dialektik und ihre besonderen Formen in Hegels Logik. Hamburg/Meiner. ISBN 3-7873-1585-3.
Wallace, Robert M., 2005. Hegel's Philosophy of Reality, Freedom, and God. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-84484-3.
Winfield, Richard Dien, 2006. From Concept to Objectivity: Thinking Through Hegel's Subjective Logic. Ashgate. ISBN 0-7546-5536-9.jdj
Brooks, Thom, 2013. Hegel's Political Philosophy: A Systematic Reading of the Philosophy of Right, 2nd edition. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Kierans, Kenneth (2008). "'Absolute Negativity': Community and Freedom in Hegel's Philosophy of Right". Animus 12. ISSN 1209-0689. Retrieved August 17, 2011. 
Lübbe, Hermann (ed.). Die Hegelsche Rechte. Texte aus den Werken von F. W. Carové, J. E. Erdmann, K. Fischer, E. Gans, H. F. W. Hinrichs, C. L. Michelet, H. B. Oppenheim, K. Rosenkranz und C. Rößler [The Hegelian Right]. Friedrich Frommann Verlag. 1962.
Moggach, Douglas. 2006. "Introduction: Hegelianism, Republicanism and Modernity", The New Hegelians edited by Douglas Moggach, Cambridge University Press.
Riedel, Manfred, 1984. Between Tradition and Revolution: The Hegelian Transformation of Political Philosophy, Cambridge.
Scruton, Roger, "Hegel as a conservative thinker" in The Philosopher on Dover Beach, Manchester: Carcanet Press, 1990. ISBN 0-85635-857-6
Roche, Mark-William, 1998. Tragedy and Comedy. A Systematic Study and a Critique of Hegel. Albany. New York.
Winfield, Richard Dien, 1996. Stylistics. Rethinking the Artforms after G. W. Hegel. Albany, Suny Press.
Cohen, Joseph, 2005. Le spectre juif de Hegel (in French language); Preface by Jean-Luc Nancy. Paris, Galilée.
Dickey, Laurence (1987). Hegel: Religion, Economics, and the Politics of Spirit, 1770–1807. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 9780521389129. 
Lewis, Thomas A. (2011). Religion, Modernity, and Politics in Hegel. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-959559-4. 
O'Regan, Cyril, 1994. The Heterodox Hegel. State University of New York Press, Albany. ISBN 0-7914-2006-X.
Rocker, Stephen, 1995. Hegel's Rational Religion: The Validity of Hegel's Argument for the Identity in Content of Absolute Religion and Absolute Philosophy. Fairleigh Dickinson University Press.
Constructs such as ibid., loc. cit. and idem are discouraged by Wikipedia's style guide for footnotes, as they are easily broken. Please improve this article by replacing them with named references (quick guide), or an abbreviated title. (March 2010)
« Der Instinkt der Vernünftigkeit » and other texts - Works on Hegel in Université du Québec site (in French)
Lowenberg J., (1913) "The Life of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel". in German classics of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. New York: German Publication Society.
Hegel, as the National Philosopher of Germany (1874) Karl Rosenkranz, Granville Stanley Hall, William Torrey Harris, Gray, Baker & Co. 1874
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Georg_Wilhelm_Friedrich_Hegel&oldid=611669354"					
Categories: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel1770 births1831 deaths18th-century German writers19th-century German writers19th-century philosophersContinental philosophersDeath of God theologiansDeaths from choleraGerman historians of philosophyGerman idealismGerman philosophersHegelian philosophersHumboldt University of Berlin facultyIdealistsInfectious disease deaths in GermanyLogiciansMoral philosophersOntologistsPeople from StuttgartPeople from the Duchy of WürttembergPhilosophers of artPhilosophers of educationPhilosophers of lawPolitical philosophersPolitical theoristsRomanticismMysticsSocial philosophersTheories of historyHidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersInfobox philosopher maintenanceAll articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from December 2012All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2007Articles that may contain original research from October 2012All articles that may contain original researchArticles with unsourced statements from August 2008Articles with unsourced statements from August 2009Articles with unsourced statements from September 2010Articles with ibid from March 2010AC with 14 elementsWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with ULAN identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Administration AboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor Information Arts, Health & Society AboutProgramsProspective StudentsSummer ResidenciesResearch Database Media & Communication AboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & Scholarships Admission Online ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer Students Students OverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest Documents Faculty Faculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and Positions 
Admission» Application & Deadlines» Tuition & Scholarships» Questions & Answers» Financial Aid» AccreditationStudents» Overview» Student Email» Student News» Event Calendar» Student Directory» Students Gateway» Request DocumentsAlumni» Overview» Alumni Association» Alumni Directory» Alumni News» Event Calendar» Request Transcripts» Giving to EGSFaculty» Faculty Overview» Faculty News» Event Calendar» Video Lectures» Jobs and PositionsMedia» EGS Publications» EGS on Facebook» EGS on YouTube» EGS on Google+» EGS on Flickr» EGS on Twitter» Conferences & Festivals» Library / Encyclopedia» Research DatabaseResources» News» Event Calendar» Information Technology» Health Services» A-Z Index» Sitemap» Contacts
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel was born on August 27, 1770 in Stuttgart. His father was a revenue officer with the civil service, and he had a Protestant upbringing. He studied at the Stuttgart gymnasium where he became familiar with Greek and Roman classics. Hegel's father wished him to be a clergyman, and from 1788 to 1793 he studied theology at the seminary at the University of Tübingen. It was here that he first formed important friendships with Friedrich Hölderlin and Friedrich W.J. von Schelling. The intellectual lives of these three friends were closely entwined and they had profound influences on one another's philosophical foundations.
After Hegel graduated from Tübingen he went Bern and then Frankfurt to work as a private tutor. In Frankfurt he met with Friedrich Hölderlin again. He was able to end his work as a tutor when he inherited a sufficient amount on the event of his father's death, and he proceded to dedicate himself to his work on religious and social themes. At this time it seems that he imagined his work to be in the area of educational reform. In 1800 his work took a turn, and he became interested in the "critical" philosophy of Immanuel Kant. In 1801 he moved to join his friend Friedrich W.J. von Schelling at the University of Jena, where the two of them edited the Critical Journal of Philosophy. This same year Hegel published his first philosophical essay entitled The Difference between Fichte's and Schelling's System of Philosophy, in which he argues for Friedrich W.J. von Schelling success and Fichte's failure in the project of completing Immanuel Kant's transcendental idealism.
Hegel wrote a number of essays during his stay at Jena. In On the Scientific Modes of Treatment of Natural Law-Its Place in Practical Philosophy and Its Relationship to the Positive Science of Law, often refered to as the essay on Natural Law, he criticizes both British empirical and Kantian formal approached to natural law. His argument is that empricism forms conclusions that are limited by its contexts and materials, therefore it is unable to form propositions that are universally valid regarding the concepts of reflective consciousness to social and political experience or the concepts of social and political institutions. The problem with formalist conclusions is that they remain insubstantial, and too abstract, failing to form a concrete link between human reason and human experience. Hegel felt philosophical science had the responsibility to definitvely link the develpment of the rational powers of the human mind to lived experience.
In 1807 Hegel published Die Phänomenologie des Geistes (The Phenomenology of Spirit), his first major work. He originally imagined this work as the first part of a comprehensive scientific philosophy, but eventually came to see it as an introduction to his system. Written in the context of epistemological, anthropological, and cultural themes of human histroy, this text is an account of the devlopment of consciousness and self-consciousness, or the development of spirit. Hegel traces the development of the mind in relation to experience, concentrating on questions regarding the meaning of cognitive activities like perceiving and knowing, and the nature of reality and reason. The fundamental characteristic of human awareness, according to Hegel, is the relationship between self and otherness. His ontology is based in humankind's desire for and estrangement from objects, what he considers to be the primordial experience of the world. He claims that individual consciousness is prevented from finding freedom and independence when it comes up against the barrier of otherness in the external reality of the natural and social world. This otherness cannot be destroyed without the destruction of self, so we search for reconciliation with otherness and a universalization of consiousness through the other. Hegel uses a model of dominant and subservient consciousnesses to illustrate the problem of acheiving integration of consciousness with itself through the overcoming of its otherness. This dialectic sets up the main difficulty for gaining self-recognition through mutual recognition, or the realization of self-consciousness. The relationship between the dominant and the obedient, or the independent and the dependent, is what leads to the incomplete resolution of the struggle for recognition, or mutual recognition, between consiousnesses.
Hegel worked as an editor of a newspaper in Bamberg, then from 1808-1815 he was a philosophy teacher and the headmaster at a gymnasium in Nuremberg. He was married in Nuremberg during this time, and he wrote and published Science of Logic. In 1816 he was appointed to chair of philosophy at the University of Heidelberg. In Heidelberg he published the Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences, in which appears an abgreviated version of Science of Logic and an application of its prinicples to the Philosophy of Nature and Philosophy of Spirit. In 1818 he took the prestigious position of chair of philosophy at the University of Berlin. In 1821 Hegel published Elements of the Philosophy of Right grounded on the section of the Encyclopaedia exploring the "objective spirit". In this major work in political philosophy Hegel gives an account of the nature of philosophy, setting out his approach to the nature and limits of human cognition.
Hegel published other versions of the Encyclopaedia during the next ten years, enjoying great recognition in Berlin. After his death in 1831 versions of his lectures were published on the history of philosophy and the philosophy of religion, history and aesthetics.
Hegel's goal was to form a comprehensive philosophical system in which both the history and future of philosophy might be included and understood. He saw the main subject of philosophy to be reality, and understood the necessity of conceiving of a full account of reality, or the developmental process of everything that is. He referred to this as the Absolute, or Absolute Spirit, and felt that philosophy's task was to chart its development. This charting involves the clarification of the Absolute's internal rational structure, the demonstration its manifestation in nature and human history, and the explication of its teleological nature, or revealing its end purpose.
In his political work, Hegel describes three types of government: tyranny, found in underdeveloped states; democracy, found in states where there is no distinction between the public and private individual; and hereditary monarchy, found where a central government is combined with indirect representation through Estates. He felt hereditary monarchy to be the most appropriate form of political authority for the modern world. He saw the role of the State as expressing the Spirit of a society, as a realization of God in the world. His view was that any true religion would support this kind of kingdom of God on earth, so a religion's position could never be in opposition or dominance to the state.
Hegel followed the Greek philosopher Parmenides in believing that what is rational is real, and what is real is rational. This is his rational structure of the Absolute, and must be regarded in conjunction with his idea that the Absolute must be seen as pure Thought, Spirit, or Mind, in a process of self-development, governed by the logic of dialectic. The dialectical method is the notion that the conflict of opposites creates movement or progress. The dialectical method is often studied in terms of thesis, antithesis, and synthesis, although Hegel seldom used this terminology. The thesis is a primary idea, whose incompleteness gives rise to an opposite or conflicting idea, or antithesis. The synthesis is a third term which arrises from the conflict between the first two, overcoming the opposition by reconciling the truth found in both the thesis and antithesis. This synthesis becomes a new thesis, inspiring a new antithesis and synthesis, and continuing an evolution of intellectual or historical development. Hegel argues that this dialectical develpment describes the movement of Absolute Spirit toward an ultimate goal. Reality is the Absolute in a process of dialectical unfolding, manifesting itself in nature and history as it develops. In The Phenomenololgy of Mind Hegel traces the manifestation of the Absolute through the stages of consciousness, self-consciousness, and reason.
Friedrich W.J. von Schelling took the chair at Berlin after Hegel's death, reputedly because the government of the time wished to counter the enormous influence Hegel's philosophy had had on a generation of students. Although they had been close, Friedrich W.J. von Schelling was more of a religious philosopher than Hegel, and criticized Hegel's rationalism. Friedrich W.J. von Schelling's criticisms of Hegel's work influenced existentialist thought, primarily through the works of Kierkegaard, who attended Friedrich W.J. von Schelling's lectures. Friedrich W.J. von Schelling's interpretations of Hegelian philosophy has had a major influence on its subsequent study, contributing to the common understanding of it as a somewhat dogmatic metaphysics. Hegel had suppported progressive but non-revolutionary politics, however many of his admirers split into extreme political factions. Karl Marx was among them and, inspired by Hegel's work, was to develop his own scientific approach to society and history. Hegel is counted among the most influential philosophers in Western philosophical and political history.
» Giorgio Agamben» Pierre Alferi» Hubertus von Amelunxen» Alisa Andrasek» Alain Badiou» Judith Balso» Jason Barker» Jean Baudrillard» Philippe Beck» Geoffrey Bennington» Robert Bramkamp» Benjamin Bratton» Catherine Breillat» Judith Butler» Eduardo Cadava» Hélène Cixous» Simon Critchley» Diane Davis» Claire Denis» Manthia Diawara» Suzanne Doppelt» Anne Dufourmantelle» Elie During» Atom Egoyan» Bracha Ettinger» Mike Figgis» Alessandro De Francesco» John Frazer» Christopher Fynsk» Heiner Goebbels» Antony Gormley» Peter Greenaway» Boris Groys» Werner Hamacher» Barbara Hammer» Graham Harman» Michael Hardt» Martin Hielscher» Brian Holmes» Mitchell Joachim» Tom Kalin» Friedrich Kittler» Chris Kraus» Manuel De Landa» Katarzyna Lazari-Radek» Neil Leach» Sylvère Lotringer» Geert Lovink» Catherine Malabou» Lev Manovich» Elissa Marder» Clem Marshall » Colum McCann» Achim Menges» Jean-Luc Nancy» François Noudelmann» Mathieu Potte-Bonneville» Peter Price» Stephen & Timothy Quay» Jacques Rancière» Laurence Arthur Rickels» Denise Riley» Avital Ronell» Wolfgang Schirmacher» Volker Schlöndorff» Michael Schmidt» Patrik Schumacher» Peter Singer» DJ Spooky - Paul Miller» Bruce Sterling» Caspar Stracke» Elia Suleiman» Leslie Thornton» Ilija Trojanow» Margarethe von Trotta» Agnès Varda» Paul Virilio» Victor Vitanza» Samuel Weber» Klaus Wyborny» Caveh Zahedi» Siegfried Zielinski» Slavoj Zizek» Thomas Zummer» Alenka Zupancic
AdministrationAboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor InformationMedia & CommunicationAboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & ScholarshipsAdmissionOnline ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer StudentsStudentsOverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest DocumentsAlumniOverviewAlumni AssociationAlumni DirectoryAlumni NewsEvent CalendarRequest TranscriptsGiving to EGSFacultyFaculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and PositionsResourcesNewsEvent CalendarInformation TechnologyHealth ServicesA-Z IndexSitemapContactsMediaEGS PublicationsEGS on FacebookEGS on YouTubeEGS on Google+EGS on FlickrEGS on TwitterConferences & FestivalsLibrary / EncyclopediaResearch Database
=======================================================
Articles      Life      Phenomenology      System      Reception      Resources      Poster+CD      Game      Info  
    "Der Kantianismus des jungen Hegel" 1997 and "Hegels Denkentwicklung in der Berner und Frankfurter Zeit" 1999,
  für Literatur" (see reproduction above) - the first on F. H. Jacobi, the other a political pamphlet entitled
        those interested in literature, including a short Bibliography and a Gallery. (Webserver had a mysql problem 2014-01-19)
        Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later version
published by the Free Software Foundation, with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license
=======================================================
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770-1831) is one of the greatest systematic thinkers in  the history of Western philosophy.   In addition to epitomizing German idealist  philosophy, Hegel boldly claimed that his own system of philosophy represented an  historical culmination of all previous philosophical thought.  Hegel’s overall  encyclopedic system is divided into the science of Logic, the philosophy of  Nature, and the philosophy of Spirit.  Of most enduring interest are his views on  history, society, and the state, which fall within the realm of Objective Spirit.  Some have considered Hegel to be a nationalistic apologist for the Prussian  State of the early 19th century, but his significance has been much  broader, and there is no doubt that Hegel himself considered his work to be an  expression of the self-consciousness of the World Spirit of his time.  At the  core of Hegel’s social and political thought are the concepts of freedom, reason,  self-consciousness, and recognition.  There are important connections between the  metaphysical or speculative articulation of these ideas and their application to  social and political reality, and one could say that the full meaning of these  ideas can be grasped only with a comprehension of their social and historical  embodiment.  The work that explicates this concretizing of ideas, and which has  perhaps stimulated as much controversy as interest, is the Philosophy  of Right (Philosophie des Rechts), which will be a main focus of this  essay.
G.W.F. Hegel was born in Stuttgart in 1770, the son of an official in the  government of the Duke of Württemberg.   He was educated at the Royal  Highschool in Stuttgart from 1777-88 and steeped in both the classics and the  literature of the European Enlightenment.  In October, 1788 Hegel began studies  at a theological seminary in Tübingen, the Tüberger Stift, where he  became friends with the poet Hölderlin and philosopher Friedrich Schelling,  both of whom would later become famous.  In 1790 Hegel received an M.A. degree,  one year after the fall of the Bastille in France, an event welcomed by these  young idealistic students.  Shortly after graduation, Hegel took a post as tutor  to a wealthy Swiss family in Berne from 1793-96.  In 1797, with the help of his  friend Hölderlin, Hegel moved to Frankfurt to take on another tutorship.  During this time he wrote unpublished essays on religion which display a certain  radical tendency of thought in his critique of orthodox religion.
In January 1801, two years after the death of his father, Hegel finished with  tutoring and went to Jena where he took a position as Privatdozent (unsalaried lecturer) at the University of Jena, where Hegel’s friend Schelling  had already held a university professorship for three years.  There Hegel  collaborated with Schelling on a Critical Journal of Philosophy (Kritisches Journal der Philosophie) and he also published a piece on the  differences between the philosophies of Fichte and Schelling (Differenz des  Fichte’schen und Schelling’schen Systems der Philosophie) in which preference  was consistently expressed for the latter thinker.  After having attained a  professorship in 1805, Hegel published his first major work, the Phenomenology  of Spirit (Phänomenologie des Geistes, 1807) which was delivered to  the publisher just at the time of the occupation of Jena by Napoleon’s armies.  With the closing of the University, due to the victory of the French in Prussia,  Hegel had to seek employment elsewhere and so he took a job as editor of a  newspaper in Bamberg, Bavaria in 1807 (Die Bamberger Zeitung) followed by  a move to Nuremberg in 1808 where Hegel became headmaster of a preparatory school  (Gymnasium), roughly equivalent to a high school, and also taught  philosophy to the students there until 1816.  During this time Hegel married, had  children, and published his Science of Logic (Wissenschaft der Logik) in  three volumes.
One year following the defeat of Napoleon at Waterloo (1815), Hegel took the  position of Professor of Philosophy at the University of Heidelberg where he  published his first edition of the Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences  in Outline (Encyklopädie der philosophischen Wissenschaften im  Grundrisse, 1817).  In 1818 he became Professor of Philosophy at the  University of Berlin, through the invitation of the Prussion minister von  Altenstein (who had introduced many liberal reforms in Prussia until the fall of  Napoleon), and Hegel taught there until he died in 1831.  Hegel lectured on  various topics in philosophy, most notably on history, art, religion, and the  history of philosophy and he became quite famous and influential.  He held public  positions as a member of the Royal Examination Commission of the Province of  Brandenberg and also as a councellor in the Ministry of Education.  In 1821 he  published the Philosophy of Right (Philosophie des Rechts) and in  1830 was given the honor of being elected Rector of the University.   On November  14, 1831 Hegel died of cholera in Berlin, four months after having been decorated  by Friedrich Wilhelm III of Prussia.
Apart from his philosophical works on history, society, and the state, Hegel  wrote several political tracts most of which were not published in his lifetime  but which are significant enough in connection to the theoretical writings to  deserve some mention.  (These are published in English translation in Hegel’s  Political Writings and Political Writings, listed in the bibliography  of works by Hegel below.)
Hegel’s very first political work was on “On the Recent Domestic  Affairs of Wurtemberg” (Über die neuesten innern Verhältnisse  Württembergs…, 1798) which was neither completed nor published.  In  it Hegel expresses the view that the constitutional structure of Wurtemberg  requires fundamental reform.  He condemns the absolutist rule of Duke Ferdinand  along with the narrow traditionalism and legal positivism of his officials and  welcomes the convening of the Estates Assembly, while disagreeing with the method  of election in the Diet.  In contrast to the existing system of oligarchic  privilege, Hegel argues that the Diet needs to be based on popular election  through local town councils, although this should not be done by granting  suffrage to an uneducated multitude.  The essay ends inconclusively on the  appropriate method of political representation.
A quite long piece of about 100 pages, The German Constitution (Die  Verfassung Deutchlands) was written and revised by Hegel between 1799 and  1802 and was not published until after his death in 1893.  This piece provides an  analysis and critique of the constitution of the German Empire with the main  theme being that the Empire is a thing of the past and that appeals for a unified  German state are anachronistic.  Hegel finds a certain hypocrisy in German  thinking about the Empire and a gap between theory and practice in the German  constitution.  Germany was no longer a state governed by law but rather a  plurality of independent political entities with disparate practices.  Hegel  stresses the need to recognize that the realities of the modern state necessitate  a strong public authority along with a populace that is free and unregimented.  The principle of government in the modern world is constitutional monarchy, the  potentialities of which can be seen in Austria and Prussia.  Hegel ends the essay  on an uncertain note with the idea that Germany as a whole could be saved only  by some Machiavellian genius.
The essay “Proceedings of the Estates Assembly in the Kingdom of  Württemberg, 1815-1816″ was published in 1817 in the Heidelbergische  Jahrbücher.  In it Hegel commented on sections of the official report of  the Diet of Württemberg, focusing on the opposition by the Estates to the  King’s request for ratification of a new constitutional charter that recognized  recent liberalizing changes and reforms. Hegel sided with King Frederick and  criticized the Estates as being reactionary in their appeal to old customary laws  and feudal property rights.  There has been controversy over whether Hegel here  was trying to gain favor with the King in order to attain a government position.   However, Hegel’s favoring a sovereign kingdom of Wurtemberg over the  German Empire and the need for a constitutional charter that is more rational  than the previous are quite continuous with the previous essays.  A genuine state  needs a strong and effective central public authority, and in resisting the  Estates are trying to live in the feudal past.  Moreover, Hegel is not uncritical  of the King’s constitutional provisions and finds deficiencies in the exclusion  of members of professions from the Estates Assembly as well as in the proposal  for direct suffrage in representation, which treats citizens like unintegrated  atomic units rather than as members of a political community.
The last of Hegel’s political tracts, “The English Reform Bill,” was written  in installments in 1831 for the ministerial newspaper, the Preussische  Staatszeitung, but was interrupted due to censure by the Prussian King  because of the perception of its being overly critical and anti-English.  As a  result, the remainder of the work was printed independently and distributed  discretely.  Hegel’s main line of criticism is that the proposed English reforms  of suffrage will not make much of a difference in the distribution of political  power and may only create a power struggle between the rising group of  politicians and the traditional ruling class.  Moreover, there are deep problems  in English society that cannot be addressed by the proposed electoral reforms,  including political corruption in the English burroughs, the selling of seats in  parliament, and the general oligarchic nature of social reality including the  wide disparities between wealth and poverty, Ecclesiastical patronage, and conditions  in Ireland.  While Hegel supports the idea of reform with its appeal to rational  change as against the “positivity” of customary law, traditionalism and  privilege, he thinks that universalizing suffrage with a property qualification  without a thorough reform of the system of Common Law and the existing social  conditions will only be perceived as token measures leading to greater  disenchantment among the newly enfranchised and possibly inclinations to violent  revolution.  Hegel claims that national pride keeps the English from studying and  following the reforms of the European Continent or seriously reflecting upon and  grasping the nature of government and legislation.
There are several overall themes that reoccur in these political writings and  that connect with some of the main lines of thought in Hegel’s theoretical works.   First, there is the contrast between the attitude of legal positivism and the  appeal to the law of reason.  Hegel consistently displays a “political  rationalism” which attacks old concepts and attitudes that no longer apply to the  modern world.  Old constitutions stemming from the Feudal era are a confused  mixture of customary laws and special privileges that must give way to the  constitutional reforms of the new social and political world that has arrived in  the aftermath of the French Revolution.  Second, reforms of old constitutions  must be thorough and radical, but also cautious and gradual.  This might sound  somewhat inconsistent, but for Hegel a reform is radical due to a fundamental  change in direction, not the speed of such change.  Hegel suggests that customary  institutions not be abolished too quickly for there must be some congruence and  continuity with the existing social conditions.  Hegel rejects violent popular  action and sees the principal force for reform in governments and the estates  assemblies, and he thinks reforms should always stress legal equality and the  public welfare.  Third, Hegel emphasizes the need for a strong central  government, albeit without complete centralized control of public administration  and social relations.  Hegel here anticipates his later conception of civil  society (bürgerliche Gesellschaft), the social realm of individual  autonomy where there is significant local self-governance.  The task of  government is not to thoroughly bureaucratize civil society but rather to provide  oversight, regulation, and when necessary intervention.  Fourth, Hegel claims  that representation of the people must be popular but not atomistic.  The  democratic element in a state is not its sole feature and it must be  institutionalized in a rational manner.  Hegel rejects universal suffrage as  irrational because it provides no means of mediation between the individual and  the state as a whole.  Hegel believed that the masses lacked the experience and  political education to be directly involved in national elections and policy  matters and that direct suffrage leads to electoral indifference and apathy.  Fifth, while acknowledging the importance of a division of powers in the public  authority, Hegel does not appeal to a conception of separation and balance of  powers.  He views the estates assemblies, which safeguard freedom, as essentially  related to the monarch and also stresses the role of civil servants and members  of the professions, both in ministerial positions and in the assemblies.  The  monarchy, however, is the central supporting element in the constitutional  structure because the monarch is invested with the sovereignty of the state.  However, the power of the monarch is not despotical for he exercises authority  through universal laws and statutes and is advised and assisted by a ministry and  civil service, all members of which must meet educational requirements.
Hegel wrote several pieces while at the University of Jena that point in the  direction of some of the main theses of the Philosophy of Right.  The  first was entitled “On the Scientific Modes of Treatment of Natural Law–Its  Place in Practical Philosophy and Its Relationship to the Positive Science of  Law” (Über die wissenschaftlichen Behandlungsarten des  Naturrechts…), published originally in the Kritisches Journal der  Philosophie in 1802, edited jointly by Hegel and Schelling.  In this piece,  usually referred to as the essay on Natural Law, Hegel criticizes both the  empirical and formal approaches to natural law, as exemplified in British and  Kantian philosophy respectively.  Empiricism reaches conclusions that are limited  by the particularities of its contexts and materials and thus cannot provide  universally valid propositions regarding the concepts of various social and  political institutions or of the relation of reflective consciousness to social  and political experience.  Formalist conclusions, on the other hand, are too  insubstantial and abstract in failing to properly link human reason concretely to  human experience.  Traditional natural law theories are based on an abstract  rationalism and the attempts of Rousseau, Kant, and Fichte to remedy this through  their various ethical conceptions fail to overcome abstractness.  For Hegel, the  proper method of philosophical science must link concretely the development of  the human mind and its rational powers to actual experience.  Moreover, the  concept of a social and political community must transcend the instrumentalizing  of the state.
Hegel’s work entitled “The System of Ethical Life” (System der  Sittlichkeit) was written in 1802-03 and first published in its entirety by  Georg Lasson in 1913 in a volume entitled Schriften zur Politik und  Rechtsphilosophie.  In this work, Hegel develops a philosophical theory of  social and political development that correlates with the self-development of  essential human powers.  Historically, humans begin in an immediate relation to  nature and their social existence takes the form of natürliche  Sittlichkeit, i.e., a non-selfconscious relation to nature and to others.  However, the satisfaction of human desires leads to their reproduction and  multiplication and leads to the necessity for labor, which induces transformation  in the human world and people’s connections to it.  This process leads to a  self-realization that undermines the original naïve unity with nature and  others and to the formation of overtly cooperative endeavors, e.g., in the making  and use of tools.  Another result of labor is the emergence of private property  as an embodiment of human personality as well as of sets of legal relationships  that institutionalize property ownership, exchange, etc., and deal with crimes  against property.  Furthermore, disparities in property and power lead to  relationships of subordination and the use of the labor of others to satisfy  one’s increasingly complex and expanded desires.  Gradually, a system of mutual  dependence, a “system of needs,” develops, and along with the increasing  division of labor there also develops class differentiations reflecting the types  of labor or activity taken up by members of each class, which Hegel classifies  into the agricultural, acquisitive, and administerial classes.  However, despite  relations of interdependence and cooperation the members of society experience  social connections as a sort of blind fate without some larger system of control  which is provided by the state which regulates the economic life of society.  The  details of the structure of the state are unclear in this essay, but what is  clear is that for Hegel the state provides an increased rationality to social  practices, much in the sense that the later German sociologist Max Weber  (1864-1920) would articulate how social practices become more rational by  being codified and made more predictable.
The manuscripts entitled Realphilosophie are based on lectures Hegel  delivered at Jena University in 1803-04 (Realphilosophie I) and 1805-06  (Realphilosophie II), and were originally published by Johannes  Hoffmeister in 1932.  These writings cover much of the same ground as the  System der Sittlichkeit in explicating a philosophy of mind and human  experience in relation to human social and political development.  Some of the  noteworthy ideas in these writings are the role and significance of language for  social consciousness, for giving expression to a people (Volk) and for the  comprehending of and mastery of the world, and the necessity and consequences of  the fragmentation of primordial social relationships and patterns as part of the  process of human development.  Also, there is a reiteration of the importance of  property relations as crucial to social recognition and how there would be no  security of property or recognition of property rights if society were to remain  a mere multitude of families.  Such security requires a system of control over  the “struggle for recognition” through interpersonal norms, rules, and juridical  authority provided by the nation state.  Moreover, Hegel repeats the need for  strong state regulation of the economy, which if left to its own workings is  blind to the needs of the social community.  The economy, especially through the  division of labor, produces fragmentation and diminishment of human life (compare  Marx on alienation) and the state must not only address this phenomenon but also  provide the means for the people’s political participation to further the  development of social self-consciousness.  In all of this Hegel appears to be  providing a philosophical account of modern developments both in terms of the  tensions and conflicts that are new to modernity as well as in the progressive  movements of reform found under the influence of Napoleon.
Finally, Hegel also discusses the forms of government, the three main types  being tyranny, democracy, and hereditary monarchy.  Tyranny is found typically in  primitive or undeveloped states, democracy exists in states where there is the  realization of individual identity but no split between the public and private  person, and hereditary monarchy is the appropriate form of political authority in  the modern world in providing strong central government along with a system of  indirect representation through Estates.   The relation of religion to the state  is undeveloped in these writings, but Hegel is clear about the supereminent role  of the state that stands above all else in giving expression to the Spirit  (Geist) of a society in a sort of earthly kingdom of God, the realization  of God in the world.  True religion complements and supports this realization and  thus cannot properly have supremacy over or be opposed to the state.
The Phenomenology of Spirit (Die Phänomenologie des  Geistes), published in 1807, is Hegel’s first major comprehensive  philosophical work.  Originally intended to be the first part of his  comprehensive system of science (Wissenschaft) or philosophy, Hegel  eventually considered it to be the introduction to his system.  This work  provides what can be called a “biography of spirit,” i.e., an account of the  development of consciousness and self-consciousness in the context of some  central epistemological, anthropological and cultural themes of human history.  It has continuity with the works discussed above in examining the development of  the human mind in relation to human experience but is more wide-ranging in also  addressing fundamental questions about the meaning of perceiving, knowing, and  other cognitive activities as well as of the nature of reason and reality. Given  the focus of this essay, the themes of the Phenomenology to be  discussed here are those directly relevant to Hegel’s social and political  thought.
One of the most widely discussed places in the Phenomenology is the  chapter on “The Truth of Self-Certainty” which includes a subsection on  “Independence and Dependence of Self-Consciousness: Lordship and Bondage.”  This  section treats of the (somewhat misleadingly named) “master/slave” struggle which  is taken by some, especially the Marxian-inspired, as a paradigm of all forms of  social conflict, in particular the struggle between social classes.  It is clear  that Hegel intended the scenario to typify certain features of the struggle for  recognition (Anerkennung) overall, be it social, personal, etc.  The  conflict between master and slave (which shall be referred to hereafter as lord and  bondsman as more in keeping with Hegel’s own terminology and the intended generic  meaning) is one in which the historical themes of dominance and obedience,  dependence and independence, etc., are philosophically introduced.  Although this  specific dialectic of struggle occurs only at the earliest stages of  self-consciousness, it nonetheless sets up the main problematic for achieving  realized self-consciousness–the gaining of self-recognition through the  recognition of and by another, through mutual recognition.
According to Hegel, the relationship between self and otherness is the  fundamental defining characteristic of human awareness and activity, being rooted  as it is in the emotion of desire for objects as well as in the estrangement from  those objects, which is part of the primordial human experience of the world. The  otherness that consciousness experiences as a barrier to its goal is the external  reality of the natural and social world, which prevents individual consciousness  from becoming free and independent.  However, that otherness cannot be abolished  or destroyed, without destroying oneself, and so ideally there must be  reconciliation between self and other such that consciousness can “universalize”  itself through the other.  In the relation of dominance and subservience between  two consciousnesses, say lord and bondsman, the basic problem for consciousness  is the overcoming of its otherness, or put positively, the achieving of  integration with itself.  The relation between lord and bondsman leads to a sort  of provisional, incomplete resolution of the struggle for recognition between  distinct consciousnesses.
Hegel asks us to consider how a struggle between two distinct consciousnesses,  let us say a violent “life-or-death” struggle, would lead to one consciousness  surrendering and submitting to the other out of fear of death.  Initially, the  consciousness that becomes lord or master proves its freedom through willingness  to risk its life and not submit to the other out of fear of death, and thus not  identify simply with its desire for life and physical being.  Moreover, this  consciousness is given acknowledgement of its freedom through the submission and  dependence of the other, which turns out paradoxically to be a deficient  recognition in that the dominant one fails to see a reflection of itself in the  subservient one.   Adequate recognition requires a mirroring of the self through  the other, which means that to be successful it must be mutual.  In the ensuing  relationship of lordship and bondage, furthermore, the bondsman through work and  discipline (motivated by fear of dying at the hands of the master or lord)  transforms his subservience into a mastery over his environment, and thus  achieves a measure of independence.  In objectifying himself in his environment  through his labor the bondsman in effect realizes himself, with his transformed  environment serving as a reflection of his inherently self-realizing activity.  Thus, the bondsman gains a measure of independence in his subjugation out of fear  of death.  In a way, the lord represents death as the absolute subjugator, since  it is through fear of this master, of the death that he can impose, that the  bondsman in his acquiescence and subservience is placed into a social context of  work and discipline.  Yet despite, or more properly, because of this subjection  the bondsman is able to attain a measure of independence by internalizing and  overcoming those limitations which must be dealt with if he is to produce  efficiently.  However, this accomplishment, the self-determination of the  bondsman, is limited and incomplete because of the asymmetry that remains in his  relation to the lord.  Self-consciousness is still fragmented, i.e., the  objectification through labor that the bondsman experiences does not coincide  with the consciousness of the lord whose sense of self is not through labor but  through power over the bondsman and enjoyment of the fruits of the bondsman’s  labor.  Only in a realm of ethical life can self-determination be fully  self-conscious to the extent that universal freedom is reflected in the life of  each individual member of society.
Thus, in the Phenomenology consciousness must move on through the  phases of Stoicism, Skepticism, and the Unhappy Consciousness before engaging in  the self-articulation of Reason, and it is not until the section  “Objective  Spirit: The Ethical Order” that the full universalization of self-consciousness  is in principle to be met with.  Here we find a shape of human existence where  all men work freely, serving the needs of the whole community rather than of  masters, and subject only to the “discipline of reason.” This mode of ethical  life, typified in ancient Greek democracy, also eventually disintegrates, as is  expressed in the conflict between human and divine law and the tragic fate that  is the outcome of this conflict illustrated in the story of Antigone.  However,  the ethical life described here is still in its immediacy and is therefore at a  level of abstractness that falls short of the mediation of subjectivity and  universality which is provided spiritually in revealed Christianity and  politically in the modern state, which purportedly provides a solution to human  conflict arising from the struggle for recognition. In any case, the rest of the  Phenomenology is devoted to examinations of culture (including  enlightenment and revolution), morality, religion, and finally, Absolute  Knowing.
The dialectic of self-determination is, for Hegel, inherent in the very  structure of freedom, and is the defining feature of Spirit (Geist).  The  full actualization of Spirit in the human community requires the progressive  development of individuality which effectively begins with the realization in  self-consciousness of the “truth of self-certainty” and culminates in the shape  of a shared common life in an integrated community of love and Reason, based upon  the realization of truths of incarnation, death, resurrection, and forgiveness as  grasped in speculative Religion.  The articulation Hegel provides in the  Phenomenology, however, is very generic and is to be made concrete  politically with the working out of a specific conception of the modern  nation-state with its particular configuration of social and political  institutions.  It is to the latter that we must turn in order to see how these  fundamental dialectical considerations take shape in the “solution” to the  struggle for recognition in self-consciousness.  However, before moving directly  to Hegel’s theory of the state, and history, some discussion of his Logic is in order.
The Logic constitutes the first part of Hegel’s philosophical system as  presented in his Encyclopedia.  It was preceded by his larger work, The  Science of Logic (Wissenschaft der Logik),  published in 1812-16 in  two volumes.  The “Encyclopedia Logic” is a shorter version intended to function  as part of an “outline,” but it became longer in the course of the three  published versions of 1817, 1827, and 1830.  Also, the English translation by  William Wallace contains additions from the notes of students who heard Hegel’s  lectures on this subject.  (Reference to the paragraphs of the Encyclopedia will be made with the “¶” character.)
The structure of the Logic is triadic, reflecting the organization of  the larger system of philosophy as well as a variety of other motifs, both  internal and external to the Logic proper.  The Logic has three  divisions: the Doctrine of Being, the Doctrine of Essence, and the Doctrine of  the Notion (or Concept).  There are a number of logical categories in this work  that are directly relevant to social and political theorizing.  In the Doctrine  of Being, for example, Hegel explains the concept of “being-for-self” as the  function of self-relatedness in the resolving of opposition between self and  other in the “ideality of the finite” (¶ 95-96). He claims that the task of  philosophy is to bring out the ideality of the finite, and as will be seen later  Hegel’s philosophy of the state is intended to articulate the ideality of the  state, i.e., its affirmative and infinite or rational features.  In the Doctrine  of Essence, Hegel explains the categories of actuality and freedom.  He says that  actuality is the unity of “essence and existence” (¶ 142) and argues that  this does not rule out the actuality of ideas for they become actual by being  realized in external existence.  Hegel will have related points to make about the  actuality of the idea of the state in society and history.  Also, he defines  freedom not in terms of contingency or lack of determination, as is popular, but  rather as the “truth of necessity,” i.e., freedom presupposes necessity in the  sense that reciprocal action and reaction provide a structure for free action,  e.g., a necessary relation between crime and punishment.
The Doctrine of the Notion (Begriff) is perhaps the most relevant  section of the Logic to social and political theory due to its focus on  the various dynamics of development.  This section is subdivided into three  parts: the subjective notion, the objective notion, and the idea which  articulates the unity of subjective and objective.  The first part, the  subjective notion, contains three “moments” or functional parts: universality,  particularity, and individuality (¶ 163ff).  These are particularly  important as Hegel will show how the functional parts of the state operate  according to a progressive “dialectical” movement from the first to the third  moments and how the state as a whole, as a functioning and integrated totality,  gives expression to the concept of  individuality (in ¶198 Hegel refers to  the state as “a system of three syllogisms”).  Hegel treats these relationships  as logical judgments and syllogisms but they do not merely articulate how the  mind must operate (subjectivity) but also explain actual relationships in reality  (objectivity).  In objective reality we find these logical/dialectical  relationships in mechanism, chemism, and teleology.  Finally, in the Idea, the  correspondence of the notion or concept with objective reality, we have the truth of  objects or objects as they ought to be, i.e., as they correspond to their  proper concepts.  The logical articulation of the Idea is very important to  Hegel’s explanation of the Idea of the state in modern history, for this provides  the principles of rationality that guide the development of Spirit in the world  and that become manifested in various ways in social and political life.
In 1821, Hegel’s Philosophy of Right orginally appeared under the  double title Naturrecht und Staatswissenschaften in Grundrisse; Grundlinien  der Philosophie des Rechts (Natural Law and the Science of the State;  Elements of the Philosophy of Right).  The work was republished by Eduard Gans in  1833 and 1854 as part of Hegel’s Werke, vol. viii and included additions from  notes taken by students at Hegel’s lectures.  The English language translation of  this work by T. M. Knox refers to these later editions as well as to an  edition published in 1923 by Georg Lasson, which included corrections from  previous editions.
The Philosophy of Right constitutes, along with Hegel’s Philosophy of  History, the penultimate section of his Encyclopedia, the section on  Objective Spirit, which deals with the human world and its array of social rules  and institutions, including the moral, legal, religious, economic, and political  as well as marriage, the family, social classes, and other forms of human  organization.  The German word Recht is often translated as ‘law’,  however, Hegel clearly intends the term to have a broader meaning that captures  what we might call the good or just society, one that is “rightful” in its  structure, composition, and practices.
In the Introduction to this work Hegel explains the concept of his  philosophical undertaking along with the specific key concepts of  will, freedom,  and right.   At the very beginning, Hegel states that the Idea of right, the  concept together with its actualization, is the proper subject of the  philosophical science of right (¶ 1).  Hegel is emphatic that the study is  scientific in that it deals in a systematic way with something essentially  rational.  He further remarks that the basis of scientific procedure in a  philosophy of right is explicated in philosophical logic and presupposed by the  former (¶ 2).  Furthermore, Hegel is at pains to distinguish the historical  or legal approach to “positive law” (Gesetz) and the philosophical  approach to the Idea of right (Recht), the former involving mere  description and compilation of laws as legal facts while the latter probes into  the inner meaning and necessary determinations of law or right.  For Hegel the  justification of something, the finding of its inherent rationality, is not a  matter of seeking its origins or longstanding features but rather of studying it  conceptually.
However, there is one sense in which the origin of right is relevant to  philosophical science and this is the free will.  The free will is the basis and  origin of right in the sense that mind or spirit (Geist) generally  objectifies itself in a system of right (human social and political  institutions) that gives expression to freedom, which Hegel says is both the  substance and goal of right (¶ 4).  This ethical life in the state consists  in the unity of the universal and the subjective will. The universal will is  contained in the Idea of freedom as its essence, but when considered apart from  the subjective will can be thought of only abstractly or indeterminately.  Considered apart from the subjective or particular will, the universal will is  “the element of pure indeterminacy or that pure reflection of the ego into  itself which involves  the dissipation of every restriction  and  every content  either immediately presented by nature, by  needs, desires, and impulses, or  given and determined by any means whatever” (¶ 5).  In other words, the  universal will is that moment in the Idea of freedom where willing is thought of  as state of absolutely  unrestrained volition, unfettered by any particular  circumstances or limitations whatsoever–the pure form  of willing.  This is  expressed in the modern libertarian view of completely uncoerced choice, the  absence of restraint (or “negative liberty” as understood by Thomas Hobbes).  The subjective will, on the other hand, is the principle of activity and  realization that involves  “differentiation, determination, and positing of a  determinacy as a content and object” (¶ 6).  This means that the will is  not merely unrestrained in acting but that it actually can give expression to the  doing or accomplishing of certain things, e.g., through talent or expertise  (sometimes called “positive freedom”).  The unity of both the moments of  abstract universality (the will in-itself) and subjectivity or particularity (the  will for-itself) is the concrete universal or true individuality (the will  in-and-for-itself).  According to Hegel, preservation of the distinction of these  two moments in the unity  (identity-in-difference) between universal and  particular will is what produces rational self-determination of an ego, as well  as the self-consciousness of the state as a whole.  Hegel’s conception of freedom  as self-determination is just this unity in difference of the universal and  subjective will, be it in the willing by individual persons or in the expressions  of will  by groups of individuals or collectivities.  The “negative  self-relation” of this freedom involves the subordination of the natural  instincts, impulses, and desires to conscious reflection and to goals and  purposes that are consciously chosen and that require commitment to rational  principles in order to properly guide action.
The overall structure of the Philosophy of Right is quite remarkable in  its “syllogistic” organization.  The main division of the work corresponds to  what Hegel calls the stages in the development of “the Idea of the absolutely  free will,” and these are Abstract Right, Morality, and Ethical Life.  Each of  these divisions is further subdivided triadically:  under Abstract Right there is  Property, Contract, and Wrong; under Morality falls Purpose and Responsibility,  Intention and Welfare, and Good and Conscience; finally, under Ethical Life comes  the Family, Civil Society, and the State.  These last subdivisions are further  subdivided into triads, with fourth level subdivisions occurring under Civil  Society and the State.   This triadic system of rubrics is no mere description of  a static model of social and political life.  Hegel claims that it gives  expression to the conceptual development of Spirit in human society based upon  the purely logical development of rationality provided in his Logic.  Thus, it is speculatively based and not derivable from empirical survey, although  the particularities of the system do indeed correspond to our experience and what  we know about ourselves anthropologically, culturally, etc.
The transition in the Logic from universality to particularity to  individuality (or concrete universality) is expressed in the social and political  context in the conceptual transition  from Abstract Right to Morality to Ethical  Life.  In the realm of Abstract Right, the will remains in its immediacy as an  abstract universal  that is expressed in personality and in the universal right  to possession of external things in property.  In the realm of  Morality,  the  will is no longer merely “in-itself,” or restricted to the specific  characteristics of legal personality, but becomes free “for-itself,” i.e., it is  will reflected into itself so as to produce a self-consciousness of the will’s  infinity.  The will is expressed, initially, in inner conviction and subsequently   in purpose, intention, and conviction.  As opposed to the merely juridical  person, the moral agent places primary value on subjective recognition of  principles or ideals that stand higher than positive law.  At this stage,  universality of a higher moral law is viewed as something inherently different  from subjectivity, from the will’s inward convictions and actions, and so in its  isolation from a system of objectively recognized legal rules the willing subject   remains “abstract, restricted, and formal” (¶ 108).  Because  the subject  is intrinsically a social being who needs association with others in order to  institutionalize the universal maxims of morality, maxims that cover all people,  it is only in the realm of Ethical Life that the universal and the subjective  will come into a unity through the objectification of the will in the  institutions of the Family, Civil Society, and the State.
In what follows, we trace through Hegel’s systematic development of the  “stages of the will,” highlighting only the most important points as necessary to  get an overall view of this work.
The  subject  of  Abstract Right (Recht) is the person as the bearer or  holder of individual rights.  Hegel claims that this focus on the right of  personality, while significant in distinguishing persons from mere things, is  abstract and without content, a  simple relation of the will to itself.  The  imperative of right is:  “Be a person and respect others as  persons” (¶  36).  In this formal conception of right, there is no question of  particular  interests, advantages, motives or intentions, but only the mere idea of the  possibility of choosing based on the having of permission, as long as one does  not infringe on the right of other persons.  Because of the possibilities of  infringement, the positive form of commands in this sphere are prohibitions.
A person must translate his or her freedom into the external world “in order  to exist as Idea” (¶ 41), thus abstract right manifests itself in the  absolute right of appropriation over all things.  Property is the category  through which one becomes an object  to oneself in that one actualizes the will  through possession of something external.  Property is the embodiment of  personality and of freedom.  Not only can a person put his or her will into  something external through the taking possession of it and of using it, but one  can also alienate property or yield it to the will of another, including the  ability to labor for a restricted period of time.  One’s personality is  inalienable and one’s right to personality imprescriptible.  This means one  cannot alienate all of one’s labor time without becoming the property of another.
In this sphere, we have a relation of will to will, i.e., one holds property  not merely by means of the subjective will externalized in a thing, but by means  of another’s person’s will, and implicitly by virtue of one’s participation in a  common will.  The status of being an independent owner of something from which  one excludes the will of another is thus mediated in the identification of one’s  will with the other in the contractual relation, which presupposes that the  contracting parties “recognize each other as persons and property owners” (¶  71).  (Note the significant development here beyond the dialectic of lord and  bondsman.)  Moreover, when contract involves the alienation or giving up of  property, the external thing is now an explicit embodiment of the unity of wills.   In contractual relations of exchange, what remains identical as the property of  the individuals is its value, in respect to which the parties to the contract are  on an equal footing, regardless of the qualitative external differences between  the  things exchanged.  “Value is the universal in which the subjects of the  contract participate” (¶ 77).
In immediate relations of persons to one another it is possible for a  particular will to be at variance with the universal through arbitrariness of  decision and contingency of circumstance, and so the appearance  (Erscheinung) of right takes on the character  of a show (Schein),  which is the inessential, arbitrary, posing  as the essential.  If the “show” is  only implicit and not explicit also, i.e., if the  wrong  passes in the doer’s  eyes as right, the  wrong  is  non-malicious.  In fraud a show is made to deceive  the other party and so in the doer’s eyes the right asserted is only a show.  Crime is wrong both in itself and from the doer’s point of view, such that wrong  is willed without even the pretense or show of right.  Here the form of acting  does not imply a recognition of  right but rather is an act of coercion through  exercise of force.  It is a “negatively infinite judgement” in that it asserts a  denial of rights to the victim, which is not only incompatible with the fact of  the matter but also self-negating in denying its own capacity for rights in  principle.
The penalty that falls on the criminal is not merely just but is “a right  established within the criminal himself, i.e., in his objectively embodied  will, in his action,” because the crime as the action of a rational  being  implies appeal to a universal standard recognized by the criminal (¶ 100).  The annulling of crime in this sphere of immediate right occurs first as revenge,  which as retributive is just in its content, but  in its form it is an act of a  subjective will and does not correspond with its universal content and hence as a  new transgression is defective and contradictory (¶ 102).  All crimes are  comparable in their universal property of being injuries, thus, in a sense it is  not something personal but the concept itself which carries out retribution.
Crime, as the will which is implicitly null, contains its negation in itself,  which is its punishment.
The nullity of crime is that it has set aside  right as such, but since right is absolute it cannot be set aside.  Thus, the act  of crime is not something positive, not a first thing, but  is something  negative, and punishment is the negation of crime’s negation.
The demand for justice as punishment rather than as revenge, with regard to  wrong, implies the demand for a will which, though particular and subjective,  also wills the universal as such.  In wrong  the will has become aware of itself  as particular and has opposed itself to and contradicted the universal embodied  in rights.  At this stage the universally right is abstract and one-sided and  thus requires a move to a higher level of self-consciousness where the  universally right is mediated by the particular convictions of the willing  subject.  We go beyond the criminal’s defiance of the universal by substituting  for the abstract  conception of personality the more concrete conception of  subjectivity.  The criminal is now viewed as breaking his own law, and his crime  is a self-contradiction and not only a contradiction of a right outside  him.  This recognition brings us to the level of morality (Moralität) where  the will is free both in itself and for itself, i.e., the will is self-conscious  of its subjective freedom.
At  the level of morality the right of the subjective will is embodied in  immediate wills (as opposed to immediate things like property).  The defect of  this level, however,  is  that  the  subject is  only  for  itself, i.e., one is  conscious  of  one’s subjectivity  and  independence  but  is conscious  of  universality only as something different  from this subjectivity.  Therefore, the  identity of the particular will and the universal will is only implicit and the  moral point of view is that of a relation  of  “ought-to-be,” or the demand for  what is right. While the moral will externalizes itself in action, its  self-determination is a  pure “restlessness” of activity that never arrives at  actualization.
The right of the moral will has three aspects.  First, there is the right of  the will to act in its external environment, to recognize as its actions only  those that it has consciously willed in light of an aim or purpose (purpose and  responsibility).  Second, in my intention I ought to be aware not simply of my  particular action but also of the universal which is conjoined with it.  The  universal is what I have willed and is my intention.  The right of intention is  that the universal quality of the action is not merely implied but is known by  the agent, and so it lies from the start in one’s subjective will.  Moreover, the  content of such a will is not only the right of the particular subject to be  satisfied but is elevated to a universal end, the end of welfare or happiness  (intention and welfare).  The welfare of many unspecified persons is thus also an  essential end and right of subjectivity.   However, right as an abstract  universal and welfare as abstract particularity, may collide, since both are  contingent on circumstances for their satisfaction, e.g., in cases where claims  of right or welfare by someone may endanger the life of another there can be a  counter-claim to a right of distress. “This distress reveals the finitude and  therefore the contingency of both right and welfare” (¶ 128).  This  “contradiction” between right and welfare is overcome in the third aspect of the  moral will, the good which is “the Idea as the unity of the concept of the will  with the particular will” (¶ 129).
In addition to the right of the subjective will that whatever it recognizes as  valid shall be seen by it as good, and  that an action shall be imputed to it as  good or evil  in accordance with its knowledge of the worth which the action has  in its external objectivity (¶ 132), which together constitute a “right of  insight,” the will also must recognize the good as its duty,  which  is,  to  begin  with,  duty for duty’s sake, or duty  formally and without content (e.g.,  as expressed in the Kantian “categorical imperative”).  Because of this  lack of  content, the subjective will in its abstract reflection into itself is “absolute  inward certainty (Gewißheit) of self,” or conscience (Gewissen).  While true or authentic conscience is the disposition to will what is absolutely  good, and thus correspond with what is objectively right, purely formal  conscience lacks an objective system of principles and duties.  Although  conscience is ideally supposed to mean the identity of subjective knowing and  willing with the truly good, when it remains the subjective inner reflection of  self-consciousness into itself its claim to this identity is deficient and  one-sided.  Moreover, when the determinate character of right and duty reduces to  subjectivity,  the mere inwardness of the will, there is the potentiality of  elevating the self-will of particular individuals above the universal itself,  i.e., of “slipping into evil” (¶ 139).  What makes a person evil is the  choosing of natural desires in opposition to the good, i.e., to the concept of  the will.  When an individual attempts to pass off his or her action as good, and  thus imposing it on others, while being aware of the discrepancy between its  negative character and the objective universal good, the person falls into  hypocrisy.  This is one of several forms of perverse moral subjectivity that  Hegel discusses at length in his remarks (¶ 140).
Hegel’s analysis of the moral implications of “good and conscience” leads to  the conclusion that a concrete unity of the objective good with the subjectivity  of the will cannot be achieved at the level of personal morality since all  attempts at this are problematic.  The concrete identity of the good with the  subjective  will occurs only in moving to the level of ethical life  (Sittlichkeit), which Hegel says is “the Idea of freedom…the concept  of freedom developed into the existing world and the nature of  self-consciousness” (¶ 142).  Thus, ethical life is permeated with both  objectivity and subjectivity: regarded objectively it is the state and its  institutions, whose force (unlike abstract right) depends entirely on the  self-consciousness of citizens, on their subjective freedom; regarded  subjectively it is the ethical will of the individual which (unlike the moral  will) is aware of objective duties that express one’s inner sense of universality.  The rationality of the ethical order of society is thus constituted in the  synthesis of the concept of the will, both as universal and as particular, with  its embodiment in institutional life.
The synthesis of ethical life means that individuals not only act in  conformity with the ethical good but that they recognize the authority of ethical  laws.  This authority is not something alien to individuals since they are linked  to the ethical order through a strong identification which Hegel says “is more  like an identity than even the relation of faith or trust” (¶ 147).  The  knowledge of how the laws and institutions of society are binding on the will of  individuals entails a “doctrine of duties.”   In duty the individual finds  liberation both from dependence on mere natural impulse, which may or may not  motivate ethical actions, and  from indeterminate subjectivity which cannot  produce a clear view of proper action.  “In duty the individual acquires his  substantive freedom” (¶ 149).  In the performance of duty the individual  exhibits virtue when the ethical order is reflected in his or her character, and  when this is done by simple conformity with one’s duties it is rectitude.  When  individuals are simply identified with the actual ethical order such that their  ethical practices are habitual and second nature, ethical life appears in their  general mode of conduct as custom (Sitten).  Thus, the ethical order  manifests its right and validity vis-à-vis individuals.  In duty “the self-will  of the individual vanishes together with his private conscience which had claimed  independence and opposed itself to the ethical substance.  For when his character  is ethical, he recognizes as the end which moves him to act the universal which  is itself unmoved but is disclosed in its specific determinations as rationality  actualized.  He knows that his own dignity and the whole stability of his  particular ends are grounded in this same universal, and it is therein that he  actually attains these” (¶ 152).  However, this does not deny the right of  subjectivity, i.e., the right of individuals to be satisfied in their particular  pursuits and free activity; but this right is realized only in belonging to an  objective ethical order.  The “bond of duty” will be seen as a restriction on the  particular individual only if the self-will of subjective freedom is considered  in the abstract, apart from an ethical order (as is the case for both Abstract  Right and Morality).  “Hence, in this  identity of the universal will with the  particular will, right and duty coalesce, and by being in the ethical order a man  has rights in so far as he has duties, and duties in so far as he has rights”  (¶ 155).
In the realm of ethical life the logical syllogism of self-determination of  the Idea is most clearly applied.  The moments of universality, particularity,  and individuality initially are represented respectively in the institutions of  the family, civil society, and the state.  The family is “ethical mind in its  natural or immediate phase” and is characterized by love or the feeling of unity  in which one is not conscious of oneself as an independent person but only as a  member of the family unit to which one is bound.  Civil society, on the other  hand, comprises an association of individuals considered as self-subsistent and  who have no conscious sense of unity of membership but only pursue  self-interest, e.g., in satisfying needs, acquiring and protecting property, and  in joining organizations for mutual advantage.  Finally, the constitution of the  political state brings together in a unity the sense of the importance of the  whole or universal good along with the freedom of particularity of individual  pursuits and thus is “the end and actuality of both the substantial order and the  public life devoted thereto” (¶ 157).
The family is characterized by love which is “mind’s feeling of its own  unity,” where one’s sense of individuality is within this unity, not as an  independent individual but as a member essentially related to the other family  members. Thus, familial love implies a contradiction between, on  the one hand,  not wanting to be a self-subsistent and independent person if that means feeling  incomplete and, on the other hand, wanting to be recognized in another person.  Familial love is truly an ethical unity, but because it is nonetheless a  subjective feeling it is limited in sustaining unity (pars. 158-59, and  additions).
The union of man and woman in marriage is both natural and spiritual, i.e., is  a physical relationship and one that is also self-conscious, and it is entered  into on the basis of the free consent of the persons.   Since this consent  involves bringing two persons into a union, there is the mutual surrender of  their natural individuality for the sake of union, which is both a  self-restriction and also a liberation because in this way individuals attain a  higher self-consciousness.
The family as a unit has its external existence in property, specifically  capital (Vermögen) which constitutes permanent and secured  possessions that allow for endurance of the family as “person” (¶ 170).  This capital is the common property of all the family members, none of whom  possess property of their own, but it is administered by the head of the family,  the husband.
Children provide the external and objective basis for the unity of marriage.  The love of the parents for their children is the explicit expression of their  love for each other, while their immediate feelings of love for each other are  only subjective.  Children have the right to maintenance and education, and in  this regard a claim upon the family capital, but parents have the right to  provide this service to the children and to instill discipline over the wishes of  their children. The education of children has a twofold purpose: the positive aim  of instilling ethical principles in them in the form of immediate feeling and the  negative one of raising them out of the instinctive physical level.  Marriage can  be dissolved not by whim but by duly constituted authority when there is total  estrangement of husband and wife. The ethical dissolution of the family results  when the children have been educated to be free and responsible persons and they  are of mature age under the law.  The natural dissolution of the family occurs  with the death of the parents, the result of which is the passing of inheritance  of property to the surviving family members.  The disintegration of the family  exhibits its immediacy and contingency as an expression of the ethical Idea  (pars. 173-80).
With civil society (bürgerliche Gesellschaft) we move from the  family or “the ethical idea still in its concept,” where consciousness of the  whole or totality is focal, to the “determination of particularity,” where the  satisfaction of subjective needs and desires is given free reign (pars. 181-182).   However, despite the pursuit of private or selfish ends in relatively  unrestricted social and economic activity, universality is implicit in the  differentiation of particular needs insofar as the welfare of an individual in  society is intrinsically bound up with that of others, since each  requires  another in some way to effectively engage in reciprocal activities like commerce,  trade, etc.  Because this system of interdependence is not self-conscious but  exists only in abstraction from the individual pursuit of need satisfaction, here  particularity and universality are only externally related.  Hegel says that  “this system may be prima facie regarded as the external state, the state based  on need, the state as the Understanding (Verstand) envisages it” (¶  183).  However, civil society is also a realm of mediation of particular wills  through social interaction and a means whereby individuals are educated  (Bildung) through their efforts and struggles toward a higher universal  consciousness.
This dimension of civil society involves the pursuit of need satisfaction.  Humans are different from animals in their ability to multiply needs and  differentiate them in various ways, which leads to their refinement and luxury.  Political economy discovers the necessary interconnections in the social and  universalistic side of need.  Work is the mode of acquisition and transformation  of the means for satisfying needs as well as a mode of practical education in  abilities and understanding.  Work also reveals the way in which people are  dependent upon one another in their self-seeking and how each individual  contributes to the need satisfaction of all others.  Society generates a  “universal permanent capital” (¶ 199) that everyone in principle can draw  upon, but the natural inequalities between individuals will translate into social  inequalities.  Furthermore, labor undergoes a division according to the  complexities of the system of production, which is reflected in social class  divisions: the agricultural (substantial  or immediate);  the  business  (reflecting or formal);  and  the civil servants (universal).  Membership in a  class is important for gaining status and recognition in a civil society.  Hegel  says that “A man actualizes himself only in becoming something definite, i.e.,  something specifically particularized; this means restricting himself exclusively  to one of the particular spheres of need.  In this class-system, the ethical  frame of mind therefore is rectitude and esprit de corps, i.e., the  disposition to make oneself a member of one of the moments of civil society by  one’s own act … in this way gaining recognition both in one’s own eyes and in  the eyes of others” (¶ 207).
The “substantial” agricultural class is based upon family relationships whose  capital is in the products of nature, such as the land, and tends to be  patriarchial, unreflective, and oriented toward dependence rather than free  activity.  In contrast to this focus on “immediacy,” the business class is  oriented toward work and reflection, e.g., in transforming raw materials for use  and exchange, which is a form of mediation of humans to one another.  The main  activities of the business class are craftsmanship, manufacture, and trade.  The  third class is the class of civil servants, which Hegel calls the “universal  class” because it has the universal interests of society as its concern.  Members  of this class are relieved from having to labor to support themselves and  maintain their livelihood either from private resources such as inheritance or  are paid a salary by the state as members of the bureaucracy.  These individuals  tend to be highly educated and must qualify for appointment to government  positions on the basis of merit.
The  principle of rightness becomes civil law (Gesetz) when it is  posited, and in order to have binding force it must be given determinate objective  existence.  To be determinately existent, laws must be made universally known  through a public legal code.  Through a rational legal system, private property  and personality are given legal recognition and validity in civil society, and  wrongdoing now becomes an infringement, not merely of the subjective right of  individuals but also of the larger universal will that exists in ethical life.  The  court of justice is the means whereby right is vindicated as something universal  by addressing particular cases of violation or conflict without mere subjective  feeling or private bias.  “Instead of the injured party, the injured  universal now comes on the scene, and … this pursuit consequently  ceases to be the subjective and contingent retribution of revenge and is  transformed into the genuine reconciliation of right with itself, i.e, into  punishment” (¶ 220).  Moreover, court proceedings and legal processes  must take place according to rights and rules of evidence; judicial proceedings  as well as the laws themselves must be made public; trial should be by jury; and  punishment should fit the crime.  Finally, in the administration of  justice,  “civil society returns to its concept, to the unity of the implicit universal  with the subjective particular, although here the latter is only that present in  single cases and the universality in question is that of abstract right”  (¶ 229).
The Police (Polizei) for Hegel is understood broadly as the public  authorities in civil society.  In addition to crime fighting organizations, it  includes agencies that provide oversight over public utilities as well as  regulation of and, when necessary, intervention into activities related to the  production, distribution, and sale of goods and services, or with any of the  contingencies that can affect the rights and welfare of individuals and society  generally (e.g., defense of the public’s right not to be defrauded, and also  the management of goods  inspection).  Also,  the public authority superintends  education and organizes the relief of  poverty.  Poverty must be addressed both  through private charity and public assistance since in civil society it  constitutes a social wrong when poverty results in the creation of a class of  “penurious rabble” (¶ 245).  Society looks to colonization to increase its wealth but  poverty remains a problem with no apparent solution.
The corporation (Korporation) applies especially to the business class,  since this class is concentrated on the particularities of social existence and  the corporation has the function of bringing implicit similarities between  various private interests into explicit existence in forms of association.  This  is not the same as our contemporary business corporation but rather is a  voluntary association of persons based on occupational or various social  interests (such as professional and trade guilds, educational clubs, religious  societies, townships, etc.)  Because of the integrating function of the  corporation, especially in regard to the social and economic division of labor,  what appear as selfish purposes in civil society are shown to be at the same time  universal through the formation of concretely recognized commonalities.  Hegel  says that “a Corporation has the right, under the surveillance of the public  authority, (a) to look after its own interests within its own sphere, (b) to  co-opt members, qualified objectively by requisite skill and rectitude, to a  number fixed by the general structure of society, (c) to protect its members  against particular contingencies, (d) to provide the education requisite to fit  other to become members.  In short, the right is to come on the scene like a  second family for its members …” (¶ 252).  Furthermore, the family is  assured greater stability of livelihood insofar as its providers are corporation  members who command the respect due to them in their social positions.  “Unless  he is a member of an authorized Corporation (and it is only by being authorized  that an association becomes a Corporation), an individual is without rank or  dignity, his isolation reduces his business to mere self-seeking, and his  livelihood and satisfaction become insecure” (¶ 253).  Because individual  self-seeking is raised to a higher level of common pursuits, albeit restricted to  the interest of a sectional group, individual self-consciousness is raised to  relative universality. Hence, “As the family was the first, so the Corporation is  the second ethical root of the state, the one planted in civil society” (¶  255).
The political State, as the third moment of Ethical Life, provides a synthesis  between the principles governing the Family and those governing Civil Society.  The rationality of the state is located in the realization of the universal  substantial will in the self-consciousness of particular individuals elevated to  consciousness of universality.   Freedom becomes explicit and objective in this  sphere.  “Since the state is mind objectified, it is only as one of its members  that the individual has objectivity, genuine individuality, and an ethical  life … and the individual’s destiny is the living of a universal life” (¶  258).  Rationality is concrete in the state in so far as its content is comprised  in the unity of objective freedom (freedom of the universal or substantial will)  and subjective freedom (freedom of everyone in knowing and willing of particular  ends); and in its form rationality is in self-determining action or laws and  principles which are logical universal thoughts (as in the logical  syllogism).
The Idea of the State is itself divided into three moments:  (a) the immediate  actuality of the state as a self-dependent organism, or Constitutional Law; (b)  the relation of states to other states in International Law; (c) the universal  Idea as Mind or Spirit which gives itself actuality in the process of  World-History.
Only through the political constitution of the State can universality and  particularity be welded together into a real unity.  The self-consciousness of  this unity is expressed in the recognition on the part of each citizen that the  full meaning of one’s actual freedom is found in the objective laws and  institutions provided by the State.  The aspect of identity comes to the fore in  the recognition that individual citizens  give to the ethical laws such that they  “do not live as private persons for their own ends alone, but in the very act of  willing these they will the universal in the light of the universal, and their  activity is consciously aimed at none but the universal end” (¶ 260).  The  aspect of differentiation, on the other  hand, is found in “the right of  individuals to their particular satisfaction,” the right of subjective freedom  which is maintained in Civil  Society.  Thus, according to Hegel, “the universal  must be furthered, but subjectivity on the other hand must attain its full and  living development.  It is only when both these moments subsist in their  strength that the state can be regarded as articulated and genuinely organized”  (¶ 260, addition).
As was indicated in the introduction to the concept of Ethical Life above, the  higher authority of the laws and  institutions of society requires a doctrine of  duties.   From the vantage point of the political State, this means that there  must be a correlation between rights and duties.  “In the state, as something  ethical, as the inter-penetration of the substantive and the particular, my  obligation to what is substantive is at the same time the embodiment of my  particular freedom.  This means that in the state duty and right are united in  one and the same relation” (¶ 261).  In fulfilling one’s duties one is also  satisfying particular interests, and the conviction that this is so Hegel calls  “political sentiment” (politische Gesinnung) or patriotism.  “This  sentiment is, in general, trust (which may pass over into a greater or lesser  degree of educated insight), or the consciousness that my interest, both  substantive and particular, is contained and preserved in another’s (that is, the  state’s) interest and end, i.e., in the other’s relation to me as an individual”  (¶ 268).
Thus, the  “bond of duty” cannot involve being coerced into  obeying the laws of the State.  “Commonplace thinking often has the impression  that force holds the state together,  but  in fact its only bond is the sense of  order which everybody possesses” (¶ 268, addition).
According to Hegel, the political state is rational in so far as it inwardly  differentiates itself according to the nature of the Concept (Begriff).  The principle of the division of powers expresses inner differentiation, but  while these powers are distinguished they must also be built into an organic  whole such that each contains in itself the other moments so that the political  constitution is a concrete unity in difference.  Constitutional Law is  accordingly divided into three moments: (a) the Legislature which establishes the  universal through lawmaking; (b) the Executive which subsumes the particular  under the universal through administering the laws; (c) the Crown which is the  power of subjectivity of the state in the providing of the act of  “ultimate  decision” and thus forming into unity the other two powers.  Despite the  syllogistic sequence of universality, particularity, and individuality in these  three constitutional powers, Hegel discusses the Crown first followed by the  Executive and the Legislature respectively.  Hegel understands the concept of the  Crown in terms of constitutional monarchy.
“The power of the crown contains in itself the three  moments of  the  whole,  namely, (a) the universality of the constitution  and the laws; (b) counsel, which refers the  particular to the universal; and (g) the moment  of ultimate decision, as the self-determination to which everything else  reverts and from which everything else derives the beginning of its actuality”  (¶ 275).  The third moment is what gives expression to the sovereignty of  the state, i.e., that the various activities, agencies, functions and powers of  the state are not self-subsistent but rather have their basis ultimately in the  unity of the state as a single self or self-organized organic whole.  The monarch  is the bearer of the individuality of the state and its sovereignty is the  ideality in unity in which the particular functions and powers of  the state  subsist.  “It is only as a  person,  the monarch,  that the personality of the  state is actual.  Personality expresses the concept as such; but the person  enshrines the actuality of the concept, and only when the concept is determined  as a person is it the Idea or truth” (¶ 279).
The monarch is not a despot but rather a constitutional monarch, and he does  not act in a capricious manner but is bound by a decision-making process, in  particular to the recommendations and decisions of his cabinet (supreme advisory  council).  The monarch functions solely to give agency to the state, and so his  personal traits are irrelevant and his ascending to the throne is based on  hereditary succession, and thus on the accident of birth.  “In a completely  organized state, it is only a question of the culminating point of formal  decision … he has only to say ‘yes’ and dot the ‘i’ …. In a well organized  monarchy, the objective aspect belongs to law alone,  and the monarch’s part is  merely to set to the law the subjective ‘I will’” (¶ 280, addition).  The  “majesty of the monarch” lies in the free asserting of ‘I will’ as an expression  of the unity of the state and the final step in establishing law.
The executive has the task of executing and applying the decisions formally  made by the monarch.  “This task of merely subsuming the particular under the  universal is comprised in the executive power,  which  also includes  the powers  of the judiciary and the  police” (¶ 287).  Also, the executive is the  higher authority that oversees the filling of positions of responsibilities in  corporations.  The executive is comprised of the civil servants proper and the  higher advisory officials organized into committees, both of which are connected  to the monarch through their supreme departmental heads.  Overall, government has  its division of labor into various centers of administration managed by special  officials.  Individuals are appointed to executive functions on the basis of  their knowledgibility and proof of ability and tenure is conditional on the  fulfillment of duties, with the offices in the civil service being open to all  citizens.
The executive is not an unchecked bureaucratic authority.  “The security of  the state and its subjects  against the misuse of power  by ministers and their  officials lies directly in their hierarchical organization  and their  answerability; but it lies too in the authority given to societies and  corporations …” (¶ 295).  However, civil servants will tend to be  dispassionate, upright, and polite in part as “a result of direct education in  thought and ethical conduct” (¶ 296).  Civil servants and the members of the  executive  make up the largest section of the middle class, the class with a  highly developed intelligence and consciousness of right.  Moreover, “The  sovereign working on the middle class at the top, and Corporation-rights  working on it at the bottom, are the institutions which effectively prevent it  from acquiring the isolated position of an aristocracy and using its education  and skill as a means to an arbitrary tyranny” (¶ 297).
For Hegel, “The legislature is concerned (a) with the laws as such in so far  as they require fresh and extended determination; and (b) with the content of  home affairs affecting the entire state” (¶ 298).  Legislative activity  focuses on both providing well-being and happiness for citizens as well as  exacting services from them (largely in the form of monetary taxes).  The proper  function of legislation is distinguished from the function of administration  and state regulation in that the content of the former are determinate laws that  are wholly universal whereas in administration it is application of the law to  particulars, along with enforcing the law.  Hegel also says that the other two  moments of the political constitution, the monarchy and the executive, are the  first two moments of the legislature, i.e., are reflected in the legislature  respectively through the ultimate decision regarding proposed laws and an  advising function in their formation.  Hegel rejects the idea of independence or  separation of powers for the sake of checks and balances, which he holds destroys  the unity of the state (¶ 300, addition).  The third moment in the  legislature is the estates (Stände), which are the classes of society  given political recognition in the legislature.
In the legislature, the estates “have the function of bringing  public affairs  into existence not only implicitly, but also actually, i.e., of bringing into  existence the moment of subjective formal freedom, the public consciousness as an  empirical universal, of which the thoughts and opinions of the Many are  particulars” (¶ 301).  Not only do the estates guarantee the general welfare  and public freedom, but they are also the means by which the state as a whole  enters the subjective consciousness of the people through their participation in  the state.  Thus, the estates incorporate the private judgment and will of  individuals in civil society and give it political significance.
The estates have an important integrating function in the state overall.  “Regarded as a mediating organ, the Estates stand between the government in  general on the one hand, and the nation broken up into particulars (people and  associations) on the other. … [I]n common with the organized executive, they are a  middle term preventing both the extreme isolation of the power of the crown …  and also the isolation of the particular interests of  persons, societies and  Corporations” (¶ 302).  Also, the organizing function of the estates  prevents groups in society from becoming formless masses that could form  anti-government feelings and rise up in blocs in opposition to the state.
The three classes of civil society, the agricultural, the business, and the  universal class of civil servants, are each given political voice in the Estates  Assembly in accordance with their distinctiveness in the lower spheres of civil  life.  The legislature is divided into two houses, an upper and lower.  The upper  house comprises the agricultural estate (including the peasant farmers and landed  aristocracy), a class “whose ethical life is natural, whose basis is family  life, and, so far as its livelihood  is concerned, the possession of land.  Its  particular members attain their position by birth, just as the monarch does, and,  in common with him, they possess a will which rests on itself alone” (¶  305).  Landed gentry inherit their  estates and so owe their position to birth  (primogeniture) and thus are free from the exigencies and uncertainties of the  life of business and state interference.  The relative independence of this class  makes it particularly suited for public office as well as a mediating element  between the crown and civil society.
The second section of the estates, the business class, comprises the  “fluctuating and changeable element in civil society” which can enter politics only through its  deputies or representatives (unlike the agricultural estate from which members  can present themselves to the Estates Assembly in person).  The appointment of  deputies is “made by society as a society” both because of the multiplicity of  members but also because representation must reflect the organization of civil  society into associations, communities, and corporations.  It is only as a member  of such groups that an individual is a member of the state, and hence rational  representation implies that consent to legislation is to be given not directly by  all but only by “plenipotentiaries” who are chosen on the basis of their  understanding of public affairs as well as managerial and political acumen,  character, insight, etc.  Moreover, their charge is to further the general  interest of society and not the interest of a particular association or  corporation instead  (¶ 308-10).
The deputies of civil society are selected by the various corporations, not on  the basis of  universal direct suffrage which Hegel believed inevitably leads to  electoral indifference, and they adopt the point of view of society.  “Deputies  are sometimes regarded as ‘representatives’; but they are representatives in an  organic, rational sense only if they are representatives not of  individuals or a  conglomeration of them, but of one of the essential spheres of society and its  large-scale interests.  Hence, representation cannot now be taken to mean  simply the substitution of one man for another; the point is that the interest  itself is actually present in its representative, while he himself is there to  represent the objective element of his own being” (¶ 311).
The debates that take place in the Estates Assembly are to be open to the  public, whereby citizens can become politically educated both about national  affairs and the true character of their own interests.  “The formal subjective  freedom of individuals consists in their having and expressing their own private  judgements, opinions, and  recommendations as affairs of state.  This freedom is  collectively manifested as what is called ‘public opinion’, in which what is  absolutely universal, the substantive and the true, is linked with its opposite,  the purely particular and private opinions of the Many” (¶ 316).  Public  opinion is a “standing self-contradiction” because, on the one hand, it gives  expression to genuine needs and proper tendencies of common life along with  common sense views about important matters and, on the other, is infected with  accidental opinion, ignorance, and faulty judgment. “Public opinion therefore  deserves  to be  as  much respected as despised — despised for its concrete  expression and for the concrete consciousness it  expresses,  respected for its  essential basis, a basis which only glimmers more or less dimly in that concrete  expression” (¶ 318).  Moreover, while there is freedom of public  communication, freedom of the press is not totally unrestricted as freedom does  not mean absence of all restriction, either in word or deed.
Hegel calls the class of civil servants the “universal class” not only because  as members of the executive their function is to “subsume the particular under  the universal” in the administration of law, but also because they reflect a  disposition of mind (due perhaps largely from their education) that transcends  concerns with selfish ends in the devotion to the discharge of public functions  and to the public universal good.  As one of the classes of the estates, civil  servants also participate in the legislature as an “unofficial class,”  which  seems to mean that as members of the executive they will attend legislative  assemblies in an advisory capacity, but this is not entirely clear from Hegel’s  text.  Also, given that the monarch and the classes of civil society when  conceived in abstraction are opposed to each other as “the one and the many,”  they must become “fused into a unity” or mediated together through the  civil servant class.  From the point of view of the crown the executive is such a  middle term, because it carries out the final decisions of the crown and makes it  “particularized” in civil society.  On the other hand, in order for the classes  of civil society to actually sense this unity with the crown a mediation must  occur from the other direction, so to speak, where the upper  house of the  estates, in virtue of certain likenesses to the Crown (e.g., role of birth for  one’s position) is able to mediate between the Crown and civil society as a  whole.
The interpenetration of the universal with the particular will through a  complex system of social and political mediations is what produces the  self-consciousness of the nation-state considered as an organic (internally  differentiated and interrelated) totality or concrete individual.  In this  system, particular individuals consciously pursue the universal ends of the  State, not out of external or mechanical conformity to law, but in the free  development of personal individuality and the expression of the unique  subjectivity of each.  However, individuality is not something possessed by  particular persons alone, or even primarily by such persons.  The state as a  whole, i.e., the nation-state as distinct from the political state as one of its  moments, constitutes a higher form of individuality.  In principle, Mind or  Spirit possesses a singleness in its “negative self-relation,” i.e., in the sense  that unity in a being is a function of setting itself off from other beings.  “Individuality is awareness of one’s existence as a unit in sharp distinction from  others.  It manifests itself here in the state as a relation to other states,  each of which is autonomous vis-à-vis the others.  This autonomy embodies  mind’s actual awareness of itself as a unit and hence it is the most fundamental  freedom which a people possesses as well as its highest dignity” (¶ 322).  For any being to have self-conscious independence requires distinguishing the  self from any of its contingent characteristics (inner self-negation), which  externally is a distinction from another being.  This consciousness of what one  is not is for the nation-state its negative relation to itself embodied  externally in the world as the relation of one state to  another.   However, this  is not a mere externality, “But in fact this negative relation is that  moment  in the state which is most supremely its own, the state’s actual infinity as the  ideality of everything finite within it” (¶ 323).
According to Hegel, war is an “ethical moment” in the life of a nation-state  and hence is neither purely accidental nor an inherent evil.  Because there is no  higher earthly power ruling over nation-states, and because these entities are  oriented to preserving their existence and sovereignty, conflicts leading to war  are inevitable.  Also, defense of one’s nation is an ethical duty and the  ultimate test of one’s patriotism is war.   “Sacrifice on behalf of the  individuality of the state is the substantial tie between the state and all its  members and so is a universal duty” (¶ 325).  In making a sacrifice for the  sake of the state individuals prove their courage, which involves a transcendence  of concern with egoistic interests and mere material existence.  “The intrinsic  worth of courage as a disposition of mind is to be found in the genuine absolute,  final end, the sovereignty of the  state.  The work of courage is to actualize  this final end, and the means to this end is the sacrifice of personal actuality”  (¶ 328).  Moreover, war, along with catastrophy, disease, etc, highlights  the finitude, insecurity, and ultimate transitoriness of human existence and puts  the health of a state to a test.  Hegel does not consider the ideal of “perpetual peace,”  as advocated by Kant, a realistic goal towards which humanity can strive.  Not only is the sovereignty of each state imprescriptible, but any alliance or  league of states will be established in opposition to others.
“International law springs from the relations between autonomous states.  It  is for this reason that what is absolute in it retains the form of an  ought-to-be,  since its actuality depends on different wills each of which is  sovereign” (¶ 330).  States are not private persons in civil society who  pursue their self-interest in the context of universal interdependence but rather  are completely autonomous entities with no relations of private right or  morality.   However, since a state cannot escape having relations with other  states, there must be at least some sort of recognition of each by the other.  International law prescribes that treaties between states ought to be kept, but  this universal proviso remains abstract because the sovereignty of a state is its  guiding principle, hence states are to that extent in a state of nature in  relation to each other (in the Hobbesian sense of there being natural rights to  one’s survival with no natural duties to others).  “Their rights are actualized  only in their particular wills and not in a universal will with constitutional  powers over them.  This  universal proviso of international law therefore does  not go beyond an ought-to-be, and what really happens is  that  international  relations in accordance with treaty alternate with the severance of these  relations” (¶ 333).  Obviously, if states come to disagree about the nature  of their treaties, etc., and there is no acceptable compromise for each party,  then matters will ultimately be settled by war.
States recognize their own welfare as the highest law governing their  relations to one another, however,  the claim by a state to recognition of this  welfare is quite different from claims to welfare by individual person in civil  society.  “The ethical substance, the state, has its determinate being, i.e., its  right, directly embodied in something existent … and the principle of its  conduct and behavior can only be this concrete existent and not one of many  universal thoughts supposed to be moral commands” (¶ 337).  States recognize  each other as states, and even in war there is awareness of the possibility that  peace can be restored and that therefore war ought to come to an end, as well as  understandings about the proper limitations on the waging of war.  However, at  most this translates into the jus gentium, the law of nations understood  as customary relationships, which remains a “maelstrom of external contingency.”  The principles of the mind or spirit (Volksgeist) of a nation-state are  wholly restricted because its particularity is already that of realized  individuality, possessing objective actuality and self-consciousness.  Hence, the  reciprocal relations of states to one another partake of a “dialectic of  finitude” out of which arises the universal mind, “the mind of the world, free  from all restriction, producing itself as that which exercises its right–and  its right is the highest right of all–over these finite minds in the  ‘history of the world which is the world’s court of judgment’” (¶ 340).
To say that history is the world’s court of judgment is to say that over and  above the nation-states, or national “spirits,” there is the mind or Spirit of  the world (Weltgeist) which pronounces its verdict through the development  of history itself.  The verdicts of world history, however, are not expressions  of mere might, which in itself is abstract and non-rational.  Rather than blind  destiny, “world history is the necessary development, out of the concepts of  mind’s freedom alone, of the moments of reason and so of the self-consciousness  and freedom of  mind” (¶ 342).  The history of  Spirit is the development  through time of its own self-consciousness through the actions of peoples,  states, and world historical actors who, while absorbed in their own interests, are  nonetheless the unconscious instruments of the work of Spirit.  “All actions,  including  world-historical actions, culminate with individuals as subjects  giving actuality to the substantial.  They are the living instruments of what is  in substance  the deed  of the world mind and they are therefore directly at one  with that deed though it is concealed from them and is not their aim and  object”  (¶ 348).  The actions of great men are produced through their subjective  willing and their passion, but the substance of these deeds is actually the  accomplishment not of the individual agent but of the World Spirit (e.g., the  founding of states by world-historical heroes).
Hegel says that in the history of the world we can distinguish several  important formations of the self-consciousness of Spirit in the course of its  free self-development, each corresponding to a significant principle.  More  specifically, there are four world-historical epochs, each manifesting a  principle of Spirit as expressed through a dominant culture.  In the  Philosophy of Right, Hegel discusses these in a very abbreviated way in  paragraphs 253-260, which brings this work to an end.  Here we will draw from the  more elaborated treatment in the appendix to the introduction to Hegel’s lectures  on the Philosophy of World History.
Here Spirit exists in its substantiality (objectivity) without inward  differentiation.  Individuals have no self-consciousness of personality or of  rights–they are still immersed in external nature (and their divinities are  naturalistic as well).  Hegel characterizes this stage as one of consciousness in  its immediacy, where subjectivity and substantiality are unmediated.  In his  Philosophy of History Hegel discusses China, India, and Persia  specifically and suggests that these cultures do not actually have a history but  rather are subject to natural cyclical processes.  The typical governments of  these cultures are theocratic and more particularly despotism, aristocracy, and  monarchy respectively.  Persia and Egypt are seen as transitional from these  “unhistorical” and “non-political” states.  Hegel calls this period the  “childhood” of Spirit.
In this realm, we have the mixing of subjective freedom and substantiality in  the ethical life of the Greek polis, because the ancient Greek city-states  give expression to personal individuality for those who are free and have status.   However, the relation of individual to the state is not self-conscious but is  unreflective and based on obedience to custom and tradition.  Hence, the  immediate union of subjectivity with the substantial mind is unstable and leads  to fragmentation.  This is the period of the “adolescence” of Spirit.
At this stage, individual personality is recognized in formal rights, thus  including a level of reflection absent in the Greek realm of “beautiful freedom.”   Here freedom is difficult because the universal subjugates individuals,  i.e., the state becomes an abstraction over above its citizens who must be  sacrificed to the severe demands of a state in which individuals form a  homogeneous mass.  A tension between the two principles of individuality and  universality ensues, manifesting itself in the formation of political despotism  and insurgency against it.  This realm gives expression to the “manhood” of  Spirit.
This realm comprises along with Germany and the Nordic peoples the major  European nations (France, Italy, Spain) along with England. The principle of  subjective freedom comes to the fore in such a way as to be made explicit in the  life of Spirit and also mediated with substantiality.  This involves a gradual  development that begins with the rise of Christianity and its spiritual  reconciliation of inner and outer life and culminates in the appearance of the  modern nation-state, the rational Idea of which is articulated in the  Philosophy of Right. (Along the way there are several milestones Hegel  discusses in his Philosophy of History that are especially important in  the developing of the self-consciousness of freedom, in particular the  Reformation, the Enlightenment, and the French Revolution.)  One of the  significant features of the modern world is the overcoming of the antithesis of  church and state that developed in the Medieval period.  This final stage of  Spirit is mature “old age.”
In sum, for Hegel the modern nation-state can be said to manifest a  “personality” and a self-consciousness of its inherent nature and goals, indeed a  self-awareness of everything which is implicit in its concept, and is able to act  rationally and in accordance with its self-awareness.  The modern nation-state is  a “spiritual individual,” the true historical individual, precisely because of  the level  of realization of self-consciousness that  it  actualizes.  The  development of the perfected  nation-state is the end or goal of history because  it  provides an optimal level of realization of self-consciousness, a more  comprehensive level of realization of freedom than mere natural individuals, or  other forms of human organization, can produce.
In closing this account of Hegel’s theory of the state, a few words on a  “theory and practice” problem of the modern state.  In the preface to the  Philosophy of Right Hegel is quite clear that his science of the state  articulates the nature of the state, not as it ought to be, but as it really is,  as something inherently rational.  Hegel’s famous quote in this regard is  “What  is rational is actual and what is actual is rational,” where by the ‘actual’  (Wirklich)  Hegel means not the merely existent, i.e., a state that can be  simply identified empirically, but the actualized or realized state, i.e., one  that corresponds to its rational concept and thus in some sense must be  perfected.  Later in the introduction of the Idea of the state in paragraph 258,  Hegel is at pains to distinguish the Idea of the state from a state understood in  terms of its historical origins and says that while the state is the way of God  in the world we must not focus on particular states or on particular institutions  of the state, but only on the Idea itself.  Furthermore he says, “The state is no  ideal work of art; it stands on earth and so in the sphere of caprice, chance,  and error, and bad behavior may disfigure it in many respects.  But the ugliest  of men, or a criminal, or an invalid, or a cripple, is still always a living man.  The affirmative, life, subsists despite his defects, and it is this affirmative  factor which is our theme here” (¶ 258, addition).  The issue, then, is  whether the actual state — the subject of philosophical science — is  only a theoretical possibility and whether from a practical point of view all  existing states are in some way disfigured or deficient.  Our ability to  rationally distill from existing states their ideal characteristics does not  entail that a fully actualized state does, or will, exist.  Hence, there is perhaps  some ambiguity in Hegel’s claim about the modern state as an actualization of freedom.
Encyklopädie der philosophischen Wissenschaften im Grundrisse,  Berlin 1830; ed. G. Lasson & O. Pöggler (Hamburg, 1959).
In the third  volume of this work, The Philosophy of  Spirit, the section on Objective Spirit  corresponds to Hegel’s Philosophy of Right.
Hegel’s Philosophy of Right, trans. T. M. Knox.  Clarendon Press, 1952;  Oxford University Press, 1967.
Hegel’s Political Writings, trans. T. M. Knox, with an introductory  essay by Z. A. Pelczynski.  Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1964.
This contains the  following pieces: “The German Constitution,” “On the Recent Domestic Affairs of  Wurtemberg …,”  “The Proceedings of the Estates Assembly in the Kingdom of  Wurtemberg, 1815-1816,” and “The English Reform Bill.”
These were the first editions of  the material of The Philosophy of Right to incorporate additions culled  from notes taken at Hegel’s lectures.  T. M. Knox reproduces these in his 1952  translation.
Lectures on the Philosophy of World History: Introduction, trans. H. B.  Nisbet, with an introduction by Duncan Forbes.  Cambridge University Press, 1975.
Natural Law, trans. T. M. Knox, with an introduction by H. B. Acton.  Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1977.
This is a reprint of the 1899 translation (the first was  done in 1857) of Hegel’s Lectures on the Philosophy of History, published  by Colonial House Press.  The Dover edition has a new introduction by C. J.  Friedrich.
Political Writings.  Eds. L. Dickie & H. B. Nisbet.  Cambridge  Texts in the History of Political Thought.  Cambridge: Cambridge University  Press, 1999.
Politische Schriften, Nachwort von Jürgen Habermas.  Frankfurt/Main, 1966.  A more recent edition of the material of the Schriften  zur Politik (see below).
Reason in History, trans. R. S. Hartman.  New York, 1953.  The  introduction to Hegel’s lectures on the Philosophy of World History.
Schriften zur Politik und Rechtsphilosophie, 2nd ed. hrsg.  Georg Lasson.  Leipzig, 1923.  This is the basis of  T. M. Knox’s translations in  Hegel’s Political Writings, 1964.
System of Ethical Life and First Philosophy of Spirit, trans. H. S.  Harris & T. M. Knox.  Albany, NY: State University of New York Press,  1979.
This is the fourth edition of Hegel’s lectures on the Philosophy of World History  given in Berlin from 1822-1830; the previous editions were done by Eduard Gans  (1837), Karl Hegel (1840), and Georg Lasson (1917, 1920, 1930).  In the 1930  edition, Lasson added additional manuscript material by Hegel as well as lecture  notes from students, which are preserved in Hoffmeister’s edition.
This is the most recent and  comprehensive collection of Hegel’s works.  His social and political writings are  contained in various volumes.
The books listed below either focus on one or more aspects of Hegel’s social  and political thought or include some discussion in this area and, moreover, are  significant enough works on Hegel to be included.  The most comprehensive  bibliography on Hegel is Hegel-Bibliographie (München: K. G Saur  Verlag, 1980).  For books and articles in the last 25 years, consult the  Philosopher’s Index.
Avineri,  Shlomo.  Hegel’s  Theory  of  the  Modern  State. Cambridge:  Cambridge University Press, 1972.
Bosanquet, Bernard.  The Philosophical Theory of the State.  4th edition, London: Macmillan, 1930, 1951.
Cullen,  Bernard.  Hegel’s  Social  and  Political  Thought:  An  Introduction.  New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1979.
Foster, Michael B. The Political Philosophies of Plato and Hegel.  Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1935/1968.
Dickey, Laurence.  Religion, Economics, and the Politics of  Spirit.  Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1987.
Hardimon,  Michael O.  Hegel’s Social Philosophy: The  Project  of  Reconciliation. Cambridge University Press, 1994.
Hicks, Steven V. International Law and the Possibility of a Just World  Order: An Essay on Hegel’s Universalism.  Value Inquiry Book Series 78.  Amsterdam/Atlanta, GA: Rodopi, 1999.
Hyppolite, Jean.  Genesis and Structure of Hegel’s Phenomenology of  Spirit (1946).  Trans. S. Cherniak & J. Heckman.  Evanston,  IL: Northwestern University Press, 1974.
Kainz,  Howard  P.  Hegel’s  Philosophy  of  Right  with  Marx’s  Commentary. The Hague: Nijhoff, 1974.
Kelly, George Armstrong.  Hegel’s Retreat From Eleusis: Studies In  Political Thought.  Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1978.
Kojeve, Alexander.  Introduction to the Reading of Hegel (1947).  Ed.  Allen Bloom, trans. J. H. Nichols.  New York: Basic Books, 1969.
Lakeland,  Paul.  The Politics of Salvation: The Hegelian Idea  of the  State.  Albany, NY: SUNY Press, 1984.
MacGregor,  David.  The Communist Ideal in Hegel and Marx.  Toronto:  University of Toronto Press, 1984.
Marcuse,  Herbert.  Reason and Revolution: Hegel and the  Rise  of Social  Theory. Boston: Beacon  Press, 1960.
Mitias, Michael.  Moral Foundation of the State in Hegel’s Philosophy of  Right. Amsterdam: Rodopi, 1984.
Morris, George S.  Hegel’s Philosophy of the State and of History.  Chicago: S.  C. Griggs & Co., 18871, 18922.
O’Neil, John, ed.  Hegel’s Dialectic of Desire and Recognition: Texts and  Commentary.  Albany, NY: SUNY Press, 1996.
Paolucci,  Henry.  The  Political  Thought of  G.  W.  F.  Hegel.  Whitestone, NY: Griffon House, 1978.
Pelczynski,  Z. A. (ed.).  Hegel’s Political Philosophy:  Problems and  Perspectives. London:  Cambridge  University  Press, 1971.
___________.  The  State and Civil Society:  Studies  in  Hegel’s Political   Philosophy.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University Press, 1984.
Perkins, Robert L. (ed.).  History and System: Hegel’s  Philosophy of  History.  Albany: State University of New York Press, 1984.
Pepperzak, Adriaan T.  Philosophy and Politics: A Commentary to the Preface  of Hegel’s Philosophy of Right.  Dordrecht: Martinus Nijhoff  Publishers,  1987.
Reyburn,  Hugh  A. The Ethical Theory of Hegel: A Study  of  the Philosophy  of Right. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1921.
Riedel,  Manfred. Between Tradition and Revolution: The  Hegelian  Transformation  of  Political  Philosophy.  Cambridge: Cambridge University  Press, 1984.
Ritter, Joachim. Hegel and the French Revolution:  Essays on ‘The  Philosophy  of  Right’.  trans.  Richard  Dien  Winfield, Cambridge, MA: The  MIT Press, 1982.
Rosenkranz,  Karl. Hegel As The National Philosopher of  Germany.  trans. G. S. Hall, St. Louis: Gray, Baker, 1874.
Shklar,  Judith  N.  Freedom and Independence:  A  Study  of  the Political   Ideas  of  Hegel’s  ‘Phenomenology  of  Mind’. Cambridge: Cambridge  University Press, 1976.
Siebert,  Rudolf J. Hegel’s Concept of Marriage and  Family:  The Origin  of  Subjective  Freedom.  Washington,  D.C.:  The University Press of  America, 1979.
_______.  Hegel’s Philosophy of History: Theological,  Humanistic and  Scientific Elements. Washington: University  Press  of America, 1979.
Siep, Ludwig.  Anerkennung als Prinzip der praktische Philosophie: Zur Hegels  Jenaer Philosophie des Geistes.  München, Alber, 1979
Smith, Steven B.  Hegel’s Critique of Liberalism: Rights in Context.  Chicago: Chicago University Press, 1989.
Steinberger, Peter J. Logic and Politics: Hegel’s Philosophy  of Right.  New Haven: Yale University Press, 1982.
Stepelevich, L. S. & D. Lamb, (eds.).  Hegel’s Philosophy of Action. Atlantic Highlands, NJ: Humanities Press, 1983.
Verene, Donald  Phillip  (ed.).  Hegel’s  Social  and  Political Thought:  The  Philosophy  of  Objective  Spirit.  Atlantic Highlands, NJ: Humanities  Press/Sussex: Harvester  Press, 1980.
Walsh,  William  Henry.  Hegelian  Ethics.  London/Melbourne:  Macmillan; New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1969.
Wazek, Norbert.  The Scottish Enlightenment and Hegel’s Account of ‘Civil  Society‘.  Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.
Westphal,  Merold.  History and Truth in  Hegel’s  Phenomenology.  Atlantic Highlands, NJ: Humanities Press, 1979.
Williams, Robert R. (ed.).  Beyond Liberalism and Communitarianism: Studies  in Hegel’s Philosophy of Right.  Proceedings  of the 15th Biennial  Meeting of the Hegel Society of America. SUNY Press, 2000.
=======================================================
TD {font: Trebuchet MS,Arial Narrow,Arial,Arial MT,Helv,Helvetica,Monaco,MS Sans Serif; font-size: 12pt;}
      existing world, and produced itself as something objective." The Weltgeist          or World Spirit achieves its purpose through the actions of 
=======================================================
The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy is copyright © 2014 by The Metaphysics Research Lab, Center for the Study of Language and Information (CSLI), Stanford University
=======================================================
(born Aug. 27, 1770, Stuttgart, Wrttembergdied Nov. 14, 1831, Berlin) German philosopher. After working as a tutor, he was headmaster of the gymnasium at Nrnberg (180816); he then taught principally at the University of Berlin (181831). His work, following on that of Immanuel Kant, Johann Gottlieb Fichte, and F.W. Schelling, marks the pinnacle of post-Kantian German idealism. Inspired by Christian insights and possessing a fantastic fund of concrete knowledge, Hegel found a place for everythinglogical, natural, human, and divinein a dialectical scheme that repeatedly swung from thesis to antithesis and back again to a higher and richer synthesis. His panoramic system engaged philosophy in the consideration of all the problems of history and culture, none of which could any longer be deemed foreign to its competence. At the same time, it deprived all the implicated elements and problems of their autonomy, reducing them to symbolic manifestations of the one process, that of the Absolute Spirit's quest for and conquest of its own self. His influence has been as fertile in the critical reactions he precipitated as in his positive impact. His principal works are Phenomenology of Mind (1807), Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences (1817), and Philosophy of Right (1821). He is regarded as the last of the great philosophical system builders.  Hegelianism.
The German philosopher and educator Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770-1831) took all of knowledge as his domain and made original contributions to the understanding of history, law, logic, art, religion, and philosophy.Living in a time of geniuses and revolutions, G. W. F. Hegel claimed his own work to be not so much a revolution as the consummation of human development, and not so much the product of genius as the final expression of all philosophy up to that time. Among the great figures living then were the writers Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, and Novalis; the philosophers Immanuel Kant, Jean Jacques Rousseau, Johann Gottlieb Fichte, and F. W. J. von Schelling; and the composers Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Ludwig van Beethoven. When Hegel was 19 the French Revolution began, and for most of his lifetime all Europe was in foment.Hegel was born in Stuttgart on Aug. 27, 1770, the son of an official serving the Duke of Württemberg. He received a classical education and was a precocious pupil. Urged by his Pietist father to enter the clergy, he registered in the Tübingen Lutheran seminary in 1788. A fair student, Hegel generally preferred the conviviality of cafés and country walks to scholarly asceticism. His love of wine and company, his passion for the secular writings of Jean Jacques Rousseau, and his interest in practical political matters prevailed over the stern demands of a religious calling. Nevertheless, he studied philosophy for 2 years and theology for 3, completing his theological examination in 1793.At the seminary Hegel read deeply in German poetry and Greek literature, in the company of Friedrich Hölderlin, the poet, and Schelling, who was to reach early eminence as a philosopher of romanticism. The three friends professed ardent sympathy with the French Revolution and took for their motto "Freedom and Reason."Employment as TutorFor the next 3 1/2 years Hegel was engaged as a private tutor in Berne. Though his duties left him little time for study and writing, he acquainted himself with the Bernese political situation. His first published work, in 1798, consisted of notes accompanying his translation of letters by an exiled Bernese lawyer criticizing the city's oligarchy.Thanks to Hölderlin's initiative, in 1797 Hegel was rescued from his cheerless situation through an appointment as a private tutor in Frankfurt. His employer owned a fine library and allowed him time to be with friends, especially Hölderlin. Most importantly, he had time to write. Among his many concerns were the "conditions of profit and property" in England, the history of Christianity, love, the Prussian penal code, and theology. Some of his Frankfurt writings were published posthumously by Hermann Nohl (1907) and were translated by T. M. Knox and R. Kroner in Early Theological Writings (1948).Hegel's father died in January 1799, leaving a legacy that enabled him to leave tutoring and prepare seriously for an academic career. In 1801 he lived with Schelling, already a professor, at the great University of Jena. There he worked fervently; he wrote a detailed, critical study of the Constitution of the German Empire and completed his first published book, The Difference between Fichte's and Schelling's Systems of Philosophy (1801). Challenging the popular view that Fichte and Schelling were master and disciple, Hegel brought out their obscured but basic differences. Each, to be sure, had made significant discoveries; but both were ingenious at the expense of systematic thoroughness. Recognizing that their philosophies were irreconcilable on their own terms, Hegel resolved to work out a complete system that would account for the common aim and many differences of previous philosophies. Hegel's would have to be the system of all philosophy.In 1801 Hegel also submitted a Latin dissertation on the orbits of the planets and consequently was granted the right to teach in any German university (the venia legendi). He began to give lectures at Jena and eventually became one of the better-known lecturers. A student wrote about him later: "Hegel succeeded in captivating his students with the intensity of his speculation. … [His eyes] were large but introverted, the refracted gaze filled with deep ideality, which at certain moments would exert a visible and poignant power. … The earnestness in his noble features at first had something that, although not intimidating, kept others at a distance; but the gentleness and amiability of his expression were winning and inviting." In addition to teaching and writing, Hegel worked with Schelling to found and edit the Kritisches Journal der Philosophie (1802-1803), to which he contributed several articles and reviews.Phenomenology of SpiritWhile at Jena the idea of a wholly reconciling philosophy was gestating in Hegel's mind. It came to fruition in 1806 as the dense but exciting tome called Phänomenologie des Geistes (Phenomenology of Spirit). It is the reflective study (logos) of the historical self-manifestation (phenomenon) of the Spirit, which all men have in common.The stages in the development of the general Spirit, as shown in the conflicts and reconciliations of history, are also the stages of the individual's growth. Thus, the Phenomenology of Spirit can be read as a discipline of self-education, through which the individual absorbs and prepares to go beyond the present development of Spirit. The Phenomenology develops from the simplest level of experience, sense perception, to the richest, here called "absolute knowledge."This movement of Spirit is "dialectical"; that is, Spirit develops in stages, undergoing successions of internal opposition and reconciliation. The stages must necessarily evolve in a continuous pattern, omitting none. There can be no short cuts to truth - a point Hegel stressed in criticizing romantic philosophers. The dialectical process of Spirit is always going on; it is what is "most real," though men are rarely conscious of it. Hegel's achievement was to cast the universal experience in the language appropriate to it, enabling consciousness to grasp it.The entire book was written in haste and was completed on October 13, the very day Napoleon and his troops occupied Jena. Later, Hegel said of Napoleon, "It is truly a wonderful sensation to see such an individual, concentrated here on a single point, astride a single horse, yet reaching across the world and ruling it."Since the university was in disarray and his own financial situation desperate, Hegel arranged through his friend F. I. Niethammer to become editor of a newspaper, the Bamberger Zeitung. He held this position for a year, and on Nov. 15, 1808, thanks once again to Niethammer, he was appointed headmaster of the gymnasium, or secondary school, at Nuremberg.For 8 years Hegel taught philosophy and occasionally Greek literature and calculus. His administration was conservative and effective, but the position was ill-suited to his genius. In 1811 Hegel married Marie von Tucher, only 20 years old, after a tender courtship. Soon a daughter was born to them, but she died only a few months later. Then, in 1813, a son, Karl, was born, and a year later a second son, Immanuel. Hegel had had another son, Ludwig, born in 1807 to his landlord's wife; in 1816 Hegel invited him to join his household.Science of LogicWhile at Nuremberg, Hegel completed his second major work, Wissenschaft der Logik (Science of Logic), publishing part I of the first volume in 1811. Part II appeared in 1813, and the second volume in 1816. This difficult book presents the science of thought, purified of all reference to experience, to acts, or to facts of nature. In fact, the Logic consists of a closed series of "thought determinations" - for example, quantity and quality, form and matter - and displays both the differences between them and the way each meshes with every other. This pure science "contains thought insofar as it is just as much the thing in itself, or the thing in itself insofar as it is just as much pure thought." In other words, the Logic deals with reality, not solely with man's instruments for knowing or discussing it. "Logic [is] … the system of pure reason … the kingdom of pure thought. This kingdom is the truth as it is, without covering, in and for itself." But this kingdom of pure thought, for Hegel, presupposes man's rootedness in the complex, developing world of experience. The Phenomenology and the Logic, then, are interdependent portions of a single system. The study of logic, Hegel says, "is the absolute education and discipline of consciousness."Heidelberg and the EncyclopediaIn 1816 Hegel was called to the University of Heidelberg. In his opening lecture he remarked that the peace following on Napoleon's exile might revive "the courage of truth, a faith in the power of the spirit," which is the "prime requirement of philosophy." "Man, being spirit, may and should consider himself worthy of the highest … if he retains this faith, nothing will be so hard and unyielding that it will not open up to him." Feeling the need for a restatement and improvement of his earlier work, he published The Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences in Outline (1817). This summary of his system was later revised considerably, in 1827 and again in 1830. The book began with a section on logic, followed by "the philosophy of nature" and "the philosophy of spirit," and concluded with the self-knowledge vouchsafed only to philosophy. Another name for this self-knowledge is freedom. Since philosophy includes every kind of knowledge, true freedom is not separation but the most complete relatedness. The free man is actively at home in and with both nature and history.Berlin and FameIn 1817 Hegel was granted a professorship at Berlin. There he quickly found himself the center of a following, though he was hardly a seeker of followers. On the contrary, he took pains to discourage what he called "tutelage." It is reported, moreover, that he preferred the company of affable and urbane folk to that of earnest intellectuals.By this time Hegel's enthusiasm for the French Revolution had waned, and to some it appeared that he was an apologist for Prussian reaction. However, his major political work - the only book he published while at Berlin - confounds such a simple interpretation. Here he insists, "Whatever happens, every individual is a child of his time; so philosophy too is its own time apprehended in thought." It is for statesmen, not philosophers, to prescribe for tomorrow. Published in 1821, the book has a double title: Naturrecht und Staatswissenschaft im Grundrisse and Grundlinien der Philosophie des Rechts (translated by T. M. Knox as Hegel's Philosophy of Right, 1952).The sphere of reality examined in political philosophy is "objective Spirit." But the highest sphere, in which the accidents of nationality, economics, geography, and climate are transcended, is "absolute Spirit," which develops through three kinds of activity: art, religion, and philosophy. Although Hegel lectured on these subjects regularly, he did not write a book on them. However, some former students, after his death, compiled and published their notes from the lectures. A portion of these notes has been published as On Art, Religion, and Philosophy, edited by J. Glenn Gray (1970). Hegel's attempt to ferret out the truth of Spirit is a study of history, but a special kind of study since history is comprehended as the development of human freedom, rather than as a series of events and stories.Hegel became rector of the university in 1830. The next year he wrote a critical study of the situation in England, On the English Reform Bill, parts of which were published in a Prussian journal. The remainder was censored by state authorities to avoid antagonizing the English. For the fall semester of 1831, he announced two lecture courses: philosophy of law and the history of philosophy. He gave his first lectures on November 10; on November 14 Hegel succumbed to cholera, then epidemic in Europe.Hegel's influence on subsequent generations is incalculable. It has been said that the history of European thought since Hegel has been a series of revolts against his ideas. No thinker since has combined such ambition with such rigor and insight, and many who are sympathetic to his achievement regard his legacy as the "crisis of philosophy" which so preoccupies philosophers a century later.Further ReadingAn easily accessible biography of Hegel in English is Franz Wiedmann's admiring Hegel: An Illustrated Biography (trans. 1968). Hegel's political thought is discussed in Herbert Marcuse, Reason and Revolution: Hegel and the Rise of Social Theory (1941; 2d ed. 1954), and in an introductory essay by Z. A. Pelczynski in Hegel's Political Writings, translated by T. M. Knox (1964). A wealth of material is presented in Walter Kaufmann, Hegel: Reinterpretation, Texts, and Commentary (1965). Two good introductions to Hegel's work are J. Glenn Gray, Hegel's Hellenic Ideal (1941), and John N. Findlay, Hegel: A Re-examination (1958). The place of Hegel's work in 19th-century German thought is lucidly examined by Karl Löwith in From Hegel to Nietzsche: The Revolution in Nineteenth-Century Thought (trans. 1964). 
(1770-1831) German philosopher, born in Stuttgart in 1770; died of cholera in Berlin in 1831. He attended the Tübinger Stift where he studied philosophy and theology. After being employed as a house tutor Hegel eventually secured a position at the University of Jena 1801 where he lectured on logic and metaphysics for four years until he was appointed as a professor. 1816 he became Professor of Philosophy at the University of Heidelberg and lectured on political philosophy, history of philosophy, logic and metaphysics, anthropology and psychology, and aesthetics. Two years later Hegel took a professorship at the University of Berlin, where he remained until his death.During his lifetime Hegel published four important philosophical works: Phenomenology of Spirit (1807); Science of Logic (1812-16); Encyclopaedia of the Philosophical Sciences (1817, 1827, 1830); and Philosophy of Right (1821). His lectures on the history of philosophy, and philosophies of history, aesthetics, and religion were all published after his death.Hegel intended the Phenomenology of Spirit to serve as an introduction to his whole philosophical system, which was later to be explicated in the Encyclopaedia. His task in the Phenomenology is to present scientifically the contradictory development of consciousness from its most abstract state to the level of ‘absolute knowledge’. For Hegel the aim of philosophy is to apprehend ‘what truly is’ but to do this we need first to reflect on the very way consciousness itself understands reality. Hegel does this by showing how consciousness develops dialectically through education to preserve and transcend previous modes of thought. As each form of consciousness becomes aware that it has not achieved ‘absolute knowledge’ it is forced to move on to a higher level of cognition. For Hegel this is why ‘the history of the world is none other than the progress of the consciousness of freedom’.The Science of Logic sees Hegel similarly concerned with the discovery of truth but also with the problem of a starting point for philosophical analysis. Initially, however, Hegel is concerned to show that the weakness of traditional logic is that it separates form from content. For instance, formal logic would regard the following as ‘true’: all men are stupid, Galileo was a man, therefore Galileo was stupid. In form this is correct, each statement can be deduced from one another, but in content it can only be decided by experience whether the main premiss and the conclusion are ‘true’. In contrast, Hegel argues that ‘real’ logic can only come about if thought is allowed to develop itself free from the imposition of formal rules of traditional logic. Consequently, he wants to begin without any such presuppositions. He does this through abstracting thought to an indeterminate state as ‘pure being’ where it is ‘nothing’. Yet this ‘nothing’ is itself ‘something’—that is, it is nothing. Both ‘being’ and ‘nothing’ therefore become reducible to one another. Yet the movement which takes place between the two is a movement of ‘becoming’. ‘Being’ becomes ‘nothing’ and ‘nothing’ becomes ‘being’. From a state of indeterminacy we have moved to the determinacy of ‘becoming’ without assuming or presupposing anything. The rest of the Logic is an attempt by Hegel to develop further categories from the level of bare determinacy.It is from this analysis that we begin to discern the outlines of Hegel's dialectical method. Hegel attempts to explain this as lucidly as is possible in the Lesser Logic which comprises part one of the Encyclopaedia. The rest of the Encyclopaedia covers the philosophy of nature and the philosophy of mind. Hegel argues that his logic consists of three moments: the Understanding, the Dialectic, and the Speculative. Thought which remains simply at the level of the Understanding holds determinations in a fixed manner and sees them as being distinct from one another. The Dialectic is the recognition of the movement between these ‘fixed’ determinations in terms of their opposites, such as ‘being’ and ‘nothing’, for example. The Speculative stage is where real truth is found. It is the stage of ‘positive reason’ which is the knowledge that the opposites themselves should be apprehended as contradictions within a unity. Speculative philosophy is concerned with grasping the truth which emerges out of the contradictory movement of the Dialectic itself.In the Philosophy of Right this dialectical movement becomes expressed in the development of the concept of the will as it makes its progression along the path to freedom. The will moves through the moment of ‘Abstract Right’, where it manifests itself into material existence as it posits itself in property. It then passes through ‘Morality’, which allows it to realize the importance of moral norms, before it enters the realm of ‘Ethical Life’. It is here that the will passes through the moments of the family, civil society, and the state. It is through these mediating moments that a particular will comes into contact with other wills. Such interaction leads to the creation of institutions that attempt to bring the particular and universal will into a contradictory unity, for only then can people be truly free. The task for philosophy, according to Hegel, is to discern what is rational in this progression of the will. It is to try and penetrate the ‘forms, appearances and shapes’ which rationality takes in its external existence. Hence Hegel's claim, that ‘What is rational is actual; and what is actual is rational’, should be understood as a non-identity. The ‘rational is actual’ in that it exists in society but only in a particular ‘form’. Speculative philosophy's task is to grasp the ‘content’ of that ‘form’ and thereby discover what is truly rational. If Hegel's legacy means anything it is the importance of carrying out this endeavour in order for human freedom to be fully realized. See also sittlichkeit.
Hegel, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich (Stuttgart, 1770-1831, Berlin), philosopher, was educated at the Tübinger Stift (1788-93), where Hölderlin and Schelling were among his friends. In 1801 he wrote the tract Differenz des Fichteschen und Schellingschen Sy-stems der Philosophie, and settled in Jena as Privatdozent to prepare his own system designed to supersede the relativism (Relativitätstheorien) of Herder and Kant, and to set the course for later idealistic philosophy.Hegel aimed at an almost Aristotelian comprehensiveness. He set out in three parts his system of logic based initially on the substantiation of the ‘idea’, which he describes as Logos, and which in turn develops and manifests itself in Nature before it reaches the third stage embracing Ethics (concepts of morals as well as the legal administration of justice). These three, Sitte, Recht, and Staat, are compressed in a single term, culture. This third stage (culture) in turn forms the basis for a parallel development of God's self-realization in man, and of man's increasing consciousness of a dialectical evolution which determines Hegel's approach to history. Die Phänomenologie des Geistes was ready in proof form for his pupils in Jena in 1806, the year in which he had to leave to escape the Napoleonic occupation (see Napoleonic Wars). Over the next ten years Hegel was for a short time successively editor of the Bamberger Zeitung, and headmaster (Rektor) at Nuremberg Gymnasium. In 1817 he became professor of philosophy at Heidelberg University, and in 1818 was appointed to the corresponding chair at Berlin University, vacated by Fichte. He died of cholera two years after becoming university rector.Hegel opens his speculative philosophy of history by defining three categories of historical development.  (1)Earlier recorded history (e.g. Herodotus); (2)the period in which history is recorded in a ‘reflective’ style taking account of the attitude of the historian to his material, and constituting pragmatic history; (3)philosophical history; this he conceives in terms of intellectual contemplation searching for a pattern of historical evolution, which should yield a priori concepts appropriate to logical thought as he understood it (‘Europa ist schlechthin das Ende der Weltgeschichte, Asien der Anfang’). Hegel sought to devise a concept of logic which is not based on empirical cause and effect, but on a dialectical process adapted from that which Fichte had already introduced. He sees historical evolution in terms of a triadic pattern for which he first establishes a ‘thesis’ which provokes an ‘antithesis’, out of which emerges a ‘synthesis’. This ‘synthesis’ again forms a new ‘thesis’, but on a higher level than the preceding ‘thesis’. Each stage contains in reflective form a ‘thesis’, since it grows out of an existing situation by both ‘preserving’ (Hegel uses the term ‘aufgehoben’) and reacting against it. No stage in this dialectical progression is repetitive.In his Philosophie der Geschichte Hegel classifies the three geographical parts of the world (Africa, Asia, and Europe), and abstracts from them the following phases: the Oriental, the Greek, the Roman, and the Germanic phase, or world. The Germanic world he traces from its beginnings to the Middle Ages, a period which forms the first stage in its development. The second stage generates a feudal monarchical system, while the third opens with the Reformation. It closes, in Hegel's perspective, with the age of Enlightenment (see Aufklärung) and the ensuing revolutionary period.Oriental history is dominated by despotism, Greek history by democracy, and European history by aristocracy culminating in constitutional monarchy (‘Der König ist der Punkt auf dem i in Verfassungsfragen’). Criticisms of Hegel's conception of monarchy are directed against his favourable appraisal of the Prussian state. In the development of the various forms of government, which are co-ordinated with the history of art and religion, Hegel finds many variations, but tends to subordinate historical facts to his dialectics.This applies also to Hegel's metaphysics. His pantheistic approach is contained in his vague concept of a Weltgeist objectivizing and manifesting itself in history. Hegel distinguishes in his philosophy of the spirit, the Geist transcending nature, between the subjective, objective, and absolute spirit. The objective spirit, as opposed to the limited subjective spirit, represents the ethics of communities, from the small unit of the family to that of the state, and establishes the laws containing the highest forms of ethics. Above and beyond this, the absolute spirit permeates the three spheres of art, religion, and philosophy. While the subjective and objective spheres of the spirit generate the forces of history, the absolute spirit induces, through its conciliatory and harmonic properties, a sense of purity and perfection. In this Hegel sees the goal of aesthetics in art, as elaborated in Vorlesungen über die Aesthetik.Historically Hegel emerged after Kant, Fichte, and Schelling as the last Romantic idealist, whose views led antithetically to the dialectics of Marx and of L. Feuerbach. The principal works appearing during Hegel's lifetime, and containing titles already mentioned, are Wissenschaft der Logik (1812-16) and Die Encyclopaedie der philosophischen Wissenschaften im Grundrisse (1817, and, extended, 1827). A third edition followed in 1830. Hegel's lectures, among them Philosophie der Weltgeschichte and Geschichte der Philosophie, were edited after his death by E. Gans, and, in extended form, by Hegel's son Karl Hegel. The first complete edition of his works, which had in part to be pieced together from the lecture notes of his students and Hegel's own notes, appeared in 19 vols. from 1832 to 1840. This edition formed the basis for Hegel's influence throughout the 19th c. as well as the 20th c., making itself felt at various levels of German, and especially Prussian, cultural development in secondary school education, as well as Geistesgeschichte. It dominated German approaches to the history of literature, notably with W. Dilthey, who wrote on Hegel's early work (1905), F. Gundolf, H. A. Korff, and F. Strich. Hegel's life of Christ (a fragment) was not published until 1906, but his Religionsphilosophie has influenced German theology as well as aspects of English theology.The 200th anniversary of Hegel's birth was marked by a publication of his works (20 vols., 1970). A Neue kritische Gesamtausgabe of approximately 40 vols. is being edited by F. Nicolin, the director of the Hegel-Archiv at Bochum University.
Hegel, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich (1770-1831) German philosopher. Born at Stuttgart, Hegel studied at Tübingen, where his contemporaries included Schelling and the poet Hölderlin. After holding positions as a tutor he went to Jena in 1801 as a Privatdozent in philosophy, qualified by his thesis De Orbitis Planetarium (‘On the Orbits of the Planets’; the false view that Hegel thought that he could prove a priori that there are seven planets arises from misunderstanding the last chapter of this work). While in Jena he collaborated with Schelling in editing the Kritisches Journal der Philosophie, to which he contributed many articles, and wrote his first major work the Phänomenologie des Geistes (1807, trs. as The Phenomenology of Mind, 1910; also as The Phenomenology of Spirit, 1977). Promoted to a chair in 1805, he then was forced to leave Jena because of the Napoleonic war, became editor of a newspaper, and from 1807 spent eight years as director of the Gymnasium in Nürnberg. While there he published the two volumes of the Wissenschaft der Logik (1812-16, trs. as The Logic of Hegel, 1874). In 1816 he became professor of philosophy at Heidelberg, where he produced the Enzyklopädie der philosophischen Wissenschaften im Grundrisse (‘Encyclopaedia of the Philosophical Sciences in Outline’). Two years later he succeeded Fichte as professor in Berlin and entered into his most famous and influential period. His Naturrecht und Staatswissenschaft im Grundrisse and Grundlinien der Philosophie des Rechts (trs. as The Philosophy of Right, 1896) appeared in 1821, and many lecture notes by pupils were subsequently collected. The standard edition of Hegel's works (Stuttgart, 1927-30) runs to twenty volumes. Hegel attracted great numbers of foreign students to Berlin, and had an unparalleled influence on German philosophy in the 19th century. He was also the central philosophical influence on Marx and Engels, and on English philosophy in the absolute idealist phase, and although his reputation in the Anglo-American world has suffered periods of eclipse, he continues to be a focal point for many thinkers.The cornerstone of Hegel's system, or world view, is the notion of freedom, conceived not as simple licence to fulfil preferences but as the rare condition of living self-consciously and in a fully rationally organized community or state (this is not, as is charged for example by Popper, a defence of the totalitarian state or the doctrine that ‘might is right’, since Hegel requires a rational state to meet very stringent conditions, including the consent of the rational conscience of its members). Surprisingly, history can be seen as progress towards freedom: here Hegel follows the spirit of his own age (see Romanticism), voicing a confidence in progress and purpose in the otherwise jumbled kaleidoscope of history, but incidentally providing a dangerously intoxicating model for all social and political movements that pride themselves that they are on the side of the future. For Hegel such a progress is required by a proper theory of knowledge. Hegel admires scepticism as a movement that respects the freedom of reason, but starting from the Kantian response to scepticism he charts in the Phenomenology the development of all possible forms of consciousness, to the point where awareness becomes possible not of mere phenomena, but of reality as it is in itself, identified both with knowledge of the Absolute and with the moment when ‘mind’ finally knows itself. Although this desirable outcome is left rather vague, the Phenomenology contains brilliant analyses of the fragile nature of self-consciousness, and in particular the way it depends upon recognition by others. Thus the emergence of the singular ‘mind’ as opposed to the normal plurality of many minds is justified by the social nature of self-consciousness. Hegel's understanding that to have value in my own eyes I must achieve value in the eyes of others was arguably the foundation for subsequent social philosophy (see alienation, master/slave morality). Apart from his social and political philosophy, one of the most important of Hegel's legacies has been his conception of logic (see dialectic, dialectical materialism). Hegel's own attitude to logic is complicated by the equation between history on the one hand and thought or spirit on the other, meaning that disharmony or ‘contradiction’ in the world is an instance of contradiction in thought. Hegel's own attitude to the idea that actual events might embody contradictions, and thus in some sense make contradictions true, has been the topic of much debate.
(1770 - 1831), leading nineteenth-century philosopher.Georg Wilhem Friedrich Hegel was one of the most influential idealist philosophers of the nineteenth century. In German philosophical thought, Hegel was rivaled in his own times perhaps only by Immanuel Kant.Hegel developed a sweeping spectrum of thought embracing metaphysics, epistemology, logic, historiography, science, art, politics, and society. One branch of his philosophy after his death was reworked and fashioned into an "algebra of revolution," as developed by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, Russian Marxists and socialists, and later by Vladimir I. Lenin, the founder of Bolshevism.For Hegel, reality, which progresses dynamically through a process, or phases, of thesis, antithesis, and synthesis - his triadic concept of logic, inspired by the philosophy of Heraclitus - is essentially spiritual. Ultimate, determinant reality, according to Hegel, is the absolute World Spirit (Weltgeist). This spirit acts in triadic, dialectical fashion universally throughout world history. For Hegel, the state was the principal embodiment, or bearer, of this process.Because of its occasional obscurity and complexity, Hegelianism as a social and political philosophy soon split into various, contrasting branches. The primary ones were the extremes widely known as Right and Left Hegelianism. There was also a middle, or moderate, form of Hegelianism that in some ways influenced English, Italian, American, and other branches of late-nineteenth-century idealism and pragmatism.Right (or Old) Hegelianism regarded reality more or less passively, as indubitably rational. Whatever is real is rational, as seen in the status quo. Spirit, it alleged, develops on a grand, world scale via the inexorable, dialectical processes of history. Wherever this process leads must be logical since spirit is absolute and triadically law-bound. In the milieu of contrasting European politics of the nineteenth century, Right Hegelianism translated into reactionary endorsement of restorationism (restoring the old order following the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars) or support for monarchist legitimacy.By contrast, however, Left (or Young) Hegelianism, which influenced a number of thinkers, including Marx and Engels together with Russian Marxists and socialists, stressed the idea of grasping and understanding, even wielding, this law-bound process. It sought thereby to manipulate reality, above all, via society, politics, and the state. For revolutionaries, the revolutionary movement became such a handle, or weapon.Hegel had taught that there was an ultimate reality and that it was spiritual. However, when the young, materialist-minded Marx, under the influence of such philosophers as Feuerbach, absorbed Hegel, he "turned Hegel upside down," to use his collaborator Friedrich Engels's apt phrase. While retaining Hegelian logic and the historical process of the triadic dialectic, Marx, later Engels, and still later Lenin, saw the process in purely nonspiritual, materialistic, historical, and socioeconomic terms. This became the ideology, or science, of historical materialism and dialectical materialism as embraced by the Russian Marxist George Plekhanov and, thence, by Lenin - but in an interpretation of the ideology different from Plekhanov's.In the Marx-Engels-Lenin-Stalin interpretation of Left Hegelianism, historical change, the motor of history as determined by the forces and processes within the given social and economic system, is law-bound and strictly predictable. As presented in historical materialism, the history of societies develops universally by stages - namely, from slavery, to feudalism, to capitalism, and finally to socialism, whose final stage is full-fledged communism.Each stage, except the merged last two (socialism/communism), contains the seeds of its own destruction (or "contradictions") as the dialectical process of socioeconomic development spirals upward to the next historical stage. For instance, capitalism's antithesis is seen in the seeds of its own destruction together with the anticipation of the new synthesis of socialism/communism. Such seeds, said the Marxists, are capitalism's impoverishment of a majority of the exploited population, overproduction, unemployment, class struggle, economic collapse, and, inevitably, revolution.Progressive elements of the former, capitalist order are then continued in new form in the final, socialist/communist phase. This assumes the form of industrialization, mass production, a just sociopolitical order (under a workers' dictatorship of the proletariat). In this formulation the Marxists developed the theory of base and superstructure. The base is the economic system; the superstructure are such facets of society as government, laws, religion, literature, and the arts. The superstructure both reflects and rationalizes the base.Ultimately, under the dictatorship of the proletariat, state power, as described in the Marxist Critique of the Gotha Program, gradually withers away. The society is thence led into the final epoch of communism. In this final stage, a virtual millennium, there are no classes, no socioeconomic inequality, no oppression, no state, no law, no division of labor, but instead pure equality, communality, and universal happiness. Ironically, in contrast to Marx's formulation, the ultimate phase in Hegel's own interpretation of the dialectic in history was the Prussian state.In Lenin's construction of Marxism, Hegelianism was given an extreme left interpretation. This is seen, among other places, in Lenin's "Philosophical Notebooks." In this work Lenin gives his own interpretation of Hegel. He indicates here and in other writings that absolute knowledge of the inevitable historical process is attainable - at least by those equipped to find it scientifically.The leaders of the impending proletarian revolution, Lenin says in his 1903 work, What Is to Be Done?, become a select circle of intellectuals whose philosophy (derived from Marx and Hegel) equips them to assume exclusive Communist Party leadership of the given country. Lenin could imagine that such knowledge might allow a nation's (namely, Russia's) socioeconomic development to skip intermediate socioeconomic phases, or at least shorten them. In this way, the Russian Bolsheviks could lead the masses to the socialist/communist stage of development all but directly. This could be accomplished by reducing or suppressing the phase of bourgeois capitalism. (This Leninist interepretation of the dialectic has been criticized by other Marxists as running counter to Hegel's, and Marx's, own explanations of the dialectic.)Thus, in Lenin's interpretation of Hegel and Marx, the dictatorship of the proletariat becomes the leader and teacher of society, the single indoctrinator whose absolute power (based on the people) saves the masses from the abuses of the contradictions of capitalist society, whether in rural or urban society, while guiding society to the final, communist phase.BibliographyGregor, A. James. (1995). "A Survey of Marxism." In The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, ed. Ted Honderich. Oxford: Oxford University Press.Hegel, Georg Wilhem Friedrich. (1967). The Philosophy of Right. Oxford: Clarendon.Marx, Karl, and Engels, Friedrich. (1962). Selected Works. 2 vols. Moscow: Foreign Languages Pub. House.Possony, Stefan T. (1966). Lenin: The Compulsive Revolutionary. London: Allen & Unwin.Tucker, Robert C. (1972). Philosophy and Myth in Karl Marx, 2nd ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.Weeks, Albert L. (1968). The First Bolshevik: A Political Biography of Peter Tkachev. New York: New York University Press.
Hegel, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich (gā'ôrkh vĭl'hĕlm frē'drĭkh hā'gəl), 1770-1831, German philosopher, b. Stuttgart; son of a government clerk.Life and WorksEducated in theology at Tübingen, Hegel was a private tutor at Bern and Frankfurt. In 1801 he became privatdocent [tutor] and in 1805 professor at the Univ. of Jena. While considered a follower of Schelling, he was developing his own system, which he first presented in Phenomenology of Mind (1807). During the Napoleonic occupation Hegel edited (1807-8) a newspaper, which he left to become rector (1808-16) of a Gymnasium at Nuremberg. He then returned to professorships at Heidelberg (1816-18) and Berlin (1818-31), where he became famous.In his lectures at Berlin he set forth the system elaborated in his books. Chief among these were Science of Logic (1812-16); Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences (1817), an outline of his whole philosophy; and Philosophy of Right (1821). He also wrote books on ethics, aesthetics, history, and religion. His interests were wide, and all were incorporated into his unified philosophy.PhilosophyThe Hegelian DialecticHegel's absolute idealism envisaged a world-soul that develops out of, and is known through, the dialectical logic. In this development, known as the Hegelian dialectic, one concept (thesis) inevitably generates its opposite (antithesis), and the interaction of these leads to a new concept (synthesis). This in turn becomes the thesis of a new triad. Hegel regarded Kant's study of categories as incomplete. The idea of being is fundamental, but it evokes its antithesis, not being. However, these two are not mutually exclusive, for they necessarily produce the synthesis, becoming. Hence activity is basic, progress is rational, and logic is the basis of the world process.Nature and the StateThe study of nature and mind reveal reason as it realizes itself in cosmology and history. The world process is the absolute, the active principle that does not transcend reality but exists through and in it. The universe develops by a self-creating plan, proceeding from astral bodies to the world, from the mineral kingdom to the vegetable, from the vegetable kingdom to the animal. In society the same progress can be discovered; human activities lead to property, which leads to law.Out of the relationship between the individual and law develops the synthesis of ethics, where both the interdependence and the freedom of individuals interact to produce the state. The state thus is a totality above all individuals, and since it is a unit, its highest development is rule by monarchy. Such a state is an embodiment of the absolute idea. In his study of history, Hegel reviewed the history of states that held sway over lesser peoples until a higher representative of the absolute evolved. Though much of his development was questionable, the concept of the conflict of cultures stimulated historical analysis.Aesthetics and ReligionHegel considered art a closer approach to the absolute than government. In the history of art he distinguished three periods-the Oriental, the Greek, and the romantic. He believed that the modern romantic form of art cannot encompass the magnitude of the Christian ideal. Hegel taught that religion moved from worship of nature through a series of stages to Christianity, where Christ represents the union of God and humanity, of spirit and matter. Philosophy goes beyond religion as it enables humankind to comprehend the entire historical unfolding of the absolute.InfluenceHegel has influenced many subsequent philosophies-post-Hegelian idealism, the existentialism of Kierkegaard and Sartre, the socialism of Marx and Lasalle, and the instrumentalism of Dewey. His theory of the state was the guiding force of the group known as the Young Hegelians, who sought the unification of Germany. His lectures on philosophy, religion, aesthetics, and history were collected in eight volumes after his death.BibliographySee biographies by F. Wiedmann (1968) and T. Pinkard (2000); S. Hook, From Hegel to Marx (1936, repr. 1962); H. Marcuse, Reason and Revolution (1955, repr. 1963); J. N. Findlay, Hegel: A Re-examination (1958, repr. 1964); W. A. Kaufman, Hegel: Reinterpretation, Texts and Commentary (1965); Z. A. Pelczynski, ed., Hegel's Political Philosphy (1971); S. Rosen, Hegel (1974); H. S. Harris, Hegel's Development (2 vol., 1983); E. E. Harris, An Introduction to the Logic of Hegel (1984); S. Zizek et al., ed., Hegel and the Infinite (2011).
(1770–1831). German philosopher born at Stuttgart. He studied theology at Tübingen, and became privat-docent at Jena and then headmaster of a school at Nuremberg, where he instructed the boys in his own, highly obscure, philosophy, which is a modification of Kant's. He became professor of philosophy at Heidelberg in 1816 and finally at Berlin in 1818, where he dominated German philosophy.Hegel is essentially mystical; he rejects the reality of separate objects, and of minds in space and time, and holds, rather, an all-embracing unity: the absolute which is rational, real, and true. To draw attention to a particular is to separate this from the whole, and so the particular is only partially true. Greater unity and truth are achieved by the dialectic of positing something (thesis), denying it (antithesis), and combining the two half-truths in a synthesis. It has been said that Karl Marx 'stood Hegel on his head' by making matter, and not reason, the ultimate reality. Hegel is the contrary of an empiricist, for he held that the whole has a greater claim to reality than the parts that may be observed, and (in societies) that the group has more reality than the individuals composing it. This came to justify extreme authoritarian political philosophies, from Fascism to Communism. It is also the mainspring of idealist philosophies such as Bradley's, which were finally abandoned with the impact of pragmatism and logical positivism, and the linguistic analysis and emphasis on 'atomic statements' of G. E. Moore, Bertrand Russell, and Ludwig Wittgenstein.Hegel's main philosophical work is Phänomenologie des Geistes (1807; English trans. The Phenomenology of the Mind, 1844).(Published 1987)— Richard L. Gregory
"Hegel" redirects here. For other people with the surname Hegel, see Hegel (surname).  For the Lucio Battisti album, see Hegel (album).
Aristotle, Plato, Heraclitus, Neoplatonism, Anselm, Descartes, Goethe, Spinoza, Leibniz, Rousseau, Böhme, Kant, Smith, Fichte, Hölderlin, Vico, Herder, Schelling
Adorno, Badiou, Bakunin, Barth, Bataille, Bauer, Baur, Bookchin, Bosanquet, Bradley, Brandom, Breton, Butler,[1] Camus, Carové, Croce, Danto, Debord, Deleuze, Derrida, Dewey, Dilthey, Dostoyevsky, Doull, Emerson, Engels, Erdmann, Fackenheim, Fanon, Feuerbach, Fischer, Fukuyama, Gabler, Gadamer, Gans, Gentile, Green, Habermas, Hinrichs, Heidegger, Heine, Herbart, Horkheimer, Ilyenkov, Jaspers, Kaufmann, P., Kaufmann, W., Kierkegaard, Kojève, Koyré, Küng, Lacan, Lewes, Lenin, Lévi-Strauss, Lotze, Lukács, Marcuse, Marx, McTaggart, Michelet, Moltmann, Nietzsche, O'Donoghue, Oppenheim, Pannenberg, Pippin, Rose, Rosenkranz, Rosenzweig, Ruge, Russon, Sartre, Schleicher, Singer, Stirner, Strauss, D., Strauss, L., Taylor, Unger, Vygotsky, Zeller, Žižek
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (German: [ˈɡeɔɐ̯k ˈvɪlhɛlm ˈfʁiːdʁɪç ˈheːɡəl]; August 27, 1770 – November 14, 1831) was a German philosopher, and a major figure in German Idealism. His historicist and idealist account of reality revolutionized European philosophy and was an important precursor to Continental philosophy and Marxism.
Hegel developed a comprehensive philosophical framework, or "system", of Absolute idealism to account in an integrated and developmental way for the relation of mind and nature, the subject and object of knowledge, psychology, the state, history, art, religion, and philosophy. In particular, he developed the concept that mind or spirit manifested itself in a set of contradictions and oppositions that it ultimately integrated and united, without eliminating either pole or reducing one to the other. Examples of such contradictions include those between nature and freedom, and between immanence and transcendence.
Hegel influenced writers of widely varying positions, including both his admirers (Strauss, Bauer, Feuerbach, T. H. Green, Baur, Marx, Engels, Vygotsky, F. H. Bradley, Dewey, Sartre, Croce, Dilthey, Gadamer, Küng, Kojève, Fukuyama, Žižek, Brandom, Iqbal) and his detractors (Schopenhauer, Herbart, Schelling, Kierkegaard, Stirner, Nietzsche, Peirce, James, Popper, Russell, Heidegger, Deleuze).[2] His influential conceptions are of speculative logic or "dialectic", "absolute idealism", "Spirit", negativity, sublation (Aufhebung in German), the "Master/Slave" dialectic, "ethical life" and the importance of history.
Hegel was born on August 27, 1770 in Stuttgart, in the Duchy Württemberg in southwestern Germany. Christened Georg Wilhelm Friedrich, he was known as Wilhelm to his close family. His father, Georg Ludwig, was Rentkammersekretär (secretary to the revenue office) at the court of Karl Eugen, Duke of Württemberg.[3] Hegel's mother, Maria Magdalena Louisa (née Fromm), was the daughter of a lawyer at the High Court of Justice at the Württemberg court. She died of a "bilious fever" (Gallenfieber) when Hegel was thirteen. Hegel and his father also caught the disease but narrowly survived.[4] Hegel had a sister, Christiane Luise (1773–1832), and a brother, Georg Ludwig (1776–1812), who was to perish as an officer in Napoleon's Russian campaign of 1812.[5]
At age three Hegel went to the "German School". When he entered the "Latin School" aged five, he already knew the first declension, having been taught it by his mother.
In 1776 Hegel entered Stuttgart's Gymnasium Illustre. During his adolescence Hegel read voraciously, copying lengthy extracts in his diary. Authors he read include the poet Klopstock and writers associated with the Enlightenment such as Christian Garve and Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. Hegel's studies at the Gymnasium were concluded with his Abiturrede ("graduation speech") entitled "The abortive state of art and scholarship in Turkey."
At the age of eighteen Hegel entered the Tübinger Stift (a Protestant seminary attached to the University of Tübingen), where two fellow students were to become vital to his development—his exact contemporary, the poet Friedrich Hölderlin, and the younger philosopher-to-be Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling. Sharing a dislike for what they regarded as the restrictive environment of the Seminary, the three became close friends and mutually influenced each other's ideas. They watched the unfolding of the French Revolution with shared enthusiasm. Schelling and Hölderlin immersed themselves in theoretical debates on Kantian philosophy, from which Hegel remained aloof. Hegel at this time envisaged his future as that of a Popularphilosoph, i.e., a "man of letters" who serves to make the abstruse ideas of philosophers accessible to a wider public; his own felt need to engage critically with the central ideas of Kantianism did not come until 1800.
Having received his theological certificate (Konsistorialexamen) from the Tübingen Seminary, Hegel became Hofmeister (house tutor) to an aristocratic family in Bern (1793–96). During this period he composed the text which has become known as the "Life of Jesus" and a book-length manuscript titled "The Positivity of the Christian Religion". His relations with his employers becoming strained, Hegel accepted an offer mediated by Hölderlin to take up a similar position with a wine merchant's family in Frankfurt, where he moved in 1797. Here Hölderlin exerted an important influence on Hegel's thought.[6] While in Frankfurt Hegel composed the essay "Fragments on Religion and Love". In 1799 he wrote another essay entitled "The Spirit of Christianity and Its Fate", unpublished during his lifetime.
In 1801 Hegel came to Jena with the encouragement of his old friend Schelling, who held the position of Extraordinary Professor at the University there. Hegel secured a position at the University as a Privatdozent (unsalaried lecturer) after submitting a Habilitationsschrift (dissertation) on the orbits of the planets. Later in the year Hegel's first book, The Difference Between Fichte's and Schelling's Systems of Philosophy, appeared. He lectured on "Logic and Metaphysics" and, with Schelling, gave joint lectures on an "Introduction to the Idea and Limits of True Philosophy" and held a "Philosophical Disputorium". In 1802 Schelling and Hegel founded a journal, the Kritische Journal der Philosophie ("Critical Journal of Philosophy") to which they each contributed pieces until the collaboration was ended by Schelling's departure for Würzburg in 1803.
In 1805 the University promoted Hegel to the position of Extraordinary Professor (unsalaried), after Hegel wrote a letter to the poet and minister of culture Johann Wolfgang von Goethe protesting at the promotion of his philosophical adversary Jakob Friedrich Fries ahead of him.[7] Hegel attempted to enlist the help of the poet and translator Johann Heinrich Voß to obtain a post at the newly renascent University of Heidelberg, but failed; to his chagrin, Fries was later in the same year made Ordinary Professor (salaried) there.[8]
His finances drying up quickly, Hegel was now under great pressure to deliver his book, the long-promised introduction to his System. Hegel was putting the finishing touches to this book, the Phenomenology of Spirit, as Napoleon engaged Prussian troops on October 14, 1806, in the Battle of Jena on a plateau outside the city. On the day before the battle, Napoleon entered the city of Jena. Hegel recounted his impressions in a letter to his friend Friedrich Immanuel Niethammer:
I saw the Emperor – this world-soul – riding out of the city on reconnaissance. It is indeed a wonderful sensation to see such an individual, who, concentrated here at a single point, astride a horse, reaches out over the world and masters it . . . this extraordinary man, whom it is impossible not to admire.[9]
Although Napoleon chose not to close down Jena as he had other universities, the city was devastated and students deserted the university in droves, making Hegel's financial prospects even worse. The following February Hegel's landlady Christiana Burkhardt (who had been abandoned by her husband) gave birth to their son Georg Ludwig Friedrich Fischer (1807–31).[10]
In March 1807, aged 37, Hegel moved to Bamberg, where Niethammer had declined and passed on to Hegel an offer to become editor of a newspaper, the Bamberger Zeitung. Hegel, unable to find more suitable employment, reluctantly accepted. Ludwig Fischer and his mother (whom Hegel may have offered to marry following the death of her husband) stayed behind in Jena.[11]
He was then, in November 1808, again through Niethammer, appointed headmaster of a Gymnasium in Nuremberg, a post he held until 1816. While in Nuremberg Hegel adapted his recently published Phenomenology of Spirit for use in the classroom. Part of his remit being to teach a class called "Introduction to Knowledge of the Universal Coherence of the Sciences", Hegel developed the idea of an encyclopedia of the philosophical sciences, falling into three parts (logic, philosophy of nature, and philosophy of spirit).[12]
Hegel married Marie Helena Susanna von Tucher (1791–1855), the eldest daughter of a Senator, in 1811. This period saw the publication of his second major work, the Science of Logic (Wissenschaft der Logik; 3 vols., 1812, 1813, 1816), and the birth of his two legitimate sons, Karl Friedrich Wilhelm (1813–1901) and Immanuel Thomas Christian (1814–1891).
Having received offers of a post from the Universities of Erlangen, Berlin, and Heidelberg, Hegel chose Heidelberg, where he moved in 1816. Soon after, in April 1817, his illegitimate son Ludwig Fischer (now ten years old) joined the Hegel household, having thus far spent his childhood in an orphanage.[13] (Ludwig's mother had died in the meantime.)[14]
Hegel published The Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences in Outline (1817) as a summary of his philosophy for students attending his lectures at Heidelberg.
In 1818 Hegel accepted the renewed offer of the chair of philosophy at the University of Berlin, which had remained vacant since Fichte's death in 1814. Here he published his Philosophy of Right (1821). Hegel devoted himself primarily to delivering his lectures; his lecture courses on aesthetics, the philosophy of religion, the philosophy of history, and the history of philosophy were published posthumously from lecture notes taken by his students. His fame spread and his lectures attracted students from all over Germany and beyond.
Hegel was appointed Rector of the University in 1830, when he was 60. He was deeply disturbed by the riots for reform in Berlin in that year. In 1831 Frederick William III decorated him for his service to the Prussian state. In August 1831 a cholera epidemic reached Berlin and Hegel left the city, taking up lodgings in Kreuzberg. Now in a weak state of health, Hegel seldom went out. As the new semester began in October, Hegel returned to Berlin, with the (mistaken) impression that the epidemic had largely subsided. By November 14 Hegel was dead. The physicians pronounced the cause of death as cholera, but it is likely he died from a different gastrointestinal disease.[15] He is said to have uttered the last words "And he didn't understand me" before expiring.[16] In accordance with his wishes, Hegel was buried on November 16 in the Dorotheenstadt cemetery next to Fichte and Solger.
Hegel's son Ludwig Fischer had died shortly before while serving with the Dutch army in Batavia; the news of his death never reached his father.[17] Early the following year Hegel's sister Christiane committed suicide by drowning. Hegel's remaining two sons - Karl, who became a historian, and Immanuel, who followed a theological path - lived long and safeguarded their father's Nachlaß and produced editions of his works.
Hegel's thinking can be understood as a constructive development within the broad tradition that includes Plato and Kant. To this list one could add Proclus, Meister Eckhart, Leibniz, Plotinus, Jakob Boehme, and Rousseau. What all these thinkers share, which distinguishes them from materialists like Epicurus, the Stoics, and Thomas Hobbes, and from empiricists like David Hume, is that they regard freedom or self-determination both as real and as having important ontological implications, for soul or mind or divinity. This focus on freedom is what generates Plato's notion (in the Phaedo, Republic, and Timaeus) of the soul as having a higher or fuller kind of reality than inanimate objects possess. While Aristotle criticizes Plato's "Forms", he preserves Plato's cornerstones of the ontological implications for self-determination: ethical reasoning, the soul's pinnacle in the hierarchy of nature, the order of the cosmos, and an assumption with reasoned arguments for a prime mover. Kant imports Plato's high esteem of individual sovereignty to his considerations of moral and noumenal freedom, as well as to God. All three find common ground on the unique position of humans in the scheme of things, known by the discussed categorical differences from animals and inanimate objects.
In his discussion of "Spirit" in his Encyclopedia, Hegel praises Aristotle's On the Soul as "by far the most admirable, perhaps even the sole, work of philosophical value on this topic".[18] In his Phenomenology of Spirit and his Science of Logic, Hegel's concern with Kantian topics such as freedom and morality, and with their ontological implications, is pervasive. Rather than simply rejecting Kant's dualism of freedom versus nature, Hegel aims to subsume it within "true infinity", the "Concept" (or "Notion": Begriff), "Spirit", and "ethical life" in such a way that the Kantian duality is rendered intelligible, rather than remaining a brute "given."
The reason why this subsumption takes place in a series of concepts is that Hegel's method, in his Science of Logic and his Encyclopedia, is to begin with basic concepts like Being and Nothing, and to develop these through a long sequence of elaborations, including those already mentioned. In this manner, a solution that is reached, in principle, in the account of "true infinity" in the Science of Logic's chapter on "Quality", is repeated in new guises at later stages, all the way to "Spirit" and "ethical life", in the third volume of the Encyclopedia.
In this way, Hegel intends to defend the germ of truth in Kantian dualism against reductive or eliminative programs like those of materialism and empiricism. Like Plato, with his dualism of soul versus bodily appetites, Kant pursues the mind's ability to question its felt inclinations or appetites and to come up with a standard of "duty" (or, in Plato's case, "good") which transcends bodily restrictiveness. Hegel preserves this essential Platonic and Kantian concern in the form of infinity going beyond the finite (a process that Hegel in fact relates to "freedom" and the "ought"[19]), the universal going beyond the particular (in the Concept), and Spirit going beyond Nature. And Hegel renders these dualities intelligible by (ultimately) his argument in the "Quality" chapter of the "Science of Logic." The finite has to become infinite in order to achieve reality. The idea of the absolute excludes multiplicity so the subjective and objective must achieve synthesis to become whole. This is because, as Hegel suggests by his introduction of the concept of "reality",[20] what determines itself—rather than depending on its relations to other things for its essential character—is more fully "real" (following the Latin etymology of "real": more "thing-like") than what does not. Finite things don't determine themselves, because, as "finite" things, their essential character is determined by their boundaries, over against other finite things. So, in order to become "real", they must go beyond their finitude ("finitude is only as a transcending of itself"[21]).
The result of this argument is that finite and infinite—and, by extension, particular and universal, nature and freedom—don't face one another as two independent realities, but instead the latter (in each case) is the self-transcending of the former.[22] Rather than stress the distinct singularity of each factor that complements and conflicts with others—without explanation—the relationship between finite and infinite (and particular and universal, and nature and freedom) becomes intelligible as a progressively developing and self-perfecting whole.
The obscure writings of Jakob Böhme had a strong effect on Hegel. Böhme had written that the Fall of Man was a necessary stage in the evolution of the universe. This evolution was, itself, the result of God's desire for complete self-awareness. Hegel was fascinated by the works of Kant, Rousseau, and Goethe, and by the French Revolution. Modern philosophy, culture, and society seemed to Hegel fraught with contradictions and tensions, such as those between the subject and object of knowledge, mind and nature, self and Other, freedom and authority, knowledge and faith, the Enlightenment and Romanticism. Hegel's main philosophical project was to take these contradictions and tensions and interpret them as part of a comprehensive, evolving, rational unity that, in different contexts, he called "the absolute idea" or "absolute knowledge".
According to Hegel, the main characteristic of this unity was that it evolved through and manifested itself in contradiction and negation. Contradiction and negation have a dynamic quality that at every point in each domain of reality—consciousness, history, philosophy, art, nature, society—leads to further development until a rational unity is reached that preserves the contradictions as phases and sub-parts by lifting them up (Aufhebung) to a higher unity. This whole is mental because it is mind that can comprehend all of these phases and sub-parts as steps in its own process of comprehension. It is rational because the same, underlying, logical, developmental order underlies every domain of reality and is ultimately the order of self-conscious rational thought, although only in the later stages of development does it come to full self-consciousness. The rational, self-conscious whole is not a thing or being that lies outside of other existing things or minds. Rather, it comes to completion only in the philosophical comprehension of individual existing human minds who, through their own understanding, bring this developmental process to an understanding of itself.
"Mind" and "Spirit" are the common English translations of Hegel's use of the German "Geist". Some[who?] have argued that either of these terms overly "psychologize" Hegel,[citation needed] implying a kind of disembodied, solipsistic consciousness like ghost or "soul." Geist combines the meaning of spirit—as in god, ghost or mind—with an intentional force. In Hegel's early philosophy of nature (draft manuscripts written during his time at the University of Jena), Hegel's notion of "Geist" was tightly bound to the notion of "Aether" from which Hegel also derived the concepts of space and time; however in his later works (after Jena) Hegel did not explicitly use his old notion of "Aether" any more.[23]
Central to Hegel's conception of knowledge and mind (and therefore also of reality) was the notion of identity in difference, that is that mind externalizes itself in various forms and objects that stand outside of it or opposed to it, and that, through recognizing itself in them, is "with itself" in these external manifestations, so that they are at one and the same time mind and other-than-mind. This notion of identity in difference, which is intimately bound up with his conception of contradiction and negativity, is a principal feature differentiating Hegel's thought from that of other philosophers.
Hegel made the distinction between civil society and state in his Elements of the Philosophy of Right.[24] In this work, civil society (Hegel used the term "buergerliche Gesellschaft" though it is now referred to as Zivilgesellschaft in German to emphasize a more inclusive community) was a stage in the dialectical relationship that occurs between Hegel's perceived opposites, the macro-community of the state and the micro-community of the family.[25] Broadly speaking, the term was split, like Hegel's followers, to the political left and right. On the left, it became the foundation for Karl Marx's civil society as an economic base;[26] to the right, it became a description for all non-state aspects of society, including culture, society and politics.[27] This liberal distinction between political society and civil society was followed by Alexis de Tocqueville.[26] In fact, Hegel's distinctions as to what he meant by civil society are often unclear. For example, while it seems to be the case that he felt that a civil-society such as the German society in which he lived was an inevitable movement of the dialectic, he made way for the crushing of other types of "lesser" and not fully realized types of civil society, as these societies were not fully conscious or aware, as it were, as to the lack of progress in their societies. Thus, it was perfectly legitimate in the eyes of Hegel for a conqueror, such as Napoleon, to come along and destroy that which was not fully realized. (see "Reason in History")
According to Hegel, "Heraclitus is the one who first declared the nature of the infinite and first grasped nature as in itself infinite, that is, its essence as process. The origin of philosophy is to be dated from Heraclitus. His is the persistent Idea that is the same in all philosophers up to the present day, as it was the Idea of Plato and Aristotle."[28] For Hegel, Heraclitus's great achievements were to have understood the nature of the infinite, which for Hegel includes understanding the inherent contradictoriness and negativity of reality, and to have grasped that reality is becoming or process, and that "being" and "nothingness" are mere empty abstractions. According to Hegel, Heraclitus's "obscurity" comes from his being a true (in Hegel's terms "speculative") philosopher who grasped the ultimate philosophical truth and therefore expressed himself in a way that goes beyond the abstract and limited nature of common sense and is difficult to grasp by those who operate within common sense. Hegel asserted that in Heraclitus he had an antecedent for his logic: "... there is no proposition of Heraclitus which I have not adopted in my logic."[29]
Hegel cites a number of fragments of Heraclitus in his Lectures on the History of Philosophy.[30] One to which he attributes great significance is the fragment he translates as "Being is not more than Non-being", which he interprets to mean
Heraclitus does not form any abstract nouns from his ordinary use of "to be" and "to become" and in that fragment seems to be opposing any identity A to any other identity B, C, etc., which is not-A. Hegel, however, interprets not-A as not existing at all, not nothing at all, which cannot be conceived, but indeterminate or "pure" being without particularity or specificity.[31] Pure being and pure non-being or nothingness are for Hegel pure abstractions from the reality of becoming, and this is also how he interprets Heraclitus. This interpretation of Heraclitus cannot be ruled out, but even if present is not the main gist of his thought.
For Hegel, the inner movement of reality is the process of God thinking, as manifested in the evolution of the universe of nature and thought; that is, Hegel argued that, when fully and properly understood, reality is being thought by God as manifested in a person's comprehension of this process in and through philosophy. Since human thought is the image and fulfillment of God's thought, God is not ineffable (so incomprehensible as to be unutterable) but can be understood by an analysis of thought and reality. Just as humans continually correct their concepts of reality through a dialectical process, so God himself becomes more fully manifested through the dialectical process of becoming.
For his god Hegel does not take the logos of Heraclitus but refers rather to the nous of Anaxagoras, although he may well have regarded them the same, as he continues to refer to god's plan, which is identical to God. Whatever the nous thinks at any time is actual substance and is identical to limited being, but more remains to be thought in the substrate of non-being, which is identical to pure or unlimited thought.
The universe as becoming is therefore a combination of being and non-being. The particular is never complete in itself but to find completion is continually transformed into more comprehensive, complex, self-relating particulars. The essential nature of being-for-itself is that it is free "in itself"; that is, it does not depend on anything else, such as matter, for its being. The limitations represent fetters, which it must constantly be casting off as it becomes freer and more self-determining.[32]
Although Hegel began his philosophizing with commentary on the Christian religion and often expresses the view that he is a Christian, his ideas of God are not acceptable to some Christians, although he has had a major influence on 19th- and 20th-century theology. At the same time, an atheistic version of his thought was adopted instead by some Marxists, who, stripping away the concepts of divinity, styled what was left dialectical materialism, which some saw as originating in Heraclitus.
This section may contain original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding references. Statements consisting only of original research may be removed. (October 2012) 
As a graduate of a Protestant seminary, Hegel’s theological concerns were reflected in many of his writings and lectures.[33] Hegel's thoughts on the person of Jesus Christ stood out from the theologies of the Enlightenment. In his posthumous book, The Christian Religion: Lectures on Philosophy of Religion Part 3, he espouses that, "God is not an abstraction but a concrete God...God, considered in terms of his eternal Idea, has to generate the Son, has to distinguish himself from himself; he is the process of differentiating, namely, love and Spirit". This means that Jesus as the Son of God is posited by God over against himself as other. Hegel sees both a relational unity and a metaphysical unity between Jesus and God the Father. To Hegel, Jesus is both divine and Human. Hegel further attests that God (as Jesus) not only died, but "...rather, a reversal takes place: God, that is to say, maintains himself in the process, and the latter is only the death of death. God rises again to life, and thus things are reversed."
Hegel published four books during his lifetime: the Phenomenology of Spirit (or Phenomenology of Mind), his account of the evolution of consciousness from sense-perception to absolute knowledge, published in 1807; the Science of Logic, the logical and metaphysical core of his philosophy, in three volumes, published in 1811, 1812, and 1816 (revised 1831); Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences, a summary of his entire philosophical system, which was originally published in 1816 and revised in 1827 and 1830; and the Elements of the Philosophy of Right, his political philosophy, published in 1820. In the latter, he criticized von Haller's reactionary work, which claimed that laws were not necessary. He also published some articles early in his career and during his Berlin period. A number of other works on the philosophy of history, religion, aesthetics, and the history of philosophy were compiled from the lecture notes of his students and published posthumously.
The French Revolution for Hegel constitutes the introduction of real individual political freedom into European societies for the first time in recorded history. But precisely because of its absolute novelty, it is also unlimited with regard to everything that preceded it: on the one hand the upsurge of violence required to carry out the revolution cannot cease to be itself, while on the other, it has already consumed its opponent. The revolution therefore has nowhere to turn but onto its own result: the hard-won freedom is consumed by a brutal Reign of Terror. History, however, progresses by learning from its mistakes: only after and precisely because of this experience can one posit the existence of a constitutional state of free citizens, embodying both the benevolent organizing power of rational government and the revolutionary ideals of freedom and equality. Hegel's remarks on the French revolution led German poet Heinrich Heine to label him "The Orléans of German Philosophy".
There are views of Hegel's thought as a representation of the summit of early 19th century Germany's movement of philosophical idealism. It would come to have a profound impact on many future philosophical schools, including schools that opposed Hegel's specific dialectical idealism, such as Existentialism, the historical materialism of Karl Marx, historism, and British Idealism.
Hegel's influence was immense both within philosophy and in the other sciences. Throughout the 19th century many chairs of philosophy around Europe were held by Hegelians, and Kierkegaard, Feuerbach, Marx, and Engels—among many others—were all deeply influenced by, but also strongly opposed to, many of the central themes of Hegel's philosophy. After less than a generation, Hegel's philosophy was suppressed and even banned by the Prussian right-wing, and was firmly rejected by the left-wing in multiple official writings.
After the period of Bruno Bauer, Hegel's influence did not make itself felt again until the philosophy of British Idealism and the 20th century Hegelian Western Marxism that began with Georg Lukács. The more recent movement of communitarianism has a strong Hegelian influence.
Some of Hegel's writing was intended for those with advanced knowledge of philosophy, although his "Encyclopedia" was intended as a textbook in a university course. Nevertheless, like many philosophers, Hegel assumed that his readers would be well-versed in Western philosophy, up to and including Descartes, Hume, Kant, Fichte, and Schelling. For those wishing to read his work without this background, introductions to and commentaries about Hegel can contribute to comprehension, although the reader is faced with multiple interpretations of Hegel's writings from incompatible schools of philosophy. The German philosopher Theodor W. Adorno devoted an essay to the difficulty of reading Hegel and asserted that there are certain passages where it is impossible to decipher what Hegel meant. Difficulties within Hegel's language and thought are magnified for those reading Hegel in translation, since his philosophical language and terminology in German often do not have direct analogues in other languages. For example, the German word "Geist" has connotations of both "mind" and "spirit" in English. English translators have to use the "phenomenology of mind" or "the phenomenology of spirit" to render Hegel's "Phaenomenologie des Geistes", thus altering the original meaning. Hegel himself argued, in his "Science of Logic", that the German language was particularly conducive to philosophical thought and writing.
One especially difficult aspect of Hegel's work is his innovation in logic. In response to Immanuel Kant's challenge to the limits of pure reason, Hegel developed a radically new form of logic, which he called speculation, and which is today popularly called dialectics. The difficulty in reading Hegel was perceived in Hegel's own day, and persists into the 21st century. To understand Hegel fully requires paying attention to his critique of standard logic, such as the law of contradiction and the law of the excluded middle. Many philosophers who came after Hegel and were influenced by him, whether adopting or rejecting his ideas, did so without fully absorbing his new speculative or dialectical logic.[citation needed]
If one wanted to provide a big piece of the Hegel puzzle to the beginner, one might present the following statement from Part One of the Encyclopedia of Philosophical Sciences: The Logic:
... a much misunderstood phenomenon in the history of philosophy — the refutation of one system by another, of an earlier by a later. Most commonly the refutation is taken in a purely negative sense to mean that the system refuted has ceased to count for anything, has been set aside and done for. Were it so, the history of philosophy would be, of all studies, most saddening, displaying, as it does, the refutation of every system which time has brought forth. Now although it may be admitted that every philosophy has been refuted, it must be in an equal degree maintained that no philosophy has been refuted. And that in two ways. For first, every philosophy that deserves the name always embodies the Idea: and secondly, every system represents one particular factor or particular stage in the evolution of the Idea. The refutation of a philosophy, therefore, only means that its barriers are crossed, and its special principle reduced to a factor in the completer principle that follows.
Hegel began to write in an obscure, esoteric, unintelligible manner after Fichte was removed from his professorship at Jena. Fichte had been accused of writing atheistic philosophy.[34]
Some historians have spoken of Hegel's influence as represented by two opposing camps. The Right Hegelians, the allegedly direct disciples of Hegel at the Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität, advocated a Protestant orthodoxy and the political conservatism of the post-Napoleon Restoration period. The Left Hegelians, also known as the Young Hegelians, interpreted Hegel in a revolutionary sense, leading to an advocation of atheism in religion and liberal democracy in politics.
In more recent studies, however, this paradigm has been questioned.[35] No Hegelians of the period ever referred to themselves as "Right Hegelians"; that was a term of insult originated by David Strauss, a self-styled Left Hegelian. Critiques of Hegel offered from the Left Hegelians radically diverted Hegel's thinking into new directions and eventually came to form a disproportionately large part of the literature on and about Hegel.[citation needed]
The Left Hegelians also spawned Marxism, which inspired global movements, encompassing the Russian Revolution, the Chinese Revolution, and myriad revolutionary practices up until the present moment.
Twentieth-century interpretations of Hegel were mostly shaped by British Idealism, logical positivism, Marxism, and Fascism. The Italian Fascist Giovanni Gentile, according to Benedetto Croce, "...holds the honor of having been the most rigorous neo-Hegelian in the entire history of Western philosophy and the dishonor of having been the official philosopher of Fascism in Italy."[36] However, since the fall of the USSR, a new wave of Hegel scholarship arose in the West, without the preconceptions of the prior schools of thought. Walter Jaeschke and Otto Pöggeler in Germany, as well as Peter Hodgson and Howard Kainz in America are notable for their recent contributions to post-USSR thinking about Hegel.
In previous modern accounts of Hegelianism (to undergraduate classes, for example), especially those formed prior to the Hegel renaissance, Hegel's dialectic was most often characterized as a three-step process, "thesis, antithesis, synthesis"; namely, that a "thesis" (e.g. the French Revolution) would cause the creation of its "antithesis" (e.g. the Reign of Terror that followed), and would eventually result in a "synthesis" (e.g. the constitutional state of free citizens). However, Hegel used this classification only once, and he attributed the terminology to Immanuel Kant. The terminology was largely developed earlier by Johann Fichte. It was spread by Heinrich Moritz Chalybäus in a popular account of Hegelian philosophy, and since then the misfit terms have stuck.[citation needed] What is wrong with the "thesis-antithesis-synthesis" approach is that it gives the sense that things or ideas are contradicted or opposed by things that come from outside them. To the contrary, the fundamental notion of Hegel's dialectic is that things or ideas have internal contradictions. From Hegel's point of view, analysis or comprehension of a thing or idea reveals that underneath its apparently simple identity or unity is an underlying inner contradiction. This contradiction leads to the dissolution of the thing or idea in the simple form in which it presented itself and to a higher-level, more complex thing or idea that more adequately incorporates the contradiction. The triadic form that appears in many places in Hegel (e.g. being-nothingness-becoming, immediate-mediate-concrete, abstract-negative-concrete) is about this movement from inner contradiction to higher-level integration or unification.
Believing that the traditional description of Hegel's philosophy in terms of thesis-antithesis-synthesis was mistaken, a few scholars, like Raya Dunayevskaya, have attempted to discard the triadic approach altogether. According to their argument, although Hegel refers to "the two elemental considerations: first, the idea of freedom as the absolute and final aim; secondly, the means for realising it, i.e. the subjective side of knowledge and will, with its life, movement, and activity" (thesis and antithesis) he doesn't use "synthesis" but instead speaks of the "Whole": "We then recognised the State as the moral Whole and the Reality of Freedom, and consequently as the objective unity of these two elements." Furthermore, in Hegel's language, the "dialectical" aspect or "moment" of thought and reality, by which things or thoughts turn into their opposites or have their inner contradictions brought to the surface, what he called "aufhebung", is only preliminary to the "speculative" (and not "synthesizing") aspect or "moment", which grasps the unity of these opposites or contradiction. Thus for Hegel, reason is ultimately "speculative", not "dialectical".[citation needed]
It is widely admitted today[37] that the old-fashioned description of Hegel's philosophy in terms of "thesis-antithesis-synthesis" is inaccurate. Nevertheless, such is the persistence of this misnomer that the model and terminology survive in a number of scholarly works.
In the latter half of the 20th century, Hegel's philosophy underwent a major renaissance. This was due to: (a) the rediscovery and reevaluation of Hegel as a possible philosophical progenitor of Marxism by philosophically oriented Marxists; (b) a resurgence of the historical perspective that Hegel brought to everything; and (c) an increasing recognition of the importance of his dialectical method. The book that did the most to reintroduce Hegel into the Marxist canon was perhaps Georg Lukács' History and Class Consciousness. This sparked a renewed interest in Hegel reflected in the work of Herbert Marcuse, Theodor W. Adorno, Ernst Bloch, Raya Dunayevskaya, Alexandre Kojève and Gotthard Günther among others. The Hegel renaissance also highlighted the significance of Hegel's early works, i.e. those published prior to the Phenomenology of Spirit. The direct and indirect influence of Kojève's lectures and writings (on the Phenomenology of Spirit, in particular) mean that it is not possible to understand most French philosophers from Jean-Paul Sartre to Jacques Derrida without understanding Hegel.[citation needed]
Beginning in the 1960s, Anglo-American Hegel scholarship has attempted to challenge the traditional interpretation of Hegel as offering a metaphysical system: this has also been the approach of Z.A. Pelczynski and Shlomo Avineri. This view, sometimes referred to as the 'non-metaphysical option', has had a decided influence on many major English language studies of Hegel in the past 40 years. U.S. neoconservative political theorist Francis Fukuyama's controversial book The End of History and the Last Man was heavily influenced by Alexandre Kojève. Among modern scientists, the physicist David Bohm, the mathematician William Lawvere, the logician Kurt Gödel and the biologist Ernst Mayr have been interested in Hegel's philosophical work.[citation needed]
A late 20th century literature in Western Theology that is friendly to Hegel includes such writers as Dale M. Schlitt (1984), Theodore Geraets (1985), Philip M. Merklinger (1991), Stephen Rocker (1995) and Cyril O'Regan (1995). The contemporary theologian Hans Küng has also advanced contemporary scholarship in Hegel studies.
Recently, two prominent American philosophers, John McDowell and Robert Brandom (sometimes, half-seriously, referred to as the Pittsburgh Hegelians), have produced philosophical works exhibiting a marked Hegelian influence. Each is avowedly influenced by the late Wilfred Sellars, also of Pittsburgh, who referred to his seminal work, Empiricism and the Philosophy of Mind, as a series of "incipient Méditations Hegeliennes" (in homage to Edmund Husserl's treatise, Meditations Cartesiennes).
Beginning in the 1990s, after the fall of the USSR, a fresh reading of Hegel took place in the West. For these scholars, fairly well represented by the Hegel Society of America and in cooperation with German scholars such as Otto Pöggeler and Walter Jaeschke, Hegel's works should be read without preconceptions. Marx plays a minor role in these new readings, and some contemporary scholars have suggested that Marx's interpretation of Hegel is irrelevant to a proper reading of Hegel. Some American philosophers associated with this movement include Lawrence Stepelevich, Rudolf Siebert and Theodore Geraets.
Criticism of Hegel has been widespread in the 19th and the 20th centuries; a diverse range of individuals including Arthur Schopenhauer, Karl Marx, Søren Kierkegaard, Friedrich Nietzsche, Bertrand Russell, G. E. Moore, Eric Voegelin and A. J. Ayer have challenged Hegelian philosophy from a variety of perspectives. Among the first to take a critical view of Hegel's system was the 19th Century German group known as the Young Hegelians, which included Ludwig Feuerbach, Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, and their followers. In Britain, the Hegelian British Idealism school (members of which included Francis Herbert Bradley, Bernard Bosanquet, and, in the United States, Josiah Royce) was challenged and rejected by analytic philosophers G. E. Moore and Bertrand Russell; Russell, in particular, considered "almost all" of Hegel's doctrines to be false.[38] Logical positivists such as Alfred Jules Ayer and the Vienna Circle also criticized Hegelian philosophy and its supporters, such as F. H. Bradley.
Hegel's contemporary Schopenhauer was particularly critical, and wrote of Hegel's philosophy as "a pseudo-philosophy paralyzing all mental powers, stifling all real thinking"[39] Kierkegaard criticized Hegel's 'absolute knowledge' unity[40] Scientist Ludwig Boltzmann also criticized the obscure complexity of Hegel's works, referring to Hegel's writing as an "unclear thoughtless flow of words".[41] Bertrand Russell stated that Hegel was "the hardest to understand of all the great philosophers" in his Unpopular Essays and A History of Western Philosophy.
Karl Popper makes the claim in the second volume of The Open Society and Its Enemies that Hegel's system formed a thinly veiled justification for the absolute rule of Frederick William III, and that Hegel's idea of the ultimate goal of history was to reach a state approximating that of 1830s Prussia. Popper further proposed that Hegel's philosophy served not only as an inspiration for communist and fascist totalitarian governments of the 20th century, whose dialectics allow for any belief to be construed as rational simply if it could be said to exist. This view of Hegel as an apologist of state power and precursor of 20th century totalitarianism was criticized by Herbert Marcuse in his Reason and Revolution, on the grounds that Hegel was not an apologist for any state or form of authority simply because it existed: for Hegel the state must always be rational. Other scholars, e.g. Walter Kaufmann and Shlomo Avineri, have also criticized Popper's theories about Hegel.[42] Isaiah Berlin listed Hegel as one of the six architects of modern authoritarianism who undermined liberal democracy, along with Rousseau, Helvetius, Fichte, Saint-Simon, and Maistre.[43]
The Difference Between Fichte's and Schelling's Systems of Philosophy, tr. H. S. Harris and Walter Cerf, 1977
Science of Logic, tr. W. H. Johnston and L. G. Struthers, 2 vols., 1929; tr. A. V. Miller, 1969; tr. George di Giovanni, 2010
Enzyklopädie der philosophischen Wissenschaften, 1817; 2nd ed. 1827; 3rd ed. 1830 (Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences)
(Pt. I:) The Logic of Hegel, tr. William Wallace, 1874, 2nd ed. 1892; tr. T. F. Geraets, W. A. Suchting and H. S. Harris, 1991; tr. Klaus Brinkmann and Daniel O. Dahlstrom 2010
Lectures on the Philosophy of History (also translated as Lectures on the Philosophy of World History) 1837
Francke, Kuno, Howard, William Guild, Schiller, Friedrich, 1913-1914 "The German classics of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries: masterpieces of German literature translated into English Vol 7, Jay Lowenberg, The Life of Georg Wilhelm Freidrich Hegel". http://www.archive.org/stream/germanclassicsof07franuoft#page/n25/mode/2up. Retrieved 2010-09-24.
Gouin, Jean-Luc, 2000. Hegel ou de la Raison intégrale, suivi de : « Aimer Penser Mourir : Hegel, Nietzsche, Freud en miroirs », Montréal (Québec), Éditions Bellarmin, 225 p. ISBN 2-89007-883-3
Kaufmann, Walter, 1965. Hegel: A Reinterpretation. New York: Doubleday (reissued Notre Dame IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1978)
Singer, Peter, 2001. Hegel: A Very Short Introduction. Oxford University Press (previously issued in the OUP Past Masters series, 1983)
Stirling, James Hutchison, The Secret of Hegel: Being the Hegelian System in Origin Principle, Form and Matter
Taylor, Charles, 1975. Hegel. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-29199-2. A comprehensive exposition of Hegel's thought and its impact on the central intellectual and spiritual issues of his and our time.
Scruton, Roger, "Understanding Hegel" in The Philosopher on Dover Beach, Manchester: Carcanet Press, 1990. ISBN 0-85635-857-6
Adorno, Theodor W., 1994. Hegel: Three Studies. MIT Press. Translated by Shierry M. Nicholsen, with an introduction by Nicholsen and Jeremy J. Shapiro, ISBN 0-262-51080-4. Essays on Hegel's concept of spirit/mind, Hegel's concept of experience, and why Hegel is difficult to read.
Beiser, Frederick C. (ed.), 1993. The Cambridge Companion to Hegel. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-38711-6. A collection of articles covering the range of Hegel's thought.
Althaus, Horst, 1992. Hegel und die heroischen Jahre der Philosophie. Munich: Carl Hanser Verlag. Eng. tr. Michael Tarsh as Hegel: An Intellectual Biography, Cambridge: Polity Press, 2000
Pinkard, Terry P., 2000. Hegel: A Biography. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-49679-9. By a leading American Hegel scholar; aims to debunk popular misconceptions about Hegel's thought.
Rosenkranz, Karl, 1844. Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegels Leben. Still an important source for Hegel's life.
Hondt, Jacques d', 1998. Hegel: Biographie. Calmann-Lévy /// Recension (2009) de cette biographie en tandem avec celle de Horst Althaus (1999), parue dans la revue Nuit Blanche : Le Commissaire et le Détective
Rockmore, Tom, 1993. Before and After Hegel: A Historical Introduction to Hegel's Thought. Indianapolis: Hackett. ISBN 0-87220-648-3.
Löwith, Karl, 1964. From Hegel to Nietzsche: The Revolution in Nineteenth-Century Thought. Translated by David E. Green. New York: Columbia University Press.
Lukács, Georg, 1948. Der junge Hegel. Zürich and Vienna (2nd ed. Berlin, 1954). Eng. tr. Rodney Livingstone as The Young Hegel, London: Merlin Press, 1975. ISBN 0-262-12070-4
Haering, Theodor L., 1929, 1938. Hegel: sein Wollen und sein Werk, 2 vols. Leipzig (repr. Aalen: Scientia Verlag, 1963)
Forster, Michael N., 1989. Hegel and Skepticism. Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 0-674-38707-4
Pippin, Robert B., 1989. Hegel's Idealism: the Satisfactions of Self-Consciousness. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-37923-7. Advocates a stronger continuity between Hegel and Kant.
Maker, William, 1994. Philosophy Without Foundations: Rethinking Hegel. State University of New York Press. ISBN 0-7914-2100-7.
Winfield, Richard Dien, 1989. Overcoming Foundations: Studies in Systematic Philosophy. Columbia University Press. ISBN 0-231-07008-X.
Stern, Robert, 2002. Hegel and the Phenomenology of Spirit. Routledge. ISBN 0-415-21788-1. An introduction for students.
Cohen, Joseph, 2007. Le sacrifice de Hegel. (In French language). Paris, Galilée. An extensive study of the question of sacrifice in Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit.
Braver, Lee. A Thing of This World: a History of Continental Anti-Realism. Northwestern University Press: 2007. ISBN 978-0-8101-2380-9 This study covers Hegel's Phenomenology and its contribution to the history of Continental Anti-Realism.
Davis, Walter A., 1989. Inwardness and Existence: Subjectivity in/and Hegel, Heidegger, Marx and Freud. University of Wisconsin Press.
Doull, James (2000). "Hegel's "Phenomenology" and Postmodern Thought". Animus 5. ISSN 1209-0689. http://www2.swgc.mun.ca/animus/Articles/Volume%205/doull5a.pdf. Retrieved August 9, 2011.
Doull, James; Jackson, F.L. (2003). "The Idea of a Phenomenology of Spirit". Animus 8. ISSN 1209-0689. http://www2.swgc.mun.ca/animus/Articles/Supplementa/jackson5addendum.pdf. Retrieved August 17, 2011.
Hyppolite, Jean, 1946. Genèse et structure de la Phénoménologie de l'esprit. Paris: Aubier. Eng. tr. Samuel Cherniak and John Heckman as Genesis and Structure of Hegel's "Phenomenology of Spirit", Evanston: Northwestern University Press, 1979. ISBN 0-8101-0594-2. A classic commentary.
Kojève, Alexandre, 1947. Introduction à la lecture de Hegel. Paris: Gallimard. Eng. tr. James H. Nichols, Jr., as Introduction to the Reading of Hegel: Lectures on the Phenomenology of Spirit, Basic Books, 1969. ISBN 0-8014-9203-3 Influential European reading of Hegel.
Harris, H. S., 1995. Hegel: Phenomenology and System. Indianapolis: Hackett. A distillation of the author's monumental two-volume commentary Hegel's Ladder.
Westphal, Kenneth R., 2003. Hegel's Epistemology: A Philosophical Introduction to the Phenomenology of Spirit. Indianapolis: Hackett. ISBN 0-87220-645-9
Bristow, William, 2007. Hegel and the Transformation of Philosophical Critique. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-929064-4
Kalkavage, Peter, 2007. The Logic of Desire: An Introduction to Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit. Philadelphia: Paul Dry Books. ISBN 978-1-58988-037-5. This work provides insights on Hegel's complex work as a whole as well as serving as a sure guide for every chapter and for virtually every paragraph.
Scruton, Roger, "Understanding Hegel" in The Philosopher on Dover Beach, Manchester: Carcanet Press, 1990. ISBN 0-85635-857-6
Burbidge, John, 2006. The Logic of Hegel's Logic: An Introduction. Broadview Press. ISBN 1-55111-633-2
Houlgate, Stephen, 2005. The Opening of Hegel's Logic: From Being to Infinity. Purdue University Press. ISBN 1-55753-257-5
Rinaldi, Giacomo, 1992. A History and Interpretation of the Logic of Hegel Lewiston: Edwin Mellen Press. ISBN 0-7734-9509-6
Schäfer, Rainer, 2001. Die Dialektik und ihre besonderen Formen in Hegels Logik. Hamburg/Meiner. ISBN 3-7873-1585-3.
Wallace, Robert M., 2005. Hegel's Philosophy of Reality, Freedom, and God. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-84484-3. Through a detailed analysis of Hegel's Science of Logic, Wallace shows how Hegel contributes to the broadly Platonic tradition of philosophy that includes Aristotle, Plotinus, and Kant. In the course of doing this, Wallace defends Hegel against major critiques, including the one presented by Charles Taylor in his Hegel.
Winfield, Richard Dien, 2006. From Concept to Objectivity: Thinking Through Hegel's Subjective Logic. Ashgate. ISBN 0-7546-5536-9.jdj
Avineri, Shlomo, 1974. Hegel's Theory of the Modern State. Cambridge University Press. Best introduction to Hegel's political philosophy.
Kierans, Kenneth (2008). "'Absolute Negativity': Community and Freedom in Hegel's Philosophy of Right". Animus 12. ISSN 1209-0689. http://www2.swgc.mun.ca/animus/Articles/Volume%2012/Kierans12.pdf. Retrieved August 17, 2011.
Lübbe, Hermann (ed.). Die Hegelsche Rechte. Texte aus den Werken von F. W. Carové, J. E. Erdmann, K. Fischer, E. Gans, H. F. W. Hinrichs, C. L. Michelet, H. B. Oppenheim, K. Rosenkranz und C. Rößler [The Hegelian Right]. Friedrich Frommann Verlag. 1962.
Marcuse, Herbert, 1941. Reason and Revolution: Hegel and the Rise of Social Theory. An introduction to the philosophy of Hegel, devoted to debunking the conception that Hegel's work included in nuce the Fascist totalitarianism of National Socialism; the negation of philosophy through historical materialism.
Moggach, Douglas. 2006. "Introduction: Hegelianism, Republicanism and Modernity", The New Hegelians edited by Douglas Moggach, Cambridge University Press.
Popper, Karl. The Open Society and Its Enemies, vol. 2: Hegel and Marx. An influential attack on Hegel.
Riedel, Manfred, 1984. Between Tradition and Revolution: The Hegelian Transformation of Political Philosophy, Cambridge.
Scruton, Roger, "Hegel as a conservative thinker" in The Philosopher on Dover Beach, Manchester: Carcanet Press, 1990. ISBN 0-85635-857-6
Roche, Mark-William, 1998. Tragedy and Comedy. A Systematic Study and a Critique of Hegel. Albany. New York.
O'Regan, Cyril, 1994. The Heterodox Hegel. State University of New York Press, Albany. ISBN 0-7914-2006-X. The most authoritative work to date on Hegel's philosophy of religion.
Cohen, Joseph, 2005. Le spectre juif de Hegel (in French language); Preface by Jean-Luc Nancy. Paris, Galilée.An extensive study of the Jewish question in Hegel's Early Theological Writings.
Dickey, Laurence, 1987. Hegel: Religion, Economics, and the Politics of Spirit, 1770–1807. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-33035-1. A fascinating account of how "Hegel became Hegel", using the guiding hypothesis that Hegel "was basically a theologian manqué".
Rocker, Stephen, 1995. Hegel's Rational Religion: The Validity of Hegel's Argument for the Identity in Content of Absolute Religion and Absolute Philosophy. Fairleigh Dickinson University Press.
Constructs such as ibid., loc. cit. and idem are discouraged by Wikipedia's style guide for footnotes, as they are easily broken. Please improve this article by replacing them with named references (quick guide), or an abbreviated title. (March 2010) 
« Der Instinkt der Vernünftigkeit » and other texts - Works on Hegel in Université du Québec site (in French)
Lowenberg J., (1913) "The Life of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel". in German classics of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. New York: German Publication Society.
Hegel, as the National Philosopher of Germany (1874) Karl Rosenkranz, Granville Stanley Hall, William Torrey Harris, Gray, Baker & Co. 1874
This entry is from Wikipedia, the leading user-contributed encyclopedia. It may not have been reviewed by professional editors (see full disclaimer)
Britannica Concise Encyclopedia. © 1994-2014 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. All rights reserved.					Read more
The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Politics. Copyright © 1996, 2003 by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved.
The Oxford Companion to German Literature. Copyright © 1976, 1986, 1997, 2005 by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved.
The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy. Copyright © 1994, 1996, 2005 by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved.
The Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia, Sixth Edition Copyright © 2014, Columbia University Press. Licensed from Columbia University Press. All rights reserved. www.cc.columbia.edu/cu/cup/.
The Oxford Companion to the Mind. Second Edition. Copyright © Oxford University Press, 2004. All rights reserved.
	This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License. It uses material from the Wikipedia article Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. 
What theory best describes the philosophies of Johann gottlieb fichte friedrich Wilhelm Joseph von schelling and georg Wilhelm friedrich hegel?
Which of these best describes the philosophies of Johann guttlieb fichte friedrich Wilhelm Joseph von schelling and georg Wilhelm friedrich hegel?
The philosophies of Johann gottlieb fichte friedrich Wilhelm Joseph von schelling and georg Wilhelm friedrich hegel?
