=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Russell Ira Crowe (born 7 April 1964) is a New Zealand actor, film producer and musician based in Australia and the United States.[1] He came to international attention for his role as the Roman General Maximus Decimus Meridius in the 2000 historical epic film Gladiator, directed by Ridley Scott, for which Crowe won an Academy Award for Best Actor, a Broadcast Film Critics Association Award for Best Actor, an Empire Award for Best Actor and a London Film Critics Circle Award for Best Actor and 10 further nominations for best actor. Crowe appeared as the tobacco firm whistle blower Jeffrey Wigand in the 1999 film The Insider, for which he received five awards as best actor and seven nominations in the same category. In 2001, Crowe's portrayal of mathematician and Nobel Prize winner John F. Nash in the biopic A Beautiful Mind brought him numerous awards, including a BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role, a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Motion Picture Drama and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role.
Crowe's other films include L.A. Confidential (1997), Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World (2003), Cinderella Man (2005), 3:10 to Yuma (2007), American Gangster (2007), Body of Lies (2008) and Robin Hood (2010). Crowe's work has earned him several accolades during his career including a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, three consecutive Academy Award nominations (1999–2001), one Golden Globe Award for Best Actor, one BAFTA, and an Academy Award. He is also co-owner of the South Sydney Rabbitohs, an Australian National Rugby League team. Crowe portrayed Javert in Les Misérables, an adaptation of the popular musical. He appeared in Man of Steel, where he played Jor-El, the father of Superman. In 2014, he co-starred in Winter's Tale, based on the 1983 novel of the same name, and starred in Noah, in which he played the titular biblical patriarch.
Crowe was born on 7 April 1964 in Wellington, New Zealand, the son of Jocelyn Yvonne (née Wemyss) and John Alexander Crowe,[2] both of whom were movie set caterers; his father also managed a hotel.[3] Crowe's maternal grandfather was a cinematographer who was named an MBE for filming footage of World War II. Crowe's ancestors were English, German, Irish, Māori, Norwegian, Scottish, Swedish, Welsh, Italian, and possibly an Australian convict.[4][5][6][7][8] Crowe's paternal grandfather was from Wrexham, Wales,[9][10] and one of Crowe's maternal great-grandmothers was Māori.[2][11] He is a cousin of former New Zealand cricket captains Martin Crowe and Jeff Crowe.[12]
When Crowe was four years old, his family moved to Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, where his parents pursued a career in set catering.[2] The producer of the Australian TV series Spyforce was his mother's godfather, and Crowe (at age five or six) was hired for a line of dialogue in one episode, opposite series star Jack Thompson (in 1994 Thompson played Crowe's father in The Sum of Us).[citation needed] Crowe also appeared briefly in the serial The Young Doctors. Crowe was educated at Sydney Boys High School.[2] When he was 14, his family moved back to New Zealand where, along with his brother Terry, he attended Auckland Grammar School with cousins Martin Crowe and Jeff Crowe. He then continued his secondary education at Mount Roskill Grammar School, which he left at the age 16 to pursue his ambitions and childhood dreams of becoming an actor.[citation needed]
Crowe began his performing career as a musician in the early-1980s, under guidance from his good friend Tom Sharplin, when he performed under the stage name "Russ Le Roq". He released several New Zealand singles including "I Just Want To Be Like Marlon Brando", "Pier 13", "Shattered Glass", none of which charted.[13] He managed an Auckland music venue called "The Venue" in 1984.[14] When he was 18, he was featured in A Very Special Person…, a promotional video for the theology/ministry course at Avondale College, a Seventh-day Adventist tertiary education provider in New South Wales.[15]
Crowe returned to Australia at age 21, intending to apply to the National Institute of Dramatic Art. "I was working in a theatre show, and talked to a guy who was then the head of technical support at NIDA", Crowe has recalled. "I asked him what he thought about me spending three years at NIDA. He told me it'd be a waste of time. He said, 'You already do the things you go there to learn and you've been doing it for most of your life, so there's nothing to teach you but bad habits.'"[16] From 1986 to 1988, he was given his first professional role by director Daniel Abineri, in a production of The Rocky Horror Show.[2] He played the role of Eddie/Dr Scott.[2] He repeated this performance in a further Australian production of the show. In 1987, Crowe spent six months busking when he could not find other work. In the 1988 Australian production of Blood Brothers, Crowe played the role of Mickey. He was also cast again by Daniel Abineri in the role of Johnny, in the stage musical Bad Boy Johnny and the Prophets of Doom in 1989.
After appearing in the TV series Neighbours and Living with the Law, Crowe was cast by Faith Martin[17] in his first film, The Crossing (1990), a small-town love triangle directed by George Ogilvie. Before production started, a film-student protégé of Ogilvie, Steve Wallace, hired Crowe for the film Blood Oath (1990) (aka Prisoners of the Sun), which was released a month earlier than The Crossing, although actually filmed later. In 1992, Crowe starred in the first episode of the second series of Police Rescue. Also in 1992, Crowe starred in Romper Stomper, an Australian film which followed the exploits and downfall of a racist skinhead group in blue-collar suburban Melbourne, directed by Geoffrey Wright. For the role, Crowe won an Australian Film Institute (AFI) award for Best Actor, following up from his Best Supporting Actor award for Proof in 1991.[2] Despite basing himself in Australia for most of his adult life, Crowe was denied Australian citizenship in 2006 and again in 2013 because he had spent too much time in other countries.[1]
After initial success in Australia, Crowe first starred in a Canadian production in 1993, For the Moment, before concentrating on American films. He co-starred with Denzel Washington in Virtuosity (the duo later appearing together in American Gangster) and with Sharon Stone in The Quick and the Dead in 1995.[2] He went on to become a three-time Oscar nominee, winning the Academy Award as Best Actor in 2000 for Gladiator.[2] Crowe was awarded the (Australian) Centenary Medal in 2001 for "service to Australian society and Australian film production."[18]
Crowe received three consecutive best actor Oscar nominations, for The Insider, Gladiator and A Beautiful Mind.[2] Crowe won the best actor award for A Beautiful Mind at the 2002 BAFTA award ceremony, as well as the Golden Globe and Screen Actors Guild Award for the same performance. However, he failed to win the Oscar that year, losing to Denzel Washington. It has been suggested by the Guardian and Entertainment Weekly that his attack on television producer Malcolm Gerrie for cutting short his acceptance speech[19] may have turned voters against him.[20]
All three films were also nominated for best picture, and both Gladiator and A Beautiful Mind won the award. Within the six-year stretch from 1997 to 2003, he also starred in two other best picture nominees, L.A. Confidential and Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World. In 2005, he re-teamed with A Beautiful Mind director Ron Howard for Cinderella Man. In 2006, he re-teamed with Gladiator director Ridley Scott for A Good Year, the first of two consecutive collaborations (the second being American Gangster co-starring again with Denzel Washington, released in late 2007). While the light romantic comedy of A Good Year was not greatly received, Crowe seemed pleased with the film, telling STV in an interview that he thought it would be enjoyed by fans of his other films.[21]
In recent years, Crowe's box office standing has declined.[22] The Hollywood stock market (HSX) share Russell Crowe (RCROW), issued in 1997, however maintains constant accretion.[23] Crowe appeared in Robin Hood, a film based on the Robin Hood legend, directed by Ridley Scott and released on 14 May 2010.[24] Crowe starred in the 2010 Paul Haggis film The Next Three Days, an adaptation of the 2008 French film Pour Elle.[25]
After a year off acting, Crowe played Jackknife in The Man with the Iron Fists, opposite RZA. He took on the role of Inspector Javert in the musical film of Les Misérables (2012),[26] and portrayed Superman's biological father, Jor-El, in the Christopher Nolan-produced Superman reboot, Man of Steel, released in the summer of 2013. In 2014, he played a gangster in the film adaptation of Mark Helprin's 1983 novel Winter's Tale, and the title role in the Darren Arnofsky film Noah.[27] In June 2013, Crowe signed to make his directional debut with an historical drama film The Water Diviner, he'll also star in the film.[28] Film will focused the time of 1919 will be produced by Troy Lum, Andrew Mason and Keith Rodger.[29]
In the 1980s, Crowe, going under the name of "Russ le Roq", recorded a song titled "I Want To Be Like Marlon Brando".[30]
In the 1980s, Crowe and friend Billy Dean Cochran formed a band, "Roman Antix", which later evolved into the Australian rock band 30 Odd Foot of Grunts (abbreviated to TOFOG). Crowe performed lead vocals and guitar for the band, which formed in 1992. The band released The Photograph Kills EP in 1995 as well as three full length records, Gaslight (1998), Bastard Life or Clarity (2001) and Other Ways of Speaking (2003). In 2000 TOFOG performed shows in London, Los Angeles and the now famous run of shows at Stubbs in Austin, Texas which became a live DVD that was released in 2001 called Texas. In 2001 the band came to the US for major press, radio and TV appearances for the Bastard Life or Clarity release and returned to Stubbs in Austin, Texas to kick off a sold out US tour with dates in Austin, Boulder, Chicago, Portland, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, New York City and the last show at the famous Stone Pony in Asbury Park, New Jersey. In early 2005, 30 Odd Foot of Grunts as a group has "dissolved/evolved" with Crowe feeling his future music would take a new direction and he began a collaboration with Alan Doyle of the Canadian band Great Big Sea, and with it a new band: The Ordinary Fear of God which also involved some members of the previous TOFOG line-up. A new single, Raewyn, was released in April 2005 and an album entitled My Hand, My Heart which was released and is available for download on iTunes. The album includes a tribute song to actor Richard Harris, who became Crowe's friend during the making of Gladiator.
Russell Crowe & The Ordinary Fear of God set out to break the new band in by performing a successful sold out series of dates of Australia in 2005 and then in 2006 returned to the US to promote their new release My Hand, My Heart with another sold-out US Tour and major press, radio and television appearances. In March 2010, Russell Crowe & The Ordinary Fear of God's version of the John Williamson song "Winter Green" was included on a new compilation album The Absolute Best of John Williamson: 40 Years True Blue, commemorating the singer-songwriter's milestone of 40 years in the Australian music industry. As of May 2011, there are plans to release a new Russell Crowe & The Ordinary Fear of God recording (co-written with Alan Doyle) and for a US tour which would be the first live dates in the US since 2006.
On 2 August 2011, the third collaboration between Crowe and Doyle was released on iTunes as The Crowe/Doyle Songbook Vol III, featuring nine original songs followed by their acoustic demo counterparts (for a total of 18 tracks). Danielle Spencer does guest vocals on most tracks. The release coincided with a pair of live performances at the LSPU Hall in St. John's, Newfoundland.[31] The digital album was released as download versions only on Amazon.com, iTunes, spotify. The album has since charted at No. 72 on the Canadian Albums Chart.[32] On 26 September 2011, Crowe appeared on-stage at Rogers Arena in Vancouver in the middle of Keith Urban's concert. He sang a cover of Folsom Prison Blues, before joining the rest of the band in a rendition of "The Joker".[33] On 18 August 2012, Crowe appeared along with Doyle at the Harpa Concert Hall in Reykjavík, Iceland as part of the city's Menningarnótt program. They also appeared at downtown bars, Gaukurinn and Kex.[34]
During location filming of Cinderella Man, Crowe made a donation to a Jewish elementary school whose library had been damaged as a result of arson.[35] A note with an anti-Semitic message had been left at the scene.[36] Crowe called school officials to express his concern and wanted his message relayed to the students.[37] The school's building fund received donations from throughout Canada and the amount of Crowe's donation was not disclosed.[38]
On another occasion, Crowe donated a large sum of money ($200,000) to a struggling primary school near his home in rural Australia. Crowe's sympathies were sparked when a pupil drowned at the nearby Coffs Harbour beach in 2001, and he believes the pool will help students become better swimmers and improve their knowledge of water safety. At the opening ceremony he dove into the pool fully clothed as soon as the venue was declared open. Nana Glen principal Laurie Renshall says, "The many things he does up here, people just don't know about. We've been trying to get a pool for 10 years."[39]
Crowe began an on-again, off-again relationship with Australian singer Danielle Spencer in 1989, when they co-starred in the 1990 film The Crossing.[40] Crowe and Spencer reconciled in 2001 and married on 7 April 2003 (Crowe's 39th birthday) at Crowe's cattle property in Nana Glen, New South Wales.[40][41] They have two sons: Charles Spencer Crowe (born 21 December 2003)[42] and Tennyson Spencer Crowe (born 7 July 2006).[43] In October 2012, it was reported that Crowe and Spencer had separated.[44]
In 2000, Crowe was romantically involved with his co-star Meg Ryan while on the set of their film Proof of Life.[45]
Crowe resides in Australia. He has an apartment in Sydney at the end of the Finger Wharf in Woolloomooloo and a 320 ha (791 acres) rural property in Nana Glen near Coffs Harbour. This Nana Glen property, a cattle farm (700 Black Angus), includes a chapel that Crowe built for his wedding to Danielle Spencer.[46] In 2011, Crowe and his family moved to a house with a garden in Sydney´s Rose Bay.[47]
Crowe also owns a house in the North Queensland city of Townsville: he purchased the $450,000 home in the suburb of Douglas on 3 May 2008.[48] It is believed the home is for his niece, who is studying at James Cook University.[49]
On 9 March 2005, Crowe revealed to GQ magazine that Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agents had approached him prior to the 73rd Academy Awards on 25 March 2001 and told him that the terrorist group al-Qaeda wanted to kidnap him. Crowe told the magazine that it was the first time he had ever heard of al-Qaeda and was quoted as saying:[50]
You get this late-night call from the FBI when you arrive in Los Angeles, and they're, like, absolutely full-on. 'We've got to talk to you now before you do anything. We have to have a discussion with you, Mr. Crowe.'
it was something to do with some recording picked up by a French policewoman, I think, in either Libya or Algiers...it was about taking iconographic Americans out of the picture as a sort of cultural destabilisation plan.
Crowe was guarded by United States Secret Service agents for the next few months, both while shooting films and at award ceremonies. Scotland Yard also guarded Crowe while he was promoting Proof of Life in London in February 2001.
In the beginning of 2009, despite not having Australian citizenship, Crowe appeared in a series of special edition postage stamps called "Legends of the Screen", featuring Australian actors. He, Geoffrey Rush, Cate Blanchett, and Nicole Kidman each appear twice in the series: once as themselves and once as their Academy Award-winning character.[52]
From his youth to the present, Crowe has had a special love of horses. "They're just like people," he told CraveOnline, "there are some horses that you have a deeper connection with immediately, and you can work on that over time."[53] He has also noted that he sometimes finds it difficult to part with his equine co-stars when a film involving horses wraps.
Crowe has a love and fascination of old maps, which he revealed to cartography fans when he helped launch the exhibition Mapping Our World: Terra Incognita to Australia in the National Library of Australia in early November 2013.
Crowe stated in November 2007 that he would like to be baptised a Christian, and feels that he has put it off for too long. "I do believe there are more important things than what is in the mind of a man," he says. "There is something much bigger that drives us all. I'm willing to take that leap of faith."[54]
In June 2010, Crowe, who had started smoking when he was only 10, announced he had quit for the sake of his two sons.[55] On 10 November 2010, Crowe told David Letterman that he had been smoking more than 60 cigarettes a day for 36 years of his life, and that he had fallen off the wagon the previous night and smoked heavily.[56] By April 2011, it was officially confirmed that Crowe's attempt to quit smoking was unsuccessful.[57][58]
In preparation for several film roles in 2012, from June to November 2011 Crowe underwent a gluten-free and non-alcoholic diet and fitness programme that consisted of walking, mountain biking and workout in the gym. During this period he lost 24 kg (53 lb) reducing his weight from 114 kg (251 lb) to 90 kg (198 lb).[59]
Crowe publicly endorsed Barack Obama, whom he called "the light and the future", in the United States presidential election, 2012, and urged Americans to vote for him.[60]
Crowe also publicly endorsed Julia Gillard, whom he called "Leader through tough times", in the Australian Labor Party leadership spill, June 2013, although he is unable to vote in Australia as he is not an Australian citizen.[61] Gillard lost the Labor leadership to Kevin Rudd, who subsequently lost the Australian federal election, 2013.
Crowe says he follows New Zealand's rugby union team, the All Blacks, and Australia in any other sport.[62]
Crowe is a known sports fan and has been a supporter of the rugby league football team the South Sydney Rabbitohs since childhood. Since his rise to fame as an actor, he has continued appearing at home games, and supported the financially troubled club. Following the Super League war of the 1990s Crowe made an attempt to use his Hollywood connections to convince Ted Turner, rival of Super League's Rupert Murdoch, to save the Rabbitohs before they were forced from the National Rugby League competition for two years.[63] In 1999 Crowe paid $42,000 at auction for the brass bell used to open the inaugural rugby league match in Australia in 1908 at a fund-raiser to assist Souths' legal battle for re-inclusion in the League.[64] In 2005, he made the Rabbitohs the first club team in Australia to be sponsored by a film, when he negotiated a deal to advertise his film Cinderella Man on their jerseys.[65] Crowe is friends with many current and former players of the club, and currently employs former South Sydney forward Mark Carroll as a bodyguard and personal trainer. He has encouraged other actors to support the club, such as Tom Cruise and Burt Reynolds.[citation needed] On 19 March 2006, the voting members of the South Sydney club voted (in a 75.8% majority) to allow Crowe and businessman Peter Holmes à Court to purchase 75% of the organisation, leaving 25% ownership with the members. It cost them A$3 million, and they received four of eight seats on the board of directors. A six part television miniseries entitled South Side Story depicting the takeover aired in Australia in 2007.[66] On 5 November 2006, Crowe appeared on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno to announce that Firepower International was sponsoring the South Sydney Rabbitohs for $3 million over three years.[67] During a Tonight Show with Jay Leno appearance, watched by over 11 million viewers, Crowe showed viewers a Rabbitoh playing jersey with Firepower's name emblazoned on it.[68]
Crowe helped to organise a rugby league game that took place in Jacksonville, Florida between the South Sydney Rabbitohs and the English Super League champions Leeds Rhinos on 26 January 2008 (Australia Day). The game was played at the University of North Florida.[69] Crowe told ITV Local Yorkshire the game was not a marketing exercise.[70] Crowe wrote a letter of apology to a Sydney newspaper following the sacking of South Sydney's coach Jason Taylor and one of their players David Fa'alogo after a drunken altercation between the two at the end of the 2009 NRL season.[71] Also in 2009 Crowe persuaded young England international forward Sam Burgess to sign with the Rabbitohs over other clubs that were competing for his signature, after inviting Burgess and his mother to the set of Robin Hood, which he was filming in England at the time.[72]
In the 2010 post-season it was reported that Crowe's influence was critical in persuading Greg Inglis, one of the world's best players, to renege on his deal to join the Brisbane Broncos and sign for the Rabbitohs for 2011.[73] On 5 December 2010 the Sunday Telegraph reported that the NRL was investigating the business relationships Russell Crowe has with a number of media and entertainment companies in relation to the South Sydney Rabbitohs' salary cap. Salary cap auditor Ian Schubert was reported to be delving into Crowe's recent dealings with Channel Nine, Channel Seven, ANZ Stadium and V8 Supercars.[74]
On 26 January 2011 the Sydney Morning Herald reported that the Rabbitohs were about to embark on a five-year multi-million dollar sponsorship deal with the giant Star City Casino. Souths also announced a corporate partnership with the bookmaking conglomerate Luxbet.[75] Previously Crowe had been prominent in trying to prevent gambling being associated with the Rabbitohs. Reuters, on 3 January 2008, reported that Crowe was "fighting a new gladiatorial combat to wean his countrymen off their addiction to gambling machines."[76] In May 2011 Crowe was credited for an arrangement with Fox to have the 2011 State of Origin series broadcast live for the first time in the United States, in addition to the NRL Grand Final.[77] In November 2012 the South Sydney Rabbitohs confirmed that Russell Crowe was selling his 37.5% stake in the club.[78] At the Rabbitohs Annual General Meeting on 3 March 2013, Chairman Nick Pappas claimed Crowe "would not be selling his shareholding in the short-to-medium term and at this stage has no intention of selling at all".[79]
Crowe was a guest presenter at the 2013 Dally M Awards[80] and presented the prestigious Dally M Medal to winner Cooper Cronk.[81]
In football (soccer), Crowe said he followed Bristol City[82] and Leeds United.[83][84] Crowe watches and plays cricket. He played in school, and his cousins Martin Crowe and Jeff Crowe are former Black Caps Captains. Russell Crowe captained the 'Australian' Team containing Steve Waugh against an English side in the 'Hollywood Ashes' Cricket Match.[85] On 17 July 2009 Crowe took to the commentary box for the British sports channel, Sky Sports, as the 'third man' during the second Test of the 2009 Ashes series, between England and Australia.[86]
Crowe supports the Leeds Rhinos[87] in the Super League. Crowe supports the University of Michigan Wolverines American football team, an interest that stems from his friendship with former Wolverines coach Lloyd Carr. Carr used Crowe's movie Cinderella Man to motivate his team in 2006 following a disappointing 7–5 season the previous year. Upon hearing of this, Crowe called Carr and invited him to Australia to address his Rugby league team the South Sydney Rabbitohs, an offer Carr took Crowe up on the following summer. In September 2007, after Carr came under fire following the Wolverines' 0–2 start, Crowe travelled to Ann Arbor, Michigan for the Wolverines' 15 September game against Notre Dame to show his support for Carr. He addressed the team before the game and watched from the sidelines as the Wolverines defeated the Irish 38–0.[citation needed] Crowe is also a fan of the National Football League, and on 22 October 2007 appeared in the booth of a Monday Night game between the Indianapolis Colts and the Jacksonville Jaguars.[88] He attended a Pittsburgh Penguins game during the 2014 playoffs.[89]
Russell Crowe escorted from NYPD in handcuffs on a perp walk to his arraignment for the phone throwing incident. 6 June 2005
Between 1999 and 2005 Crowe was involved in four altercations which gave him a reputation for having a bad temper.[90]
In 1999, Crowe was involved in a scuffle at the Plantation Hotel in Coffs Harbour, Australia, which was caught on security video.[91] Two men were acquitted of using the video in an attempt to blackmail Crowe.[92]
Four years later, when part of Crowe's appearance at the 2002 BAFTA awards was cut out to fit into the BBC's tape-delayed broadcast, Crowe used strong language during an argument with producer Malcolm Gerrie. The part cut was a poem in tribute to actor Richard Harris who was then terminally ill, and was cut for copyright reasons. Crowe later apologised, saying "What I said to him may have been a little bit more passionate than now, in the cold light of day, I would have liked it to have been."[93]
Later that year, Crowe was alleged to have been involved in a brawl with businessman and fellow New Zealander Eric Watson inside the London branch of Zuma, a fashionable Japanese restaurant chain. The fight was broken up by British actor Ross Kemp.[94][95]
In June 2005, Crowe was arrested and charged with second-degree assault by New York City police, after he threw a telephone at an employee of the Mercer Hotel who refused to help him place a call when the system did not work from his room, and was charged with fourth-degree criminal possession of a weapon (the telephone).[96] The employee, a concierge, was treated for a facial laceration.[97] After his arrest Crowe underwent a perp walk, a procedure customary especially in New York exposing the enchained suspect to the news media to take pictures. This procedure was under discussion as potentially violating Article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Crowe later described the incident as "possibly the most shameful situation that I've ever gotten myself in... and I've done some pretty dumb things in my life".[98] Crowe pleaded guilty and was conditionally discharged. Before the trial he settled a lawsuit filed by the concierge, Nestor Estrada.[99][100] Terms of the settlement were not disclosed but amounts in the six-figure range have been reported.[101]
The telephone incident had a generally negative impact on Crowe's public image, an example of negative public relations in the mass media. A professional public image as "The Gladiator" had to compete alongside one as "the telephone throwing actor". For example, the South Park episode, "The New Terrance and Phillip Movie Trailer" revolves around a lampooning of his aggressive tendencies. Crowe commented on the ongoing media perpetuation in November 2010, five years into the process, during an interview with American television talk show host and journalist Charlie Rose: "it affected me psychologically" (...) "it indelibly changed me".[102] A new drive to the topic brought the actor's participation in the microblogging service Twitter from April 2010.[103]
In June 2011, Crowe expressed in the course of a friendly[104] Twitter conversation with his colleague, Jewish screenwriter Eli Roth, his views against infant circumcision, calling the practice "barbaric" and asking, "Who are you to correct nature? Is it real that [God] requires a donation of foreskin? Babies are [born] perfect."[105][106][107] The comments coincided with a debate to ban the procedure on infants in California, USA.[108] Crowe, living in New South Wales, Australia, and not being a member of any church,[109] removed the comments the following day and tweeted an apology: "My personal beliefs aside I realise that some will interpret this debate as me mocking the rituals and traditions of others. I am very sorry."[110]
Since 15 November 2011 Crowe has supported the Occupy Wall Street movement via Twitter, asking his 310,000 followers to listen to Keith Olbermann reading the Occupy Wall Street Declaration[111] and stating on 15 November 2011 via his Twitter account, "The OWS statement is a very important moment; like witnessing The Declaration of Humanity".[112]
On 5 March 2013, Crowe posted a video on YouTube purporting to show a UFO flying over Sydney's Royal Botanic Gardens, recorded four years earlier. Crowe and his friend, cinematographer Duane Manwiller, had set up cameras to film fruit bats, but captured footage of the unexplained phenomenon instead. Crowe has been accused of perpetrating a publicity stunt, which his publicist denies.[113][114][115][116]
Russell Crowe: American Gangster video interview at the Wayback Machine (archived May 1, 2008) with stv.tv, November 2007
Categories: 1964 births20th-century Australian male actors20th-century Australian singers20th-century New Zealand male actors21st-century Australian male actors21st-century Australian singers21st-century New Zealand male actorsMale actors from SydneyAustralian film producersAustralian Living TreasuresAustralian male film actorsAustralian male singersAustralian male television actorsAustralian people of English descentAustralian people of German descentAustralian people of Irish descentAustralian people of Italian descentAustralian people of Māori descentAustralian people of New Zealand descentAustralian people of Norwegian descentAustralian people of Scottish descentAustralian people of Swedish descentAustralian people of Welsh descentAustralian rock singersBest Actor AACTA Award winnersBest Actor Academy Award winnersBest Actor BAFTA Award winnersBest Actor Empire Award winnersBest Drama Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersNew Zealand emigrants to AustraliaNew Zealand film producersNew Zealand male film actorsNew Zealand male singersNew Zealand male television actorsNew Zealand Māori peopleNew Zealand people of English descentNew Zealand people of German descentNew Zealand people of Irish descentNew Zealand people of Italian descentNew Zealand people of Norwegian descentNew Zealand people of Scottish descentNew Zealand people of Swedish descentNew Zealand people of Welsh descentNew Zealand rock singersNew Zealand rugby league chairmen and investorsOutstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role Screen Actors Guild Award winnersPeople convicted of assaultPeople educated at Auckland Grammar SchoolPeople educated at Mount Roskill Grammar SchoolPeople educated at Sydney Boys High SchoolPeople from Wellington CityRecipients of the Centenary MedalRugby league people in AustraliaSingers from SydneyLiving peopleHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from July 2012Pages using citations with accessdate and no URLUse Australian English from March 2013All Wikipedia articles written in Australian EnglishUse dmy dates from March 2013Articles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from January 2012Articles with unsourced statements from April 2014Commons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Born in New Zealand, Russell has made his home in Australia since he was a small child. The son of movie set caterers, Russell got the acting bug early in life. Beginning as a child star on a local Australian TV show, Russell's first big break came with two films ... the first, Romper Stomper (1992), gained him a name throughout the film community in Australia and the neighboring countries. The second, The Sum of Us (1994), helped put him on the American map, so to speak. Sharon Stone heard of him from Romper Stomper (1992) and wanted him for her film, The Quick and the Dead (1995). But filming on The Sum of Us (1994) had already begun. Sharon is reported to have held up shooting until she had her gunslinger-Crowe, for her film. With The Quick and the Dead (1995) under his belt as his first American film, the second was offered to him soon after. Virtuosity (1995), starring Denzel Washington, put Russell in the body of a Virtual Serial Killer, Sid6.7 ... a role unlike any he had played so far. Virtuosity (1995), a Sci-Fi extravaganza, was a fun film and, again, opened the door to even more American offers. L.A. Confidential (1997), Russell's third American film, brought him the US fame and attention that his fans have felt he deserved all along. Missing the Oscar nod this time around, he didn't seem deterred and signed to do his first film with The Walt Disney Company, Mystery, Alaska (1999). He has recently achieved even more success and awards for his performances in Gladiator (2000) and A Beautiful Mind (2001).
      Lost his front tooth playing rugby when he was ten. Never got it fixed until, at the insistence of the director for The Crossing (1990), who paid for it out of his own pocket.
      Tried a music career as a rockabilly singer sporting a large pompadour hairdo, playing under the name "Russ Le Roq". Titled his first single, "I Want to Be Like Marlon Brando". Later admitted that he had never even seen a Brando movie when he wrote and recorded the song. Ironically, he went on later to play "Jor-El" in Man of Steel (2013), the same character that Brando iconically performed in Superman (1978).
      After filming Gladiator (2000), he and some friends took a 4,000 mile motorcycle trip around Australia.
      Russell's rock group is named 30 Odd Foot of Grunts. They played their first US concert following Russell's success in Gladiator (2000) in Austin, Texas in August 2000. The tickets for the concert were selling for over $500 on e-bay.com.
      Suffered a shoulder injury, which will require surgery, while filming Jodie Foster's Flora Plum. It is uncertain if the film will have to be recast. [September 2000]
      Has starred in three films based on articles from Vanity Fair magazine. The Insider (1999) was based on a story by Marie Brenner named "The Man Who Knew Too Much". Proof of Life (2000) was based on the article "Adventures in the Ransom Trade" by William Prochnau. A Beautiful Mind (2001) was originally published in Vanity Fair as an excerpt of Sylvia Nasar 's book about John Forbes Nash.
      He and his band, 30 Odd Foot Of Grunts, performed on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno (1992). [August 2001]
      Proudly displayed his grandfather's British Honours medal (MBE) while making his Oscar Winner speech in 2001.
      Has indicated an interest in taking out Australian citizenship due to the amount of time and energy he spends Down Under (keeping his New Zealand citizenship as well).
      His ancestry includes Welsh, English, Irish, Scottish, Maori, German, Norwegian, and Swedish. Russell's paternal grandfather was from Wrexham, Wales. Russell's maternal great-grandmother was Maori, and as a result, he is registered on the Maori electoral roll in New Zealand.
      When Crowe's acceptance speech for his Best Actor award during the British Film Awards was edited, Crowe shoved the producer of the show, Malcolm Gerrie, against a wall and cursed at him, telling him: "Who on Earth had the ... audacity to take out the best actor's poem? I'll make sure you never work in Hollywood". He later issued a full apology.
      Following his involvement in a brawl in a London restaurant, Russell stated that he was under a lot of stress and announced that he was going back to Australia to relax and spend more time with his father and his long-time girlfriend singer, Danielle Spencer. [November 2002]
      Discovered by British actor and musical director/writer Daniel Abineri, who gave Crowe his first professional acting role in a New Zealand tour of 'The Rocky Horror Picture Show.' Abineri later awarded Crowe the title role in his first stage musical, 'Bad Boy Johnny and the Prophets of Doom,' which premiered in Melbourne in 1989.
      Met spouse, Danielle Spencer in 1989 when they co-starred in the 1990 film, The Crossing (1990). Their co-star of the film, Robert Mammone (The Matrix Reloaded (2003), The Matrix Revolutions (2003)), was one of Crowe's groomsmen at their wedding.
      Took violin lessons in preparing for Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World (2003) because his character, Jack Aubrey, played the violin several times during the movie.
      He wrote a song about Jodie Foster called "Other Ways of Speaking" with his band, 30 Odd Foot of Grunts.
      He was awarded the Australian Centenary Medal in the 2001 Queen's New Years Honours List for his services to Australian society and Australian film production.
      29 January 2004 - Dislocated his shoulder while training for his upcoming boxing movie, Cinderella Man (2005). The injury delayed filming for two months.
      On 7 June 2006, he formed a partnership with Australian businessman Peter Holmes a Court to buy a controlling stake in his favorite sports team, the Australian NRL team South Sydney Rabbitohs.
      Was accepted into the prestigious drama school, The National Institute of Dramatic Arts (NIDA), in Sydney.
      Good friends with Nicole Kidman. She also mentioned him in her oscar acceptance speech when she won 'Best Actress in a Leading Role' for The Hours (2002).
      Premiere Magazine ranked him as #49 on a list of the Greatest Movie Stars of All Time in their Stars in Our Constellation feature (2005).
      Once he was cast as Bud White in L.A. Confidential (1997), he read in the book that his character was the largest cop on the police force, off-putting for him due to his medium-sized frame (just under 6 feet). To capture a "big guy" presence, Crowe lived in a tiny flat in which he could barely fit through any of the doors. This experience, he said, made him come to the set feeling like a giant.
      His former band, 30 Odd Foot of Grunts, used to cover a song by Newfoundland band, "Great Big Sea". While filming Cinderella Man (2005) in Toronto, Russell Crowe met Alan Doyle, lead singer of "Great Big Sea". The two ended up composing several songs together, working in Toronto and Australia, and Doyle produced Crowe's 2005 album My Hand, My Heart.
      Is friends with Richard Tognetti, who gave him violin lessons for Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World (2003).
      His next album (tentatively titled "My Hand, My Heart") is produced by Alan Doyle, lead singer for the Canadian band, Great Big Sea.
      He attended Vaucluse Public School in the Eastern Suburbs of Sydney for part of his Infants and Primary Education in the 1970s.
      His performance as Jeffrey Wigand in The Insider (1999) is ranked #23 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time (2006).
A Beautiful Mind (2001) is ranked #93 on the American Film Institute's 100 Most Inspiring Movies of All Time (2006).
      Turned down the role of "Aragorn" in Peter Jackson's "Lord of the Rings" trilogy since filming on The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001) would coincide with Ron Howard's A Beautiful Mind (2001). However, Crowe really loved the idea of filming a movie in his home country, New Zealand, for an extended amount of time.
      Turned down the role of Sgt. Norm 'Hoot' Hooten in Black Hawk Down (2001) due to scheduling conflicts.
      Lives in a penthouse on Woollomoollo Wharf in Sydney, the Penthouse was reportedly sold to Crowe and wife Danielle Spencer for over $13.75 million.
      Lobbied Californian Govener Arnold Schwarzenegger against executing Stanley "Tookie" Williams. (December 2005).
      Nearly finalized a deal to reunite with director Michael Mann on Collateral (2004), but scheduling conflicts with "Eucalyptus", a doomed film project, prevented him from taking the role, which later went to Tom Cruise.
      Two opportunities of working with fellow Australian and good friend, Nicole Kidman, have fallen through. In 2005, they were set to star in Jocelyn Moorhouse's "Eucalyptus," which fell through due to disputes over the screenplay. And in 2006, Crowe dropped out of Australia (2008), Baz Luhrmann's long- gestating romantic Outback epic, due to a disagreement over a cut in Crowe's salary.
      Was considered for the role of Aslan in The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe (2005) and its ensuing sequels.
      Starred in 5 movies in 7 years (1997-2003) which ended up being nominated for an Oscar for Best Picture. (L.A. Confidential (1997), The Insider (1999), Gladiator (2000), A Beautiful Mind (2001) and Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World (2003)). Gladiator (2000) and A Beautiful Mind (2001) won. A similar achievement was done by William Hurt in the 80s, he starred in 5 movies nominated for Best Picture in only 6 years between 1983 and 1988 but none of them won.
      Was slated to star alongside Nicole Kidman in the movie adaptation of Murray Bail's novel "Eucalyptus", but this project was dropped.
      Initially turned down L.A. Confidential (1997) because he doubted whether he could convincingly play such a tough character.
      According to Forbes, his movies averaged $5 of gross income for every dollar the actor got paid, making him the most overpaid celebrity in the business (December 2007).
      Crowe's maternal grandfather, Stan Wemyss, was a cinematographer who, according to Crowe, produced the first film by New Zealander Geoff Murphy and was also named an MBE for filming footage of World War II.
      Was the original choice for the role of "Stonewall Jackson" in Ronald F. Maxwell's Civil War epic, Gods and Generals (2003). Crowe was interested at first but later dropped out. The role went to Stephen Lang, instead.
      Became a father for the 1st time at age 39 when his wife Danielle Spencer gave birth to their son Charles Spencer Crowe on December 21, 2003.
      Became a father for the 2nd time at age 42 when his wife Danielle Spencer gave birth to their son Tennyson Spencer Crowe on July 7, 2006.
      He, Marisa Tomei, Marcia Gay Harden and Adrien Brody are the only actors to win an Oscar without being awarded for the same performance in none of its predecessor awards (Golden Globe, Critics Choice Awards, SAG and BAFTA). Marisa Tomei and Marcia Gay Harden were not even nominated for those awards for their performances in My Cousin Vinny (1992) and Pollock (2000), and Crowe's only award for Gladiator (2000) before the Oscar was the Critics Choice award.
      As of 2014, has appeared in six films that were nominated for the Best Picture Oscar: L.A. Confidential (1997), The Insider (1999), Gladiator (2000), A Beautiful Mind (2001), Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World (2003) and Les Misérables (2012). Of those, Gladiator (2000) and A Beautiful Mind (2001) are winners in the category.
      "One of the most painful things of the L.A. Confidential (1997) character I played was that the author, James Ellroy, kept telling me that Bud White wasn't a drinker. I said, 'come on, this is 1953. He's a blue-collar bloke, a cop. You're telling me he doesn't sit around with the boys after his shift and have a beer?' And Ellroy says, 'absolutely not'. So for five months and seven days, I didn't have a drink. It's probably the most painful period of my life".
      [on winning the Best Actor Oscar] "If you grow up in the suburbs of anywhere, a dream like this seems kind of vaguely ludicrous and completely unattainable. But this moment is directly connected to those imaginings. And for anybody who's on the downside of advantage, and relying purely on courage, it's possible."
      "It's not really what I'd call a movie. I was stunned that Miramax wanted to buy it. I mean it's really rude. It showed me in a really bad light. It's also shoddily made. It's cobbled together." -- expressing surprise that a low-budget documentary of his band, 30 Odd Foot of Grunts, has been picked up for worldwide distribution.
      "I felt this tap on my shoulder and I turned around and, you know that De Niro fellow? Well, he didn't say a word. He didn't say 'Hello', 'Good evening' or anything or 'Hi, I'm Robert'. He just looked at me and he nodded his head and he smiled. And he walked off." - About meeting Robert De Niro.
      You don't have to like an actor to do a scene with him. You don't have to like a director. But it's just better if you do. And I think, you know, you've got to begin that with respect.
      All that stuff, this public persona of me - let's call him 'the wild man' - that is not helpful. It doesn't make me more of a box office draw. It's the quality of my work that makes people want to go to my films.
      I always say I've given 24 insufficient performances and I'm looking forward to the time in my life when I'll do something that I think is good. There's always stuff you can do better, stuff that maybe you didn't uncover enough. But if you do something that you truly believe is perfect, then that's got to be the last movie you do.
      If there's anything about someone's life that's important enough to make a movie about it, I have to take responsibility to get all of it right. It's a huge responsibility.
      The older I get, the crotchetier I'm going to get about that integrity. I don't think, just because you have the public's attention, it's now a prerequisite for you to completely sell out your moral center. I don't think that's OK. If I ever stop being the guy that can answer your question straight and look you in the eye and give you my opinion, then I should stop making films.
      I'm still excited by it. I still love the process. I want to make movies that pierce people's hearts and touch them in some way, even if it's just for the night while they're in the cinema; in that moment, I want to bring actual tears to their eyes and goosebumps to their skin. That's what motivates me, and it may sound strange but if you're not focused on the audience, why are you bothering to make a movie?
      He has disappointed me many times over the past ten years, with his performances in substandard movies. [About Robert De Niro]
      When I arrived in Sydney, I spent 22 weeks in this $50-a-week place with just a bed, a cupboard and the toilet halfway down the corridor. For the first time my parents were some distance away. I did a lot of thinking and realized I appreciated what my father had instilled in me. People think that because there is a dole there they should use it, and there are a lot of ways to misuse the system. I believe in singing for my supper. I'll never accept a grant because what I do should be able to be founded purely on free enterprise.
      Mate, he did that to himself. I have little time for the Oliver Reeds of this business. I'm not pleased that he's gone. In fact, I never had a drink with Oliver, because I didn't want to encourage him. I'll go for long periods without a drink. When I'm on the farm by myself, it's not something I even think about. But I'm not afraid to have a beer in front of a studio executive. That doesn't make me a wild man. [About Oliver Reed]
      I'm at the bottom of a well. I can't communicate how dark my life is right now. I'm in a lot of trouble. I'll do my best to solve the situation in an honorable way. I'm very sorry for my actions. I will spend the rest of my life if it takes it, trying to make it up with my wife. I'm pleased that my son isn't able to compute what's going on at the moment because that would be a heartbreaking thing. One thing that I don't want to do is imply that I'm trying to make out it's somebody else's fault It's not, I know it's my fault, I've got to face up to it and deal with it. I'm not trying to be pessimistic, I'm just looking at what the situation is - it's a seven-year jail sentence.
      After The Insider (1999), I know the exact chemical compounds in a commercial cigarette, but I've been smoking since I was 10. I know it's terrible, but I am a great fan of irony.
      I believe if you take on characters for a living you can't make yourself into an icon in order to sell a pair of shoes.
      I had a good laugh when Clooney tried to compare doing ads for suits, a car and a drink to what I do as a musician. An endorsement is about money. My music is from the heart.
      I do my bit to improve the world but I think it's very important to get things done on the quiet. I'm sick to death of famous people standing up and using their celebrity to promote a cause. If I see a particular need, I do try to help. But there's a lot that can be achieved by putting a cheque in the right place and shutting up about it.
      I don't do ads for suits in Spain like George Clooney or cigarettes in Japan like Harrison Ford. And on one level, people go, 'Well, more fault to you, mate, because there's free money to be handed out.' But to me it's kind of sacrilegious - it's a complete contradiction of the f**king social contract you have with your audience. I mean, Robert De Niro's advertising "American Express". Gee whiz, it's not the first time he's disappointed me. It's been happening for a while now.
      I'd move to Los Angeles if Australia and New Zealand were swallowed up by a huge tidal wave, if there was a bubonic plague in England, and if the continent of Africa disappeared from some Martian attack.
      Dani was three weeks early last time, she gave birth just a few days after she was chased down the street by four photographers. Nobody cares, particularly the photographers, nobody cares to focus on what that is. She was just walking down the street with her girlfriend and they rushed her - four of them all surrounded her. So she panicked and slipped and all this sort of stuff. If I'd been there that would have been a really serious situation. I tell you right now, they will be tarred and feathered if they hassle my pregnant wife again.
      Well if what I've heard about it is fair dinkum that he spent $25 million making a movie that's shot in Aramaic and Latin and he's intending to release it without subtitles, I think he's got to get off the glue. What's the point of making a movie where people can't understand what's going on? I don't understand that. If you want it for reality or whatever, I think, 'Wow, what an amazing idea,' but also what a waste of time if nobody can get what the point is. Well, if we know the story, if we know it that well, why did he bother making it again? Mr Gibson, get off the glue! - On The Passion of the Christ (2004).
      I'm a virtuoso in my job in that there's not an actor I can't go into a scene with and be absolutely confident that, whatever is required of my character, I can do it.
      I just didn't want to work on that movie in the type of environment that was being created because of the needs of the budget. I do charity work, but I don't do charity work for major studios.
      [on turning down the role of Morpheus in The Matrix (1999)] Well, "The Matrix" - I just didn't get it. I couldn't get past page 42. That world was just not interesting to me.
      With "Lord of the Rings", if I did that I couldn't have done "A Beautiful Mind", and I just had to do "A Beautiful Mind". You can't do it all, and the people who try to usually end up not being able to focus at a certain level after a while. I mean, if I'm going to drink a bottle of wine, I drink a really good bottle of wine. arding his selectivity of his next film]
      I respond to the call that says, "It's 185 A.D. You're a Roman general. You're being directed by Ridley Scott. That's something my imagination can get a hold of. [on what attracts him to prospective films]
      In wars, no one wins, everyone loses. There are no heroes, there's only dead people. Movies can really change things and ... it becomes an educational process and I think that's the healthiest way of attacking anything. That's what I'm looking for.
      [on an upcoming remake of the Robin Hood story] If you go back into the mythology, you get Robin the Beheader, who would chop off your head and your hands, take your money and keep it. So we'll have a look at that.
      He was a gentle, beautiful man, a fine actor, a loyal friend. I feel deeply for his family - on the passing of friend and fellow actor, Heath Ledger.
      [on spirituality] I think there's a karmic cycle, which is very, very obvious: you run around acting like a dick, and you get your ass kicked. The world just works that way.
      People might say I'm uncompromising but really I am just a very straight-shooting man. If you look me in the eye and shake my hand I expect you to keep your end of the f***ing bargain. I do. It's simple.
      [on theatre] Every now and then I get sort of romantic about it. But I've also got that cynical part of me where, when I read somebody saying, "I'm going back to the theatre. I'm going back to my roots," I'm like, "Oh, can't get a job, hey?"
      [on studio demands for a sex scene in Gladiator (2000)] I'm sorry boys, but it doesn't suit the character. We can't be avenging the death of the wife and child, and stop for a bit of nookie along the way. I'm sorry, it's not gonna happen.
      Do the maths - I have been smoking for 36 years, I would continuously lie to myself about how much I smoked. I was smoking 40 on an easy day, but on a day when I would be up at 4am and still up at midnight, then it was 60-plus and it just got to the point where my body was telling me I had to stop. (July 2010)
      [1997, on L.A. Confidential (1997)] You go into these movies to play an American, you know. That's part of the fun of it for me. I can be an Australian in Australian films.
      [1997, on perfecting accents] I was too kind of brave and proud to want a dialect coach because I thought that showed weakness in my armor. But then you just learn it's a more efficient way of doing it. A dialect coach is really important because it takes a certain technical responsibility off your shoulders. Otherwise, it would be very disruptive, because you've got to focus on the internal life of the character. The language is easy if you're not focusing on it, you know.
      [on Oliver Reed] He drank himself to death. He sat on a bar stool until he fell off it and carried on drinking ... lying in his own piss and vomit, he continued to drink till he passed out. What did the tabloids say he drank on the day he died? Something like thirty beers, eight or ten dark rums and half a bottle of whiskey. In the end, he created such a weird energy around him that no one drinking with him cared.
      [from his 2002 Oscar acceptance speech] When you grow up in the suburbs of anywhere, a dream like this seems kind of vaguely ludicrous and completely unattainable. But this moment is directly connected to those childhood imaginings. And for anybody who's on the downside of advantage and relying purely on courage, it's possible.
      [Speaking to Mark Lawson about his character in Robin Hood (2010)] You've got dead ears, mate. You've seriously got dead ears if you think that's an Irish accent. Bollocks. I'm a little dumbfounded that you could possibly find any Irish in that character.
=======================================================
The burly Kiwi's family relocated to Sydney, Australia four years after he was born and raised with his elder brother Terry.
His parents' work in film set catering led to a natural interest in film work and Crowe found himself surrounded by actors from a very early age. The acting bug developed quickly and by the time he was six he'd bagged his first line of dialogue in the Aussie TV series 'Spyforce', which kick-started the determination to make himself a household name.
Crowe's views on his early acting days were: "I was never a child star - I was a child extra. My parents were location caterers, so I was the annoying little kid on the set."
Fancying himself as a bit of a musician, 16-year-old Crowe reinvented himself as 'Russ Le Roc', forming a rock group called Roman Antix in his spare time. 'I Want To Be Like Marlon Brando' was the title of the 1980 single Russ Le Roc recorded as a solo artist, (before forming Roman Antix), which eventually became the band 30 Odd Foot Of Grunts - the group he still plays in today.
Turning back to acting, fleeting thoughts of enrolling at the National Institute of Dramatic Art were abolished after seeking the advice of its head of technical support who told him: "It'd be a waste of your time. You already do the things you go there to learn, and you've been doing it for most of your life, so there's nothing to teach you but bad habits". So with his former acting experience behind him, he combined his musical skills to tour Australia in 'The Rocky Horror Show'.
By 25, Crowe had managed to gain small acclaim in the Australian films 'Prisoners of The Sun' (1990) and 'The Crossing', (also starring future wife Danielle Spencer, 1990) - which earned him his first award nomination from the Australian Film Institute for Actor of the Year, eventually winning the AFI Best Supporting Actor award for his role in 'Proof' (1991).
He finally caught the international critics' attention playing a neo-Nazi skinhead in 1993's controversial 'Romper Stomper'. Crowe dusted down the mantelpiece to make way for another AFI Award, this time for Best Actor. Not only did the part hurtle him into the ‘Best Actor’ lists but his performance impressed fellow thespian Sharon Stone enough to cast him in her production of 'The Quick and the Dead', a notable box-office flop yet an important catapult in spreading the Crowe hype in the United States. Following the small-scale American success of 'The Quick and the Dead', gossip soon spread that several A-list directors such as Ridley Scott and Michael Mann wasted no time in putting Crowe into their little black books for future projects.
Finally, the world had sat up and taken note of Crowe, setting in motion the meteoric rise in his career to the Oscar winning-heights he may only have dreamed of way back in the 'Spyforce' days. With America cracked, the casting doors began to fly open. Next came the sci-fi film 'Virtuosity' in 1995, playing a virtual serial killer opposite Denzel Washington, which was followed in 1997 by the acclaimed 'L.A Confidential'. '
'L.A Confidential' was an international hit, winning two Oscars (Best Actress for Kim Basinger and Best Screenplay) and gaining Crowe the worldwide fan base he'd long deserved. In preparation for his part as the racist thug Bud White, Crowe pumped some serious iron at the gym to gain the ideal physique for Bud's character, even suggesting that his suits be made one size too small to make Bud appear even more macho.
As a break away from playing the tough men, Crowe was signed to play a sheriff in the Disney film 'Mystery, Alaska' in 1999, learning to ice skate especially for the part. He followed this with a portrayal of real-life whistle-blower Jeffrey Wigand in the drama 'The Insider', a part that earned him his first Academy Award Nomination for Best Actor.
You'd have had to have spent the year 2000 locked in a nuclear bunker to have missed Crowe’s performance as Maximus in the Oscar explosive 'Gladiator'. He had begun shooting for the film only a few months after wrapping on 'The Insider' but managed to shift the 40 pounds of extra weight he’d gained in time to play the svelte Roman. He may have had broken bones in his foot and his hip during the shoot but the hard work and multiple injuries paid off when he was awarded an Oscar for Best Actor.
Interest in his personal-life rather than his acting talents hit the headlines later that year when he set tongues wagging over his relationship with 'Proof of Life' co-star Meg Ryan. Due to the impact of Gladiator, Crowe was no longer the anonymous Aussie actor he'd previously thrived on and his private life was suddenly up for grabs.
Crowe's role as schizophrenic mathematician John Nash in 'A Beautiful Mind' secured him a record Oscar nomination hat trick in 2001. He missed out on the gong but made history by being nominated three years in a row.
Sticking with his tried and tested work pals, he continued his on-screen relations with his 'Beautiful Mind' co-star Paul Bettany on 'Master and Commander: Far Side of The World' in 2003 and was later reunited with 'Beautiful Mind' director, Ron Howard in 'Cinderella Man' (2005).
Playing the role of comeback boxer Jim Braddock, 'Cinderella Man' was widely tipped to be another Oscar nod for Crowe after notching a Best Actor nomination at the Golden Globes the same year, but the gossips were wrong and Crowe was overlooked for 2006's line-up. 'A Good Year', a British romantic comedy set in London and Provence and co-starring Marion Cotillard, was also released in the same year, but did not attract any awards.
Crowe went on to step into the American west with 2007 film '3:10 to Yuma', a remake of a 1957 movie with a similar title. Co-starring Christian Bale, the movie received a Screen Actors Guild Award nomination for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture and received mostly positive reviews.
Further recognition came in the same year when another Screen Actors Guild Award for the cast of 'American Gangster' came Crowe's way. His portrayal of real life former detective Richie Roberts in the film directed by Ridley Scott also earned him a nomination for the Australian Film Institute Award for Best International Actor. As well as receiving positive reviews, the film was a commercial success.
Next came 2008 movies 'Tenderness', a crime film, and 'Body of Lies', which saw Crowe and co-star Leonardo DiCaprio play the characters of CIA operatives on the trail of a fictional jihadist terrorist. 'State of Play' (2009) was a political thriller and earned Crowe an Australian Film Institute Award for Best International Actor, while 2010's 'Robin Hood' led to a nomination for a Teen Choice Award for Action Adventure Actor. The same year also saw the release of thriller film 'The Next Three Days'.
His latest high-profile roles include 'Les Miserables' (2012), 'Man Of Steel' (2013) and 'Noah' (2014).
Crowe has also added director to his CV by converting the Australian book, 'The Long Green Shore' to the big screens.
Right, so: now that we’ve convinced you Lifetime is a thing you need to have in your life – what now? How do you get this on your telly? Here’s what you have to do.
=======================================================
He started out as a child star on Australian TV. As an adult he first gained some notoriety from the rather grim and violent Aussie film Romper Stomper for which he won his second Australian Film Institute award (the first was for Proof (1991). He followed that up a couple years later with a
The son of movie set caterers, Crowe's first American film was The Quick and the Dead (1995) which, if you believe the rumors, Sharon Stone held up shooting on until Crowe was available. Not a great film, and neither was
In 1998 he had to lace up a pair of hockey skates as he played hockey player John Biebe in Mystery, Alaska. For the role he not only had to wear skates, but he had to learn how to skate, and skate well. The next year, he gained 30 pounds for the role of tobacco industry tattle-tale, Jeffrey Wigand. Not only did he gain the weight for his role in The Insider (1999), but an Oscar nomination for Best Actor.  He would quickly have to shed those love handles and replace them with rippling muscle for his next role as the heroic Roman general Maximus in Ridley Scott's Gladiator (2000). He would also need to resort back to his dance training to help him memorize some of the fight sequences which could take up to 200 moves.
Crowe won the 2000 Oscar Award for Best Actor for his role in Gladiator, and earned his third Academy Award nomination the following year for his starring role in A Beautiful Mind (2001). He continues to collect awards, including two Australian Film Institute awards for State of Play (2009) and Cinderella Man (2005), as well as a 2001 Global Achievement Award. In 2009 he received an Empire Award for "Actor of our Lifetime." He continues to land prominent roles in big-budget films, such as the role of Javert in the big screen adaptation of Les Miserables (2012) and the corrupt mayor of New York City in Broken City (2013). He most recently starred in Noah (2014) alongside  Jennifer Connelly. 
On April 7, 2003, he married longtime girlfriend Danielle Spencer and they went on to have two sons named Charles and Tenyson. Unfortunately, the couple separated in October 2012. 
Filmography → Oscars™ Nominations And AwardsActorNoah (2014)ActorNoah: The IMAX Experience (2014)ActorTenderness (2009) (2014)ActorWinter's Tale (2014)ActorBroken City (2013)ActorMan of Steel (2013)ActorMan of Steel 3D (2013)ActorMan of Steel: An IMAX 3D Experience (2013)ActorThe Man With the Iron Fists (2012)ActorLes Misérables (2012)ActorThe Next Three Days (2010)ActorRobin Hood (2010)ActorState of Play (2009)ActorBody of Lies (2008)Actor3:10 to Yuma (2007)ActorAmerican Gangster (2007)ActorEucalyptus (2006)ActorA Good Year (2006)ActorCinderella Man (2005)ActorMaster and Commander: The Far Side of the World (2003)ActorA Beautiful Mind (2001)Actor in a Leading RoleNomineeActorFlora Plum (2001)ActorGladiator (2000)Actor in a Leading RoleWinnerActorProof Of Life (2000)ActorThe Insider (1999)Actor in a Leading RoleNomineeActorMystery, Alaska (1999)ActorL.A. Confidential (1997)
=======================================================
BiographyRussell Crowe (born 7.4.1964)Russell Crowe is a New Zealand / Australian actor. He is perhaps best known for his Academy Award-winning role in Gladiator.Russell Crowe: ChildhoodRussell Crowe was born in Wellington in New Zealand. His mother, Jocelyn Yvonne, was a movie caterer, as was his father, John Alexander Crowe. His grandfather, Stan Wemyss was a cinematographer who earned an MBE for his footage of World War II.The Crowe family moved to Australia when Russell was four years old. A few years later, Russell got his first taste of the acting world, when he was hired to recite a line of script in a series called the Sum Of Us.The family then returned to New Zealand when Russell was 14. He attended Mt. Roskill Grammar School but left aged 16, in order to pursue his acting career.Russell Crowe: Acting CareerCrowe's first professional acting job was in a production of The Rocky Horror Show. The director, Daniel Abineri, later cast him in the lead role of the musical Bad Boy Johnny and the Prophets of Doom.Aged 21, Crowe returned once more to Australia He spent six months busking when he could not find work. Eventually, however, he managed to land small roles in Neighbours and Living with the Law.In 1990, Russell Crowe appeared in The Crossing; his movie debut. He also appeared in Blood Oath (1990), as well as the debut series of Police Rescue.In 1992, Russell Crowe took a lead role in Romper Stomper, which chronicles the lives of a gang of racist Melbourne skinheads.Following his success in Australia, Crowe took the decision to move to Hollywood. His first major project in the US was to star alongside Denzel Washington in Virtuosity in 1995.Crowe's career continued to escalate and in 2001, he was nominated for the Best Actor Oscar, for his role in Gladiator. When he attended the ceremony, he wore his grandfather's MBE medal.In 2002, Crowe won a Best Actor BAFTA Award for his lead role in A Beautiful Mind, though he lost out on the same Oscar title to Denzel Washington. His role in The Insider also earned him a Best Actor Oscar nomination.Amongst Crowe's other notable performances in his early Hollywood years, are his role in L.A. Confidential, which also starred Kim Basinger and Guy Pearce. He teamed up once again with A Beautiful Mind director, Ron Howard, in Cinderella Man. He also worked again with the director of Gladiator, Ridley Scott, in A Good Year.In 2007, Crowe starred in American Gangster, alongside Denzel Washington and the Wu Tang Clan rapper Method Man. The film was well received by both critics and viewers alike.Russell Crowe: Musical EndeavoursIn the 1980s, Russell Crowe performed as a rock 'n' roll revivalist, named Rus Le Roq and recorded a hit single by the name of 'I Want To Be Like Marlon Brando.'Crowe also formed a band named 30 Odd Foot Of Grunts. The band was a pub rock outfit that found little success, though they released three albums, Gaslight, Bastard Life or Clarity and Other Ways of Speaking. He later formed a band called The Ordinary Fear of God, which performed on the Tonight Show with Jay Leno in March 2006.Russell Crowe: Personal LifeIn 2001, before the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in New York, Crowe was warned by the FBI that he was a target for the terrorist group al-Qaeda, as part of a cultural destabilisation plan. He was guarded by Secret Service agents for the next few months.In April 2003, Russell Crowe married the actress and singer, Danielle Spencer. They met whilst filming The Crossing in 1990. The pair have two sons, Charles Spencer (b. 2003) and Tennyson Spencer (b. 2006). Before marrying Spencer, Crowe had also been romantically linked to the actress Meg Ryan. He worked with Ryan on the 2000 film Proof of Life.In June 2005, Russell Crowe was arrested for second degree assault after throwing a telephone at a hotel worker in New York.
Russell Crowe has defended his Twitter.com remarks about the celebrity boycott of the Sultan of Brunei's Dorchester Collection hotels, insisting no amount of hate mail will make him change his mind.Celebrities like Sharon Osbourne, Sir...
Russell Crowe has thrown the Dorchester Collection hotel group a lifeline as celebrities continue to back a boycott of the Sultan of Brunei's luxury sites.Stars have turned their backs on places like the Beverly Hills...
"Just heard Prince is gigging in the Uk, tickets still available Manchester Sat 17 and Birmingham Monday 19... Do yourself a favour, see him." Russell Crowe urges his British Twitter followers to catch Prince on...
Russell Crowe and comedian Ricky Gervais gave their Twitter.com followers a play-by-play rundown of their booze-fuelled night out together on Sunday (11May14).The actors were visiting Newcastle, England and decided to make the most of their...
Russell Crowe's biblical epic Noah has been banned from release in China.Officials in several majority Muslim countries, including Malaysia and Indonesia, have previously refused permission for the film to be screened over its depiction of...
Russell Crowe has invited his fans to join him for a first look at his new movie, The Water Diviner. In a new featurette, Crowe's voice narrates the creative process that lead to the movie's...
Russell Crowe talks in depth about his brand new war drama 'The Water Diviner' in a featurette which also features interviews with other cast members such as Olga Kurylenko, Jai Courtney and Yilmaz Erdogan. The...
Jane Fonda felt apprehensive about shooting a film with Russell Crowe because she was worried the actor might be "moody," "standoffish" and "hard to work with".The Hollywood actress shares the screen with Crowe in upcoming...
Russell Crowe's biblical epic Noah scored a big Easter boost at the global box office, taking the film's sales past the $300 million (£187.5 million) mark.Director Darren Aronofsky's retelling of the Great Flood saga opened...
Captain America: The Winter Soldier fought off some pretty serious opposition to maintain its position at the top of the box office, while three newcomers usurped the majority of last week’s top 5. Box Office...
Jennifer Connelly is proud of her 'Noah' character's ''extraordinary strength''.The actress claims her character Naameh is seen from a different perspective in the film - which sees Noah build an ark for his wife and...
Opening day screenings of Russell Crowe's biblical epic Noah were cancelled at a cinema in Exeter, England due to a flood.The blockbuster, which tells the story of the Great Flood, opened in the U.K. over...
"Thanks to all of you who have sent birthday messages, very kind of you." Russell Crowe thanks fans after he hit the landmark age of 50 on Monday (07Apr14).
Darren Aronofsky’s Noah might have faced some religious controversy during its initial opening, but its ridden that wave right to the top of the US box office, becoming a certified sucess already. As Aronofsky surely...
Marvel Studios' latest instalment, 'Captain America: The Winter Soldier', is proving to be hugely popular, not just among comic book fans, but all cinemagoers as it reigns No.1 at this week's North American box office,...
Before I left Paris I went to Sacre Coeur , I lit a candle for my family, for my colleagues, for Ssfc (South Sydney Football Club), the village, the pope and the A of C...
Russell Crowe doesn't want his sons to see him in another relationship. The 'Noah' star is reluctant to strike up a romance with someone because he doesn't think it's fair Charles, 10, and Tennyson, seven,...
Yoga, Painting, Boyfriends And Theatre: Emma Watson Looks To The Future Now Hermione’s Not Holding Her Back
Emma Watson has been doing a lot of pondering on the next stage of her life. The Noah actress is now on the brink of graduating in English Literature from Brown University and is looking...
Russell Crowe says Tom Fletcher is ''very special''.The 'Noah' actor discovered the McFly frontman after seeing his viral videos - including his 'From Bump to Buzz' video chronicling his wife Giovanna's changing body during her...
Kylie Minogue is very careful about who she dates.The 'Sexercise' hitmaker, who split from Andres Velencoso last year after five years together, has revealed she gets her staff to meet any potential suitors before she...
Filmmaker Darren Aronofsky has experimented with most genres over the course of his career, from brainy freak-out ('Pi') to gritty self-discovery ('The Wrestler') by way of intense drama ('Requiem for a Dream'), personal sci-fi odyssey...
Russell Crowe is suffering from a number of chronic injuries including a degenerating hip and torn Achilles tendons.The actor admits working on action-packed movies over the years has taken a toll on his body, and...
A Week In News: 'Noah' Conjures A Box Office Miracle, Glastonbury Line-Up Revealed, And 'How I Met Your Mother' Bids Farewell
Nice Work, 'Noah': Darren Aronofsky's latest epic, Noah, was released last weekend and managed to triumph at its debut box office with $44 million, despite all the negative publicity regarding religious condemnation and middling reviews....
A Week In Movies: Hollywood Legends Hit London, As Do A Trio Of Big Premieres, While New Trailers Promise Tears, Laughs, Thrills And Chills
Tom Cruise, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Hugh Jackman and Emma Thompson were all on hand for Sunday night's Empire Awards in London, a lively and colourful event with most winners chosen by the magazine's readers. Cruise was...
Malaysia in the latest majority Muslim country to ban Russell Crowe's biblical epic Noah due to its depiction of a prophet, following in the footsteps of the Middle East and Indonesia.
Darren Aronofsky continues to ambitiously experiment with genres in this Old Testament blockbuster, but this is his first real misstep as a filmmaker, as the impressive parts simply don't add up. Still, there are flashes...
Actor Russell Crowe will not be reprising his role as Superman's father in the Man Of Steel sequel.The Noah star, who played Jor-El in the 2013 film, was killed off by Michael Shannon's character General...
Russell Crowe has met with a U.K. Church leader to discuss 'Noah'.The Academy-Award-winning actor reportedly held a ''short private meeting'' with the Archbishop of Canterbury ,Justin Welby, to discuss the religious issues raised in the...
Russell Crowe met with Britain's Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby in London on Tuesday (01Apr14).The religious leader agreed to meet with the movie star for a brief chat about his new film Noah, which debuted...
Hollywood actor Russell Crowe labelled an Irish reporter a "plonker" following an awkward interview at a movie premiere in which the star lectured her about rugby rules.The Oscar-winner was interviewed by journalist Niamh Walsh at...
The second season of the prison comedy-drama will premiere on Netflix this week. here are some preview clips!
Oscar-winning actor Kevin Spacey turned the air blue on respected Bbc current affairs show Newsnight.
50 Cent has defended Justin Bieber in light of his N-word shame, insisting the 20-year-old star is not racist and is ''still a baby''.
like Elvis ...Crowe is so much more, and I can’t get enough of this person, who is so inspiring only by being so true to himself, and I think it is wrong to say that women just want the ‘good looking’ man, no… we want the role model as well. Women also see the strength in being your self, very much needed in you work all over today. That is what Crowe is giving me, and I am a woman blessed with my own 'gladiator' at home, and I want to be the other, but feminine 'gladiator'!
Well, i don't know him very much cause i'm just a fan and i've just wached 1 of his movies so...All i know is that i just loved him, he was so perfect in "Cinderella Man", he was truly the Cinderella Man, and he's really cute too, i love his accent, it makes him look better than he already is!!!!
You're the best, Russell!  So is your lovely and talented wife.  I do wish her CD's were available in the US, she has a beautiful voice.  Your boys are darling and I wish you and your family the best.  Don't ever stop making movies, you're an incredible performer.BethUSA
Go on Russell! You are the best! You are a great actor and an extraordinary man. Dont care about some people say. I've already read your biography and i was very impressed to know that you worked hard for to be what you are now.There many things that i would like to tell you, but for me and many other people the most important is that you mantain the way you are, and give us great films.I whish you the best for you and your family.Kisses from Isabel from Portugal. Yes, because in Portugal you also have many fans that one day would like to see you.
i have 6 of your films thay are all very goodone is a good year and spotswood is anotheri hope you have a lovely wedding russellbest wishieshelen
Late Night Renaissance - How This Winter's Changes Are Paying Off For Fallon, Kimmel, Leno And The Networks
 Jonah Hill Awkwardly Watched Wolf Of Wall Street With MotherJennifer Lopez And Casper Smart SplitKelly Osbourne Thanks Date For 'Unforgettable' Lgbt PromGot A Spare $20,000? Then You Could Die In 'Game Of Thrones'Kim Kardashian West Uses Married Name For Autograph Almost 20 Years On, Dave Coulier Is Still Hung Up On Alanis Morissette's "You Oughta Know ""Why Is Hugh Bouncing?": Hugh Jackman Jumps For Joy Ahead Of Tony AwardsJohn Lennon's Doodles Sell For $27k And Other Crazy Music Auction Prices [Pictures]Game Of Thrones Vs. The Sopranos: Is Popularity Indicative Of Quality? "Game Of Thrones" Topples "The Sopranos" As Hbo's Most Watched Show
Evan Rachel Wood's Representative Slams 'Preposterous' LawsuitJennifer Lopez Splits From Boyfriend - ReportFight For Your Right: Beastie Boys Collect $1.7M In Monster Copyright BattleLa Toya Jackson wants 'huge' weddingChris Brown's Celebrity Pals Gather For Post-prison PartyLupita Nyong'o To Reteam With Brad Pitt For New Movie 
Pharrell Williams - Full Show - #AmexUNSTAGED VideoJack White - Lazaretto VideoSharlto Copley - Maleficent Video Interview Sam Riley - Maleficent Video Interview Elle Fanning - Maleficent Video Interview  
Sharlto Copley - Maleficent Video InterviewSam Riley - Maleficent Video InterviewElle Fanning - Maleficent Video InterviewAngelina Jolie - Maleficent Video InterviewBlair Jollands - Interview 
Christopher Hall - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, United Kingdom -Jerry Lewis and Larry King - Jerry Lewis attends the Friars Club celebration ofWanda Sykes and Alex Sykes - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life AchievementSyd Wilder - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life Achievement Award honoring JaneMatthew Davies and Emma Willis - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, 
