=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Christian Charles Philip Bale was born in Pembrokeshire, Wales, UK on January 30, 1974, to a English parents Jennifer James and David Bale. Christian's father was a commercial pilot, and the family lived in different countries throughout Bale's childhood, including England, Portugal, and the United States. Bale acknowledges the constant change was one of the influences on his career choice.His first acting job was a cereal commercial in 1983; amazingly, the next year, he debuted on the West End stage in "The Nerd". A role in the 1986 NBC mini-series Anastasia: The Mystery of Anna (1986) caught Steven Spielberg's eye, leading to Bale's well-documented role in Empire of the Sun (1987). For the range of emotions he displayed as the star of the war epic, he earned a special award by the National Board of Review for Best Performance by a Juvenile Actor.Adjusting to fame and his difficulties with attention (he thought about quitting acting early on), Bale appeared in Kenneth Branagh's 1989 adaptation of Shakespeare's Henry V (1989) and starred as Jim Hawkins in a TV movie version of Treasure Island (1990). Bale worked consistently through the 1990s, acting and singing in Newsies (1992), Swing Kids (1993), Little Women (1994), The Portrait of a Lady (1996), The Secret Agent (1996), Metroland (1997), Velvet Goldmine (1998), All the Little Animals (1998), and A Midsummer Night's Dream (1999). Toward the end of the decade, with the rise of the Internet, Bale found himself coming one of the most popular online celebrities around, though he, with a couple notable exceptions, maintained a private, tabloid-free mystique.Bale roared into the next decade with a lead role in American Psycho (2000), director Mary Harron's adaptation of the controversial Bret Easton Ellis novel. In the film, Bale played a murderous Wall Street executive obsessed with his own physicality - a trait for which Bale would become a specialist.Bale was truly on the Hollywood radar at this time, and he turned in a range of performances in the remake Shaft (2000), Captain Corelli's Mandolin (2001), the balmy Laurel Canyon (2002), and Reign of Fire (2002), a dragons-and-magic commercial misfire that has its share of defenders.Two more cult films followed: Equilibrium (2002) and The Machinist (2004), the latter of which gained attention mainly due to Bale's physical transformation - he dropped a reported 60+ pounds for the role of a lathe operator with a secret that causes him to suffer from insomnia for over a year.Bale's abilities to transform his body and to disappear into a character influenced the decision to cast him in Batman Begins (2005), the first chapter in Christopher Nolan's definitive trilogy that proved a dark-themed narrative could resonate with audiences worldwide. The film also resurrected a character that had been shelved by Warner Bros. after a series of demising returns, capped off by Batman and Robin's massive commercial and critical failure. A quiet, personal victory for Bale: he accepted the role after the passing of his father in late 2003, an event that caused him to question whether he would continue performing.Bale segued into two indie features in the wake of Batman's phenomenal success: The New World (2005) and Harsh Times (2005). He continued working with respected independent directors in 2006's Rescue Dawn (2006), Werner Herzog's feature version of his earlier, Emmy-nominated documentary, Little Dieter Needs to Fly (1997). Leading up to the second Batman film, Bale starred in The Prestige (2006), the remake of 3:10 to Yuma (2007), and a reunion with director Todd Haynes in the experimental Bob Dylan biography, I'm Not There. (2007).Anticipation for The Dark Knight (2008) was spun into unexpected heights with the tragic passing of Heath Ledger, whose performance as The Joker became the highlight of the sequel. Bale's graceful statements to the press reminded us of the days of the refined Hollywood star as the second installment exceeded the box-office performance of its predecessor.Bale's next role was the eyebrow-raising decision to take over the role of John Connor in the Schwarzenegger-less Terminator Salvation (2009), followed by a turn as federal agent Melvin Purvis in Michael Mann's Public Enemies (2009). Both films were hits but not the blockbusters they were expected to be.For all his acclaim and box-office triumphs, Bale would earn his first Oscar in 2011 in the wake of The Fighter (2010)'s critical and commercial success. Bale earned the Best Supporting Actor award for his portrayal of Dicky Eklund, brother to and trainer of boxer "Irish" Micky Ward, played by Mark Wahlberg. Bale again showed his ability to reshape his body with another gaunt, skeletal transformation.Bale then turned to another auteur, Yimou Zhang, for the epic Jin líng shí san chai (2011), in which Bale portrayed a priest trapped in the midst of the Rape of Nanking. Bale earned headlines for his attempt to visit with Chinese civil-rights activist Chen Guangcheng, which was blocked by the Chinese government.Most recently, Bale capped his role as Bruce Wayne/Batman in The Dark Knight Rises (2012); in the wake of the Aurora, Colorado tragedy, Bale made a quiet pilgrimage to the state to visit with survivors of the attack that left theatergoers dead and injured.Bale has reunited with The New World (2005) director Terrence Malick for two upcoming projects: Knight of Cups (2014) and an as-yet-untitled drama. He also filmed the thriller Out of the Furnace (2013) with Crazy Heart (2009) writer/director Scott Cooper.In his personal life, he devotes time to charities including Greenpeace and the World Wildlife Foundation. He lives with his wife, Sibi Blazic, and their daughter, Emmeline.
          The 10th Anniversary issue of "Entertainment Weekly" crowned Christian Bale as one of the "Top 8 Most Powerful Cult Figures" of the past decade, citing his incredible and legendary cult status on the Internet. EW also calls Bale one of the "Most Creative People in Entertainment" after his brilliant turn as the psychopathic yuppie serial killer in American Psycho (2000). And "Premiere" lauded him as one of the "Hottest Leading Men Under 30". Christian Bale has garnered a huge international audience ever since he wowed critics with his devastating performance in Steven Spielberg's WWII epic Empire of the Sun (1987).Bale made his professional debut opposite British comedian Rowan Atkinson on the London West End stage. He auditioned with 4000 other kids for the coveted role of James Graham in Spielberg's Empire of the Sun (1987). Bale received a special citation for Best Performance by a Juvenile Actor from the National Board of Review -- an award specially created for his performance in "Empire". In the following decade, Welsh-born Bale has appeared in Shakespeare, dramas and comedies demonstrating a versatility, depth and range that has made him one of the best reviewed actors today and one of the most popular actors on the Internet. Bale is the youngest in a family of 3 older sisters (Erin, Sharon, and Louise Bale).
        Remains in character almost constantly during the filming process even going so far as to conduct interviews using whatever accent he is using for that particular film.
      Hand-picked by director/writer Mary Harron and author Bret Easton Ellis to star in American Psycho (2000). Consequently, was noted by the media as the first star of American Psycho (2000), only to lose the part to Leonardo DiCaprio and then win it back again.
      He trained for 10 weeks in dancing and martial arts for the dance sequences in Newsies (1992) and Swing Kids (1993).
      Bale was handpicked by Winona Ryder for the coveted role of Laurie (Theodore Laurence) in Little Women (1994).
      A devoted animal lover, Christian has two dogs [Mojo and Ramone] and three cats [Miriam, Molly, and Lilly], which are all strays that he found.
      Christian is active in many organizations, including Ark Trust, Greenpeace, the World Wildlife Foundation, the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund, the Redwings Sanctuary, and the Happy Child Mission, and a school for street kids in Rio De Janeiro.
      He has three sisters: musician Erin Bale; computer professional Sharon Bale; and director/actress Louise Bale, who appeared in Newsies (1992).
      With Batman Begins (2005), he has become the seventh actor to play Batman/Bruce Wayne in a live-action film. The others were: Lewis Wilson in 1943's, Robert Lowery in 1949, Adam West in the 1966, Michael Keaton for the first two installments of the Batman film series, to be replaced by Val Kilmer and George Clooney.
      Dropped an amazing 63 pounds for his role as the emaciated insomniac Trevor Reznik in the film The Machinist (2004) with only a single vitamin consultation with a nutritionist to guide him. For the most part, he only ate salads and apples, chewed gum, smoked cigarettes, and drank nonfat lattes.
      Considered getting formal acting training at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) when he was twenty, but decided to focus on working instead.
      Has been in 2 versions of the John Smith/Pocahontas story. He provides the voice of Thomas in Pocahontas (1995) and plays John Rolfe in The New World (2005).
      Turned down the opportunity to reprise the role of Patrick Bateman in the Roger Avary-directed The Rules of Attraction (2002).
      In the "Fresh Air with Terry Gross" radio interview first aired June 13, 2005, he admitted to Gross that because Batman is "such an American icon", he had decided not to perform his promotional interviews for the movie Batman Begins (2005) in his natural mixed Welsh/English accent. Instead he spoke to Gross in an almost inflection-less mid-American accent, only revealing his dialectic roots with a few words.
      Two of his most famous characters' names have a difference of only one letter. Bateman and Batman.
      Since a young age he was very ambitious about attending Drama School, and auditioned for the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA), the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art (LAMDA), and the Central School of Speech And Drama at the age of twenty. He was accepted to all, but was convinced by his parents to continue working instead. To this day, he regrets not attending drama school for his personal passion of learning his craft.
      The nameplate on his trailer for Batman Begins (2005) read "Bruce Wayne" as opposed to Bale's name.
      Before he played "Batman" in Batman Begins (2005), his sister Louise Bale played Batman's mother in The Death of Batman (2003).
      Auditioned for the role of Jack Dawson in Titanic (1997) and almost got the role but people felt that it wouldn't be "fair" having two Brits playing two Americans (Rose was American as well, she says in the movie that the Titanic was a slave ship bring her back to America).
      Considered for the role of Will Turner in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003).
      If he plays an American character, he will use an American accent in all the interviews related to the film. He says he does this so the audience isn't confused.
      Became a father for the 1st time at age 31 when his wife Sibi Blazic gave birth to their daughter Emmaline Bale on 27 March 2005.
      Although born in Wales, his family is actually English. In 1976, when Bale was two years old, his family left Wales and returned to England.
      His father was an activist and adventurer and his mother a circus dancer so he never lived in one place for very long while growing up.
      Beat out nearly 4,000 other auditions for the role of Jim Graham in Steven Spielberg's Empire of the Sun (1987).
      Alongside Michael Keaton, he is the only other actor to portray Bruce Wayne/Batman in more than one live action film.
      Was arrested over verbal assault allegations made by his mother and his sister just hours after he attended the European premiere of his movie The Dark Knight (2008) in London. Upon reviewing the case, the London police decided not to charge him with anything. [July 2008]
      While working on Schindler's List, Steven Spielberg paid a visit to Bale on the set of Swing Kids (1993), as both movies were partially filmed in Prague.
      Has said that he considers it an honor to have been called a "mofo" by Samuel L. Jackson in a movie.
      Met Drew Barrymore on the set of Empire of the Sun (1987), who was visiting her godfather, Steven Spielberg. He was thirteen and she was twelve. Later they would both admit to having a crush on one another at the time.
      He was involved in an infamous incident where he was recorded verbally assaulting cinematographer Shane Hurlbut on the set of Terminator Salvation (2009) for interrupting him during an intense scene. Bale has since apologized, but the incident was widely heard across the Internet.
      Is an avid fan of video games and cites Super Mario as one of his all-time favorites growing up.
      Appears in Batman Begins (2005) and Terminator Salvation (2009). Both were follow-ups to earlier films (Batman & Robin (1997) and Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (2003)) that had starred Arnold Schwarzenegger.
      He and fellow Batman George Clooney both started their careers working for Steven Spielberg. Bale appeared in Empire of the Sun (1987), and Clooney appeared on ER (1994), which Spielberg produced. Empire of the Sun (1987) was a product Spielberg undertook under the encouragement of David Lean, who is one of Spielberg's favorite directors. Clooney also has a connection to David Lean: his uncle, José Ferrer, appeared in Lawrence of Arabia (1962).
      Appears in The Dark Knight Rises (2012) opposite Gary Oldman and Anne Hathaway, as Commissioner Gordon and Selina Kyle, respectively. He has also worked with both of their predecessors: Pat Hingle in Shaft (2000) and Michelle Pfeiffer in A Midsummer Night's Dream (1999). Hingle and Pfeiffer, for their parts, have worked with all three previous Batmans. Pfeiffer worked with Michael Keaton in Batman Returns (1992), Val Kilmer in The Prince of Egypt (1998), and George Clooney in One Fine Day (1996). Hingle, of course, appeared in all the previous Batman films.
      Is the second Batman to win an Oscar. George Clooney won Best Supporting Actor for Syriana (2005), and he also won Best Supporting Actor for The Fighter (2010).
      Was compared to a young Steve McQueen by Steven Spielberg, while filming Empire of the Sun (1987).
      Holds the records for the most weight lost (63 pounds for "The Machinist") and gained (80 pounds for "Batman Begins") for film roles.
      The fourth and oldest actor to play the role of John Connor in the ''Terminator'' series. He is also the first non-American.
      One of four consecutive Oscar winners in the Best Supporting Actor category whose name begins with Chris, the other actors being Christoph Waltz (who won twice) and Christopher Plummer.
      He and Jeremy Sisto have played the roles of both Batman and Jesus Christ in films. Bale is the only one to have played both in live-Action productions.
      He starred in two films about Native Americans and the founding of America: 'Pocahontas (1995)' and 'The New World (2005)'.
      Shares two Biblical roles with two other actors who have portrayed Batman. He and Jeremy Sisto have both played Jesus, while he and Val Kilmer have both played Moses.
      [interview in "Spin" magazine, March 1996] An actor should never be larger than the film he's in.
      [on dealing with the resulting media attention of Empire of the Sun (1987) at age 13] It was horrific. I was almost crying in interviews and running away during press conferences, pretending I was going to the bathroom and just disappearing.
      [on the sudden fame that resulted after Empire of the Sun (1987)] I enjoyed making the film, but I was shocked when I received all the attention when I got home to Bournemouth. Girls were all over me, boys wanted to fight me, and I was being asked to open local fêtes when all I wanted to do was ride my BMX bike in the woods. I told my parents I wasn't interested in doing anything again because the attention ruined it.
      I don't want to know about the lives of other actors and I don't want people to know too much about me. If we don't know about the private lives of other actors, that leaves us as clean slates when it comes to playing characters. That's the point, they can create these other characters and I can believe them. I think if you're a good enough actor, that's the way to longevity in the film business. Keep everybody guessing.
      [on his 63-pound weight loss for "The Machinist" (The Machinist (2004))] I had a stupid kind of feeling of invincibility, like, "I can do it, I can manage it". I really did feel like I hit this point of enlightenment.
      I always like that. Whenever there's a project where everyone's going, "Oooooh, it's a bit dodgy", I always like it. If you actually look at it, there tends not to be anything risky at all. Why did I start acting in the first place? I didn't do it to be mediocre or to please everybody all the time.
      I'd love to remain a secret and still work, but I also want people to see the movies I'm in and get a higher profile because of that. I like to think that as long as you continue choosing diverse roles, you can avoid becoming predictable.
      It's the actors who are prepared to make fools of themselves who are usually the ones who come to mean something to the audience.
      [on his transformation into Patrick Bateman for American Psycho (2000)] The character is so vain and obsessed with his looks. While the psychology of the character was something that I could perform, you can't fake the physicality. Being English, I tend to enjoy going down to the pub far more than going to the gym, so it was very unnatural for me. I just had to convince myself that I loved it, which was the most difficult thing about playing this part. Working out is incredibly boring. I swear it's true that the bigger your muscles get, the fewer brain cells you have. I found I had to stop thinking when I was in the gym because if I thought about it, I'd realize how ridiculous it was that I was pumping iron when I could've been out having a drink and a cigarette and enjoying some lunch. I did three hours a day for six weeks with a personal trainer and some time before that. I ate an awful lot during training and then almost nothing during filming.
      The only thing that I'm obsessed with is sleeping and, actually, it is more than an obsession, it is a pleasure. I love sleeping so much that I could do it 12 hours a day if I didn't have to turn on the alarm clock . . . and still, sometimes . . .
      Our Batman [Batman Begins (2005)] is centered on the early days. It's an explanation. It's certainly not Batman No. 5. It's a reinvention. We want you to forget there has ever been a Batman before this one.
      [on Batman Begins (2005)] I've never felt like the Batman character in the films was given as much time as any of the villains. The villains were always the most interesting characters, too. Batman has always been this very bizarre, almost blind character running through the middle of the story. Our film is different.
      [on Batman Begins (2005)] I contacted them. I heard they were doing some low-budget Batman not aimed at kids and I was tantalized. I had appreciated the Batman movies, but I wasn't really a fan and I didn't know the TV series. But I read some of the graphic novels, and they were very dark and very interesting.
      I spent about three weeks in Chicago last July doing night shoots [for Batman Begins (2005)]. It's a great city, but the humidity was tough under the Batsuit. Uh, it got a little bad. It's hot enough in the Batsuit, let alone in the Chicago heat.
      I needed money because I had just bought a house, but I just kept saying, "I really can't do another movie that I know is not going to turn out the way I want it to, and that I have to make a lot of concessions in my head for."
      For me, there's a bigger risk trying [Batman Begins (2005)]. Ultimately, the big point was that [Christopher Nolan], who you would not expect to be doing that kind of movie, was going to direct it, which is exactly what I was looking for, because you want to do something totally different from the other "Batman" movies. I always thought there could be a really good movie made about "Batman" and when I heard that Chris was doing it I thought, "Well, he's not a director that you would expect, therefore you're going to get the unexpected from him". I think there's a great potential for going very dark with it, it's a fascinating character, very complex psychologically, which I've never seen done. You know, you have the two extremes, which are both very good. You can either go the very camp Adam West TV series thing [Batman (1966)], which was great in its own way, or you can go more the way of the graphic "Dark Knight" novels which delve somewhat deeper.
      I had spent weeks staring at the wall in my house out of depression because of things that had gone wrong and the choices I had made. When I read "The Machinist" [The Machinist (2004)], I just went, "Wow! This is perfect". I was having dreams about the character and I couldn't stop thinking about it. I felt like this one was going to save my arse, and pull me out of the depressed state I had got into.
      I did other things, but my heart was never in it. A lot of actors say that theater's the thing for them. And that's great, and I'm not one to speak with any authority about it because of not having done it properly. For me, movies are what I love.
      At first, I was somewhat hesitant to do the role [Batman Begins (2005)]. I mean, after all, Batman is an icon. But I remember, as clear as day, being at the grocery store the day the movie opened, and this little boy saw me. He couldn't have been more than five years old. He just walked right up to me and hugged me. He hugged me, and I was so moved by it that I hugged him back. Then he looked up at me and said, "You're my hero." And in that moment, I knew that not only as an actor that I had done my job, but that I had made the right decision to play Batman. And I've never looked back on my the decision to play Batman since.
      I'm English. Our dentistry is not world famous. But I made sure I got moldings of my old teeth beforehand because I miss them.
      I don't think I'm like any of the characters I've played. They're all really far from who I am.
      You can't help but find that violence is endlessly fascinating--and I mean true violence, not action-movie violence, just because it is used as the answer to so many problems. We're all taught as kids not to be violent, but you can't help but also see that violence is what works very often. Bullies thrive.
      I think there's a kind of pretentiousness to the idea that serious work is only found in low-budget independent movies--I can't stand that snobbery.
      I like being kept in the dark myself. You know, like mushrooms: Keep 'em in the dark and feed 'em shit. See, I think that's an enjoyable vegetable to be.
      At the time that [Christopher Nolan] asked me to do it [Batman Begins (2005)] I actually couldn't do one push-up. They sent me to a trainer, who was having to hold my T-shirt at the back just to pull me up. I've come a long way from that.
      [on filming Batman films during the summer] I'm not really looking forward to wearing a black rubber suit in the summertime in humid Chicago. If you see a pool of sweat through the city, follow it and you will find me.
      [describing director Christopher Nolan's method for filming Batman Begins (2005)] We tend to shoot at night like some kind of covert operation. So, we have minimal people actually seeing me in that way.
      [on being asked if he knew how big a flop Newsies (1992) was] You say something bad about "Newsies" and you have an awful lot of people to answer to.
      He's a messed-up individual, as well. He's got all sorts of issues. He's just as twisted and messed-up as the villains he's fighting, and that's part of the beauty of the whole story. - on the character of Batman.
      (2007 - On his career) I've been able to work on movies that I like very much in the past few years, which I think have turned out how I had hoped that they would. And, I'm human, you know; that makes me feel good. I like it when people like what I do. I don't like it when people are laughing at me for what I do, you know? I mean, I'd love to say I was completely impervious to anybody's opinion, but that just ain't the truth. Of course, it matters.At the same time, there's also a danger when you start playing it too safe. After all, what am I paid to do? I'm paid to essentially make an ass out of myself, if needed. And occasionally, in doing that, you're going to fall flat on your face. But, I have learned, through doing that numerous times in my life, that there's also a ton of enjoyment to what other people see as humiliation. You can actually come to sort of thrive on that, because in a way, it kind of leads to a sort of fearlessness, if you genuinely don't mind. If the point is that you tried, I think that really is the most important thing. And, like you said, I feel like I've been very fortunate in the last couple of years that I've gotten to do what I loved, which is actually the making of movies, and on top of that, if I've liked how the movies have turned out themselves, then that's fantastic. But, to start getting too comfortable within that would be eventually to start churning out boring, boring chaff.
      I'm accustomed to not having any map for my life. I'd be reaching for an Uzi if I knew what was going to happen every day. If anybody tells me I shouldn't jump, of course all I want to do is jump and show it can be done.
      Life is not stable. There is a great strength that comes from not being shocked or scared by upheavals.
      I don't think I was particularly in need of superheroes. I never had any fascination with Superman or Spider-Man or a Batman kind of character. If it happened at all, it was imagined characters that I had invented. My dad was a role model for me. He was a fascinating man. There was intrigue and entertainment growing up with him. He gave me an edict that I still pursue: "Life should never be boring."
      [on meeting Arnold Schwarzenegger in a car park] He's got bodyguards and they were all shouting at me and I was going, 'Hold on, hold on, I've met him before!' but they were getting very worried as I walked toward him. But we chatted a bit. He had questions about Terminator Salvation (2009), he didn't know the script at all but I hear apparently he's now seen the movie... I'll wait to hear what his reaction is...
      Variety is essential for me. I love watching a Michael Mann movie. I love watching a Christopher Nolan movie. Just to talk about my stuff, I enjoy a The Machinist (2004) kind of movie, a Rescue Dawn (2006), a 3:10 to Yuma (2007), an American Psycho (2000), whatever. But I also love watching The Terminator (1984) movies, I love watching the _Batman_ movies...
Public Enemies (2009) is very timely. The Depression had people resenting the fat cats, the banks and so you've got someone like Dillinger being a hero because he was making a difference - he was getting it back for himself and so many people looked at him and romanticised that.
      [on Heath Ledger's Oscar win for The Dark Knight (2008)] Heath winning Best Supporting Actor was fantastic. I had dinner with his family a couple of nights before the awards and liked very much they were the people who were picking it up for him. Of course I was really delighted that it did go that way.
      I'm actually someone that's very anti the whole B-Rolls, DVD extras and stuff like that. I understand people are interested, I get that they want to hear about it, but to me I look at it as old school movie magic and with magic you do not reveal your secrets.
      [The Terminator (1984)] is the original nightmare of just being pursued that everyone has, by somebody who just will not stop, never stops, doesn't give up. And when you've got someone who looked like Arnold Schwarzenegger coming after you it made a big difference.
      [on avoiding media coverage of Heath Ledger's death] I paid no attention to it. I knew him, I knew the family and why the hell would I sit there listening to idiots who don't know anything at all? I literally didn't read anything, didn't watch anything (after he died). If I happened to be watching anything that came on, I switched over straight away. It's incredible the way the voyeuristic outlook is accepted as news.
      [on The Dark Knight (2008)] Many times I'll work with actors and I can tell they're thinking: 'What are you doing? Why are you going that far with it?' or 'You're nuts!' With [Heath Ledger], I could feel him going: 'I love it!'
      I don't feel like I have to explain, 'Well, I'm not really like this. I'm a wonderful guy and I have a lovely smile and how can you not like me?' - on his infamous onset rant on Terminator Salvation (2009).
      [on his infamous on-set rant on Terminator Salvation (2009)] It wouldn't have happened if we hadn't been playing that scene, for Christ's sake, between John Connor and his wife, which is probably the most intense one in the movie...I'd definitely say that that guy who was yelling was at least half John Connor, and the rest was Christian Bale.
      Look, I hate to throw people under the bus for making movies I don't think are very good. But for Terminator Salvation (2009) to be considered with any legitimacy, you have to throw number three [Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (2003)] under the bus. It began to spoof the whole thing. To me, that was a sign that the franchise was dead, the mythology was finished.
      [on Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991)] I really liked the second one. It had as much to do with the electric atmosphere in the theater when I saw it at 17, when I was first getting out to the States, and I'd never been in a movie theater that had that much noise and excitement throughout the entire movie.
      [on starting a new trilogy with Terminator Salvation (2009)] I hope that it will be a really fun, great movie trilogy if this one takes off and that we get to do a second or third, with me or not, whatever the scenario is. I think there is actually - in the hands of the right people - a real revival for this and an extension to an already good mythology.
      I was up in Toronto and went to see that movie Life Is Beautiful. By myself. And when I came out, I had a craving for blood unlike anything I had ever experienced since I decided to go vegetarian at the age of 7. It was a compulsion. It was undeniable. I went to several restaurants, one right after the other, and got the biggest, bloodiest steaks I could get my hands on. It was the first time I had tasted flesh in almost twenty years.
      I've never felt Welsh. I was just born there and I don't remember it. In terms of growing up, it was completely English.
      I wouldn't want someone making a film of my life. I'd be on set every day saying they're telling it wrong.
      [on portraying Bruce Wayne as a jerk] That's always his cover. It's something that has to be there to make people never suspect that he's someone that would ever have the desire or belief, the passion or intelligence, the capability to be Batman. He has to be this kind of ridiculous cliché of a playboy.
      I have very strong opinions about why kids should not be working at such a young age. I think introducing children to a professional industry where they may not recognize the pressure is wrong. Very quickly they're going to be under pressure. This is an adult industry. I would be very skeptical putting anybody I cared about, who was close to me, in this profession at a young age. I absolutely support it as a hobby and as an amateur pursuit, but to enter into it in a professional way is a whole different ball game.
      To be honest, it was only a couple of years ago that I finally decided to stick at acting. Before that, I used to think, 'I don't want to do this any more - I want to quit. I hate it.' It's such a silly job. Some days I'd think I should be doing something much more important than this. I'd like to say acting is a meaningful and difficult job but it's actually damn easy and pretty pointless. Sometimes I love it but other days I think, 'This sucks.'
      [on David O. Russell's recent work] I think the thing that resonates so much for me with what David has been telling stories about recently is just the fact that the things that feel like disasters in your life, don't turn out to be disasters. That life throws you many curve balls. The things that seem like gifts, can turn out to be disastrous. And never to be surprised at how surprised you can be at life. [2014]
      [on his character's epic comb-over in "American Hustle"] For me it was so unexpected to see this con artist having such an unconvincing con on his head. And that he was so brilliant at what he did but so terrible at what he did on top of his head. There was a great juxtaposition in it. It became a very vital thing to add to it. And very charming as well. Generally people think of con men being very slick and maybe vain and certainly very smooth operators. We didn't want to make Irv that.
      [on how David O. Russell likes to hide places on set] One of the funniest things for me on set [of "American Hustle"] was watching where David was going to hide. He always likes to be very close to the actors. He likes to be able to feel the atmosphere of the scene. So literally he'd be trying to hide under our chairs and the DP would be 'no David, I see you there.' And then he'd be jumping over a table somewhere and finding a spot where he could be very close and get a sense of being right there with us.
=======================================================
Christian Charles Philip Bale (born 30 January 1974) is an English actor.[1][2] He has starred in both blockbuster films and smaller projects from independent producers and art houses.
Bale first caught the public eye at the age of 13, when he was cast in the starring role of Steven Spielberg's Empire of the Sun (1987). Based on the original story by J. G. Ballard, Bale played an English boy who is separated from his parents and subsequently finds himself lost in a Japanese internment camp during World War II.[3] In 2000, he garnered critical acclaim for his portrayal of serial killer Patrick Bateman in American Psycho. He earned a reputation as a method actor after he lost 63 pounds to play the role of Trevor Reznik in The Machinist (2004).[4]
Bale went on to receive greater commercial recognition and acclaim for his performance as Bruce Wayne/Batman in Christopher Nolan's Batman Begins (2005), The Dark Knight (2008) and The Dark Knight Rises (2012). He also portrayed Dicky Eklund in the biopic The Fighter (2010), for which he received critical acclaim and won several awards, including the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor and the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role. In 2013, he starred in the comedy-drama American Hustle, for which he received his second Academy Award nomination, his first in the Best Actor category, in addition to a nomination for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy.
Bale was born in Haverfordwest, Pembrokeshire, the son of English mother Jenny (née James), a circus performer, and a South African-born English father, David Bale, an entrepreneur, commercial pilot, and talent manager.[5][6][7] He has stated, "I was born in Wales but I'm not Welsh – I'm English".[2] He has two sisters. Bale spent his childhood in Wales, Surrey and Dorset in England, and Portugal.[8][9] He attended Bournemouth School, but left at age 16.[10]
His parents divorced in 1991, and while his mother and sister Sharon stayed in Bournemouth, he moved with his father to Los Angeles, California at age seventeen.[11] He has not spoken to Sharon since she had him arrested without charge after he allegedly ranted at her at London’s Dorchester hotel in 2008.[11] His first acting role was a commercial for the fabric softener Lenor in 1982. A year later, he appeared in a Pac-Man cereal commercial playing a child rock star. In 1984, he made his stage debut in The Nerd on London's West End with Rowan Atkinson.[12]
Bale made his film debut as Tsarevich Alexei Nikolaevich of Russia in the made for television film Anastasia: The Mystery of Anna in 1986,[13] which was followed by leading roles in the miniseries Heart of the Country and the fantasy adventure Mio in the Land of Faraway, in which he appeared with Christopher Lee and Nick Pickard.
His performance as Jim Graham in Empire of the Sun earned him widespread critical praise and the first ever "Best Performance by a Juvenile Actor" award from the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures.[14] The attention the press and his schoolmates lavished upon him after this took a toll on Bale, and he contemplated giving up acting until Kenneth Branagh approached him and persuaded him to appear in Henry V in 1989.[14] In 1990, he played the role of Jim Hawkins opposite Charlton Heston (as Long John Silver) in Treasure Island, an adaptation of Robert Louis Stevenson's classic book.
In 1992, Bale starred as Jack Kelly in the Disney musical Newsies, and followed it up in 1993 with another release, Swing Kids, a film about teenagers who secretly listened to forbidden jazz during the rise of Nazi Germany.[15] Bale was recommended by actress Winona Ryder to star in Gillian Armstrong's 1994 film Little Women.[14] Bale provided the voice for Thomas, a young compatriot of Captain John Smith, in Disney's Pocahontas (1995) and in 1997 played Arthur Stuart in Velvet Goldmine, Todd Haynes' tribute to glam rock.[15] In 1999, Bale contributed to an all-star cast, including Kevin Kline, Michelle Pfeiffer, Stanley Tucci, and Rupert Everett, portraying Demetrius in an updated version of William Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream.[15]
In 1999, Bale played serial killer Patrick Bateman in American Psycho, director Mary Harron's adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis' controversial novel. Bale was briefly dropped from the project in favour of Leonardo DiCaprio, but DiCaprio eventually dropped out to star in The Beach, and Bale was cast once again. He researched his character by studying the novel and prepared himself physically for the role by spending months tanning and exercising in order to achieve the "Olympian physique" of the character as described in the original novel.[16] He went so far as to distance himself from the cast and crew to maintain the darker side of Bateman's character. American Psycho premiered at the 2000 Sundance Film Festival to much controversy. Roger Ebert condemned the film at first, calling it pornography[17] and "the most loathed film at Sundance,"[18] but gave it a favourable review, writing that Harron had "transformed a novel about bloodlust into a film about men's vanity." Of Bale's performance, he wrote, "Christian Bale is heroic in the way he allows the character to leap joyfully into despicability; there is no instinct for self-preservation here, and that is one mark of a good actor."[19]
On 14 April 2000, Lions Gate Films released American Psycho in cinemas. Bale was later approached to make a cameo appearance in another Bret Easton Ellis adaptation, The Rules of Attraction, a film loosely connected to American Psycho, but he declined out of loyalty to Harron's vision of Bateman, which he felt could not be properly expressed by anyone else.[20] In 2000, he again played a wealthy murderer, this time in John Singleton's Shaft. Bale's first role after American Psycho was in the John Madden adaptation of the best-selling novel Captain Corelli's Mandolin. Bale played Mandras, a Greek fisherman who vied with Nicolas Cage's title character for the affections of Pelagia (Penélope Cruz). Captain Corelli's Mandolin was Bale's second time working with John Hurt, after All the Little Animals.
From 2002–03, Bale starred in three feature films. Laurel Canyon (2002) was generally well received by critics.[21] This film marked the second time he worked with actress Kate Beckinsale, his costar in Prince of Jutland (1994). Critics generally focused on star Frances McDormand's performance over the rest of the cast, however.[22]
Reign of Fire was Bale's first action vehicle and had, compared to all his previous work, an immense budget estimated at US$95,000,000.[23] Bale entered into negotiations about starring in the film with reservations, but director Rob Bowman convinced him to take the lead role.[24] Bale starred as Quinn Abercromby opposite Matthew McConaughey's Denton Van Zan. Bale and McConaughey trained for their respective roles by boxing and working out.[24]
Equilibrium was Bale's third film of 2002, costing US$20 million to produce but earning just over US$5 million worldwide.[25] In Equilibrium, Bale played John Preston, an elite law enforcer in a dystopian society. Equilibrium featured a fictional martial art called Gun Kata that combined gunfighting with hand-to-hand combat. According to moviebodycounts.com, the character of John Preston has the third most on-screen kills in a single movie ever with 118, exactly half of the movie's total of 236.[26]
After a year's hiatus, Bale returned in 2004 to play Trevor Reznik, the title character in the psychological thriller The Machinist. Bale gained attention for his devotion to the role and for the lengths to which he went to achieve Reznik's emaciated, skeletal appearance. He went without proper rest for prolonged periods, and placed himself on a crash diet of generally coffee and apples,[27] which reduced his weight by 63 pounds (4 st 4 lb or 27 kg) in a matter of months.[28]
By the end of filming Bale weighed only 121 pounds (8 st 9 lb or 55 kg),[27] a transformation he described as "very calming mentally"[29] which drew comparisons to Robert De Niro's alternate weight-gaining regimen for his role as Jake LaMotta in the 1980 film Raging Bull.[30] Bale claimed that he had not worked for a period of time before he was cast in the film. "[...I] just hadn't found scripts that I'd really been interested in. So I was really dying for something to arrive. Then when this one did, I just didn't want to put it down. I finished it and, upon the kind of revelation that you get at the end, I immediately wanted to go back and re-visit it, to take a look at what clues I could have gotten throughout".[31] The Machinist was a low-budget production, costing roughly US$5 million to produce, and was given only a limited US release. It was well received, with the review tallying website Rotten Tomatoes reporting that 77% of the critics' reviews tallied were positive.[32]
Bale, an admirer of Hayao Miyazaki's Spirited Away,[20] was then cast as the voice of the title character, Howl, in the English language dub of the Japanese director's fantasy anime adventure Howl's Moving Castle, an adaptation of Diana Wynne Jones's children's novel. Its gross in the US was US$4,711,096, a fraction of its worldwide gross (US$235,184,110).[33]
It was reported that Bale had previously auditioned for the role of Robin in Batman Forever (1995) and later Batman and Robin (1997), but lost out to Chris O'Donnell. However, this rumour was later dispelled by Bale himself in a magazine interview in 2008.[34] In 2004, after completing filming for The Machinist, Bale won the lead role of Batman and his alter ego Bruce Wayne in Christopher Nolan's Batman Begins, a reboot of the Batman film series. Bale beat out Jake Gyllenhaal, his closest competitor for the role.[35]
Still fresh off The Machinist, it became necessary for Bale to bulk up to match Batman's muscular physique. He was given a deadline of six months to do this. Bale recalled it as far from a simple accomplishment: "...when it actually came to building muscle, I was useless. I couldn't do one push up the first day. All of the muscles were gone, so I had a real tough time rebuilding all of that."[28] With the help of a personal trainer, Bale succeeded in meeting the deadline, gaining a total of 100 lb (45 kg) in six months. He went from about 130 lbs to 230 lbs.[36] He discovered that he had actually gained more weight than the director desired, and dropped his weight to 190 lbs by the time filming began.[37]
Bale had initial concerns about playing Batman, as he felt more ridiculous than intimidating in the Batsuit. He dealt with this by depicting Batman as a savage beast.[28] To attain a deeper understanding of the character, Bale read various Batman comic books. He explained his interpretation of the young boy: "Batman is his hidden, demonic rage-filled side. The creature Batman creates is an absolutely sincere creature and one that he has to control but does so in a very haphazard way. He's capable of enacting violence — and to kill — so he's constantly having to rein himself in." For Bale, the most gruelling part about playing Batman was the suit. "You stick it on, you get hot, you sweat and you get a headache in the mask ... But I'm not going to bitch about it because I get to play Batman", he said.[38] When promoting the film in interviews and public events, Bale retained an American accent to avoid confusion.[39]
Batman Begins was released in the U.S. on 15 June 2005 and was a U.S. and international triumph for Warner Bros., costing approximately US$135 million to produce and taking in over US$370 million in returns worldwide.[40] Bale's performance was well received by critics and fans alike, earning him the Saturn Award for Best Actor and the Best Hero award at the 2006 MTV Movie Awards.[41]
Bale reprised the role of Batman in the sequel The Dark Knight. He trained in the Keysi Fighting Method, and performed many of his own stunts.[42] The Dark Knight was released in the U.S. on 18 July 2008 and stormed through the box office, with a record-breaking $158.4 million in the U.S. in its first weekend.[43] It broke the $300 million barrier in 10 days, the $400 million mark in 18 days and the $500 million mark in 43 days, three new U.S. box office records set by the film.[44] The film went on to gross over $1 billion at the box office worldwide, making it the fourth-highest grossing movie worldwide ever at that time, before adjusting for inflation.[45]
He reprised the role again for the second sequel and final installment of the series, The Dark Knight Rises, released on 20 July 2012,[46] which made Bale the longest-lasting actor to portray Batman on film to date. Following the shooting at a midnight showing of The Dark Knight Rises, he visited survivors in an Aurora, Colorado hospital.[47] The film garnered further critical praise and financial achievement, earning more than $1 billion worldwide. Currently, the film is the tenth highest-grossing film worldwide unadjusted for inflation and the third highest-grossing film released in 2012,[48][49] as well as the most financially successful movie in which Bale has starred.
After Batman Begins, Bale returned to appearing in independent films. He was cast as one of the two lead roles in the South Central Los Angeles David Ayer-helmed crime drama Harsh Times, co-starring Freddy Rodriguez and Eva Longoria. Bale played Jim Luther Davis, a grim Afghanistan War veteran afflicted with post-traumatic stress disorder, approached by the Department of Homeland Security and hired as a federal agent. Harsh Times premiered at the 2005 Toronto International Film Festival and had a wide release on 10 November 2006.[50]
Terrence Malick directed The New World, a period piece inspired by the stories of Pocahontas, and Bale was cast as John Rolfe. He shared the screen with Colin Farrell and Q'Orianka Kilcher, who played John Smith and Pocahontas. The majority of screen time was devoted to Farrell and Kilcher; Bale was a secondary character, and only appeared during the last third of the film. The film was a failure at the U.S. box office and its worldwide total (US$29,506,437) fell short of turning a profit (the production budget was placed at US$30 million).[51]
In 2006, Bale took on four projects. Rescue Dawn, by German filmmaker Werner Herzog, had him playing U.S. Fighter pilot Dieter Dengler, who has to fight for his life after being shot down while on a mission during the Vietnam War. Bale left a strong impression on Herzog, with the director complimenting his acting abilities: "I find him one of the greatest talents of his generation. We made up our own minds long before he did Batman."[52]
"I kind of like movies where I just get to just be dirty and crawling in the mud, "Rescue Dawn" it was all very primordial stuff, and with this one it was all about wearing the same clothes day after day and getting sweaty and dirty and sun exposure, and it's meant to be like that; Westerns are meant to be dirty, they shouldn't be all nice and clean. And I like getting my hand dirty."
In The Prestige, an adaptation of the Christopher Priest novel about a rivalry between two Victorian stage magicians, Bale was reunited with Batman Begins' Michael Caine and director Christopher Nolan. The cast of The Prestige also included Hugh Jackman, Scarlett Johansson, Piper Perabo, and David Bowie. I'm Not There, in which Bale again worked with Todd Haynes and Heath Ledger (who would go on to play The Joker in The Dark Knight), is an artistic reflection of the life of Bob Dylan. He starred opposite Russell Crowe in a commercially and critically successful Western film, 3:10 to Yuma.
Bale was originally cast to play George W. Bush in Oliver Stone's film, W., but dropped out due to the prosthetics involved.[54] Bale played John Connor in Terminator Salvation[55] and FBI agent Melvin Purvis in Michael Mann's Public Enemies.[56]
In July 2008, Bale flew into an angry tirade on the sets of Terminator Salvation, while filming in New Mexico.[57] In February 2009, the audio recording of the incident was released.[58][59] The tirade was directed at Shane Hurlbut, director of photography for the film. According to Bale, Hurlbut had, for the second time, ruined his concentration by walking onto the set during a scene.[57][60][61] The recording is of Bale directing profanities at Hurlbut, threatening and belittling him, and finally threatening to quit the film if Hurlbut repeated the offense without being fired for it.[60] It was reported that Warner film executives sent the tape to the insurer of the film in case Bale decided to quit the movie.[62]
In an interview with E! Online, assistant director and producer of Terminator Salvation, Bruce Franklin, said it was an isolated incident. "If you are working in a very intense scene and someone takes you out of your groove ... It was the most emotional scene in the movie ... and for him to get stopped in the middle of it. He is very intensely involved in his character. He didn't walk around like that all day long. It was just a moment and it passed", Franklin said.[63]
Actors Whoopi Goldberg and Terry Crews,[64] directors Darren Aronofsky[65] and Ron Howard, as well as Ain't It Cool News website creator Harry Knowles[66] have also publicly defended Bale's actions, some of them citing the practice that crew members are to remain still while the camera is rolling. The incident also inspired experimental band The Mae Shi to write the song, "R U Professional", which features samples from the recording;[67] similarly, Lucian Piane's remix "Bale Out" is composed almost entirely of audio from the incident. Stephen Colbert parodied the incident on 4 February 2009 episode of The Colbert Report, in which guest Steve Martin repeatedly walked in front of the camera and was berated by Colbert.[68] The incident was re-enacted on Late Night with Conan O'Brien, with Inside the Actor's Studio host James Lipton giving performances of both Bale and the crew member.[69] The “Oh, goooood for you!” sound bite has become a regular drop from Fred Norris of The Howard Stern Show.[70] An episode of the animated comedy series Family Guy also mixed in the voice of Peter Griffin interacting with Bale and reacting to Bale's comments as if they were directed at him to comedic effect.
After remaining silent for most of the week, Bale made a public apology on 6 February 2009, to a Los Angeles radio station, KROQ, stating that the outburst was "inexcusable" and was motivated by the intensity of that day's shooting.[71] Bale said he "acted like a punk", and that he and Hurlbut talked after the incident and "resolved this completely".[72] Bale acknowledged that the two worked together for several hours after the incident, and "at least a month after that... I've seen a rough cut of the movie and he has done a wonderful job. It looks fantastic."[72]
Bale starred alongside Mark Wahlberg in David O. Russell's 2010 drama film The Fighter, in which he won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor, the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor and thirty other awards in 2011.[73] Near the end of his acceptance speech during the televised Golden Globes awards ceremony, Bale complimented Robert De Niro by saying he was "the shit". The comment was censored by NBC.[74]
Writer/director Joe Carnahan confirmed in November 2007 that Bale is also involved in the upcoming movie Killing Pablo in which he is to play Major Steve Jacoby.[75] According to a Nuts magazine interview, Bale stated that he will be in the running to play the role of Solid Snake in a film adaptation of Metal Gear Solid.[76] Zack Snyder will have Bale as lead in his current project The Last Photograph.[77]
In December 2010, it was announced that Bale would star in the historical drama war film, The Flowers of War, directed by Zhang Yimou.[78] While filming The Flowers of War in January 2011, Bale and a CNN crew attempted to visit Chen Guangcheng, a blind "barefoot lawyer" under unofficial house arrest for his activism against China's One Child Policy. While on camera, Bale was punched, shoved, and denied access by dozens of Chinese security guards who failed to recognise him.[79] Bale later added that he had wanted "to meet the man, shake his hand and say what an inspiration he is".[80][81] Video footage also showed Bale and the CNN crew having stones thrown at them, and a minivan then chased their car for more than 40 minutes.[79]
In 2013, Bale portrayed Russell Baze in Scott Cooper's thriller Out of the Furnace,[82][83][84] and starred in American Hustle, which reunited him with director David O. Russell, after their work on The Fighter.[85][86][87][88]
Bale is set to appear in two Terrence Malick directed films shot in 2012, one yet untitled[89] and Knight of Cups.[82][90] Bale is reportedly playing the lead of the villainous Rawbone in The Creed of Violence, an upcoming crime drama directed by Todd Field.[91][92] On 15 March 2013, Bale was reportedly eying the role of Moses in Ridley Scott's Biblical epic, Exodus.[93] The report was later confirmed in The Hollywood Reporter,[94] with the film slated for release on 12 December 2014.[95]
After losing 60 pounds for his role in The Machinist, in 2013 Bale went to great lengths to play Irving Rosenfeld, a con man and the hero of American Hustle. He gained 43 pounds, shaved his head to yield a realistic comb over, and affected a slouch shortening his height by 3 inches which resulted in a herniated disc.[96] De Niro, who had a cameo role in the film, reportedly did not recognize him when they were introduced.[97]
On 29 January 2000, Bale married Sandra "Sibi" Blažić (born 1970), a former model, make-up artist, and personal assistant to actress Winona Ryder; the couple have a daughter, Emmeline,[98] who was born on 27 March 2005 in Santa Monica, California.[99][100] In March 2014, it was confirmed that Bale and his wife are expecting their second child.[101] Since 1992, the Bales have resided in Los Angeles, California.[102]
Like his late father, Bale actively supports environmental groups such as Greenpeace and the World Wildlife Fund. Bale, along with his wife Sibi, is on the Board of Trustees of the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund.[103]
Feminist activist Gloria Steinem became Bale's stepmother on 3 September 2000;[104] it was her first marriage (at the age of 66), and the couple were together until David Bale's death in 2003.
The Help (2011): Jessica Chastain, Viola Davis, Bryce Dallas Howard, Allison Janney, Chris Lowell, Ahna O'Reilly, Sissy Spacek, Octavia Spencer, Mary Steenburgen, Emma Stone, Cicely Tyson, Mike Vogel
Argo (2012): Ben Affleck, Alan Arkin, Kerry Bishé, Kyle Chandler, Rory Cochrane, Bryan Cranston, Christopher Denham, Tate Donovan, Clea DuVall, Victor Garber, John Goodman, Scoot McNairy, Chris Messina
American Hustle (2013): Amy Adams, Christian Bale, Louis C.K., Bradley Cooper, Jack Huston, Jennifer Lawrence, Alessandro Nivola, Michael Peña, Jeremy Renner, Elisabeth Röhm, Shea Whigham
Categories: 1974 births20th-century English male actors21st-century English male actorsActors from DorsetBest Actor Empire Award winnersBest Supporting Actor Academy Award winnersBest Supporting Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersEnglish expatriates in PortugalEnglish expatriates in the United StatesEnglish male child actorsEnglish male film actorsEnglish male voice actorsLiving peopleMale actors from SurreyOutstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture Screen Actors Guild Award winnersOutstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role Screen Actors Guild Award winnersPeople from BournemouthPeople from HaverfordwestHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected pagesUse British English from January 2013Use dmy dates from January 2013Articles with hCardsArticles with DMOZ linksWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Best known for American Psycho and Batman, and for swearing quite a lot on set, it can only be the rising Hollywood star and Oscar winning actor that is Christian Bale.
Born in Wales in 1974, Christian Bale was raised in the UK, Portugal and the US. Thanks to his mother, who was a circus performer, he was introduced to the world of performing at an early age and soon developed a taste for ballet and music.Having appeared in early television commercials for fabric softener and computer games, he made his stage debut opposite Rowan Atkinson in the West End play, ‘The Nerd’.However, his big break came in 1987 when he was cast in Steven Spielberg’s epic ‘Empire Of The Sun’. His performance as James Graham saw him walk away with the first ever ‘Best Performance by a Juvenile Actor’ award from the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures. This honour and the sudden rush of attention didn’t have a completely positive affect on Bale, and he put his acting career on the back burner until Kenneth Branagh offered him a role in Henry V in 1989.Over the next few years, Bale appeared in ‘Treasure Island’ and ‘Newsies’, which was unfortunate enough to be nominated for the ‘Worst Picture’ award at the 1992 Golden Raspberry Awards.In 1994, Winona Ryder approached Bale to offer him a part in an adaptation of ‘Little Women’. The film was well received and Bale’s career was once again back on track. 1998 saw Bale appear in ‘Velvet Goldmine’, ‘All the Little Animals’ and the following year he appeared alongside an all star cast as Demetrius in ‘A Midsummer Night's Dream’.‘American Psycho’ in 2000 saw Bale play Patrick Bateman in the film adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis’ controversial novel. The demanding role led Bale to undergo a rigorous exercise regime and, although some critics were horrified at the film’s content, it became a cult hit.Eager to step away from typecasting after playing ‘bad’ in the 2000 version of ‘Shaft’, Bale’s next film role was in the Nicolas Cage classic ‘Captain Corelli's Mandolin’. While continuing to land the big roles, 2002 saw a run of unsuccessful films for the young actor. ‘Laurel Canyon’ and ‘Equilibrium’ failed to draw moviegoers to the box office and may have been the reason for Bale taking a year long sabbatical.
A return to form in 2004’s ‘The Machinist’ once again saw the critics praising his talents, and in the eagerly anticipated 'Batman Begins' in 2005 he landed the lead role. Bale had long been destined to star in the Batman series and came close to playing Robin in ‘Batman Forever’, only to be pipped to the post by Chris O'Donnell. The film was a worldwide smash and Bale reprised the role once more in 2008 when he starred in the sequel, ‘The Dark Knight’.Known for his physical commitment to roles, the star once again trained in the Keysi Fighting Method, which he had initially learnt for the first Batman film. At the time of filming, he said: “We’ve gone a bit further [this time] with Keysi. I’m actually learning how to do it more realistically than ever before.” Bale's third Batman movie, ‘The Dark Knight Rises’, was released in July 2012. While his Hollywood star continues to rise, Bale has attempted to keep his private life as far from the spotlight as possible. He married Winona Ryder’s personal assistant, Sibi Blazic, in 2000 and the couple had a baby girl in 2005. He hit the headlines for the wrong reasons in 2009 when an audio recording of the star’s outburst while filming ‘Terminator Salvation’ hit the internet. In the recording, Bale is heard accusing Shane Hurlbut, director of photography for the film, of ruining his concentration by walking onto the set while a scene was being filmed.Bale apologised for the incident during an interview with US radio station KROQ, and described his actions as “inexcusable”. The actor recently won an Oscar for his performance in ‘The Fighter’, for which he had already won a Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actor.
Outside of his movie making, Bale is a keen supporter of conservation and animal welfare groups such as Greenpeace and the World Wildlife Fund.
Right, so: now that we’ve convinced you Lifetime is a thing you need to have in your life – what now? How do you get this on your telly? Here’s what you have to do.
=======================================================
Birth Name: Christian Charles Philip BaleBirth Place: Haverfordwest, Pembrokeshire, WalesDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 01/30/1974, AquariusProfession: Actor
A reluctant movie megastar, the Wales-born Christian Bale got his big break at age 13 when he landed the role of a spoiled British boy who comes of age in a World War II internment camp in Steven Spielberg's 1987 gem Empire of the Sun. His transformative performance was a harbinger of his chameleon-like work to come. However, Bale temporarily backed off from acting because he was uncomfortable with his newfound fame. In the 1990s, Bale reemerged with impressive supporting performances in a series of dramatic films (Little Women, The Portrait of a Lady), but 2000's American Psycho was the movie that put him back on the Hollywood map. Bale became a cult heartthrob thanks in part to his disarming smile and newly chiseled physique. The buff actor spent the next few years reinventing himself for every role. He lost a shocking amount of weight to play an insomniac in 2004's The Machinist before bulking back up the next year to take on the title role in the blockbuster Batman Begins. Other solid roles followed in prestige pictures (The New World, Rescue Dawn) and interesting indies (Harsh Times, I'm Not There), and in the 2008 Caped Crusader hit sequel The Dark Knight. In 2009 Bale rebooted another dormant film franchise when he took on the iconic role of John Connor in Terminator Salvation. The movie was a disappointment, and a profanity-laced diatribe aimed at the film's cinematographer became an Internet sensation that briefly sullied Bale's reputation; he eventually apologized. (His reputation also took a hit the previous year when he was arrested over an incident involving his mother and sister, though, ultimately, no charges were brought.) Despite his A-list status, Bale continues to keep a low profile off-screen believing the less an audience knows about an actor's private life, the more believable he is on-screen. Certainly his intense nature serves his film work quite well.Christian Bale Fast Facts:
For his performance in 1987's Empire of the Sun, the 13-year-old Bale won Best Performance by a Juvenile Actor from the National Board of Review, an honor created specifically for his work in the film. 
Became the stepson of Gloria Steinem, one of the pioneers of the feminist movement, when she married his father in 2000. 
Active in Greenpeace and the World Wildlife Fund.Christian Bale Relationships: Rex Bale - Great-uncleEmmeline - DaughterJane Bale - MotherSharon Bale - SisterSibi Blazic - WifeErin Bale - SisterDavid Bale - FatherGloria Steinem - StepmotherLouise Bale - SisterChristian Bale Awards: 2007 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture - Nominee2010 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Supporting Actor - Nominee2010 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture - Nominee2010 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role - Winner2010 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role - Winner2013 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Leading Actor - Nominee2011 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Motion Picture - Winner2013 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture - Winner2009 People's Choice Awards:  Favorite On Screen Match Up - Winner2013 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actor in a Leading Role - Nominee2014 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture - Comedy or Musical - Nominee2009 People's Choice Awards:  Favorite Superhero - Winner
Buy The Fighter (Blu-ray + DVD Combo) [Blu-ray] (2011) Mark Wahlberg; Christian Bale from Amazon.comFrom iNetVideo (Blu-ray)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $14.99 (as of 11:08 AM EST - more info)Buy Christian Bale 3-Film Collection (American Psycho/Velvet Goldmine/3:10 To Yuma) from Amazon.comFrom Lions Gate (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $12.77 (as of 11:08 AM EST - more info)
=======================================================
Christian Bale was born in Pembrokeshire, Wales, but later moved to England. He caught the acting bug early in life, and by the age of ten was already appearing in a West End production of The Nerd. Television work soon followed, but it was in 1987's Empire of the Sun that he first made his mark worldwide. Although Empire did not live up to expectations, critics were impressed by the very young Bale's performance in Steven Spielberg's story of a young British lad who is separated from his parents in Japan-occupied China during World War II.
In 1992, Bale had a starring role in Disney's Newsies (1992). In an attempt to revive the movie musical, he was called on to sing and dance in the story of a group of striking newsboys in 1899 who take on Joseph Pulitzer and William Randolph Hearst. It was an utter failure, and Newsies quickly disappeared from theaters. On the Internet however, the film found a second life as a cult classic with young girls. 
Next came Swing Kids (1993), the story of carefree German boys with a love of dancing who are caught up in the Second World War and forced to become Nazis. The compelling story impressed critics, even if it was not commercially successful. A role in Little Women (1994), for which Winona Ryder received an Oscar nomination, capped off Bale's trilogy of youth flicks. 
Since then he has worked steadily in both independent films and major motion pictures, including with Nicole Kidman in The Portrait of a Lady (1996) and Ewan McGregor in velvet goldmine (1997). Bale's name was in the press due to his on-again, off-again role in the much anticipated adaptation of the controversial book American Psycho (2000). The role was originally offered to Bale, then reneged when a post-Titanic Leonardo DiCaprio expressed an interest. However, when DiCaprio eventually passed, the role once more went to Bale. Needless to say, he nailed the part of killer Patrick Bateman.
He has since appeared in films such as Captain Corelli's Mandolin (2001), Reign of Fire (2002) and The Machinist (2004), and won the coveted title role in Batman Begins (2005), for which he received a 2006 MTV Movie Award as Best Hero. He later reprised the role in the two sequels: The Dark Knight (2008) and The Dark Knight Rises (2012). In 2011 he won both an Academy Award and a Golden Globe for his work in the critically-acclaimed motion picture The Fighter (2010), opposite Mark Wahlberg. 
Bale enjoys reading and horseback riding in his spare time. A vegetarian since the age of six, he met his wife, Sibi Blazic, when she was working as Winona Ryder's personal assistant. They married in 2000 and their first child, a daughter, was was born in 2005. 
In February 2009, Bale made headlines when an audio tape was released of him having an angry fit on set of Terminator Salvation. According to the tape, Bale was angry that the director of photography had ruined his concentration by walking on set during the scene. The actor can be heard throwing insults, yelling, cursing and even threatening to quit the film if the crew member repeated the offence and didn't get fired for it. Bale later made a public apology on a Los Angeles radio station for his outburst.
Filmography → Oscars™ Nominations And AwardsActorAmerican Hustle (2013)ActorOut of the Furnace (2013)ActorThe Dark Knight Rises (2012)ActorThe Dark Knight Rises: The IMAX Experience (2012)ActorThe Flowers of War (2012)ActorThe Fighter (2010)Actor in a Supporting RoleWinnerActorPublic Enemies (2009)ActorTerminator Salvation (2009)ActorThe Dark Knight (2008)ActorThe Dark Knight: The IMAX Experience (2008)Actor3:10 to Yuma (2007)ActorI'm Not There (2007)ActorRescue Dawn (2007)ActorHarsh Times (2006)ActorThe New World (2006)ActorThe Prestige (2006)ActorBatman Begins (2005)ActorBatman Begins: The IMAX Experience (2005)ActorHowl's Moving Castle (2005)ActorThe Machinist (2004)ActorLaurel Canyon (2003)ActorEquilibrium (2002)ActorReign of Fire (2002)ActorCaptain Corelli's Mandolin (2001)ActorAmerican Psycho (2000)ActorShaft  (2000)ActorA Midsummer Night's Dream (1999) (1999)Actorvelvet goldmine (1998)
=======================================================
1970s'Easy' RiderAfter Louise, one of Bale's three sisters, gets cast in a musical on London's West End, the young chap is inspired to give acting a try. "I thought it was really good fun, and it looked easy," Bale tells The New York Times of his start, which gives way to several commercial gigs and his London stage debut at age 10 in The Nerd, opposite Rowan Atkinson.1987December 09'Sun' RiseFollowing bit parts in TV movies, Bale beats out 4,000 hopefuls for the lead role in Steven Spielberg's Empire of the Sun, playing a young British boy imprisoned in a Japanese internment camp. The performance earns Bale a best juvenile performance award from the National Board of Review, but the 13-year-old grows uncomfortable with his newfound fame. "I ran from it," he later tells the AP of his early success. "I said, 'I like the acting, but I really don't want anything to do with the rest of it.'"1994December 21Return to HollywoodThough he plays second fiddle to stars Winona Ryder and Claire Danes, Bale makes a memorable comeback with Little Women. "Handsome Christian Bale makes a dreamboat out of Laurie, the boy next door to the March family," writes The New York Times of his performance. In 1998, he tackles another period piece with Velvet Goldmine, playing a newspaper reporter researching the disappearance of a '70s glam rock star.2000January 29Wedded BlissFollowing a whirlwind romance, Bale secretly marries girlfriend Sandra "Sibi" Blazic, a former assistant to his Little Women costar Ryder. "I know that it truly would be impossible to do it without her," he later gushes of his wife. "[I owe] everything to her. She's such a good, strong woman."
April 14All-American AntiheroAfter Leonardo DiCaprio drops out, Bale takes over the role of yuppie serial killer Patrick Bateman in American Psycho. "It's really an analysis of the '80s, of men at their worst, of violence and of this sort of vacuousness," he says of the black comedy. "Bateman was never intended to be a real character. He says himself that he's an abstraction." 2005March 27Bale's Baby JoyBale and wife Blazic quietly welcome their daughter, whose name they do not reveal. "I've absolutely fallen into that cliché of a dad who could just happily talk about my daughter endlessly," he tells Esquire in 2010. "But it's not what I'm about in terms of being an actor. I don't want people to know about that."
June 15Becoming BatmanBale puts on the bat suit and 100 lbs. of muscle for director Christopher Nolan's gritty reboot, Batman Begins. "As sleek as a panther, with cheekbones that look sharp enough to give even an ardent lover pause, Mr. Bale makes a superbly menacing avenger," raves The New York Times. The film, which grosses over $200 million, spawns the 2008 sequel, The Dark Knight, which rakes in $158.3 million to become the highest-grossing opening weekend of all time.2008July 22A Family DisputeWhile in town to premiere The Dark Knight, Bale is arrested on assault allegations following a reported altercation with his mother Jenny and sister Sharon at London's Dorchester hotel. The actor denies the claim, and calls the situation "a deeply personal matter". In August, a court rules not to press charges.2009FebruaryThe Rant That Goes ViralWhile filming Terminator Salvation, a 4-minute long recording of Bale angrily reprimanding a crew member, in which he drops the F-word 36 times, leaks onto the Web. "I was out of order, beyond belief," he later says of the on-set incident. "I acted like a punk. I regret that...It is inexcusable." 2010December 17Delivering a KnockoutBale is unrecognizable as boxer Micky Ward's (Mark Wahlberg) drug-addicted half-brother Dicky Eklund in the true-life drama, The Fighter – a performance that earns Bale a best supporting actor Golden Globe, SAG Award, and his first Oscar nomination. 
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): REX USA; Everett; Everett; Robin Platzer/Getty; Everett; Splash News Online; Courtesy Warner Bros; Ace Pictures; Everett; Jojo Whilden/Paramount Pictures 
   Apr 09, 2013 GUESS WHO?  An almost unrecognizable Christian Bale shares a laugh with costar Jeremy Renner during a windy day on… See Photo   Mar 22, 2013 PLAYING THE PART  Amy Adams and an almost unrecognizable Christian Bale re-team with The Fighter director David O. Russell… See Photo
=======================================================
Welcome to the official web site for Christian Bale’s biography, CHRISTIAN BALE: THE INSIDE STORY OF THE DARKEST BATMAN (BenBella Books). Written by Bale’s long time assistant and publicist, award-winning author Harrison Cheung, and acclaimed entertainment journalist, Nicola Pittam, the book has won numerous awards and accolades as one of the best biographies of the year.
This is the amazing and previously untold story of Oscar-winner, Christian Bale, not only the star of the BATMAN trilogy, but also of AMERICAN HUSTLE and OUT OF THE FURNACE. Learn how Christian was raised by a father determined to get him to America to become one of Hollywood’s biggest stars. It’s also a history of the Internet and how the World Wide Web empowered a new generation of fans, the Baleheads, to help the notoriously publicity-shy actor. Bale’s passion, his now well-known anger and his celebrated acting talents – enjoy this unique insight, Christian Bale’s most complete origin story.
