=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Perhaps the icon of macho movie stars, Clint Eastwood has become a standard in international cinema. Born in 1930 in San Francisco, the son of a steelworker, Eastwood briefly attended Los Angeles City College but dropped out to pursue acting. He found bit work in such B-films as Revenge of the Creature (1955) and Tarantula (1955) until he got his first breakthrough in the long-running TV series Rawhide (1959). As Rowdy Yates, he made the show his own and became a household name around the country.Eastwood found bigger and better things in Italy with the spaghetti westerns For a Fistful of Dollars (1964) and Per qualche dollaro in più (1965), but it was the third installment in the trilogy where he found one of his signature roles: Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo. (1966). The movie was a big hit and brought him instant international recognition. He followed it up with his first American-made western, Hang 'Em High (1968), before playing second fiddle to Richard Burton in the World War II epic Where Eagles Dare (1968) and Lee Marvin in the unusual musical Paint Your Wagon (1969). In Two Mules for Sister Sara (1970) and Kelly's Heroes (1970), Eastwood combined tough-guy action with offbeat humor.1971 proved to be one of his best years in film, if not the best. He starred in The Beguiled (1971) and the cult classic Play Misty for Me (1971). But it was his role as the hard edge police inspector in Dirty Harry (1971) that elevated Eastwood to superstar status and invented the loose-cannon cop genre that has been imitated even to this day. Eastwood had constant quality films over the following years with Thunderbolt and Lightfoot (1974) opposite Jeff Bridges, the Dirty Harry sequels Magnum Force (1973) and The Enforcer (1976), the westerns Joe Kidd (1972), High Plains Drifter (1973) and The Outlaw Josey Wales (1976), and the fact-based thriller Escape from Alcatraz (1979). In 1978 Eastwood branched out into the comedy genre with Every Which Way But Loose (1978), which became the biggest hit of his career up to that time. Taking inflation into account, it still is.Eastwood kicked off the eighties with Any Which Way You Can (1980), the blockbuster sequel to Every Which Way But Loose. The fourth Dirty Harry film, Sudden Impact (1983), was the highest-grossing film of the franchise and spawned Eastwood's trademark catchphrase, "Make my day". Eastwood also starred in Firefox (1982), Tightrope (1984), City Heat (1984) (with Burt Reynolds), Pale Rider (1985), and Heartbreak Ridge (1986), which were all big hits. In 1988 Eastwood did his fifth and final Dirty Harry movie, The Dead Pool (1988). Although it was a success overall, it did not have the box office punch his previous films had. Shortly thereafter, with outright bombs like Pink Cadillac (1989) and The Rookie (1990), it became apparent that Eastwood's star was declining as it never had before. He then started taking on more personal projects, such as directing Bird (1988), a biopic of Charlie Parker, and starring in and directing White Hunter Black Heart (1990), an uneven, loose biopic of John Huston.But Eastwood bounced back, first with his western, Unforgiven (1992), which garnered him an Oscar for Best Director, and a nomination for Best Actor. Then he took on the secret service in In the Line of Fire (1993), which was a big hit, followed by the interesting but poorly received drama, A Perfect World (1993), with Kevin Costner. Next up was a love story, The Bridges of Madison County (1995), which was yet again a success. Eastwood's subsequent films were solid but nothing really stuck out. Among them were the well-received Absolute Power (1997) and Space Cowboys (2000), and the badly received True Crime (1999) and Blood Work (2002). Then in 2004, Eastwood surprised yet again when he produced, directed and starred in Million Dollar Baby (2004). The movie earned Eastwood an Oscar for Best Director and a Best Actor nomination for the second time. He had other successes directing the multi-award-winning films Mystic River (2003), Flags of Our Fathers (2006), Letters from Iwo Jima (2006), and Changeling (2008) which starred Angelina Jolie. After a four-year hiatus from acting, Eastwood's return to the screen in Gran Torino (2008) gave him a $30 million opening weekend, proving his box office appeal has not waned.Eastwood has managed to keep his extremely complicated personal life private and has rarely been featured in the tabloids. He had a long time relationship with frequent co-star Sondra Locke and has eight children by six other women, only two of whom he married. Eastwood divides his time between Carmel and Los Angeles.
        His characters have a new "trademark expression" in each movie. The same character (e.g., Dirty Harry) will have a different one in each movie.
        During the credits at the end of his movies, the camera will move around the location it was filmed in, after which there will be freezeframe for the rest of the credits.
        His films often deal with the gap between the truth and the mythologized version of the truth (White Hunter Black Heart, Unforgiven, Flags of our Fathers)
        Known on-set as a director for filming very few takes and having an easy shooting schedule. Tim Robbins once said that when working on Mystic River, Eastwood would usually ask for only one take, or two "if you were lucky", and that a day of filming would consist of starting "no earlier than 9 a.m. and you leave, usually, after lunch."
      Owns the Mission Ranch inn, in Carmel, California, the exclusive Tehama golf club in Carmel Valley, and is partial owner of the Pebble Beach Golf Country Club in nearby Monterey Peninsula.
      Gained popularity with his first three major films, For a Fistful of Dollars (1964), Per qualche dollaro in più (1965) and Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo. (1966) (which weren't released in America until 1967-1968). Soon afterwards Jolly Films (which produced For a Fistful of Dollars (1964)) came out with a film called "The Magnificent Stranger", which was actually two episodes of Rawhide (1959) edited together. Eastwood sued and the film was withdrawn.
      He wore the same poncho, without ever having washed it, in all three of his "Man with No Name" Westerns.
      Elected mayor of Carmel-by-the-Sea, California. It has often been claimed that he ran for office as a Republican. In fact, although he was registered as a Republican in California, the position of mayor is non-partisan.
      Was apparently such an organized director that he finished Absolute Power (1997) days ahead of schedule.
      Got his role in Rawhide (1959) while visiting a friend at the CBS lot when a studio exec spotted him because he "looked like a cowboy."
      Was a lifeguard and swimming instructor for the U.S. Army in the early 1950s, stationed at Fort Ord in California. According to high school friend Don Loomis ("Clint: The Life and Legend" by Patrick McGilligan), Eastwood avoided being sent to Korea by romancing one of the daughters of a Fort Ord officer, who might have been entreated to watch out for him when names came up for postings.
      It's interesting, given his penchant towards directing or starring in westerns, that his name, Clint Eastwood, is an anagram for 'old west action.'
      For many years he was the owner of the nation's largest known hardwood tree, a bluegum eucalyptus, until a larger version of the tree was discovered in 2002.
      (6/8/02) Sworn in as Parks Commissioner for the state of California at Big Basin Redwood Park, Santa Cruz. Holding up his new commissioner's badge, he told the crowd, "You're all under arrest.".
      Redubbed his own dialogue for the American releases of For a Fistful of Dollars (1964) ("A Fistful Of Dollars"), Per qualche dollaro in più (1965) ("For A Few Dollars More"), and Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo. (1966) ("The Good, The Bad and The Ugly").
      When he directs, he insists that his actors wear as little makeup as possible and he likes to print first takes. As a result, his films consistently finish on schedule and on budget.
      When directing, he simply says "okay" instead of "action" and "cut." (source: "Sunday Morning Shootout").
      He was a contract player at Universal International. He and another young actor named Burt Reynolds were released from their contracts and left the studio on the same day. They were both fired by the same director. Eastwood was fired when the director didn't want to use him in a movie because "his Adam's Apple was too big." Reynolds, who was serving as a stunt man, was fired after he shoved the director into a water tank during an argument over how to do a stunt fall.
      Mentioned on T.G. Sheppard's hit single "Make My Day," which in the first half of 1984 reached #12 on Billboard's Hot Country Singles chart and also reached #62 on that magazine's Hot 100 singles survey.
      When Don Siegel fell ill during production of Dirty Harry (1971), Eastwood stepped in as director during the attempted-suicide/jumper sequence.
      Has 8 children by 6 different women: Kimber Eastwood (born 17 June 1964) with Roxanne Tunis; Kyle Eastwood (born 19 May 1968) and Alison Eastwood (born 22 May 1972) with Maggie Johnson; Scott Eastwood (born 21 March 1986) and Kathryn Eastwood (born 2 February 1988) with Jacelyn Reeves; Francesca Eastwood (born 7 August 1993) with Frances Fisher; Morgan Eastwood (born 12 December 1996) with Dina Eastwood; and another child that has not been publicly identified.
      He and first wife Maggie Johnson came close to divorcing in the mid-1960s, when Eastwood fathered his firstborn child in an affair with Roxanne Tunis. About that time, Johnson became very ill with hepatitis; after she recovered, Eastwood agreed to a reconciliation, and almost 15 years after they married, their first child together was born.
      The two children from his affair with Jacelyn Reeves, Scott Eastwood and Kathryn Eastwood, were not mentioned in the press until the early 2000s. Their birth certificates state "father declined".
      He has always disliked the reading of political and social agendas in his films, which has occurred from Dirty Harry (1971) to Million Dollar Baby (2004). He has always maintained that all of his films are apolitical and what he has in mind when making a film is whether it's going to be entertaining and compelling.
      Has been named to Quigley Publications' annual Top 10 Poll of Money-Making Stars 21 times, making him #2 all-time for appearances in the top 10 list. Only John Wayne, with 25 appearances in the Top 10, has more. Eastwood, who first appeared in the Top Ten at #5 in 1968, finished #2 to Wayne at the box office in 1971 after finishing #2 to Paul Newman in 1970. After his first two consecutive #1 appearances in 1972 and 1973, he dropped back to #2 in 1974, trailing Robert Redford at the box office. Clint was again #2 in 1979, 1981 and 1982 (topped by Burt Reynolds all three years), before leading the charts in 1983 and '84. He last topped the poll in 1993.
      Was named the top box-office star of 1972 and again in 1973 by the Motion Picture Herald, based on an annual poll of exhibitors as to the drawing power of movie stars at the box-office, conducted by Quigley Publications.
      He was the only nominee for the Best Actor Oscar in 2004 (for Million Dollar Baby (2004)) to play a fictitious character. All four other nominees portrayed real people in their respective films.
      A sample of his whistling can be heard on the track "Big Noise" from his son Kyle Eastwood's jazz CD "Paris Blue" (2004).
      At the The 45th Annual Academy Awards (1973), he presented the 1972 Best Picture Oscar to Albert S. Ruddy, the producer of The Godfather (1972). Thirty-two years later, they would jointly accept the 2004 Best Picture Oscar at the The 77th Annual Academy Awards (2005), along with fellow Million Dollar Baby (2004) co-producer Tom Rosenberg.
      At the The 72nd Annual Academy Awards (2000) in 2000, presented the Best Picture statuette to American Beauty (1999).
      Was named the #1 top money-making star at the box office in Quigley Publications' annual poll of movie exhibitors five times between 1972 and 1993. Bing Crosby, Burt Reynolds and Tom Hanks also have been named #1 five times, while Tom Cruise holds the record for being named #1 six times.
Stacy McLaughlin filed a $100,000 lawsuit against Eastwood in May 1989 for "knowingly, intentionally and deliberately" ramming her Nissan Maxima with his quarter-ton pickup at the Burbank Studios on Dec. 16, 1988 when she mistakenly parked in his parking space while dropping off a tape at his Malpaso Productions Company. Eastwood, who contended he was only trying to park his vehicle in its rightful space, paid $960 to repair the headlights and bumper of McLaughlin's car. She sought the additional money as punitive damages, claiming malice on Eastwood's part. The case went to court in July 1991, but a judge refused to grant the damages.
      On February 27, 2005, at age 74, he became the oldest person to win the Best Director Oscar for Million Dollar Baby (2004). His 96-year old mother was in attendance at the ceremony.
      He directed 10 different actors in Oscar-nominated performances: Gene Hackman, Meryl Streep, Sean Penn, Tim Robbins, Marcia Gay Harden, Hilary Swank, Morgan Freeman, Angelina Jolie, Matt Damon, and himself (in Unforgiven (1992) and Million Dollar Baby (2004)). Hackman, Penn, Robbins, Freeman and Swank won Oscars for their performances in one of Eastwood's movies.
      For two consecutive years he directed two out of the four actors who won Oscars for their performances: Sean Penn (Best Actor) and Tim Robbins (Best Supporting Actor) in Mystic River (2003)) in 2004, and Hilary Swank (Best Actress) and Morgan Freeman (Best Supporting Actor) for Million Dollar Baby (2004)) in 2005.
      Received an honorary Doctorate from Wesleyan University in Connecticut. Wesleyan is also home to his personal archives.
      Every year the PGA tour comes to Pebble Beach, California, to host a celebrity golf tournament where celebrities team up with the professionals. Clint has participated in this every year from 1962-2002 and has been the longest running participant. He now serves as Host.
      Premiere Magazine ranked him as #43 on a list of the Greatest Movie Stars of All Time in their Stars in Our Constellation feature.
      Some of his favorite movies are, The 39 Steps (1935), Sergeant York (1941), The Ox-Bow Incident (1943) and Chariots of Fire (1981).
      Some of his favorite actors are Gary Cooper, Humphrey Bogart, Robert Mitchum and James Stewart.
      In the late 1990s he said that Play Misty for Me (1971), The Outlaw Josey Wales (1976), Bronco Billy (1980),Honkytonk Man (1982), Unforgiven (1992) and A Perfect World (1993) are the favorites of the films he had done.
      He, Warren Beatty, Robert Redford, Mel Gibson, Richard Attenborough and Kevin Costner are the only directors best known as actors who have won an Academy Award as Best Director.
      The boots that he wore in Unforgiven (1992) are the same ones he wore in the TV series Rawhide (1959). They are now a part of his private collection and were on loan to the 2005 Sergio Leone exhibit at the Gene Autry Museum of Western Heritage in Los Angeles, California. In essence these boots have book-ended his career in the Western genre.
      He and former partner Sondra Locke made six films together: The Outlaw Josey Wales (1976), The Gauntlet (1977), Every Which Way But Loose (1978), Bronco Billy (1980), Any Which Way You Can (1980), and Sudden Impact (1983).
      As a director, he has always refused, and refuses to this day, to test screen his films before their release.
      He objected to the end of Dirty Harry (1971) when Harry throws his badge away after killing the Scorpio Killer, arguing with director Don Siegel that Harry knew that being a policeman was the only work for which he was suited. Siegel eventually convinced Eastwood that Harry threw his badge away as a symbol that he had lost faith in the justice system.
      His production company is Malpaso Productions, which he formed in 1968. The company's first feature release was, Hang 'Em High (1968).
      At the National Board of Review awards dinner in New York City, Eastwood joked that he would kill filmmaker Michael Moore if Moore ever showed up at his home with a camera (an evident reference to Moore's controversial interview with Eastwood's friend, actor and conservative activist Charlton Heston, for the movie Bowling for Columbine (2002)). After the crowd laughed, Eastwood said, "I mean it." Moore's spokesman said, "Michael laughed along with everyone else, and took Mr. Eastwood's comments in the lighthearted spirit in which they were given." Publicly, Eastwood has not commented further.
      He attended President Richard Nixon's landslide victory celebration in Los Angeles, along with John Wayne, Charlton Heston, and Glenn Ford.
      Has ruled out the possibility of playing Dirty Harry again, saying he has "outgrown him age-wise."
      His performance as "Dirty" Harry Callahan in Dirty Harry (1971) is ranked #92 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time.
      At a press conference for his movie Mystic River (2003), Eastwood condemned the Iraq war as a "big mistake" and defended Sean Penn's visit to Baghdad, saying he might have done the same thing but for his age.
      He declined an offer from President George Bush to campaign for him in the Presidential election. He told an interviewer the next year, "I think what the ultra-right wing conservatives did to the Republicans is really self-destructive, absolutely stupid".
      His performance as Blondie in Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo. (1966) is ranked #50 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time.
      His performance as "Dirty" Harry Callahan in Dirty Harry (1971) is ranked #42 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time.
      He claims that he wound up getting the role in Sergio Leone's For a Fistful of Dollars (1964) because James Coburn, to whom the role was originally offered, wanted $25,000. Eastwood accepted the role for $15,000.
      Was offered Al Pacino's role in Any Given Sunday (1999), but turned it down because Warner Bros. wouldn't let him direct it also.
      His For a Fistful of Dollars (1964) mannerisms were imitated in Canada, by the Tim Horton's restaurant chain, to promote the Southwest chicken sub.
      Whenever asked if he would do a Dirty Harry 6, he often joked that he can imagine Dirty Harry now long retired, and fly-fishing with his .44 magnum.
      Cited as America's Favorite Movie Star by the Harris Polls conducted in 1993, 1994 and 1997. Tom Hanks and Harrison Ford are the only other actors to be cited as the #1 Movie Star as many times.
      (2/17/07) He was awarded the rank of "Chevalier de la Légion d'Honneur" by French President Jacques Chirac as a tribute to his career as an actor and a filmmaker.
      Attended a celebration of John Wayne's 40-year career at Paramount Studios, along with Lee Marvin, Rock Hudson, Fred MacMurray, James Stewart, Ernest Borgnine, Michael Caine and Laurence Harvey.
      Had to fill in for Charlton Heston at The 44th Annual Academy Awards (1972) until Heston arrived.
      Was offered Gregory Peck's role in Mackenna's Gold (1969), but turned it down to make Hang 'Em High (1968) instead.
      The producers of Dirty Harry (1971) originally didn't want Eastwood, since they felt he was too young at 41. After older stars like John Wayne, Frank Sinatra and Robert Mitchum turned the film down, Eastwood was cast. He last played Harry Callahan aged 57 in The Dead Pool (1988), which was the age the character was supposed to be in the first film according to the original screenplay.
William Friedkin offered him the lead in Sorcerer (1977), but Eastwood didn't want to travel anywhere at that time. Jack Nicholson turned the film down for the same reason.
      (5/11/07) Received an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from the University of Southern California.
      Learned mountain climbing for The Eiger Sanction (1975) because he felt the scenes were too dangerous for him to pay a stuntman to do for him. He was the last climber up The Totem Pole in Monument Valley, and as part of the contract, the movie crew removed the pitons left by decades of other climbers. The scene where he was hanging off the mountain by a single rope was actually Eastwood, and not a stuntman.
      An accomplished jazz pianist, he performs much of the music for his movies, including the scene in the bar in In the Line of Fire (1993).
      (12/6/06) California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and First Lady Maria Shriver inducted Eastwood into the California Hall of Fame located at The California Museum for History, Women, and the Arts.
      Along with John Travolta and Tom Selleck, he attended the formal state dinner at the White House held by President Ronald Reagan to welcome Prince Charles and Princess Diana to the United States in 1985.
      In the late 1980s he discussed remaking the classic Sam Peckinpah western Ride the High Country (1962) with Charlton Heston.
      He was made a Fellow of the British Film Institute in recognition of his outstanding contribution to film culture.
William Goldman said of Eastwood that he was the only person to be a star in the 70s, 80s, and 90s. By "star" Goldman means Variety's list of top ten actors of the decade.
      Former longtime companion Sondra Locke blasted Eastwood in her autobiography, "The Good, the Bad, and the Very Ugly," writing that he persuaded her to have two abortions and a tubal ligation under false pretenses, sabotaged her directorial career after they split up, and secretly fathered two children with another woman during the last three years of their relationship.
Sondra Locke filed a palimony lawsuit against him in 1989, after he changed the locks on their Bel-Air home and had her possessions placed in storage while she was directing the film Impulse (1990). Locke dropped the suit in 1990 in exchange for a multiyear development-directing pact at Warner Bros. According to Locke, the deal was a sham, and she discovered that Eastwood was compensating the studio to keep her out of work by rejecting any and all projects she pitched. In 1995, Locke sued Eastwood a second time, for fraud and breach of fiduciary duty. In 1996, just minutes before a jury was to render a verdict in Locke's favor, the two parties agreed to settle for an undisclosed amount.
      Although he can handle pistols with either hand equally well, he is left-eye dominant, evident when he shoots a rifle as in Joe Kidd (1972) or Unforgiven (1992), but is right handed, as seen when he wears or handles one pistol.
      He and Burt Reynolds had major influences on each other's careers. It was he who sent a copy of "Sharky's Machine" to Reynolds, which gave Reynolds the idea to turn the novel into a movie, Sharky's Machine (1981), which went on to garner excellent reviews. On the other hand, it was Reynolds who sent Clint a copy of "The Outlaw Josey Wales", later made into a film by Eastwood (The Outlaw Josey Wales (1976)). Years later, Reynolds told him about "this great novel" called "The Bridges of Madison County", and some time later it was shot by Eastwood (The Bridges of Madison County (1995)).
      Turned down the role of Willard in Apocalypse Now (1979) because he found it "too dark." The role went to Martin Sheen.
      Was offered the chance to play James Bond in On Her Majesty's Secret Service (1969), but turned it down because he felt the character should be played by an English actor. The role went to George Lazenby.
      Romantically involved with actresses Catherine Deneuve, Jill Banner, Kay Lenz, Jamie Rose, Inger Stevens, Jo Ann Harris, Rebecca Perle, casting director Jane Brolin (née Agee), script analyst Megan Rose (long-term), and former swimming champion Anita Lhoest, according to biographer Patrick McGilligan.
      Though he has always been an agnostic, he practices meditation twice a day, and said in 2013 that has been meditating for the past 40 years. One of several celebrity endorsers of David Lynch 's Foundation for Consciousness-Based Education and World Peace.
      Stepfather, John Belden Wood (born: November 24, 1913 - died: February 18, 2004 at age 90.) He was married to Clint's mother from 1972 until his death.
      He was awarded the American National Medal of the Arts on February 25, 2010 for his services and contributions to the arts.
      Declined to have a party for his 80th birthday, explaining that at his age he doesn't like birthday parties for himself. He said his only plans to celebrate the occasion would be to go out for a drink with his wife.
      The genesis of his production company - Malpaso - had a curious origin. When Italian director Sergio Leone approached Eastwood about appearing in what would become the "Spaghetti Western" trilogy: For a Fistful of Dollars (1964) (Fistful of Dollars), Per qualche dollaro in più (1965) (For a Few Dollars More) and Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo. (1966) (The Good, the Bad and the Ugly), Eastwood was eager for a plum part but was advised against it by his agent, suggesting it would be a "bad move" (mal paso). Against all odds, the actor went ahead and accepted the "man with no name" role and his decision turned out to be a "good move". Eastwood never forgot the irony of the situation and thereafter adopted "Malpaso" as his production company name.
Sergio Leone asked him and his Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo. (1966) co-stars Eli Wallach and Lee Van Cleef to appear in C'era una volta il West (1968). They all declined when they heard that their characters were going to be killed off in the first five minutes.
      In the late 1970s, Alfred Hitchcock approached Eastwood and Catherine Deneuve for the lead roles in a screen adaptation of Ronald Kirkbride's novel "The Short Night," a romantic suspense thriller with espionage elements. Because of the director's ill health, Universal canceled the project in 1979, and the film never got beyond the early pre-production stage.
      Eastwood's parents settled in Piedmont, California, where he attended Piedmont Jr. High School, then Piedmont High School from January 1945 to January 1946. Later, Eastwood enrolled at Oakland Technical HS; he was held back a year due to poor academic scores and graduated in 1949.
      Served as President of the Cannes Jury when Pulp Fiction (1994) won but the film was not his personal choice: "On the jury here when 'Pulp Fiction' won, somebody said, 'Oh, Clint Eastwood was on the jury, so he voted for the American film.' But my sensibilities are European, here is where my success started. Actually, 'Zhang Yimou''s Huo zhe (1994) was my favorite piece, but most of the European jurors seemed to like 'Pulp Fiction'.".
      Five of his movies were nominated for AFI's 100 Years...100 Movies: Dirty Harry (1971), The Outlaw Josey Wales (1976), Unforgiven (1992), Mystic River (2003) and Million Dollar Baby (2004). "Unforgiven" made the list at #68, 30 places up from its original rank at #98.
Paul Haggis, who wrote the screenplay for Million Dollar Baby (2004), offered Eastwood the role of Hank Deerfiled in In the Valley of Elah (2007). Eastwood turned it down and recommended his friend Tommy Lee Jones, who went on to receive a Best Actor Oscar nomination for his performance.
      Although he has been associated with violence throughout his career, he personally detests it and has carefully shown the horrific consequences of violence in films such as Unforgiven (1992), A Perfect World (1993), Absolute Power (1997), Mystic River (2003) Million Dollar Baby (2004) and Gran Torino (2008).
      According to Robert Daley, the head of Warner Bros. when Eastwood made 15 pictures there, none of these 15 films ever included preview screenings because Clint 'doesn't believe in the preview process'.
      He and Warren Beatty are the only actor-directors to earn Best Actor and Best Director Oscar nominations for the same film two times.
      His signature character, "The Man With No Name", is portrayed by Timothy Olyphant as "The Spirit of the West" in Rango (2011).
      Cinematographer Bruce Surtees and actor Geoffrey Lewis are regulars in Eastwood films (he's directed).
      Los Angeles, CA, USA: Supporting the 'David Lynch' Foundation for Consciousness-Based Education and World Peace by appearing in a promotional tape on the foundation's website. [February 2013]
      Attending Cannes premiere of latest film Changeling (2008), a period thriller set in the 1920s. [May 2008]
      The character Shane Gooseman ("Goose" for short) from the animated space opera The Adventures of the Galaxy Rangers (1986) was based on him and his screen persona.
      [on Sondra Locke] She plays the victim very well. Unfortunately she had cancer and so she plays that card.
      [to Eli Wallach prior to starting work on Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo. (1966) ("The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly")] Never trust anyone on an Italian movie. I know about these things. Stay away from special effects and explosives.
      I like the libertarian view, which is to leave everyone alone. Even as a kid, I was annoyed by people who wanted to tell everyone how to live.
      I love every aspect of the creation of motion pictures and I guess I am committed to it for life.
      Right now, the state of the movies in America, there's an awful lot of people hanging on wires and floating across things and comic book characters and what have you. There seems to be a lot of big business in that, a nice return on some of those.
      Nowadays you'd have many battles before you blow it up, but eventually you'd take it down. And that's okay, I don't heavily quarrel with that, but for me personally, having made films for years and directed for 33 years, it just seems to me that I long for people who want to see a story and see character development. Maybe we've dug it out and there's not really an audience for that, but that's not for me to really worry about.
      [on directing] Most people like the magic of having it take a long time and be difficult . . . but I like to move along, I like to keep the actors feeling like they're going somewhere, I like the feeling of coming home after every day and feeling like you've done something and you've progressed somewhere. And to go in and do one shot after lunch and another one maybe at six o'clock and then go home is not my idea of something to do.
      I think kids are natural actors. You watch most kids; if they don't have a toy they'll pick up a stick and make a toy out of it. Kids will daydream all the time.
      There's really no way to teach you how to act, but there is a way to teach you how to teach yourself to act. That's kind of what it is; once you learn the little tricks that work for you, pretty soon you find yourself doing that.
      Again, after you've gone through all the various processes and the film comes out and is very successful, you're almost afraid to revisit it. You want to save it for a rainy day.
      ...in America, instead of making the audience come to the film, the idea seems to be for you to go to the audience. They come up with the demographics for the film and then the film is made and sold strictly to that audience. Not to say that it's all bad, but it leaves a lot of the rest of us out of it. To me cinema can be a much more friendly world if there's a lot of things to choose from.
      You know when you think of a particular director, you think you would have liked to be with them on one particular film and not necessarily on some other one.
      At the studios, everybody's into sequels or remakes or adaptations of old TV shows. I don't know if it's because of the corporate environment or they're just out of ideas. Pretty soon, they're going to be wanting to do one of Rawhide (1959).
      I think I'm on a track of doing pictures nobody wants to do, that they're all afraid of. I guess it's the era we live in, where they're doing remakes of The Dukes of Hazzard (1979) and other old television shows. I must say, I'm not a negative person, but sometimes I wonder what kind of movies people are going to be making 10 years from now if they follow this trajectory. When I grew up there was such a variety of movies being made. You could go see Sergeant York (1941) or Sitting Pretty (1948) or Sullivan's Travels (1941), dozens of pictures, not to mention all the great B movies. Now, they're looking for whatever the last hit was. If it's The Incredibles (2004), they want 'The Double Incredibles.' My theory is they ought to corral writers into writers' buildings like they used to and start out with fresh material.
      I liked the Million Dollar Baby (2004)' script a lot. Warner Bros. said the project had been submitted to them and they'd passed on it. I said, "But I like it." They said, "Well, it's a boxing movie." And I said, "It's not a boxing movie in my opinion. It's a father-daughter love story, and it's a lot of other things besides a boxing movie." They hemmed and hawed and finally said that if I wanted to take it, maybe they'd pay for the domestic rights only. After that, I'd be on my own. We took it to a couple of other studios, and they turned it down, much like Mystic River (2003) was turned down, the exact same pattern. People who kept calling and saying, "Come on, work with us on stuff." I'd give it to them, and they'd go, "Uh, we were thinking more in terms of Dirty Harry coming out of retirement." And who knows? Maybe when it comes out they'll be proven right.
      Plastic surgery used to be a thing where older people would try to go into this dream world of being 28 years old again. But now, in Hollywood, even people at 28 are having work done. Society has made us believe you should look like an 18-year-old model all your life. But I figure I might as well just be what I am.
      [on trying to get Million Dollar Baby (2004) made at Warner Bros.] They might have been a little more interested if I said I wanted to do "Dirty Harry 9" or something.
      [2005 Academy Awards acceptance speech for Best Director for Million Dollar Baby (2004)] Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'd like to thank my wife, who is my best pal down here. And my mother, who was here with me in 1993. She was only 84 then. But she's here with me again tonight. And she just -- so, at 96, I'm thanking her for her genes.It was a wonderful adventure. It takes a -- to make a picture in 37 days, it takes a well-oiled machine. And that well-oiled machine is the crew -- the cast, of course, you've met a lot of them. But there's still Margo and Anthony and Michael and Mike and Jay and everybody else who was so fabulous in this cast. And the crew, Campanelli. Billy Coe and, of course, Tom Stern, who is fantastic. And Henry Bumstead, the great Henry Bumstead who is the head of our crack geriatrics team. And Henry and Jack Taylor, and Dick Goddard [Richard C. Goddard], all those guys. Walt and everybody. I can't think of everybody right now.I'm drawing a blank right now. But, Warren, you were right. And thank you, for your confidence earlier in the evening. I'm just lucky to be here. Lucky to be still working. And I watched Sidney Lumet, who is 80, and I figure, "I'm just a kid. I'll just -- I've got a lot of stuff to do yet." So thank you all very much. Appreciate it.
      [1985] My old drama coach used to say, "Don't just do something, stand there." Gary Cooper wasn't afraid to do nothing.
      One of the first films I went to - I went with my dad because my mother didn't want to go see a war movie - was Sergeant York (1941). My dad was a big admirer of Sergeant York stories from [World War I]. It was directed by Howard Hawks. That was when I first became aware of movies, who made them, who was involved.
      Most people who'll remember me, if at all, will remember me as an action guy, which is OK. There's nothing wrong with that. But there will be a certain group which will remember me for the other films, the ones where I took a few chances. At least, I like to think so.
      The plan was, when I first started directing in the 1970s, to get more involved in production and directing so at some point in my life, when I decided I didn't want to act anymore, I didn't have to suit up.
      I feel very close to the western. There are not too many American art forms that are original. Most are derived from European art forms. Other than the western and jazz or blues, that's all that's really original.
      In The Bridges of Madison County (1995) Kincaid's a peculiar guy. Really, he's kind of a lonely individual. He's sort of a lost soul in mid-America. I've been that guy.
      I think people jumped to conclusions about Dirty Harry (1971) without giving the character much thought, trying to attach right-wing connotations to the film that were never really intended. Both the director [Don Siegel] and I thought it was a basic kind of drama - what do you do when you believe so much in law and order and coming to the rescue of people and you just have five hours to solve a case? That kind of impossible effort was fun to portray, but I think it was interpreted as a pro-police point of view, as a kind of rightist heroism, at a time in American history when police officers were looked down on as "pigs", as very oppressive people - I'm sure there are some who are, and a lot who aren't. I've met both kinds.
      You have to trust your instincts. There's a moment when an actor has it, and he knows it. Behind the camera you can feel the moment even more clearly. And once you've got it, once you feel it, you can't second-guess yourself. You can find a million reasons why something didn't work. But if it feels right, and it looks right, it works. Without sounding like a pseudointellectual dipshit, it's my responsibility to be true to myself. If it works for me, it's right.
      None of the pictures I take a risk in cost a lot, so it doesn't take much for them to turn a profit. We don't deal in big budgets. We know what we want and we shoot it and we don't waste anything. I never understand these films that cost twenty, thirty million dollars when they could be made for half that. Maybe it's because no one cares. We care.
      [on how he decided to do For a Fistful of Dollars (1964)] I'd done Rawhide (1959) for about five years. The agency called and asked if I was interested in doing a western in Italy and Spain. I said, "Not particularly." They said, "Why don't you give the script a quick look?" Well, I was kind of curious, so I read it, and I recognized it right away as Yôjinbô (1961), a Kurosawa [Akira Kurosawa] film I had liked a lot. Over I went, taking the poncho with me - yeah the cape was my idea.
      There's a rebel lying deep in my soul. Anytime anybody tells me the trend is such and such, I go the opposite direction. I hate the idea of trends. I hate imitation; I have a reverence for individuality. I got where I am by coming off the wall. I've always considered myself too individualistic to be either right-wing or left-wing.
      I don't like the wimp syndrome. No matter how ardent a feminist may be, if she is a heterosexual female, she wants the strength of a male companion as well as the sensitivity. The most gentle people in the world are macho males, people who are confident in their masculinity and have a feeling of well-being in themselves. They don't have to kick in doors, mistreat women, or make fun of gays.
      The reason I became a Republican is because [Dwight D. Eisenhower] was running. A hero from World War II, a charismatic individual, a military man, a non-attorney - even then I liked that! I was a very young person voting for the first time. A lot of people joke that a conservative is a liberal who's made his first $100,000 and then decides,"Wait a second, I want to save this, why are they taxing it away?". Today the country's in kind of a turmoil over taxing. Being raised in the thirties, watching my parents work hard to make ends meet, with jobs scarce, and then the war years - it tends to make a person a little more fiscally conscious than if you've been born into a wealthier family. You know, if you go to most people who are self-made and ask them what their political philosophy is, usually they're a little more conservative than people who had a better start.
      I've always supported a certain amount of gun control. I think California has always had a mandatory waiting period, so we were never concerned about it like the rest of the country. Some states didn't have any at all. So I've always supported that. I think it's very important that guns don't get in the wrong hands, and, yes, I would support most of that. I don't know too much about trigger locks. I've never really discussed that with anyone. But I do feel that guns - it's very important to keep them out of the hands of felons or anyone who might be crazy with it.
      I've thought about retiring for years now. When I did Play Misty for Me (1971) in 1970, I thought that if I could pull this off maybe I could step behind the camera, and it would be time to see the end of me. Every year I have threatened to do that - and here I am. So it may come sooner than you think.
      [on World War II] I feel terrible for both sides in that war and in all wars. A lot of innocent people get sacrificed. It's not about winning or losing, but mostly about the interrupted lives of young people.
      I've done a lot of violent movies, especially in the early days. My recent efforts, like The Bridges of Madison County (1995), weren't too violent. In recent years I've done less, and, yes, I am concerned about violence in film. In '92, when I did Unforgiven (1992), which is a film that had a very anti- violence and anti-gun play - anti-romanticizing of gun play theme, I remember that Gene Hackman was concerned about it, and we both discussed the issue of too much violence in films. It's escalated ninety times since Dirty Harry (1971) and those films were made.
      Maybe I'm getting to the age when I'm starting to be senile or nostalgic or both, but people are so angry now. You used to be able to disagree with people and still be friends. Now you hear these talk shows, and everyone who believes differently from you is a moron and an idiot - both on the Right and the Left.
      I like to play the line and not wander too far to either side. If a guy has just had a bad day in the mines and wants to see a good shoot 'em up, that's great.
      My involvement goes deeper than acting or directing. I love every aspect of the creation of motion pictures and I guess I'm committed to it for life.
      I've always had the ability to say to the audience, watch this if you like, and if you don't, take a hike.
      [on former President Ronald Reagan] Yes, I liked him very much. When he was a former president of the Screen Actors Guild, I don't think he had the vast support that a lot of other presidents have had. So I don't know why that is, it's just the nature of things.
      [when asked if he is still registered as a Republican] Yes, I am. I started I enrolled as a Republican in 1951 when Dwight D. Eisenhower wasrunning. And I was in the military. I was a fan of his. And that's how I got started off. I was never - my parents were mixed, I think one Republican, one Democrat, so I didn't have any grand-pappies to influence me.
      When I was doing The Bridges of Madison County (1995), I said to myself, "This romantic stuff is really tough. I can't wait to get back to shooting and killing."
      [when asked if he has disappointed his conservative fans by directing Million Dollar Baby (2004)] Well, I got a big laugh out of that. These people are always bitching about "Hollyweird", and then they start bitching about this film. Are they all so mad because The Passion of the Christ (2004) is only up for the makeup award and a couple of other minor things? Extremism is so easy. You've got your position, and that's it. It doesn't take much thought. And when you go far enough to the right you meet the same idiots coming around from the left.
      [on John Huston] It's another aspect of the character that pleased me: he was interested in other things besides his art. He liked women, gambling, living the high life. He could have a life parallel to his work. I could identify with this type of behavior. But, because of this very fact, he became attracted more and more by other things, so that what interested him in life moved him away from his art to the point that he nearly lived a tragedy. And the tragedy brings him back to reality. If you study Huston's life, you realize that at the age of nineteen he thought he didn't have long to live because of a heart defect a doctor has notified him of as a result of a misdiagnosis. It drove him to elaborate a personal philosophy according to which he would profit from life to the maximum. He didn't take care of himself - he was a confirmed smoker, a heavy drinker - and yet he lived to be more than eighty. Paul Newman spoke to me about him when we were acting at the same time, each in a different movie, in Tucson, Arizona. He was starring in The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean (1972) and I was doing Joe Kidd (1972) with John Sturges. Huston drank martinis and smoked cigars all night long, slept from one o'clock to four o'clock in the morning because he was an insomniac, did everything he shouldn't do to live to be old, and yet he died at a very great age! It was the same thing with John Wayne, who was first of all the opposite of a health fanatic.
      I never considered myself a cowboy, because I wasn't. But I guess when I got into cowboy gear I looked enough like one to convince people that I was.
      Guys I thought of as heroes were like Joe Louis and, maybe during the war, there was General [George S. Patton], of course, and maybe [Dwight D. Eisenhower], who was the head of the Allied forces. And Gary Cooper. There were just a handful of men and a handful of women. Now, people become stars who are just heiresses or something.
      I also wonder how I got this far in life. Growing up, I never knew what I wanted to do. I was not a terribly good student or a very vivacious, outgoing person. I was just kind of a backward kid. I grew up in various little towns and ended up in Oakland, California, going to a trade school. I didn't want to be an actor, because I thought an actor had to be an extrovert - somebody who loved to tell jokes and talk and be a raconteur. And I was something of an introvert. My mother used to say: "You have a little angel on your shoulder." I guess she was surprised I grew up at all, never mind that I got to where I am. The best I can do is quote a line from Unforgiven (1992): "Deserve's got nothing to do with it."
      Every movie I make teaches me something, and that's why I keep making them. I'm at that stage of life when I could probably stop and just hit golf balls. But in filming these two movies about Iwo Jima, I learnt about war and about character. I also learnt a lot about myself.
      I was a teenager when the battle of Iwo Jima took place. I remember hearing about the bond drive and the need to maintain the war effort. Back then, people had just come through 10 years of a Depression, and they were used to working for everything. I still have an image of someone coming to our house when I was about six years old, offering to cut and stack the wood in our back yard if my mother would make him a sandwich.
      The Americans who went to Iwo Jima knew it would be a tough fight, but they always believed they'd win. The Japanese were told they wouldn't come home - they were being sent to die for the Emperor. People have made a lot out of that very different cultural approach. But as I got into the storytelling for the two movies [Flags of Our Fathers (2006) and Letters from Iwo Jima (2006)], I realised that the 19-year-olds from both sides had the same fears. They all wrote poignant letters home saying: "I don't want to die." They were all going through the same thing, despite the cultural differences.
      I guess if you see both of the movies [Flags of Our Fathers (2006) and Letters from Iwo Jima (2006)] together, they sum up as an antiwar film. Whether it's about territory or religion, war is horrifyingly and depressingly archaic. But I didn't set out to make a war movie. I cared about those three fellows - Bradley, Hayes and Gagnon [John H. Bradley, Ira H. Hayes, 'René A. Gagnon'] - the headliners on that war-bond circus. The young men were taken off the front lines, wined and dined, introduced to movie stars. But it felt wrong to them.
      As for me, I like being behind the camera instead of in front of it. I can wear what I want. Will I act again? I never say never. I like doing things where I can stretch and go in different directions. I'm not looking to take it easy. Like the Marines on Iwo Jima, I understand that if you really want something, you have to be ready to fight.
      Life is a constant class, and once you think you know it all, you're due to decay. You're due to slide. I have to keep challenging myself and try something I haven't done before. The studios aren't always happy with that. When I wanted to make Mystic River (2003), the studio said, "Uh-oh, it's so dark." And I said, "Well, it's important. And it's a nice story." Then the next movie, Million Dollar Baby (2004), they said, "Who wants to see a picture about a girl boxing?" And I said, "It's really a father-daughter love story. Boxing just happens to be what's going on." They didn't have much faith. So there are always obstacles and people afraid to take risks. That's why you end up with remakes of old TV shows as movies. But playing it safe is what's risky, because nothing new comes out of it.
      [on the Iraq war] My druthers would have been, "Get a more benevolent dictator and stick him in. You know, try somebody a little less mean." You don't go in there and fire the army. The army's got to do something. When you fire 'em, you leave them all unemployed. Worst thing in the world. Just get somebody else who they respect and bring him on your side. That's one way of doing it.
      [on President George W. Bush] You've got to admire somebody who stands up for what they believe regardless of how the polls go. A lot of presidents do everything by the polls. They do a focus group then all of a sudden they say, "OK, that's what I'm going to be for because that's where focus group is leading me.
      [on the Iraq war] I wasn't for going in there. Only because democracy isn't something that you get overnight. I don't think America got democracy overnight. It's something we had to fight for and believe in.
      [on John Wayne] I gave him a piece of material that I thought had potential for us to do as a younger guy and an older guy. He wrote me back critical of it. He had seen High Plains Drifter (1973), and he didn't think that represented Americana like She Wore a Yellow Ribbon (1949) and other John Ford westerns. I never answered him.
      [on Sergio Leone] I spun off Sergio and he spun off me. I think we worked well together. I like his compositions. He has a very good eye. I liked him, I liked his sense of humor, but I feel it was mutual. He liked dealing with the kind of character I was putting together.
      "Macho" was a fashionable word in the 1980s. Everybody was kind of into it, what's macho and what isn't macho. I really don't know what macho is. I never have understood. Does it mean somebody who swaggers around exuding testosterone? And kicks the gate open and runs sprints up and down the street? Or does handsprings or whatever? Or is macho a quiet thing based on your security. I remember shaking hands with Rocky Marciano. He was gentle, he didn't squeeze your hand. And he had a high voice. But he could knock people around, it was a given. That's macho. Muhammad Ali is the same. If you talked with him in his younger years, he spoke gently. He wasn't kicking over chairs. I think some of the most macho people are the gentlest.
      I was tired of playing the nice, clean-cut cowboy in Rawhide (1959), I wanted something earthier. Something different from the old-fashioned Western. You know: Hero rides in, very stalwart, with white hat, man's beating a horse, hero jumps off, punches man, schoolmarm walks down the street, sees this situation going on, slight conflict with schoolmarm, but not too much. You know schoolmarm and hero will be together in exactly 10 more reels, if you care to sit around and wait, and you know the man beast horse with eventually get comeuppance from hero this guy bushwhacks him in reel nine. But [For a Fistful of Dollars (1964)] was different; it definitely had satiric overtones. The hero was an enigmatic figure, and that worked within the context of this picture. In some films, he would be ludicrous. You can't have a cartoon in the middle of a Renoir.
      In those days, they'd make interview tests, not acting tests. They'd sit you in front of the camera and talk--just as we're talking now. I thought I was an absolute clod. It looked pretty good; it was photographed well, but I thought, "If that's acting, I'm in trouble". But they signed me up as a contract player--which was a little lower than working in the mailroom.
      [on the retirement of friend and fellow actor Gene Hackman]: It is a sad thing. I know his agent and I saw him recently, and he said, 'Can't you talk Gene into coming back?' I said, 'I'd love to see him come back, but I think it's not very nice to ride him.' He's too good an actor not to be performing but, by the same token, he probably thinks that's enough.
      [on Gran Torino (2008)] That will probably do it for me as far as acting is concerned. You always want to quit while you are ahead. You don't want to be like a fighter who stays too long in the ring until you're not performing at your best.
      There are certain things you have to be realistic about. Dirty Harry would not be on a police department at my age so we'll move on from that.
      Having a good person as a foil certainly helps, because acting is an ensemble art form. Clark Gable is only as good as Claudette Colbert in It Happened One Night (1934).
      [on Paint Your Wagon (1969)] It wasn't like Singin' in the Rain (1952), where it had a cohesive plot line. They started out with a real dramatic story and then made it fluffy. When they changed it around, I tried to bail out. It wasn't my favorite. I wasn't particularly nervous about singing on film. My dad was a singer and we'd have sing-arounds. But certainly [Frank Sinatra] wasn't worried.
      With Every Which Way But Loose (1978), they gave me the script and I thought, "This is something. This is kinda crazy. But there's something kind of hip about it. This guy's out drifting along and his best friend is an orangutan". I mean, the scenes of talking to an orangutan about your troubles, I'd never seen anything quite like it. He has a romance that falls through, he doesn't get the girl, and then he goes off with the orangutan. I thought, What could be better? I wouldn't put it in the time capsule of films you did that you thought were great, but everything's a challenge.
Gene Hackman was interesting because I gave the Unforgiven (1992) script to his agent and he said no, he didn't want to do anything violent. But I went back to him and said, "I know where you're coming from. You get to a certain age and I'm there too, where you don't want to tell a lot of violent stories, but this is a chance to make a great statement".
      At this particular time in my life, I'm not doing anything as a moneymaker. It's like I'm pushing the envelope the other way to see how far we can go to be noncommercial. But I'm definitely not going for the demographics of 13- to 15-year-olds. I didn't know if Mystic River (2003) would go over at all. I had a hard time getting it financed, to tell you the truth. But I just told Warners the same thing I did with Million Dollar Baby (2004): "I don't know if this is going to make any money. But, I think I can make a picture that you'd be proud to have in your library.
      People have lost their sense of humor. In former times we constantly made jokes about different races. You can only tell them today with one hand over your mouth or you will be insulted as a racist. I find that ridiculous. In those earlier days every friendly clique had a 'Sam the Jew' or 'Jose the Mexican' - but we didn't think anything of it or have a racist thought. It was just normal that we made jokes based on our nationality or ethnicity. That was never a problem. I don't want to be politically correct. We're all spending too much time and energy trying to be politically correct about everything.
      [on the possibility of a Dirty Harry (1971) sequel] I'm 78 years old, and you're pretty well drummed out of the police force by that age. There could be a scenario. I suppose if some mythical writer came out of nowhere and it was the greatest thing on the planet, I'd certainly have to think about it. But it's not like I've ever courted it. I feel like that was an era of my life, and I've gone on to other things. I'm not sure about being Dirty Harry again--but who knows?
      [on a possible return to acting after saying he was giving it up with Gran Torino (2008)] I'm like Jaws 2 (1978): "Just when you think it's safe to go back in the water..."
      [on Angelina Jolie] She's wonderful. To me, she's like a throwback to the women in film of the Forties. Not to say women today aren't great, but back then there was more individuality. They didn't have the same Botox look. Angelina has that great individuality, her own look and her own style. I think she would have been just as big a name in that era, the same as Katharine Hepburn, Bette Davis and Ingrid Bergman.
      [on Million Dollar Baby (2004)] It's a tragedy that could have been written by the Greeks or Shakespeare.
      I don't quite understand this obsession about doing remakes and making television series into feature films. I would rather see them encourage writers with new ideas in all different genres like they used to in the heyday of movies.
      [in 2002, on Michael Cimino] George Lucas made Howard the Duck (1986), and the guy who made Waterworld (1995) - those films didn't destroy them. Critics were set up to hate Heaven's Gate (1980) . . . the picture didn't work with the public. If it had, it would have been the same as Titanic (1997). "Titanic" worked, so all is forgiven. Certain things may have been his fault. The accolades for The Deer Hunter (1978) probably made him think, "I am a genius, king of the world". But if you say you're king of the world then people will root for you to fall . . . I've always said that if you're prepared to accept reviews saying you're brilliant, you better be prepared to accept reviews saying you're a burn. The guy calling you a bum may be wrong, but the guy calling you brilliant may be wrong, too. Michael needs to make an intimate, smaller picture, do a film for five or six weeks, with no special effects, flying by the seats of his pants, to not be afraid and pull the trigger.
      [on death] I don't think older people think about it that much, my mother was 97. She passed away a few years back. The only thing she ever said to me, toward the last, she said, 'I want out of here, I am tired.' And I said 'No, no, three more years. We get the century mark.' I figured I could coax her into more after that, but when she finally did pass away, she couldn't talk because she had had a stroke. They said do you want to be resuscitated for while, and she said 'no.' So, I had to grant her that wish. She had no fear and I think as you get older -- you probably have more fear as a younger person than you do as an older person. Because as an older person you have stacked up a lot of background and time-in-grade, so to speak, so you are probably thinking what the hell 'I have had a good time.
      If you believe in reincarnation you're putting too much on the other side. I believe you have just one shot at life, and you should do the best you can with that shot. And I suppose you should be thankful that you've been given the ability to do certain things in life, and not be greedy enough to want to stay around forever.
      [on the Rocky (1976) movies] I loved the first one. I always admired Sylvester Stallone's tenacity to go ahead and get that made.
      I would never have been able to pass the Bill Clinton-Gary Hart test. No one short of Mother Teresa could pass.
      [on directing Leonardo DiCaprio as J. Edgar Hoover] He could make a lot of money making mechanical genre pictures but he wants to be challenged. And it's much more of a challenge to play someone who doesn't have the slightest thing in common with you.
      [on Bruce Surtees] He was fearless. He wasn't afraid to give you sketchy lighting if you asked for it. He didn't believe in flat light or just bright, 'Rexall drugstore' lighting, which a lot of times you can get if you get somebody that isn't very imaginative. He was perfect for me, because we didn't have very big budgets in those days. He'd made dollies by towing a blanket across the floor with the cameraman sitting on it.
=======================================================
Clinton "Clint" Eastwood, Jr. (born May 31, 1930) is an American actor, film director, producer and composer. He rose to international fame with his role as the Man with No Name in Sergio Leone's Dollars trilogy of spaghetti Westerns during the 1960s, and as Harry Callahan in the five Dirty Harry films throughout the 1970s and 1980s. These roles, among others, have made him an enduring cultural icon of masculinity.[1][2]
For his work in the films Unforgiven (1992) and Million Dollar Baby (2004), Eastwood won Academy Awards for Best Director and Producer of the Best Picture, as well as receiving nominations for Best Actor. His greatest commercial successes have been Every Which Way But Loose (1978) and its sequel, Any Which Way You Can (1980), after adjustment for inflation.[3] Other popular films include Hang 'Em High (1968), Play Misty for Me (1971), Thunderbolt and Lightfoot (1974), The Outlaw Josey Wales (1976), Escape from Alcatraz (1979), Firefox (1982), Tightrope (1984), Pale Rider (1985), Heartbreak Ridge (1986), In the Line of Fire (1993), The Bridges of Madison County (1995), and Gran Torino (2008).
In addition to directing many of his own star vehicles, Eastwood has also directed films in which he did not appear, such as Mystic River (2003) and Letters from Iwo Jima (2006), for which he received Academy Award nominations, and Changeling (2008). He received considerable critical praise in France, including for several films which were not well received in the United States, and he has been awarded two of France's highest honors: in 1994 he became a recipient of the French Republic's Commandeur of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres and in 2007 he was awarded the Légion d'honneur medal. In 2000, he was awarded the Italian Venice Film Festival Golden Lion for lifetime achievement.
Since 1967, Eastwood has run his own production company, Malpaso, which has produced all except four of his American films. He served as the nonpartisan mayor of Carmel-by-the-Sea, California from 1986 to 1988.
Clinton Eastwood, Jr. was born in San Francisco, California, the son of Ruth (née Runner; January 18, 1909 – February 4, 2006), an IBM factory worker, and Clinton Eastwood Sr. (June 11, 1906 – July 21, 1970), a steelworker and migrant worker.[4] He was nicknamed "Samson" by the hospital nurses as he weighed 11 pounds 6 ounces (5.2 kg) at birth.[5][6] He has a younger sister, Jeanne (born 1934).[7] His stepfather was lumber magnate John Belden Wood (November 24, 1913 – February 18, 2004).[8] Eastwood is of English, Irish, Scottish, and Dutch ancestry[9] and was raised in a working class environment.[10][11] His family moved often as his father worked at jobs along the West Coast.[12][13] They finally settled in Piedmont, California, where Eastwood attended Piedmont Junior High School.[14] Shortly before he was to enter Piedmont High School, he rode his bike on the school's sports field and tore up the wet turf; this resulted in his being asked not to enroll.[15] Instead, he attended Oakland Technical High School, where the drama teachers encouraged him to take part in school plays. However, Eastwood was not interested. He worked at a number of jobs, including lifeguard, paper carrier, grocery clerk, forest firefighter, and golf caddy.[16]
In 1951, Eastwood was drafted by the United States Army[17] and assigned to Fort Ord in California, where he was appointed as a lifeguard and swimming instructor.[18] In Patrick McGilligan's unauthorized biography Clint: The Life and Legend, high school friend Don Loomis alleged Eastwood avoided being sent to combat in the Korean War by "romancing one of the daughters of a Fort Ord officer, who might have been entreated to watch out for him when names came up for posting".[19][20] While returning from a weekend visit to his parents in Seattle, Washington, he was a passenger on a Douglas AD bomber that ran out of fuel and crashed into the ocean near Point Reyes.[21][22] Escaping from the sinking aircraft, he and the pilot swam 3 miles (5 km) to safety.[23][24]
According to the CBS press release for Rawhide, Universal Studios (then known as Universal-International) was shooting in Fort Ord when an assistant noticed Eastwood and arranged for him to meet the series' director.[25] According to biographer Richard Schickel, a man named Chuck Hill was instrumental in securing employment for Eastwood at Universal;[25] Hill, who had contacts in Hollywood, managed to sneak Eastwood into one of Universal's studios, where he showed him to cameraman Irving Glassberg.[25] Glassberg arranged for Eastwood to have an audition with Arthur Lubin who, although impressed with Eastwood's appearance and 6-foot-4-inch (1.93 m) frame,[26] initially questioned his acting skills, remarking, "He was quite amateurish. He didn't know which way to turn or which way to go or do anything".[27] Lubin suggested Eastwood attend drama classes, and arranged for his initial contract in April 1954 at $100 (US$878 in 2014 dollars[28]) per week.[27] After signing, Eastwood was criticized for his stiff manner, his squint, and for hissing his lines through his teeth, a feature that would become a lifelong trademark.[29][30][31][32]
Eastwood's acting debut was an uncredited bit part as a laboratory assistant in the 1955 film Revenge of the Creature.[33] Over the next three years, he had uncredited bit parts in several other films including Lady Godiva of Coventry, Never Say Goodbye and Escapade in Japan, as well as a small speaking role in Francis in the Navy.[34][35][36] In 1959, he made a guest appearance on Maverick, opposite James Garner, as a cowardly villain intent on marrying a rich girl for money.[37] Eastwood had a small part as an aviator in the French picture Lafayette Escadrille and took on a featured role as an ex-Confederate renegade in Ambush at Cimarron Pass, a film which Eastwood viewed as disastrous and the lowest point of his career.[20][38][39]
In a long sought-after break, Eastwood was cast in the role of Rowdy Yates for the CBS hour-long western series Rawhide in the summer of 1958,[40][41] although he was not especially happy with his role. Eastwood, then 28, felt his character Rowdy was too young and cloddish for him to feel comfortable with the part.[42] Rawhide premiered in January 1959[43] and after its release took only three weeks to reach the top 20 in the TV ratings. Although the series never won an Emmy, it was a considerable success for several years, reaching its peak at number six in the ratings between October 1960 and April 1961.[44] The Rawhide years (1959–65) were some of the most grueling of Eastwood's career. He often filmed for six days a week at an average of twelve hours a day, yet some directors still criticized him for not working hard enough.[44][45] By late 1963 Rawhide′s popularity had declined. Lacking freshness in the scripts, it was canceled in the middle of the 1965–66 television season.[46] Eastwood made his first attempt at directing when he filmed several trailers for the show, although he was unable to convince producers to let him direct an episode.[47] In the show's first season Eastwood earned $750 (US$6,131 in 2014 dollars[28]) an episode. At the time of Rawhide′s cancellation, he received $119,000 (US$890,552 in 2014 dollars[28]) an episode in compensation.[48]
In late 1963, Eastwood's co-star on Rawhide, Eric Fleming, rejected an offer to star in an Italian-made western called A Fistful of Dollars, to be directed in a remote region of Spain by the then relatively unknown Sergio Leone.[49] Knowing that he could play a cowboy convincingly, Richard Harrison suggested Eastwood, who in turn saw the film as an opportunity to escape from his Rawhide image. He signed a contract for $15,000 (US$114,061 in 2014 dollars[28]) in wages for eleven weeks' work, with a bonus of a Mercedes automobile upon completion.[50][51] Eastwood later spoke of the transition from a television western to A Fistful of Dollars: "In Rawhide I did get awfully tired of playing the conventional white hat. The hero who kisses old ladies and dogs and was kind to everybody. I decided it was time to be an anti-hero."[52] Eastwood was instrumental in creating the Man with No Name character's distinctive visual style and, although a non-smoker, Leone insisted Eastwood smoke cigars as an essential ingredient of the "mask" he was attempting to create for the loner character.[53]
A Fistful of Dollars proved a landmark in the development of spaghetti Westerns, with Leone depicting a more lawless and desolate world than traditional westerns, and challenging American stereotypes of a western hero with a morally ambiguous antihero. The film's success made Eastwood a major star in Italy[54] and he was re-hired to star in For a Few Dollars More (1965), the second of the trilogy. Through the efforts of screenwriter Luciano Vincenzoni, the rights to For a Few Dollars More and the final film of the trilogy (The Good, the Bad and the Ugly) were sold to United Artists for about $900,000 (US$6.74 million in 2014 dollars[28]).[55]
In January 1966, Eastwood met producer Dino De Laurentiis in New York City and agreed to star in a non-Western five-part anthology production named Le Streghe ("The Witches") opposite De Laurentiis' wife, actress Silvana Mangano.[56] Eastwood's nineteen-minute installment took only a few days to shoot, but his performance did not please the critics, one writing that "no other performance of his is quite so 'un-Clintlike' ".[57] Two months later Eastwood began work on the third Dollars film, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, again playing the mysterious Man with No Name. Lee Van Cleef returned as a ruthless fortune seeker, with Eli Wallach portraying the cunning Mexican bandit Tuco Ramirez. The storyline involved the search for a cache of Confederate gold buried in a cemetery. During the filming of a scene in which a bridge was blown up, Eastwood urged Wallach to retreat to a hilltop. "I know about these things," he said. "Stay as far away from special effects and explosives as you can."[58] Minutes later confusion among the crew over the word "Vaya!" resulted in a premature explosion that could have killed Wallach.[58]
"I wanted to play it with an economy of words and create this whole feeling through attitude and movement. It was just the kind of character I had envisioned for a long time, keep to the mystery and allude to what happened in the past. It came about after the frustration of doing Rawhide for so long. I felt the less he said, the stronger he became and the more he grew in the imagination of the audience."
The Dollars trilogy was not released in the United States until 1967, when A Fistful of Dollars opened in January, followed by For a Few Dollars More in May, and The Good, the Bad and the Ugly on December 29, 1967.[60] All the films were commercially successful, particularly The Good, the Bad and the Ugly which eventually earned $8 million (US$56.6 million in 2014 dollars[28]) in rental earnings and turned Eastwood into a major film star.[60] All three films received bad reviews, and marked the beginning of a battle for Eastwood to win American film critics' respect.[61] Judith Crist described A Fistful of Dollars as "cheapjack",[62] while Newsweek considered For a Few Dollars More as "excruciatingly dopey".[61] Renata Adler of The New York Times said The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (now widely considered one of the finest films in the history of cinema[63][64]) was "the most expensive, pious and repellent movie in the history of its peculiar genre".[65] Time magazine drew attention to the film's wooden acting, especially on the part of Eastwood, though a few critics such as Vincent Canby and Bosley Crowther of The New York Times praised Eastwood's coolness in playing the tall, lone stranger.[66] Leone's cinematography was widely acclaimed, even by critics who disparaged the acting in the film.[61]
Stardom brought more roles for Eastwood. He signed to star in the American revisionist western Hang 'Em High (1968), featuring alongside Inger Stevens, Pat Hingle, Dennis Hopper, Ed Begley, Alan Hale, Ben Johnson, Bruce Dern, and James MacArthur,[67] playing a man who takes up a Marshal's badge and seeks revenge as a lawman after being lynched by vigilantes and left for dead.[68] The film earned Eastwood a fee of $400,000 (US$2.71 million in 2014 dollars[28]) and 25 percent of its net box-office takings.[67] Using money earned from the Dollars trilogy, accountant and Eastwood advisor Irving Leonard helped establish Eastwood's own production company, Malpaso Productions, named after Malpaso Creek on Eastwood's property in Monterey County, California. Leonard arranged for Hang 'Em High to be a joint production with United Artists;[69] when it opened in July 1968, it had an unprecedented opening weekend in United Artists' history. Hang 'Em High was widely praised by critics, including Archer Winsten of the New York Post who described it as, "a western of quality, courage, danger and excitement".[11]
Before the release of Hang 'Em High Eastwood had already begun working on Coogan's Bluff, about an Arizona deputy sheriff tracking a wanted psychopathic criminal (Don Stroud) through the streets of New York City. He was reunited with Universal Studios for it after receiving an offer of $1 million (US$7.07 million in 2014 dollars[28])—more than double his previous salary.[70] Jennings Lang arranged for Eastwood to meet Don Siegel, a Universal contract director who later became Eastwood's close friend, forming a partnership that would last more than ten years and produce five films.[71] Shooting began in November 1967, before the script had been finalized.[72] The film was controversial for its portrayal of violence.[73][74] Coogan's Bluff also became the first collaboration with Argentine composer Lalo Schifrin, who would later compose the jazzy score to several Eastwood films in the 1970s and 1980s, including the Dirty Harry films.
Eastwood was paid $750,000 (US$5.09 million in 2014 dollars[28]) in 1968 for the war epic Where Eagles Dare,[75] about a World War II squad parachuting into a Gestapo stronghold in the alpine mountains. Richard Burton played the squad's commander, with Eastwood as his right-hand man. Eastwood was also cast as Two-Face in the Batman television show, but the series was canceled before filming began.[76]
Eastwood then branched out to star in the only musical of his career, Paint Your Wagon (1969). Eastwood and Lee Marvin play gold miners who buy a Mormon settler's less favored wife (Jean Seberg) at an auction. Bad weather and delays plagued the production, while the film's budget eventually exceeded $20 million (US$129 million in 2014 dollars[28]), which was extremely expensive for the time.[77] The film was not a critical or commercial success, although it was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy.[78]
In 1970, Eastwood starred in the western Two Mules for Sister Sara, with Shirley MacLaine and directed by Don Siegel. The film follows an American mercenary, who gets mixed up with a prostitute disguised as a nun, and ends up helping a group of Juarista rebels during the reign of Emperor Maximilian I of Mexico.[79][80] Eastwood once again played a mysterious stranger—unshaven, wearing a serape-like vest, and smoking a cigar.[81] Although it received moderate reviews,[82][83][84] the film is listed in The New York Times Guide to the Best 1,000 Movies Ever Made.[85] Later the same year, Eastwood starred as one of a group of Americans who steal a fortune in gold from the Nazis, in the World War II film Kelly's Heroes, with Donald Sutherland and Telly Savalas. Kelly's Heroes was the last film in which Eastwood appeared, that was not produced by his own Malpaso Productions.[86] Filming commenced in July 1969 on location in Yugoslavia and in London.[87] The film received mostly a positive reception and its anti-war sentiments were recognized.[86] In the winter of 1969–70, Eastwood and Siegel began planning his next film, The Beguiled, a tale of a wounded Union soldier, held captive by the sexually repressed matron (played by Geraldine Page) of a Southern girl's school.[88] Upon release the film received major recognition in France and is considered one of Eastwood's finest works by the French.[89] However, it grossed less than $1 million (US$6.07 million in 2014 dollars[28]) and, according to Eastwood and Lang, flopped due to poor publicity and the "emasculated" role of Eastwood.[90]
Eastwood's career reached a turning point in 1971.[91] Before Irving Leonard died, he and Eastwood had discussed the idea of Malpaso producing Play Misty for Me, a film that was to give Eastwood the artistic control he desired, and his debut as a director.[92] The script was about a jazz disc jockey named Dave (Eastwood), who has a casual affair with Evelyn (Jessica Walter), a listener who had been calling the radio station repeatedly at night, asking him to play her favorite song — Erroll Garner's "Misty". When Dave ends their relationship, the unhinged Evelyn becomes a murderous stalker.[93] Filming commenced in Monterey in September 1970 and included footage of that year's Monterey Jazz Festival.[94] The film was highly acclaimed with critics, such as Jay Cocks in Time, Andrew Sarris in the Village Voice, and Archer Winsten in the New York Post all praising the film, as well as Eastwood's directorial skills and performance.[95] Walter was nominated for a Golden Globe Best Actress Award (Drama), for her performance in the film.
"I know what you're thinking — 'Did he fire six shots or only five?' Well, to tell you the truth, in all this excitement, I've kinda lost track myself. But, being as this is a .44 Magnum, the most powerful handgun in the world and would blow your head clean off, you've got to ask yourself one question: 'Do I feel lucky?' Well, do you, punk?"
Dirty Harry (1971), written by Harry and Rita Fink, centers around a hard-edged New York City (later changed to San Francisco) police inspector named Harry Callahan who is determined to stop a psychotic killer by any means.[96] Dirty Harry has been described as being arguably Eastwood's most memorable character, and the film has been credited with inventing the "loose-cannon cop" genre.[97][98] Author Eric Lichtenfeld argues that Eastwood's role as Dirty Harry established the "first true archetype" of the action film genre.[99] His lines (quoted right) have been cited as among the most memorable in cinematic history and are regarded by firearms historians, such as Garry James and Richard Venola, as the force which catapulted the ownership of .44 Magnum revolvers to unprecedented heights in the United States; specifically the Smith & Wesson Model 29 carried by Harry Callahan.[100][101] Dirty Harry achieved huge success after its release in December 1971, earning $22 million (US$128 million in 2014 dollars[28]) in the United States and Canada alone.[102] It was Siegel's highest-grossing film and the start of a series of films featuring the character Harry Callahan. Although a number of critics praised Eastwood's performance as Dirty Harry, such as Jay Cocks of Time magazine who described him as "giving his best performance so far, tense, tough, full of implicit identification with his character",[103] the film was also widely criticized and accused of being fascistic.[104][105][106]
Following Sean Connery's announcement that he would not play James Bond again, Eastwood was offered the role but turned it down because he believed the character should be played by an English actor.[107] He next starred in the loner Western Joe Kidd (1972), based on a character inspired by Reies Lopez Tijerina, who stormed a courthouse in Tierra Amarilla, New Mexico in June 1967. During filming, Eastwood suffered symptoms of a bronchial infection and several panic attacks.[108] Joe Kidd received a mixed reception, with Roger Greenspun of The New York Times writing that it was unremarkable, with foolish symbolism and sloppy editing, although he praised Eastwood's performance.[109]
In 1973, Eastwood directed his first western, High Plains Drifter, in which he also starred. The film had a moral and supernatural theme, later emulated in Pale Rider. The plot follows a mysterious stranger (Eastwood) who arrives in a brooding Western town where the people hire him to protect them against three soon-to-be-released felons. There remains confusion during the film as to whether the stranger is the brother of the deputy, whom the felons lynched and murdered, or his ghost. Holes in the plot were filled with black humor and allegory, influenced by Leone.[110] The revisionist film received a mixed reception, but was a major box office success. A number of critics thought Eastwood's directing was "as derivative as it was expressive", with Arthur Knight of the Saturday Review remarking that Eastwood had "absorbed the approaches of Siegel and Leone and fused them with his own paranoid vision of society".[111] John Wayne, who had declined a role in the film, sent a letter to Eastwood soon after the film's release in which he complained that, "the townspeople did not represent the true spirit of the American pioneer, the spirit that made America great".[112]
Eastwood next turned his attention towards Breezy (1973), a film about love blossoming between a middle-aged man and a teenage girl. During casting for the film Eastwood met Sondra Locke for the first time, an actress who would play major roles in six of his films over the next ten years and would become an important figure in his life.[113] Kay Lenz got the part of Breezy because Locke, at age 29, was considered too old. The film, shot very quickly and efficiently by Eastwood and Frank Stanley, came in $1 million (US$5.31 million in 2014 dollars[28]) under budget and was finished three days ahead of schedule.[114] Breezy was not a major critical or commercial success and it was only made available on video in 1998.[115]
Once filming of Breezy had finished, Warners announced that Eastwood had agreed to reprise his role as Callahan in Magnum Force (1973), a sequel to Dirty Harry, about a group of rogue young officers (among them David Soul, Robert Urich and Tim Matheson) in the San Francisco Police Department who systematically exterminate the city's worst criminals.[116] Although the film was a major success after release, grossing $58.1 million (US$309 million in 2014 dollars[28]) in the United States (a record for Eastwood), it was not a critical success.[117][118] The New York Times critic Nora Sayre panned the often contradictory moral themes of the film, while the paper's Frank Rich called it "the same old stuff".[118]
In 1974, Eastwood teamed up with Jeff Bridges and George Kennedy in the buddy action caper Thunderbolt and Lightfoot, a road movie about a veteran bank robber Thunderbolt (Eastwood) and a young con man drifter, Lightfoot (Bridges). On its release, in spring 1974, the film was praised for its offbeat comedy mixed with high suspense and tragedy but was only a modest success at the box office, earning $32.4 million (US$155 million in 2014 dollars[28]).[119] Eastwood's acting was noted by critics, but was overshadowed by Bridges who was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. Eastwood reportedly fumed at the lack of Academy Award recognition for him and swore that he would never work for United Artists again.[119][120]
Eastwood's next film The Eiger Sanction (1975) was based on Trevanian's critically acclaimed spy novel of the same name. Eastwood plays Jonathan Hemlock in a role originally intended for Paul Newman, an assassin turned college art professor who decides to return to his former profession for one last "sanction" in return for a rare Pissarro painting. In the process he must climb the north face of the Eiger in Switzerland under perilous conditions. Once again Eastwood starred alongside George Kennedy. Mike Hoover taught Eastwood how to climb during several weeks of preparation at Yosemite in the summer of 1974 before filming commenced in Grindelwald on August 12, 1974.[121][122] Despite prior warnings about the perils of the Eiger the film crew suffered a number of accidents, including one fatality.[123][124] Despite the danger, Eastwood insisted on doing all his own climbing and stunts. Upon release in May 1975 The Eiger Sanction was a commercial failure, receiving only $23.8 million (US$104 million in 2014 dollars[28]) at the box office, and was poorly received by most critics.[125] Joy Gould Boyum of the Wall Street Journal dismissed the film as "brutal fantasy".[125][126] Eastwood blamed Universal Studios for the film's poor promotion and turned his back on them to make an agreement with Warner Brothers, through Frank Wells, that has lasted to the present day.[127]
The Outlaw Josey Wales (1976), a western inspired by Asa Carter's 1972 novel of the same name,[128] has lead character Josey Wales (Eastwood) as a pro-Confederate guerilla who refuses to surrender his arms after the American Civil War and is chased across the old southwest by a group of enforcers. Eastwood's costars were Locke (for the first time) and Chief Dan George. Director Philip Kaufman was fired by producer Bob Daley under Eastwood's command, resulting in a fine reported to be around $60,000 (US$248,667 in 2014 dollars[28]) from the Directors Guild of America—who subsequently passed new legislation reserving the right to impose a major fine on a producer for discharging and replacing a director.[129] The film was pre-screened at the Sun Valley Center for the Arts and Humanities in Idaho during a six-day conference entitled Western Movies: Myths and Images. Invited to the screening were a number of esteemed film critics, including Jay Cocks and Arthur Knight; directors such as King Vidor, William Wyler, and Howard Hawks; and a number of academics.[130] Upon release in the summer of 1976 The Outlaw Josey Wales was widely acclaimed, with many critics and viewers seeing Eastwood's role as an iconic one that related to America's ancestral past and the destiny of the nation after the American Civil War.[130] Roger Ebert compared the nature and vulnerability of Eastwood's portrayal of Josey Wales with his Man with No Name character in the Dollars westerns and praised the film's atmosphere.[131] The film would later appear in Time's "Top 10 Films of the Year".[132]
Eastwood was then offered the role of Benjamin L. Willard in Francis Coppola's Apocalypse Now, but declined as he did not want to spend weeks on location in the Philippines.[133][134] He also refused the part of a platoon leader in Ted Post's Vietnam War film, Go Tell the Spartans[133] and instead decided to make a third Dirty Harry film, The Enforcer. The film had Callahan partnered with a new female officer (Tyne Daly) to face a San Francisco Bay area group resembling the Symbionese Liberation Army. The film, culminating in a shootout on Alcatraz island, was considerably shorter than the previous Dirty Harry films at 95 minutes,[135] but was a major commercial success grossing $100 million (US$414 million in 2014 dollars[28]) worldwide to become Eastwood's highest-grossing film to date.[136]
In 1977, he directed and starred in The Gauntlet opposite Locke, Pat Hingle, William Prince, Bill McKinney, and Mara Corday. Eastwood portrays a down-and-out cop assigned to escort a prostitute from Las Vegas to Phoenix to testify against the mafia. Although a moderate hit with the viewing public, critics had mixed feelings about the film, with many believing it was overly violent. Ebert, in contrast, gave the film three stars and called it "... classic Clint Eastwood: fast, furious, and funny."[137] The following year, he starred in Every Which Way But Loose in an uncharacteristic offbeat comedy role. He played Philo Beddoe, a trucker and brawler who roams the American West searching for a lost love (Locke) accompanied by his brother (played by Geoffrey Lewis) and an orangutan called Clyde. The film proved surprisingly successful upon its release and became Eastwood's most commercially successful film up to that time. Panned by critics, it ranked high among the box office successes of his career and was the second-highest grossing film of 1978.[138]
Eastwood starred in Escape from Alcatraz in 1979, the last of his films to be directed by Siegel. It was based on the true story of Frank Lee Morris who, along with John and Clarence Anglin, escaped from the notorious Alcatraz Federal Penitentiary in 1962. The film was a major success; Stanley Kauffmann of The New Republic praised it as "crystalline cinema"[139] and Frank Rich of Time described it as "cool, cinematic grace".[140]
In 1980, Eastwood directed and played the title role in Bronco Billy alongside Locke, Scatman Crothers, and Sam Bottoms.[141] Eastwood has cited Bronco Billy as being one of the most relaxed shoots of his career and biographer Richard Schickel has argued that Bronco Billy is Eastwood's most self-referential character.[142][143] The film was a rare commercial disappointment in Eastwood's career,[144] but was liked by critics. Janet Maslin of The New York Times wrote that film was "the best and funniest Clint Eastwood movie in quite a while", and praised Eastwood's directing and the way he intricately juxtaposes the old West and the new.[145] Later that year, Eastwood starred in Any Which Way You Can, the sequel to Every Which Way But Loose. The film received a number of bad reviews from critics, although Maslin described it as "funnier and even better than its predecessor".[144] Released over the Christmas season of 1980, Any Which Way You Can was a major box office success and ranked among the top five highest-grossing films of the year.[146]
In 1982, Eastwood directed and starred in Honkytonk Man, based on the eponymous Clancy Carlile's depression-era novel. Eastwood portrays a struggling western singer Red Stovall who suffers from tuberculosis, but has finally been given an opportunity to make it big at the Grand Ole Opry. He is accompanied by his young nephew (played by real-life son Kyle) to Nashville, Tennessee, where he is supposed to record a song. Only Time gave the film a good review in the United States, with most reviewers criticizing its blend of muted humor and tragedy.[147] Nevertheless the film received critical acclaim in France, where it was compared to John Ford's The Grapes of Wrath,[148] and it has since acquired the very high rating of 93 percent on Rotten Tomatoes.[149] In the same year Eastwood directed, produced, and starred in the Cold War-themed Firefox alongside Freddie Jones, David Huffman, Warren Clarke and Ronald Lacey. Based on a 1977 novel with the same name written by Craig Thomas, the film was shot before but released after Honkeytonk Man. Russian filming locations were not possible due to the Cold War, and the film had to be shot in Vienna and other locations in Austria to simulate many of the Eurasian story locations. With a production cost of $20 million, (US$48.9 million in 2014 dollars[28]) it was Eastwood's highest budget film to date.[150] People magazine likened Eastwood's performance to "Luke Skywalker trapped in Dirty Harry's Soul".[150]
Eastwood directed and starred in the fourth Dirty Harry film, Sudden Impact, which was shot in the spring and summer of 1983 and is considered the darkest and most violent of the series.[151] By this time Eastwood received 60 percent of all profits from films he starred in and directed, with the rest going to the studio.[152] Sudden Impact was his final on-screen collaboration with Locke. She plays an artist who, along with her sister, was gang-raped a decade before the story takes place and seeks revenge for her sister's now-vegetative state by systematically murdering the rapists. The line "Go ahead, make my day" (uttered by Eastwood during an early scene in a coffee shop) is often cited as one of cinema's immortal lines. It was quoted by President Ronald Reagan in a speech to Congress, and used during the 1984 presidential elections.[153][154][155] The film was the most commercially successful of the Dirty Harry films, earning $70 million (US$166 million in 2014 dollars[28]). It received very positive reviews, with many critics praising the feminist aspects of the film through its explorations of the physical and psychological consequences of rape.[156]
Tightrope (1984) had Eastwood starring opposite Geneviève Bujold in a provocative thriller, inspired by newspaper articles about an elusive Bay Area rapist. Set in New Orleans to avoid confusion with the Dirty Harry films,[157] Eastwood played a divorced cop drawn into his target's tortured psychology and fascination for sadomasochism.[158] Tightrope was a critical and commercial hit and became the fourth highest-grossing R-rated film of 1984.[159] Eastwood next starred in the crime comedy City Heat (1984) alongside Burt Reynolds, a film about a private eye and his partner who get mixed up with gangsters in the prohibition era of the 1930s. The film grossed around $50 million (US$114 million in 2014 dollars[28]) domestically, but was overshadowed by Eddie Murphy's Beverly Hills Cop.[160]
"Westerns. A period gone by, the pioneer, the loner operating by himself, without benefit of society. It usually has something to do with some sort of vengeance; he takes care of the vengeance himself, doesn't call the police. Like Robin Hood. It's the last masculine frontier. Romantic myth, I guess, though it's hard to think about anything romantic today. In a Western you can think, Jesus, there was a time when man was alone, on horseback, out there where man hasn't spoiled the land yet."
Eastwood made his only foray into TV direction with the 1985 Amazing Stories episode "Vanessa in the Garden", which starred Harvey Keitel and Locke. This was his first collaboration with Steven Spielberg, who later co-produced Flags of Our Fathers and Letters from Iwo Jima.[162] He would revisit the Western genre when he directed and starred in Pale Rider (1985), a film based on the classic 1953 western Shane and follows a preacher descending from the mists of the Sierras to side with the miners during the California Gold Rush of 1850.[163] The title is a reference to the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, as the rider of the pale horse is Death, and shows similarities to Eastwood's 1973 western High Plains Drifter in its themes of morality and justice as well as its exploration of the supernatural.[164] Pale Rider became one of Eastwood's most successful films to date. It was hailed as one of the best films of 1985 and the best western to appear for a considerable period, with Gene Siskel of the Chicago Tribune remarking, "This year (1985) will go down in film history as the moment Clint Eastwood finally earned respect as an artist".[165]
In 1986, Eastwood co-starred with Marsha Mason in the military drama Heartbreak Ridge, about the 1983 United States invasion of Grenada. He portrays an aging United States Marine Gunnery Sergeant and Korean War veteran. Production and filming were marred by internal disagreements between Eastwood and long-time friend and producer Fritz Manes, as well as between Eastwood and the United States Department of Defense who expressed contempt for the film.[166][167] At the time the film was a commercial rather than a critical success, and has only come to be viewed more favorably in recent times.[168] The film grossed $70 million (US$151 million) domestically.[169]
Eastwood starred in The Dead Pool (1988), the fifth and final film in the Dirty Harry series. It co-starred Patricia Clarkson, Liam Neeson, and a young Jim Carrey who plays Johnny Squares, a drug-addled rock star and the first of the victims on a list of celebrities drawn up by horror film director Peter Swan (Neeson) who are deemed most likely to die, the so-called "Dead Pool". The list is stolen by an obsessed fan who, in mimicking his favorite director, makes his way through the list killing off celebrities, of which Dirty Harry is also included. The Dead Pool grossed nearly $38 million (US$75.8 million), relatively low receipts for a Dirty Harry film and it is generally viewed as the weakest film of the series, although Roger Ebert perceived it to be as good as the original.[170][171]
Eastwood began working on smaller, more personal projects and experienced a lull in his career between 1988 and 1992. Always interested in jazz, he directed Bird (1988), a biopic starring Forest Whitaker as jazz musician Charlie "Bird" Parker. Alto saxophonist Jackie McLean and Spike Lee, son of jazz bassist Bill Lee and a long time critic of Eastwood, criticized the characterization of Charlie Parker remarking that it did not capture his true essence and sense of humor.[172] Eastwood received two Golden Globes for the film, the Cecil B. DeMille Award for his lifelong contribution, and the Best Director award. However, Bird was a commercial failure, earning just $11 million, which Eastwood attributed to the declining interest in jazz among black people.[173] Carrey would appear with Eastwood again in the poorly received comedy Pink Cadillac (1989). The film is about a bounty hunter and a group of white supremacists chasing an innocent woman (Bernadette Peters) who tries to outrun everyone in her husband's prized pink Cadillac. The film failed both critically and commercially,[174] earning barely more than Bird and marking a low point in Eastwood's career.[175]
Eastwood directed and starred in White Hunter Black Heart (1990), an adaptation of Peter Viertel's roman à clef, about John Huston and the making of the classic film The African Queen. Shot on location in Zimbabwe in the summer of 1989,[176] the film received some critical attention but with only a limited release earned just $8.4 million (US$15.2 million in 2014 dollars[28]).[177] Later in 1990, Eastwood directed and co-starred with Charlie Sheen in The Rookie, a buddy cop action film. Critics found the film's plot and characterization unconvincing, but praised its action sequences.[178] An ongoing lawsuit, in response to Eastwood allegedly ramming a woman's car,[179] resulted in no Eastwood films being shown in cinemas in 1991.[180] Eastwood won the suit and agreed to pay the complainant's legal fees if she did not appeal.[180]
"... if possible, he looks even taller, leaner and more mysteriously possessed than he did in Sergio Leone's seminal Fistful of Dollars a quarter of a century ago. The years haven't softened him. They have given him the presence of some fierce force of nature, which may be why the landscapes of the mythic, late 19th-century West become him, never more so than in his new Unforgiven. ... This is his richest, most satisfying performance since the underrated, politically lunatic Heartbreak Ridge. There's no one like him."
In 1992, Eastwood revisited the western genre in the self-directed film Unforgiven, in which he played an aging ex-gunfighter long past his prime. Scripts existed for the film as early as 1976 under titles such as The Cut-Whore Killings and The William Munny Killings but Eastwood delayed the project because he wanted to wait until he was old enough to play his character and to savor it as the last of his western films.[180] Unforgiven was a major commercial and critical success; Jack Methews of the Los Angeles Times described it as "the finest classical western to come along since perhaps John Ford's 1956 The Searchers.[182] The film was nominated for nine Academy Awards,[183] (including Best Actor for Eastwood and Best Original Screenplay for David Webb Peoples) and won four, including Best Picture and Best Director for Eastwood. In June 2008 Unforgiven was ranked as the fourth-best American western, behind Shane, High Noon, and The Searchers, in the American Film Institute's "AFI's 10 Top 10" list.[184][185]
Eastwood played Frank Horrigan in the Secret Service thriller In the Line of Fire (1993) directed by Wolfgang Petersen and co-starring John Malkovich and Rene Russo. Horrigan is a guilt-ridden Secret Service agent haunted by his failure to save John F. Kennedy's life.[186] The film was among the top 10 box office performers in that year, earning a reported $200 million (US$327 million in 2014 dollars[28]) in the United States alone.[187] As of 2012[update], In the Line of Fire was the last film in which Eastwood acted which he did not also direct. Later in 1993, he directed and co-starred alongside Kevin Costner in A Perfect World. Set in the 1960s,[188] Eastwood plays a Texas Ranger in pursuit of an escaped convict (Costner) who hits the road with a young boy (T.J. Lowther). Janet Maslin of The New York Times wrote that the film marked the highest point of Eastwood's directing career,[189] and the film has since been cited as one of his most underrated directorial achievements.[190][191]
At the May 1994 Cannes Film Festival Eastwood received France's Ordre des Arts et des Lettres medal[192] then on March 27, 1995, he was awarded the Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award at the 67th Academy Awards.[193] His next film appearance was in a cameo role as himself in the 1995 children's film Casper. Later that same year he expanded his repertoire by playing opposite Meryl Streep in The Bridges of Madison County. Based on the novel by Robert James Waller,[194] the film relates the story of Robert Kincaid (Eastwood), a photographer working for National Geographic, who has an affair with a middle-aged Italian farm wife, Francesca (Streep). Despite the novel receiving unfavorable reviews and a subject deemed potentially unsuitable for film, The Bridges of Madison County was a commercial and critical success.[195] Roger Ebert wrote, "Streep and Eastwood weave a spell, and it is based on that particular knowledge of love and self that comes with middle age."[196] The film was nominated for a Golden Globe for Best Picture and won a César Award in France for Best Foreign Film. Streep was also nominated for an Academy Award and a Golden Globe.
In 1997, Eastwood directed and starred in the political thriller Absolute Power, alongside Gene Hackman (with whom he had appeared in Unforgiven). Eastwood played the role of a veteran thief who witnesses the Secret Service cover up of a murder. The film received a mixed reception from critics.[197] Later in 1997, Eastwood directed Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, based on the novel by John Berendt and starring John Cusack, Kevin Spacey, and Jude Law. The film met with a mixed critical response.[198]
"The roles that Eastwood has played, and the films that he has directed, cannot be disentangled from the nature of the American culture of the last quarter century, its fantasies and its realities."
Eastwood directed and starred in True Crime (1999). He plays Steve Everett, a journalist and recovering alcoholic, who has to cover the execution of murderer Frank Beechum (played by Isaiah Washington). True Crime received a mixed reception, with Janet Maslin of The New York Times writing, "his direction is galvanized by a sense of second chances and tragic misunderstandings, and by contrasting a larger sense of justice with the peculiar minutiae of crime. Perhaps he goes a shade too far in the latter direction, though."[200] The film was a box office failure, earning less than half its $55 million (US$77.9 million in 2014 dollars[28]) budget and was Eastwood's worst-performing film of the 1990s aside from White Hunter Black Heart, which had a limited release.[201]
In 2000, Eastwood directed and starred in Space Cowboys alongside Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, and James Garner. Eastwood played one of a group of veteran ex-test pilots sent into space to repair an old Soviet satellite. The original music score was composed by Eastwood and Lennie Niehaus. Space Cowboys was critically well received and holds a 79 percent rating at Rotten Tomatoes,[202] although Roger Ebert wrote that the film was, "too secure within its traditional story structure to make much seem at risk."[203] The film grossed more than $90 million in its United States release, more than Eastwood's two previous films combined.[204] In 2002, Eastwood played an ex-FBI agent chasing a sadistic killer (Jeff Daniels) in the thriller Blood Work, loosely based on the 1998 novel of the same name by Michael Connelly. The film was a commercial failure, grossing just $26.2 million (US$34.4 million in 2014 dollars[28]) on an estimated budget of $50 million (US$65.6 million in 2014 dollars[28]) and received mixed reviews, with Rotten Tomatoes describing it as, "well-made but marred by lethargic pacing".[205] Eastwood did, however, win the Future Film Festival Digital Award at the Venice Film Festival for the film.
"Clint is a true artist in every respect. Despite his years of being at the top of his game and the legendary movies he has made, he always made us feel comfortable and valued on the set, treating us as equals."
Eastwood directed and scored the crime drama Mystic River (2003), a film dealing with themes of murder, vigilantism, and sexual abuse and starring Sean Penn, Kevin Bacon, and Tim Robbins. Mystic River was praised by critics and won two Academy Awards – Best Actor for Penn and Best Supporting Actor for Robbins – with Eastwood garnering nominations for Best Director and Best Picture.[206] The film grossed $90 million (US$115 million in 2014 dollars[28]) domestically on a budget of $30 million (US$38.5 million in 2014 dollars[28]).[207] In 2003 Eastwood was named Best Director of the Year by the National Society of Film Critics.[208]
The following year Eastwood found further critical and commercial success when he directed, produced, scored, and starred in the boxing drama Million Dollar Baby, playing a cantankerous trainer who forms a bond with female boxer (Hilary Swank), who he is persuaded to train by his longtime friend and employee (Morgan Freeman). The film won four Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actress (Swank), and Best Supporting Actor (Freeman).[209] At age 74 Eastwood became the oldest of eighteen directors to have directed two or more Best Picture winners.[210][211] He also received a nomination for Best Actor, as well as a Grammy nomination for his score,[212] and won a Golden Globe for Best Director, which was presented to him by daughter Kathryn, who was Miss Golden Globe at the 2005 ceremony.[213] A. O. Scott of The New York Times lauded the film as a "masterpiece" and the best film of the year.[214]
In 2006, Eastwood directed two films about World War II's Battle of Iwo Jima. The first, Flags of Our Fathers, focused on the men who raised the American flag on top of Mount Suribachi and featured the film debut of Eastwood's son Scott. This was followed by Letters from Iwo Jima, which dealt with the tactics of the Japanese soldiers on the island and the letters they wrote home to family members. Letters from Iwo Jima was the first American film to depict a war issue completely from the view of an American enemy.[215] Both films received praise from critics and garnered several nominations at the 79th Academy Awards, including Best Director, Best Picture, and Best Original Screenplay for Letters from Iwo Jima. At the 64th Golden Globe Awards Eastwood received nominations for Best Director in both films. Letters from Iwo Jima won the award for Best Foreign Language Film.
Eastwood next directed Changeling (2008), based on a true story set in the late 1920s. Angelina Jolie stars as a woman reunited with her missing son only to realize he is an impostor.[216] After its release at several film festivals the film grossed over $110 million (US$120 million in 2014 dollars[28]), the majority of which came from foreign markets.[217] The film was highly acclaimed, with Damon Wise of Empire describing Changeling as "flawless".[218] Todd McCarthy of Variety described it as "emotionally powerful and stylistically sure-handed" and that the film's characters and social commentary were brought into the story with an "almost breathtaking deliberation".[219] For the film Eastwood received nominations for Best Original Score at the 66th Golden Globe Awards, Best Direction at the 62nd British Academy Film Awards and director of the year from the London Film Critics' Circle.
Eastwood ended a four-year "self-imposed acting hiatus"[220] by appearing in Gran Torino, which he also directed, produced, and partly scored with his son Kyle and Jamie Cullum. Biographer Marc Eliot called Eastwood's role "an amalgam of the Man with No Name, Dirty Harry, and William Munny, here aged and cynical but willing and able to fight on whenever the need arose".[221] Gran Torino grossed almost $30 million (US$32.9 million in 2014 dollars[28]) during its opening weekend release in January 2009, the highest of his career as an actor or director.[222] Gran Torino eventually grossed over $268 million (US$294 million in 2014 dollars[28]) in theaters worldwide, becoming the highest-grossing film of Eastwood's career so far (without adjustment for inflation).
Eastwood's 30th directorial outing came with Invictus, a film based on the story of the South African team at the 1995 Rugby World Cup, with Morgan Freeman as Nelson Mandela, Matt Damon as rugby team captain François Pienaar and Grant L. Roberts as Ruben Kruger.[223] The film met with generally positive reviews; Roger Ebert gave it three and a half stars and described it as a "very good film... with moments evoking great emotion",[224] while Variety's Todd McCarthy wrote, "Inspirational on the face of it, Clint Eastwood's film has a predictable trajectory, but every scene brims with surprising details that accumulate into a rich fabric of history, cultural impressions and emotion."[225] For the film Eastwood was nominated for Best Director at the 67th Golden Globe Awards.
In 2010, Eastwood directed Hereafter, again working with Matt Damon, who portrayed a psychic. The film had its world premiere on September 12, 2010 at the 2010 Toronto International Film Festival and had a limited release later in October.[226][227] Hereafter received mixed reviews from critics, with the consensus at Rotten Tomatoes being, "Despite a thought-provoking premise and Clint Eastwood's typical flair as director, Hereafter fails to generate much compelling drama, straddling the line between poignant sentimentality and hokey tedium."[228] In the same year, Eastwood served as executive producer for a Turner Classic Movies (TCM) documentary about jazz pianist Dave Brubeck, Dave Brubeck: In His Own Sweet Way, to commemorate Brubeck's 90th birthday.[229]
In 2011, Eastwood directed J. Edgar, a biopic of FBI director J. Edgar Hoover, with Leonardo DiCaprio in the title role.[230] The film received mixed reviews, although DiCaprio's performance as Hoover was widely praised. The Rotten Tomatoes consensus was, "Leonardo DiCaprio gives a predictably powerhouse performance, but J. Edgar stumbles in all other departments".[231] Roger Ebert wrote that the film is "fascinating", "masterful", and praised DiCaprio's performance. David Edelstein of New York Magazine, while also praising DiCaprio, wrote, "It's too bad J. Edgar is so shapeless and turgid and ham-handed, so rich in bad lines and worse readings".[232] In January 2011, it was announced that Eastwood was in talks to direct Beyoncé Knowles in a third remake of the 1937 film A Star Is Born;[233] however, the project was delayed due to Beyoncé's pregnancy. Eastwood then starred in the baseball drama Trouble with the Curve (2012), as a veteran baseball scout who travels with his daughter for a final scouting trip. Robert Lorenz, who worked with Eastwood as an assistant director on several films, directed the film.[234]
"Everybody wonders why I continue working at this stage. I keep working because there's always new stories. ... And as long as people want me to tell them, I'll be there doing them."
During Super Bowl XLVI, Eastwood narrated a halftime advertisement for Chrysler titled "It’s Halftime in America".[236] The advertisement was criticized by several U.S. Republicans, who claimed it implied that President Barack Obama deserved a second term.[237] In response to the criticism, Eastwood stated, "I am certainly not politically affiliated with Mr. Obama. It was meant to be a message about job growth and the spirit of America."[238]
In June 2013, Eastwood was reportedly in preparation to direct a film adaptation of the Broadway musical, Jersey Boys.[239]
In August 2013, Eastwood was in talks to direct American Sniper, a film adaptation of Chris Kyle's eponymous memoir, following Steven Spielberg's departure from the project.[240] American Sniper is currently filming.[241]
Beginning with the thriller Play Misty for Me, Eastwood has directed over 30 films, including Westerns, action films, and dramas. He is one of few top Hollywood actors to have also become a critically and commercially successful director. The New Yorker wrote that, unlike Eastwood,[242]
John Ford appeared in just a few silent films; Howard Hawks never acted in movies. Clark Gable, Gary Cooper, Spencer Tracy, James Stewart, Cary Grant, Humphrey Bogart, William Holden, Steve McQueen, and Sean Connery never directed a feature. John Wayne directed only twice, and badly; ditto Burt Lancaster. Paul Newman, Jack Nicholson, Warren Beatty, Robert Redford, Robert De Niro, and Sean Penn have directed a few movies each, with mixed commercial and artistic success.
From the very early days of his career Eastwood was frustrated by directors' insistence that scenes be re-shot multiple times and perfected, and when he began directing in 1970, he made a conscious attempt to avoid any aspects of directing he had been indifferent to as an actor. As a result, Eastwood is renowned for his efficient film directing and ability to reduce filming time and to keep budgets under control. He usually avoids actors' rehearsing and prefers most scenes to be completed on the first take;[243][244] Eastwood's rapid filmmaking has been compared to Woody Allen, Ingmar Bergman, Jean-Luc Godard, and the Coen brothers. When acting in others' films he sometimes takes over directing, such as for The Outlaw Josey Wales, if he believes production is too slow.[242] In preparation for filming Eastwood rarely uses storyboards for developing the layout of a shooting schedule.[245][246][247] He also attempts to reduce script background details on characters to allow the audience to become more involved in the film,[248] considering their imagination a requirement for a film that connects with viewers.[248][249] Eastwood has indicated that he lays out a film's plot to provide the audience with necessary details, but not "so much that it insults their intelligence."[250]
According to Life magazine, "Eastwood's style is to shoot first and act afterward. He etches his characters virtually without words. He has developed the art of underplaying to the point that anyone around him who so much as flinches looks hammily histrionic."[251] Interviewers Richard Thompson and Tim Hunter note that Eastwood's films are "superbly paced: unhurried; cool; and [give] a strong sense of real time, regardless of the speed of the narrative"[252] while Ric Gentry considers Eastwood's pacing to be "unrushed and relaxed".[253] Eastwood is fond of low-key lighting and back-lighting to give his movies a "noir-ish" feel.[244][254]
Eastwood's frequent exploration of ethical values has drawn the attention of scholars, who have explored Eastwood's work from ethical and theological perspectives, including his portrayal of justice, mercy, suicide, and the angel of death.[255]
He has been described as a "serial womanizer."[6][256] According to biographers Patrick McGilligan and Marc Eliot, Eastwood had affairs with, among other notable women, actresses including Catherine Deneuve,[257][258] Jill Banner,[259] Inger Stevens,[260] Jamie Rose,[261] Jean Seberg,[262] and Jo Ann Harris,[263] as well as competitive swimmer Anita Lhoest[257] and story analyst Megan Rose.[264][265]
Eastwood, aged 23, married Maggie Johnson on December 19, 1953, six months after they met on a blind date.[266] However, the marriage would not prove altogether smooth, with Eastwood commenting that he had married too early.[267] A decade later, during a trial separation from Johnson, an affair Eastwood had with dancer Roxanne Tunis produced his first child, Kimber Eastwood (born Kimber Tunis; June 17, 1964),[268][269] whose existence was kept secret from the public until July 1989, when the National Enquirer revealed her identity.[270] After a reconciliation, he and Johnson had two children together: Kyle Eastwood (born May 19, 1968) and Alison Eastwood (born May 22, 1972), though he was absent from both births.[271] Johnson filed for legal separation in 1978 after another long period of estrangement, but did not officially divorce Eastwood until May 1984,[272][273] receiving a reported cash settlement of $25 million.[274]
Eastwood's relationship with actress Sondra Locke began in the autumn of 1975 while filming The Outlaw Josey Wales. They lived together for nearly fourteen years, although Locke remained legally married to her openly gay husband, Gordon Anderson.[275][276] Eastwood befriended Locke's husband and purchased a house in Crescent Heights for Anderson and his male companion.[269] In the late 1970s, Locke underwent two abortions and a tubal ligation,[277] later stating it was a "mutual decision" to have the procedures.[278] Eastwood and Locke went on to star in five more films together: The Gauntlet, Every Which Way But Loose, Bronco Billy, Any Which Way You Can, and Sudden Impact. On April 10, 1989, while Locke was away directing the film Impulse, Eastwood had the locks changed on their Bel-Air home and ordered her possessions to be boxed and put in storage.[279] Locke filed a palimony suit against Eastwood, and later sued him a second time for fraud, alleging that a directing pact he set up for her at Warner Bros. in exchange for dropping the first lawsuit was a sham.[280][281] In 1996, minutes before a jury was to render a verdict in Locke's favor, Eastwood agreed to settle for an undisclosed amount.[282] In her autobiography, The Good, the Bad, and the Very Ugly,[283] Locke described Eastwood as "a monster who thought nothing of destroying anything inconvenient to him."[284]
During the last three years of his cohabitation with Locke, Eastwood secretly fathered two children with flight attendant Jacelyn Reeves:[256] a son Scott Eastwood (born Scott Reeves; March 21, 1986)[285] and daughter Kathryn Eastwood (born Kathryn Reeves; February 2, 1988).[273] According to biographer McGilligan, "he and Reeves had got together at the premiere of Pale Rider, they had slept together on impulse, she had got pregnant, and since she made no great demands on Clint, he later repeated the experience."[286] The birth certificates for both children stated "Father declined."[287] The affair was first reported in the Star tabloid in 1990,[288] [289] but went unmentioned by mainstream news sources for more than a decade.[290]
In 1990, Eastwood moved in with actress Frances Fisher, whom he had met on the set of Pink Cadillac in late 1988.[291] They co-starred in Unforgiven, and had a daughter, Francesca Eastwood (born Francesca Fisher-Eastwood; August 7, 1993).[292] Eastwood and Fisher ended their relationship in early 1995,[293] but remain friends and later worked together in True Crime.
Eastwood subsequently started dating Dina Ruiz, a television news anchor 35 years his junior, whom he had first met when she interviewed him in 1993.[292] They married on March 31, 1996, when Eastwood surprised her with a private ceremony at a home on the Shadow Creek Golf Course in Las Vegas.[294] The couple has one daughter, Morgan Eastwood (born December 12, 1996).[295]
In August 2013, Dina Eastwood announced that she and her husband had been living separately for an undisclosed length of time.[296] On October 23, 2013, Eastwood's wife filed for divorce after she withdrew her request of a separation citing irreconcilable differences. She asked for full custody of their 16-year-old daughter, Morgan, as well as spousal support.[297] By this time, Eastwood, 83, was having a relationship with Erica Tomlinson-Fisher, 41.[298]
Despite smoking in some of his films, Eastwood is a lifelong non-smoker, has been conscious of his health and fitness since he was a teenager, and practices healthy eating and daily Transcendental Meditation.[299][300][301]
He opened an old English-inspired pub called the Hog's Breath Inn in Carmel-by-the-Sea in 1971.[302] Eastwood sold the pub and now owns the Mission Ranch Hotel and Restaurant located in Carmel-by-the-Sea.[303][304]
He is a keen golfer and owns the Tehàma Golf Club. He is an investor in the world-renowned Pebble Beach Golf Links and donates his time to charitable causes at major tournaments.[303][305][306] Eastwood is a certified pilot and often flies his helicopter to the studios to avoid traffic.[307][308]
On February 5, 2014, he saved a man's life by preventing him choking to death at a drinks reception in Carmel-by-the-Sea.[309][310]
Eastwood registered as a Republican to vote for Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952 and endorsed Richard Nixon's 1968 and 1972 presidential campaigns. However, during the subsequent Watergate scandal, Eastwood criticized Nixon's morality and later his handling of the Vietnam War, calling it "immoral".[311][312]
Eastwood has disapproved of America's wars in Korea (1950–1953), Vietnam (1964–1973), Afghanistan (2001–present), and Iraq (2003–2011), believing the United States should not be overly militaristic or play the role of global policeman.[313][314][315] He has referred to himself as "too individualistic to be either right-wing or left-wing",[316] describing himself in 1974 as "a political nothing" and "a moderate"[311] and in 1997 as a "libertarian".[317] "I don't see myself as conservative," Eastwood has stated, while noting in the same breath that he isn't "ultra-leftist", either.[318] At times, he has supported Democrats in California, including Senator Dianne Feinstein in 1994,[319][320][321] liberal United States House of Representatives member Sam Farr in 2002,[322] and Governor Gray Davis, whom he voted for in 1998 and 2002 and hosted pricey fundraisers for in 2002 and 2003.[323] A self-professed "liberal on civil rights",[311] Eastwood has stated that he is pro-choice on abortion.[317] He has endorsed same-sex marriage[318][324][325] and contributed to groups supporting the Equal Rights Amendment for women, which failed to receive ratification in 1982.[326]
In 1992, Eastwood acknowledged to writer David Breskin that his political views represented a fusion of Milton Friedman and Noam Chomsky and suggested that they would make for a worthwhile presidential ticket.[327] In 1999, Eastwood stated, "I guess I was a social liberal and fiscal conservative before it became fashionable."[328] Ten years later, in 2009, Eastwood said that he was now a registered Libertarian.[329]
Despite being heavily associated with firearms in his Westerns and cop movies, Eastwood has publicly endorsed gun control since at least 1973. In the April 24, 1973, edition of the Washington Post, the star stated that "I'm for gun legislation myself. I don't hunt."[330] Two years later, in 1975, Eastwood told People magazine that he favors "gun control to some degree".[331] About a year later, Eastwood remarked that "All guns should be registered. I don't think legitimate gun owners would mind that kind of legislation. Right now the furor against a gun law is by gun owners who are overreacting. They're worried that all guns are going to be recalled. It's impossible to take guns out of circulation, and that's why firearms should be registered and mail-order delivery of guns halted."[332] In 1993, he noted that he "... was always a backer" of the Brady Bill, with its federally mandated waiting period.[333] In 1995, Eastwood questioned the purpose of assault weapons. Larry King, the famous television host and newspaper columnist, wrote in the May 22, 1995, edition of USA Today that "My interview with Eastwood will air on 'Larry King Weekend' ... I asked him his thoughts on the NRA and gun control and he said that while people think of him as pro-gun, he has always been in favor of controls. 'Why would anyone need or want an assault weapon?' he said."[334]
As a politician, Eastwood has made successful forays into both local and state government. In April 1986, he won election as mayor (a nonpartisan position) of his adopted hometown, Carmel-by-the-Sea, California – a small, wealthy village and artists' community on the Monterey Peninsula.[335] During his two-year term, Eastwoood supported small business interests while advocating environmental protection and constructing a library annex, along with public restrooms, beach walkways, and a tourists' parking lot.[336][337] In 2001 Eastwood was appointed to the California State Park and Recreation Commission by Governor Davis,[338] then reappointed in 2004 by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger.[338] As the vice chairman of the commission, in 2005 along with chairman Bobby Shriver, he led the movement opposed to a six-lane 16-mile (26 km) extension of California State Route 241, a toll road that would cut through San Onofre State Beach. Eastwood and Shriver supported a 2006 lawsuit to block the toll road and urged the California Coastal Commission to reject the project, which it duly did in February 2008.[339] In March 2008 Eastwood and Shriver's non-reappointment to the commission on the expiry of their terms[339] prompted the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) to request a legislative investigation into the decision.[340] Governor Schwarzenegger appointed Eastwood to the California Film Commission in April 2004.[341] He was a spokesman for Take Pride in America, an agency of the United States Department of the Interior which advocates taking responsibility for natural, cultural, and historic resources.[342]
During the 2008 United States presidential election, Eastwood stated that he would be voting for John McCain,[343] citing the fact that he had known McCain since he returned to the US in 1973 as a recently released POW. Said Eastwood about the famous war veteran: "I met him years ago when he first came back from Vietnam. This was back when (Ronald) Reagan was the governor of California and he had a big function for all of the prisoners of war who were released. I thought he was a terrific guy, a real American hero." Nevertheless, Eastwood wished Barack Obama well upon his subsequent victory saying, "Obama is my president now and I am going to be wishing him the very best because it is what is best for all of us."[344] However, Eastwood has seemed to want stronger leadership from President Obama, stating in 2010, "I think he's a nice fella and I enjoyed watching him come along and I enjoyed watching him campaign and win the job. But I'm not a fan of what he's doing at the moment. ... I just don't think he's governing. I don't think he's surrounded himself with the people he could have surrounded himself with."[345]
In August 2010, Eastwood wrote to the British Chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, to protest the decision to close the UK Film Council, warning the closure could result in fewer foreign production companies choosing to work in Great Britain.[346]
In January 2011, Eastwood told the UK's Daily Mail that "I loved the fact that Obama is multi-racial. I thought that was terrific, as my wife is the same racial make-up. But I felt he was a greenhorn, and it turned out he didn't have experience in decision-making." As for McCain, Eastwood reflected, "I voted for McCain, not because he was a Republican, but because he had been through war (in Vietnam) and I thought he might understand the war in Iraq better than somebody who hadn't. I didn't agree with him on a lot of stuff."[315] On August 3, 2012, he attended a fundraiser for Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, suggesting that Romney would boost the country and "restore a decent tax system ... so that there's a fairness and people are not pitted against one another as [to] who's paying taxes and who isn't."[347] During a speech at the 2012 Republican National Convention, Eastwood talked to an empty chair as if President Barack Obama were sitting in it.[348][349][350]
Eastwood favors jazz (especially bebop), blues, classic rhythm-and-blues, classical, and country-and-western music; his favorite musicians include saxophonists Charlie Parker and Lester Young, pianists Thelonious Monk, Oscar Peterson, Dave Brubeck, and Fats Waller, and Delta bluesman Robert Johnson.[351] He is also a pianist and composer.[352] Jazz has played an important role in Eastwood's life from a young age and, although he never made it as a professional musician, he passed on the influence to his son Kyle Eastwood, a successful jazz bassist and composer. Eastwood developed as a boogie-woogie pianist early on and had originally intended to pursue a career in music by studying for a music theory degree after graduating from high school. In late 1959 he produced the album Cowboy Favorites, released on the Cameo label.[352]
Eastwood has his own Warner Bros. Records-distributed imprint Malpaso Records, as part of his deal with Warner Brothers, which has released all of the scores of Eastwood's films from The Bridges of Madison County onward. Eastwood co-wrote "Why Should I Care" with Linda Thompson and Carole Bayer Sager, which was recorded by Diana Krall.[353]
Eastwood composed the film scores of Mystic River, Million Dollar Baby, Flags of Our Fathers, Grace Is Gone, Changeling, Hereafter, J. Edgar, and the original piano compositions for In the Line of Fire. He wrote and performed the song heard over the credits of Gran Torino.[303] The music in Grace Is Gone received two Golden Globe nominations by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association for the 65th Golden Globe Awards. Eastwood was nominated for Best Original Score, while the song "Grace is Gone" with music by Eastwood and lyrics by Carole Bayer Sager was nominated for Best Original Song.[354] It won the Satellite Award for Best Song at the 12th Satellite Awards. Changeling was nominated for Best Score at the 14th Critics' Choice Awards, Best Original Score at the 66th Golden Globe Awards, and Best Music at the 35th Saturn Awards. On September 22, 2007, Eastwood was awarded an honorary Doctor of Music degree from the Berklee College of Music at the Monterey Jazz Festival, on which he serves as an active board member. Upon receiving the award he gave a speech claiming, "It's one of the great honors I'll cherish in this lifetime."[355]
Main articles: List of awards and nominations received by Clint Eastwood and List of awards and nominations received by Clint Eastwood by film
Eastwood has been recognized with multiple awards and nominations for his work in film, television, and music. His widest reception has been in film work, for which he has received Academy Awards, Directors Guild of America Awards, Golden Globe Awards, and People's Choice Awards, among others. Eastwood is one of only two people to have been twice nominated for Best Actor and Best Director for the same film (Unforgiven and Million Dollar Baby) the other being Warren Beatty (Heaven Can Wait and Reds). Along with Beatty, Robert Redford, Richard Attenborough, Kevin Costner, and Mel Gibson, he is one of the few directors best known as an actor to win an Academy Award for directing. On February 27, 2005, he became one of only three living directors (along with Miloš Forman and Francis Ford Coppola) to have directed two Best Picture winners.[356] Aged 74, he was the oldest to date recipient of the Academy Award for Best Director. Eastwood has directed five actors in Academy Award–winning performances: Gene Hackman in Unforgiven, Tim Robbins and Sean Penn in Mystic River, and Morgan Freeman and Hilary Swank in Million Dollar Baby.
On August 22, 1984, Eastwood was honored at a ceremony at Grauman's Chinese theater to record his hand and footprints in cement.[357] Eastwood received the AFI Life Achievement Award in 1996, and received an honorary degree from AFI in 2009. On December 6, 2006, California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and First Lady Maria Shriver inducted Eastwood into the California Hall of Fame located at The California Museum for History, Women, and the Arts.[358] In early 2007, Eastwood was presented with the highest civilian distinction in France, Légion d'honneur, at a ceremony in Paris. French President Jacques Chirac told Eastwood that he embodied "the best of Hollywood".[359] In October 2009, he was honored by the Lumière Award (in honor of the Lumière Brothers, inventors of the Cinematograph) during the first edition of the Lumière Film Festival in Lyon, France. This award honors his entire career and his major contribution to the 7th Art. In February 2010, Eastwood was recognized by President Barack Obama with an arts and humanities award. Obama described Eastwood's films as "essays in individuality, hard truths and the essence of what it means to be American."[360]
Eastwood has also been awarded at least three honorary degrees from universities and colleges, including an honorary degree from the University of the Pacific in 2006, an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from the University of Southern California on May 27, 2007, and an honorary Doctor of Music degree from the Berklee College of Music at the Monterey Jazz Festival on September 22, 2007.[361][362]
On July 22, 2009, Eastwood was bestowed by Emperor Akihito of Japan with the Order of the Rising Sun, 3rd class, Gold Rays with Neck Ribbon for his contributions to the enhancement of Japan–United States relations.[363]
Eastwood won the Golden Pine lifetime achievement award at the 2013 International Samobor Film Music Festival, along with Ryuichi Sakamoto and Gerald Fried.[364]
Eastwood has contributed to over 50 films over his career as actor, director, producer, and composer. He has acted in several television series, most notably starring in Rawhide. He started directing in 1971, and made his debut as a producer in 1982, with Firefox, though he had been functioning as uncredited producer on all of his Malpaso Company films since Hang 'Em High in 1968. Eastwood also has contributed music to his films, either through performing, writing, or composing. He has mainly starred in western, action, and drama films. According to the box office-revenue tracking website, Box Office Mojo, films featuring Eastwood have grossed a total of more than US$1.68 billion domestically, with an average of $37 million per film.[365]
Baker, Brian (2006). Masculinity in Fiction and Film: Representing Men in Popular Genres, 1945–2000. Continuum International Publishing Group. ISBN 978-0-8264-8652-3. 
Baldwin, Louis (1999). Turning Points: Pivotal Moments in the Careers of 83 Famous Figures. McFarland. ISBN 978-0-7864-0626-5. 
Canby, Vincent; Maslin, Janet; Nichols, Peter (1999). The New York Times Guide to the Best 1000 Movies Ever Made. New York: Times Books. ISBN 0-8129-3001-0. 
Cardullo, Bert (2010). Screen Writings: Genres, Classics, and Aesthetics. Anthem Press. ISBN 978-1-84331-837-8. 
Eliot, Marc (2009). American Rebel: The Life of Clint Eastwood. New York: Harmony Books. ISBN 978-0-307-33688-0. 
Fischer, Lucy; Landy, Marcia; Smith, Paul (2004). Stars: The Film Reader: Action Movie Hysteria of Eastwood Bound. London: Routledge. ISBN 0-415-27893-7. 
Fitzgerald, Michael G.; Magers, Boyd (2002). Ladies of the Western: Interviews With Fifty-One More Actresses from the Silent Era to the Television Westerns of the 1950s and 1960s. Jefferson, N.C.: McFarland. ISBN 0-7864-1140-6. 
Johnston, Robert K. (2007). Reframing Theology and Film: New Focus for an Emerging Discipline. Baker Academic. ISBN 978-0-8010-3240-0. 
Kapsis, Robert E.; Coblentz, Kathie, ed. (1999). Clint Eastwood: Interviews. Jackson: University Press of Mississippi. ISBN 1-57806-070-2. 
Lichtenfeld, Eric (2007). Action Speaks Louder. Middletown, Connecticut: Wesleyan University Press. ISBN 0-8195-6801-5. 
Lloyd, Ann; Robinson, David (1987). The Illustrated History of the Cinema. New York: Macmillan. ISBN 0-02-919241-2. 
Mathijs, Ernest; Mendik, Xavier (July 7, 2004). Alternative Europe: Eurotrash and Exploitation Cinema Since 1945. Wallflower Press. ISBN 978-1-903364-93-2. 
McGilligan, Patrick (1999). Clint: The Life and Legend. London: Harper Collins. ISBN 0-00-638354-8. 
Oates, Bob (1976). Celebrating the Dawn: Maharishi Mahesh Yogi and the TM Technique. New York: Putnam. ISBN 0-399-11815-2. 
Ivy Press (November 1, 2005). Heritage Vintage Movie Poster Signature Auction 2005 Catalog #624. Heritage Capital Corporation. ISBN 978-1-59967-004-1. 
Roberts, James B.; Skutt, Alexander (2006). The Boxing Register: International Boxing Hall of Fame Official Record Book. Ithaca, N.Y.: McBooks Press. ISBN 1-59013-121-5. 
Rogin, Michael Paul (1988). Ronald Reagan, the Movie and Other Episodes in Political Demonology. University of California Press. ISBN 978-0-520-06469-0. 
Slocum, J. David (2001). "Violence and American Cinema". AFI film readers (New York: Routledge). ISBN 0-415-92810-9. 
Smith, Paul (1993). Clint Eastwood: A Cultural Production: Volume 8 of American Culture. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press. ISBN 0-8166-1960-3. 
Sweeney, Patrick (December 13, 2004). The Gun Digest Book of Smith & Wesson. Gun Digest Books. ISBN 978-0-87349-792-3. 
Verlhac, Pierre-Henri; Bogdanovich, Peter (September 1, 2008). Clint Eastwood: A Life in Pictures. Chronicle Books. ISBN 978-0-8118-6154-0. 
Zmijewsky, Boris; Lee Pfeiffer (1982). The Films of Clint Eastwood. Secaucus, New Jersey: Citadel Press. ISBN 0-8065-0863-9. 
Cornell, Drucilla (2009). Clint Eastwood and Issues of American Masculinity. Fordham University Press. ISBN 978-0-8232-3013-6. 
Engel, Leonard (2007). Clint Eastwood, Actor and Director: New Perspectives. Salt Lake City: University of Utah Press. ISBN 0-87480-900-2. 
Gabbard, Glen O. (2001). "Psychoanalysis and Film". International Journal of Psychoanalysis Key Papers Series (London; New York: Karnac Books). ISBN 1-85575-275-1. 
Johnstone, Iain (2007). The Man with No Name: The Biography of Clint Eastwood. London: Plexus. ISBN 0-85965-026-X. 
Thompson, Douglas (2005). Clint Eastwood: Billion Dollar Man. London: John Blake. ISBN 978-1-85782-572-5. 
Categories: 1930 birthsLiving people20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsAkira Kurosawa Award winnersAmerican people of Dutch descentAmerican people of English descentAmerican people of Irish descentAmerican people of Scottish descentAmerican actor–politiciansAmerican aviatorsAmerican film score composersAmerican investorsAmerican jazz composersAmerican male film actorsAmerican male television actorsAmerican philanthropistsAmerican real estate businesspeopleAmerican restaurateursBest Director Academy Award winnersBest Director Golden Globe winnersBusinesspeople from the San Francisco Bay AreaCalifornia LibertariansCalifornia RepublicansCarmel-by-the-Sea, CaliforniaCecil B. DeMille Award Golden Globe winnersCésar Award winnersClint EastwoodCommandeurs of the Légion d'honneurEastwood familyFellini Gold MedalistsFellows of the American Academy of Arts and SciencesFilm directors from CaliforniaFilm producers from CaliforniaHelicopter pilotsKennedy Center honoreesMale Spaghetti Western actorsMale actors from Oakland, CaliforniaMale actors from San Francisco, CaliforniaMayors of places in CaliforniaMountaineering film directorsMusicians from the San Francisco Bay AreaPeople from Piedmont, CaliforniaProducers who won the Best Picture Academy AwardRecipients of the Order of the Rising Sun, 3rd classScreen Actors Guild Life Achievement AwardTranscendental Meditation practitionersUnited States Army soldiersUnited States National Medal of Arts recipientsWestern (genre) film directorsHidden categories: CS1 errors: datesWikipedia pending changes protected pages (level 1)Wikipedia protected pages without expiryUse mdy dates from February 2013Articles with hCardsArticles containing potentially dated statements from 2012All articles containing potentially dated statementsGood articlesWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
A look at the fascinating life of this talented actor, renowned for his way-out-west rugged charm and his portrayal of Dirty Harry.
With a diverse career that spans over six decades, from television and blockbuster movies, to writing film scores, and winning Academy Awards, Clint Eastwood has established himself as one of the most respected actors and directors of his time.
Eastwood’s decision to get into acting came in 1953 whilst he was serving as a G.I. and boot camp swimming instructor in the US Army. Based in Northern California, he was encouraged by fellow Army friends, David Janssen and Martin Milner, to move to Los Angeles and try acting. They saw that he had the rugged good looks and mysterious aura that might impress the big shots in Hollywood.
There was also a new girl in his life, Maggie Johnson, who was going to be moving back to her hometown of LA shortly after graduating from the University of Berkeley. She also had a hand in persuading him to head south to Hollywood. Smitten, the 23-year-old Eastwood married her just six months after they met. It was a marriage that would last 26 years, an impressive length of time for any Hollywood couple.
A few months after arriving in LA in 1954, Eastwood landed a contract with Universal Studios earning $75 a week playing small parts in B-grade movies such as 'Revenge of the Creature' (1955) and 'Tarantula' (1955). He was later dropped, on the same day as Burt Reynolds, because his Adam’s apple was too big!
Eastwood brushed off the dismissal and persisted with his acting career. In order to support himself financially, Eastwood earned a living for the next few months digging swimming pools in the Hollywood Hills. He managed to secure one-off appearances in TV episodes such as 'Death Valley Days' (1956) and 'West Point' (1957).
Then, in 1958, whilst going to visit a friend of Maggie’s at CBS, it seemed his luck had finally changed. He was approached by a man in a suit, a studio executive. He took a long look at Eastwood and asked, “Are you an actor?” It turned out that they were looking for someone to play the second lead in a western series called 'Rawhide' and Eastwood looked just like a cowboy. He could be the handsome cattle-driver, Rowdy Yates! Eastwood accepted and filming started shortly after.
Rawhide was one of forty other Western TV series in competition on our screens at the time it began. It became a lasting success and its longevity brought Eastwood financial security and fame. The series, which ran from 1958 – 1966, also featured a number of other notable actors including Charles Bronson, Mary Astor, Dean Martin, and Cesar Romero.
A fashionable thing for TV stars to do during this period was to release a pop record (providing you could actually sing!). When Rawhide limped into its seventh series, Clint Eastwood was keen to diversify and decided to put his vocals recording three pop songs, called 'Unknown Girl', 'Rowdy', and 'For You, and For Me, For Evermore'. An LP was later released called 'Rawhide’s Clint Eastwood Sings Cowboy Favourites', which was perhaps not the most memorable and inspiring record of 1962.
After Rawhide, Eastwood landed the role as “The Man With No Name” in the Dollars’ trilogy, which would lead him to stardom in the ‘spaghetti westerns’. Italian director, Sergio Leone desperately wanted to cast Henry Fonda or Charles Bronson for the lead, but he was on a very tight budget and simply couldn’t afford them. Eastwood agreed to take $15,000 and off he went to Spain, poncho in toe, to film 'A Fistful of Dollars' (1964). Leone’s trademark style of using little dialogue, extreme close-ups and a sense of gritty realism, suited Eastwood’s style of acting perfectly and the film was a surprise box-office smash.
The next two films in Leone’s trilogy, 'For a Few Dollars More', (1965), and 'The Good, the Bad and the Ugly', (1966), received considerably more funding due to the success of the first film. All three of Leone’s films were a commercial success in both Europe and the US. On returning home from Spain and Italy in 1966, Eastwood had become a fully-fledged movie star, the only post-1960 Hollywood cowboy.
Eastwood went on to star in another western, 'Hang ‘Em High' (1967) and then, in 'Coogan’s Bluff' (1968), where he played a deputy chief who doesn’t get on with his boss, and doesn’t do things by the book. This film marked the beginning of a long and prosperous collaboration with director, Don Siegel.
After starring with Richard Burton in 'Where Eagles Dare' (1968), and performing in the musical, 'Paint Your Wagon', Eastwood became irritated about how much money was being wasted during the making of such productions. He longed for more creative control of the movies in which he starred and so he decided to form his own production company. In 1968, Malpaso Productions was born.
Malpaso – known as ‘bad step’ in Spanish - is derived from the name of a creek, south of Carmel, where Eastwood spent much of his life. The name came to him after recalling the time his agent warned him not to agree to work on the Dollars’ trilogy, saying it would be a ‘bad step’. An ironic but funny choice.
Malpaso’s first film, directed by Don Siegel, was 'The Beguiled: The Storyteller' (1971), ranked by many critics as a veritable work of art. Based on the novel by Thomas Cullinan, it tells the story of an injured Civil War bluecoat who is given sanctuary in a girl’s finishing school. 1971 was a productive year for Eastwood - not only was Don Siegel directing Malpaso’s first movie, Eastwood finally got to direct his first film, a thriller called 'Play Misty For Me' (1971), in which he plays an affable DJ stalked by an obsessed female fan.
Eastwood then starred in what was his most famous role since the ‘Man With No Name’: Inspector Harry Callahan, the toughest trigger-happy cop in town, armed with a .44 Magnum and an explosive personality. The film was 'Dirty Harry' (1971).
"I know what you're thinking. Did he fire six shots or only five? Well, to tell you the truth, in all this excitement, I've kind of lost track myself. But being as this is a .44 Magnum, the most powerful handgun in the world, and would blow your head clear off, you've got to ask yourself one question: Do I feel lucky? Well, do ya punk?"
This tough-guy, anti-hero approach cemented Eastwood’s reputation as an electrifying talent but also as an actor who only appears as the archetypal violent American. Moreover, according to some critics, films like Dirty Harry, which was released during the Vietnam War, had underlying political connotations.
Eastwood has always maintained that all of his films are apolitical and what he has in mind when making a film is whether it's going to be entertaining and compelling. He’s been quoted as saying:
"People jumped to conclusions about Dirty Harry without giving the character much thought, trying to attach right-wing connotations to the film that were never really intended. I think it was interpreted as a pro-police point of view, as a kind of rightist heroism, at a time in American history when police officers were looked down on as 'pigs', as very oppressive people - I'm sure there are some who are, and a lot who aren't."
Eastwood is, however, open about being a Republican and in 1968, attended President Nixon’s landslide victory celebrations along with fellow actors, John Wayne, Charlton Heston and Glen Ford. Eastwood has also given his support to environmental causes, proving he’s a conservationist as well as a conservative!
Before, and after Dirty Harry, Eastwood’s love life was often the subject of much discussion among his peers and in the media. Photographs show him with a string of beautiful women by his side, but never with his wife, Maggie. Unsurprisingly, he was dubbed a womaniser and a “sexual cowboy”. Maggie had heard the rumours about her husband’s extra-marital affairs but never questioned him. She later said in one interview, “Other women? I was never realistic about some things. I used to always hope for the best… I didn’t dwell on it because it would probably have driven me insane. I just preferred to hang in there and not worry too much about it”.
After 15 years of marriage, Maggie finally persuaded her husband to give her a child. In 1968, their son, Kyle Clinton was born. But as Maggie was to find out in 1972, he had already fathered a child to Roxanne Tunis, an occasional extra on Rawhide, four years earlier (1964). They had both kept the birth a secret, and Eastwood promised to provide Roxanne continued financial stability for her and their daughter, Kimber.
In the same year that Maggie found out about Clint’s other family, another woman entered her husband’s life. Sondra Locke, who rose to fame in 'The Heart is a Lonely Hunter' (1968), was cast by Eastwood to star with him, in 'The Outlaw Josey Wales' (1976), which he also directed. It was during the production of this film that they began a romantic relationship. Locke was to star in five further movies with him, including 'The Gauntlet' (1977), 'Any Which Way You Can' (1980), 'Bronco Billy' (1980), 'Sudden Impact' (1983), and 'Every Which Way But Loose' (1978), the latter being the third biggest box office hit for Warner Brothers (following 'The Exorcist'), earning more than $60 million. Eastwood treated himself to a $100,000 Ferrari.
Having lived for the past two years with Sondra Locke, who was also married to someone else, Eastwood and Maggie Johnson finally decided to separate in January 1979. It was an amicable split, unlike the one Clint was to face nine years later with Locke, who leaked her lawsuit to the world’s media showing her entitlement for his two houses in LA and a chunk of his $140 million fortune.
In 1986, Eastwood ran for mayor of Carmel in Northern California, one of America’s richest communities. It was reported that his decision for running was due to a series of clashes he had had with the council because they refused planning permission to renovate his restaurant, the Hog’s Hearth. Once elected (he won with three quarters of the votes), he promised to take two years out of making films, to concentrate on his new role as mayor. Like many politicians, he didn’t live up to his promises, and went ahead and did two poorly received films: 'Heartbreak Ridge' (1986) and 'The Dead Pool' (1988).
During this period, Eastwood had two further children, this time with former air stewardess, Jacelyn Reeves. Scott Eastwood was born in 1986 and Kathryn Eastwood in 1988. He then had one more child out of wedlock in 1992, with actress Frances Fisher. Their daughter is called Francesca-Fisher-Eastwood. That same year Eastwood won an Academy Award for Best Director for 'Unforgiven' (Gene Hackman, Morgan Freeman), considered by many to be one of the greatest Western films of all time.
The 1990s also saw Eastwood appear in movies including 'In The Line of Fire' (1993), 'A Perfect World' (1993), 'The Bridges of Madison County' (1995), 'Absolute Power' (1997) and 'True Crime' (1999). He kicked off the new millennium by teaming up with Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Cromwell for 'Space Cowboys' (2000), which he also directed. The film won a Blockbuster Entertainment Award nomination for favourite action team and performed well at the box office.
After performing poorly at the box office with his next film, 'Blood Work', (2002) Eastwood went on to achieve great critical and commercial success with his subsequent projects as a director. 2003’s 'Mystic River', which starred Sean Penn and Tim Robbins, won him Academy Award nominations for best director and best picture. 'Million Dollar Baby' (2004), in which he also starred alongside Hilary Swank and Morgan Freeman, delivered the goods by winning four Academy Awards, including Best Picture.
Eastwood’s innovative take on the Battle of Iwo Jima, which saw him direct two movies released in 2006, delivered more award nominations and critical praise. While 'Flags of Our Fathers' portrayed the American viewpoint of the battle, 'Letters from Iwo Jima' told the story from the Japanese point of view and won a Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film, before being nominated for Best Picture at the Academy Awards. 'Grace Is Gone' (2008), as well as 'Changeling', 'Gran Torino' and 'Invictus', which were released in 2009, all won award nominations.
Although he is cutting back on screen time, Eastwood does not appear ready to down his tools yet behind the scenes and directed 2010's 'Hereafter' and 'Dave Brubeck: In His Own Sweet Way', and in 2012, 'J. Edgar'. He has too films set for release in 2014 and 2015 - 'Jersey Boys' and 'American Sniper' respectively.
His personal life also appears successful. In March 1996, Eastwood got married for the second time. He exchanged vows with former TV anchor Dina Ruiz, whom he met in 1992 after the success of 'Unforgiven'. They have a daughter together, called Morgan, and lived a happy, settled life at their Pebble Beach residence near Carmel, until August 2013, when they filed for divorce. Eastwood is currently dating 41 year-old Erica Tomlinson-Fisher.
Looking back over Eastwood’s impressive career, there is no doubt that his success on both sides of the camera has assured him a place in cinema history. The lean, laconic legend shows no signs of hanging up his Stetson just yet, with more projects still in the pipeline.
Right, so: now that we’ve convinced you Lifetime is a thing you need to have in your life – what now? How do you get this on your telly? Here’s what you have to do.
=======================================================
Birth Name: Clinton Eastwood Jr.Birth Place: San Francisco, California, United StatesDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 05/31/1930, GeminiProfession: Actor; director; producer; composer
Academy Award-winning producer/director. Oscar-nominated actor. Movie composer. Elected politician. Father of seven. After starting out as an uncredited bit player in '50s B-movies (Revenge of the Creature, Tarantula), the multitasking entertainment icon first came to fame in small-screen Westerns, notably Rawhide as the well-named trail boss Rowdy Yates. During his tenure on the series, he starred in A Fistful of Dollars, the first of a trilogy of '60s spaghetti Westerns directed by Italian auteur Sergio Leone. As the quiet but deadly Man with No Name in the aforementioned Dollars, For a Few Dollars More and The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, Eastwood found international fame. Clad in a black hat and ragged poncho, and locked in a frozen grimace, he was the ideal antihero for a tumultuous era. He continued to favor the genre stateside, appearing in a string of Westerns, including Coogan's Bluff, directed by frequent collaborator Don Siegel. 1971 was a career-changing year for Eastwood. He made his feature-film directorial debut with Play Misty for Me, a taut thriller starring Eastwood as a deejay stalked by a fan. In addition, he created his second seminal role, the title character in Siegel's Dirty Harry, a renegade San Francisco cop out to stop a serial killer and any other criminals unlucky enough to cross his path. During the '70s and '80s, Eastwood played Dirty Harry three more times and continued to headline Westerns, many of which he directed (High Plains Drifter; The Outlaw Josey Wales, opposite longtime love Sondra Locke). He even added comedies to his résumé (Every Which Way But Loose, costarring Locke and an orangutan) proving that his popularity crossed all genres. In the '80s, Eastwood kept up his breakneck pace, adding politics to his list of accomplishments when he was elected mayor of Carmel-by-the-Sea, California. In 1988, Eastwood bid adieu to Dirty Harry in the franchise's final installment The Dead Pool. That same year Eastwood was nominated for a Golden Palm at the Cannes Film Festival for helming Bird, the harrowing biopic of jazz great/heroin addict Charlie Parker. Although Eastwood continued to star in a number of films, the actor became increasingly recognizable for his talents behind the camera. At age 62, he earned his first-ever Oscar nominations, as the producer, director and star of the bleak 1992 revisionist Western Unforgiven (opposite then-girlfriend Frances Fisher), and took home statuettes for best director and best film. Eleven years later, after a string of commercially successful movies, including the romance The Bridges of Madison County and the actioner In the Line of Fire, Eastwood garnered two more Academy Award nods as director and producer of the bloody 2003 morality tale Mystic River. The next year, at age 74, the septuagenarian became the oldest Best Director Oscar winner for Million Dollar Baby. Following his Oscar win, Eastwood directed and/or starred in a number of successful films, including Gran Torino (2008) and Invictus (2010).Clint Eastwood Fast Facts:
Got breakthrough role as Rowdy Yates on Rawhide while visiting a friend on the CBS studio lot. An executive spotted him, thought he looked like a cowboy and asked him to audition. 
Wore the same poncho—and never washed it—-through the filming of A Fistful of Dollars, For a Few Dollars More, and The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, the three "Man With No Name" spaghetti westerns. 
Was set to play the villain Two-Face in the 1960s Batman series, but the show was cancelled before filming began. 
At age 74, was the oldest person ever to be honored with a Best Director Oscar for Million Dollar Baby (2004). 
At age 76 became the fifth-oldest nominee for a Best Director Oscar for Letters from Iwo Jima (2006). 
Daughter Francesca was named Miss Golden Globe 2013.Clint Eastwood Relationships: Roxanne Tunis - Ex-significant OtherSondra Locke - Ex-significant OtherJacelyn Reeves - Ex-significant OtherKimber Eastwood - DaughterKyle Eastwood - SonDina Eastwood - Wife (separated)Kathryn Ann Reeves - DaughterFrances Fisher - Ex-significant OtherMaggie Johnson - Ex-wifeMorgan Eastwood - DaughterFrancesca Eastwood - DaughterRuth Eastwood - MotherScott Reeves - SonAlison Eastwood - DaughterClinton Eastwood Sr. - FatherJean Eastwood - SisterClint Eastwood Awards: 2004 Australian Film Institute Awards:  Best Foreign Film - Nominee2004 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actor in a Leading Role - Nominee1992 Oscar:  Best Achievement in Directing - Winner2004 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture - Nominee1998 César Awards:  Honorary César - Winner1981 People's Choice Awards:  Favorite Motion Picture Actor - Winner1971 Golden Globe:  Henrietta Award (World Film Favorites) - Winner2005 Golden Globe:  Best Director - Motion Picture - Winner2004 Golden Globe:  Best Director - Motion Picture - Nominee2007 Golden Globe:  Best Director - Motion Picture - Nominee1993 Golden Globe:  Best Director - Motion Picture - Winner1989 Golden Globe:  Best Director - Motion Picture - Winner2005 Golden Globe:  Best Original Score - Motion Picture - Nominee2009 Golden Globe:  Best Original Song - Motion Picture - Nominee2004 Oscar:  Best Achievement in Directing - Winner2003 Oscar:  Best Achievement in Directing - Nominee2003 Oscar:  Best Motion Picture of the Year - Nominee2008 Golden Globe:  Best Original Song - Motion Picture - Nominee2008 Golden Globe:  Best Original Score - Motion Picture - Nominee1985 People's Choice Awards:  Favorite Motion Picture Actor - Winner1988 People's Choice Awards:  Favorite All-Time Motion Picture Star - Winner1992 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Film - Nominee2009 Golden Globe:  Best Original Score - Motion Picture - Nominee1987 People's Choice Awards:  Favorite Motion Picture Actor - Winner2002 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Life Achievement Award - Winner2006 Oscar:  Best Achievement in Directing - Nominee1992 BAFTA Film Awards:  The David Lean Award for Achievement in Direction - Nominee2008 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Director - Nominee1988 Golden Globe:  Cecil B. DeMille Award - Winner1992 Oscar:  Best Motion Picture of the Year - Winner2006 Oscar:  Best Motion Picture of the Year - Nominee1994 Oscar:  Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award - Winner2004 Oscar:  Best Motion Picture of the Year - Winner1992 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actor in a Leading Role - Nominee2010 Golden Globe:  Best Director - Motion Picture - Nominee1984 People's Choice Awards:  Favorite Motion Picture Actor - Winner2010 Emmy:  Outstanding Nonfiction Special - NomineeCollege: Attended Los Angeles City College, Los Angeles, California, United States
Buy Bird (A Film by Clint Eastwood) [HD] from Amazon.com (Amazon Instant Video)Usually ships in 1-2 business daysBuy New: $3.99 (as of 06/05/14 7:56 PM EST - more info)Buy The Clint Eastwood Star Collection (Fistful of Dollars / For A Few Dollars More / The Good, The Bad and The Ugly / Hang 'em High) from Amazon.comFrom MGM (Video & DVD) (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $36.88 (as of 06/05/14 7:56 PM EST - more info)
=======================================================
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
   background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/twister/tiny-snake._V192199047_.gif') no-repeat scroll 0px 0px;
  cursor: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-in._V184888790_.bmp'),pointer;
  cursor: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-out._V184888738_.bmp),pointer;
.swSprite { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; margin: 0;padding: 0; position: relative; overflow: hidden; vertical-align: middle; background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler div.disabled-button { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image {  background-position: -60px -80px;background-color: white;}
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image { background-position: -30px -80px; background-color: white;}
.dpSprite { background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-dp-2._V384267953_.png'); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.udpSprite { background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/udp-sprite-dp-2._V358106326_.png') no-repeat; vertical-align: middle; display: inline-block;}
.cmtySprite { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-communities._V136632413_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192250049_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V156431432_.png);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192190832_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite._V192250042_.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192239831_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/customerimage/shuttle-gradient._V192250138_.gif); 
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V192238939_.gif');
    background: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/sprite-carousel-btns-stars2._V376388587_.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_left_17._V248144977_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_right_17._V248144979_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_left._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top._V265110086_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_left._V265110084_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom._V265110084_.png); }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-arrow-v._V219326286_.png);
     #twister .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; } #twister .a-dropdown-container span.a-button-dropdown { display: none !important } 	
     #buybox_feature_div .a-native-dropdown, #buybox .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; font-weight: normal;}
     #buybox_feature_div label.a-native-dropdown, #buybox label.a-native-dropdown {padding-right: 5px;}
     #buybox_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown, #buybox .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown  { display: none !important;} 
     #defaultChildDropdown_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown { display: none !important;}
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York TimesŽ Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
No Kindle device required. Download one of the free Kindle apps to start reading Kindle books on your smartphone, tablet and computer.
FREE Two-Day Shipping is available to Amazon Prime members. To join, select "Yes, I want FREE Two-Day Shipping with Amazon Prime" above the Add to Cart button and confirm your Amazon Prime free trial sign-up during checkout.
Important:  Your credit card will NOT be charged when you start your free trial or if you cancel during the trial period. If you're happy with Amazon Prime, do nothing. At the end of the free trial, your membership will automatically upgrade to an annual membership.
Comment: Pages are smooth and clear, with minimal folds or creases. Minor page curl. Free of any markings or labels. Minor to moderate surface wear to cover includes rubbing to edges. *** Fast Amazon shipping, delivery tracking number, no-hassle return policy - your satisfaction is guaranteed! 
Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) is a service we offer sellers that lets them store their products in Amazon's fulfillment centers, and we directly pack, ship, and provide customer service for these products. Something we hope you'll especially enjoy: FBA items qualify for FREE Shipping and .
    * https://omni-grok.amazon.com/xref/src/appgroup/websiteTemplates/retail/SoftlinesDetailPageAssets/udp-intl-lock/src/legacy.css?indexName=WebsiteTemplates#40
 "Authoritative . . . highly nuanced . . . gives the reader a palpable sense of Mr. Eastwood's career."--The New York TimesFrom the moment The Man With No Name first fixed the screen with his murderous squint, from the first time audiences heard Dirty Harry Callahan growl "Make my day," Clint Eastwood has been an icon of American manhood in all its coolness and ferocity. But that icon is also an actor of surprising subtlety, a filmmaker of vast intelligence and originality--and an intensely private man who eludes the stereotypes with which his fans and critics try to label him.In this in-depth biography, the distinguished film critic Richard Schickel talks with Eastwood's family, friends, and colleagues--and, above all, with his notoriously reticent subject--to produce a portrait more astute and revealing than any we have ever had. Following Eastwood from his unstable childhood through his turbulent love affairs, assessing films from A Fistful of Dollars to the Oscar-winning The Unforgiven, and locating the subversive streak of rage and solitude that runs through all his work, Clint Eastwood is candid and endlessly fascinating, an unerring closeup of one of our brightest stars."Exhilarating . . . substantial, insightful, and right."--Newsday
{"currencyCode":"USD","itemData":[{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":15.16,"ASIN":"0679749918","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":13.06,"ASIN":"0307336891","isPreorder":0}],"shippingId":"0679749918::eOxHYB9UoLeBMY0suatcjEu65Ddv%2BzTZgLSsNgyzQ1VdJFRs4tOKdSKj%2Bp21RlODCJwyA5FajVHM7HeeJjMXYcYPDvKvml7PeqCv4LE4DZw%3D,0307336891::wFh5J7G8ofbzuEm7imC%2B59NT8o6YXa4%2BM2zYhD1pe0h%2BTBPmt%2BBjsp8u5hiDGpmMwVu%2FbxbNTEFx6FB%2FheaVctR7wb56KoAamgmK2q2IJUaMVSdK%2BhrL1w%3D%3D","sprites":{"addToWishlist":["wl_one","wl_two","wl_three"],"addToCart":["s_addToCart","s_addBothToCart","s_add3ToCart"],"preorder":["s_preorderThis","s_preorderBoth","s_preorderAll3"]},"shippingDetails":{"xy":"same"},"tags":["x","y","z"],"strings":{"addToWishlist":["add to wishlist","Add both to Wish List","Add all three to Wish List"],"addToCart":["Add to Cart","Add both to Cart","Add all three to Cart"],"showDetailsDefault":"Show availability and shipping details","shippingError":"An error occurred, please try again","hideDetailsDefault":"Hide availability and shipping details","priceLabel":["Price:","Price for both:","Price for all three:"],"preorder":["Pre-order this item","Pre-order both items","Pre-order all three items"]}}
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V397906885_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-right._V192549178_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_br._V192190565_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_03._V192190907_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-topleft._V192549173_.gif');
Tell us that you'd like this title to be produced as an audiobook, and we'll alert our colleagues at Audible.com. If you are the author or rights holder, let Audible help you produce the audiobook: Learn more at ACX.com. 
       Schickel, a movie critic for Time magazine, surveys the life and career of Hollywood's laconic macho superstar. Eastwood's career has slowly developed: television success in Rawhide; his icon-defining role as the nameless gunslinger in Sergio Leone's spaghetti Westerns; movie superstardom with the Dirty Harry series; then a softening, and even some intellectual respectability, with his Oscar for directing Unforgiven. Shickel chronicles Eastwood's middle-class upbringing in Oakland, California, details a personal life that included a drive to bed many women, and recasts Eastwood from his role as the male equivalent of the "dumb blonde" to that of "one of the great ironists of the age."
       The career of actor and filmmaker Clint Eastwood has been one of the most unusual in cinema history. Starting out as a bit player in such 1950s films as The Return of the Creature and Tarantula, and then as a young hunk in the TV series Rawhide, Eastwood hurtled to international fame in 1964 by starring in an Italian western made in Spain, Sergio Leone's A Fistful of Dollars. It took Eastwood another 20 years, however, to begin to win over critics. His ascent from critical contempt to adulation, even as he has remained enormously popular with fans, forms the heart of this superb biography. Schickel (Brando), a film critic for Time magazine, is a friend of Eastwood's, but this privilege doesn't blinker his critical eye. The actor's personal life is evoked in telling detail, and Eastwood's relentless womanizing isn't whitewashed. The core of the book, though, is Schickel's passionate defense of Eastwood as actor and director; in fact, he makes a convincing case for Eastwood as one of the most important and influential filmmakers of his generation. The production and critical reception of Eastwood's most important films are recounted in detail; especially outstanding is Schickel's analysis of the still-controversial Dirty Harry. Schickel zeros in on Eastwood's appeal, showing through his acute interpretive readings of the films how the actor combines the masculine authority and repressed rage of Gary Cooper and John Wayne with an almost postmodern ironic self-consciousness. Some of Eastwood's most compelling films (The Beguiled; Tightrope; Unforgiven), Schickel contends, have deliberately played with, and even subverted, the usual cliches of masculine film performance. No mere celebrity bio, this is a beautifully written, comprehensive and astonishingly insightful study of a man who, seemingly against all odds, has achieved world renown as both a pop culture icon and an accomplished film artist. Photos, not seen by PW. 100,000 first printing. Copyright 1996 Reed Business Information, Inc.
    .quotes-bubble-arrow { height: 0; width: 0; left: 18px; border-color: #EEEEEE rgba(238,238,238,0); border-width: 15px 0 0 19px; border-style: solid; position:relative; content:""; }
  An interesting look at the last great icon of American cinema.Jamie CooperIn his 14th book, Schickel isn't exactly obsequious toward Eastwood, but he comes close, frequently crossing the line to hagiography.Matthew BudmanThe long book is made longer by merciless padding, including detailed and completely unnecessary plot summaries of the films.Rory Coker
There's plenty of opportunity to gripe about this biography: The writing style is ponderous and sometimes downright clumsy, there's not enough details about Clint's private life, there's too much trivia about incidental movie roles (i.e. Witches.)  But that aside it is nice to see a serious examination of Clint the Film Maker, which I might add does offer good critical examination of his movies, pointing out many of the movies' weaknesses as well as their strengths, and offering solid reasons for why the theme or story appealed to Clint.  Pigeonholed early by narrowminded critics for his supposedly anti-establishment, brutal movies, he had to wait another twenty years for the critical tide to turn and for there to be a re-evaluation of his contribution to cinema (at least here in the U.S. -- in other parts of the world he'd long been recognized as a great director and actor.)  And still some of the best movies he's done (whether he directed them or not) are not given the credit they deserve by self-important critics: Beguiled, Play Misty for Me, Thunderbolt and Lightfoot, The Outlaw Josey Wales, White Hunter Black Heart, Bird all come to mind as well as many others.  In forty years of making movies beginning with A Fistful of Dollars, most of the time coming out with a movie a year, he's been involved in less than a handful of mediocre movies, none of them ranking as truly bad.  The Rookie and City Heat come to mind as truly mediocre movies, certainly bordering on bad, and there's a couple of others that had good potential but turned out to be bad decisions on his part, but  I consider that a fantastic track record.Read more ›
  Richard Schickel is a friend of Clint Eastwood. That itself shouldn't disqualify him from writing this book.The problem with the book is that it is very biased, he spends an absurd portion of the book defending Eastwood from an assortment of negative movie critiques, predominantly those of Pauline Kael.I am a fan of most of Clint Eastwood's films and movie critics have never been a factor in formulating my opinion of any particular movie. And I don't see why Clint Eastwood's work needs defending!"Clint Eastwood-a Biography" is otherwise loaded with some fascinating facts about Eastwood's life and career.Schickel describes how Eastwood obtained various scripts for movies that he was involved in as an actor, director, and sometimes both.The details include his relationship with other stars, directors, and producers.Who proposed the forming of Malpaso and how monumental that company became is another topic in the book.I found it interesting that Clint turned down the part of "Harmonica" in "Once Upon a Time in the West". That's the role that Charles Bronson accepted in a movie that eventually came to be regarded as one of the best westerns of all time and a personal favorite of mine.The book details Eastwood's inherited musical talent and how deeply jazz has influenced the actor both musically and in film.Clint solves the mystery of the identity of his character in "High Plains Drifter".Another aspect of Eastwood as a director is the location of shoots for the "Eiger Sanction" and "Unforgiven". His sense of realism can be extreme, but admirable.Overall "Clint Eastwood-a Biography" has a lot of trivia-type information and can be entertaining. What downgrades the book considerably is the seemingly endless ranting about the negative reviews from movie critics.
  This is an excellent book about the life and work of a legend. Richard Schickel gives us a close look at the free spirited man that's living inside of the veteran actor. Very detail work about Mr. Eastwood's movie making process and his no bulls**t attitude toward the studio execs and anyone who stands on his way. Ms. Pauline Kael should just say it out loud that she's begging for the legend's attention or just shut the hell up. Any Eastwood fan will really appreciate the author's work.
  If you are looking for a thick book about actor/director Clint Eastwood's life and career, illustrated with some unusual photos, then this will fill the bill.  If you want an objective biography of Eastwood, together with an objective analysis of his film work, this is not the book you want.  Schickel was basically an employee and friend of Eastwood during the researching and writing of the book, and he tends to ignore or downplay the dark side of Eastwood's activities, particularly his alleged "women are like kleenex" philosophy, and his alleged cruelty toward former collaborators.The long book is made longer by merciless padding, including detailed and completely unnecessary plot summaries of the films.Viewed from 2004, Clint Eastwood is an important actor--- as good an actor as Jimmy Stewart and as iconic an actor as John Wayne. He is also an important and stylish director, and justifiably famous for his gentle ways with cast and crew, as well as his efficiency in coming in under budget.  One of the author's continuing themes, brought up on nearly every page, turns upon  the consistent misunderstanding of Eastwood, both as actor and director, by two generations of famous mainstream film critics.  This theme wears thin quickly when one realizes that there is probably not a single case in which famous mainstream film critics have had the slightest clue as to the value, importance and significance of any new film or film star.Eastwood is an important figure in 20th Century cinema, and he deserves an objective, scholarly, independently-researched analysis of all aspects of his life and career.  I don't know of one... we'll keep looking.
      Go read McGilligan's unauthorized version if you want the complete story, but this version isn't too bad of a read.
      As with most biographies about movie stars, "Clint Eastwood: A Biography" is a very disappointing biography.
      This is a must read if you love authorized biographys, free from pesky facts that contradict the legend.
      I was looking for more about his personal life, but it is mainly about his film career. Apparently he isn't that interesting of a person.
      I was very interested in reading a biography of Clint Eastwood and this one was the most popular but I have to agree with the overall poor ratings.
      It is obvious that Mr. Schickel is a movie critic, a good friend of Mr. Eastwood and an apologist of practically everything the film icon has done that is questionable.
      Several folks here have given this book a bad review simply because the author and subject are friends.  So what?
      Eastwood has always been one of my favorite action stars. Generally a stiff and unsurprising actor, he has played virtually the same character in all his movies.
      Being a huge fan of Eastwood as well as a close personal friend creates quite the conflict in TIME film critic Richard Schickel as he attempts to write a biography about an artist...
      With few biographies of Clint Eastwood available, Richard Schickel's 1996 effort fills a void. Unfortunately, the void, though smaller, still exists since this is far from an...
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMens GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
.ap_classic { border-top:1px solid #ccc;border-left:1px solid #ccc;border-bottom:1px solid #2F2F1D; border-right:1px solid #2F2F1D;background-color:#EFEDD4;padding:3px; }
.ap_classic .ap_content { clear:both;background-color:white;border:1px solid #ACA976;padding:8px;font-size:11px; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png");  
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV  Amazons Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
The first time he spoke lines to a camera, he blew them. A couple of pictures later he spoke his lines perfectly, but he was buried so deep in a dark scene that he couldn't be seen. Toward the end of his first year as an actor, he had a nice little scene with a major star on a major production, and he found a good-looking pair of glasses that he thought gave him a bit of character. But Rock Hudson thought the same thing when he saw the kid wearing them, and Clint had to surrender his specs to the leading man.
This was Clint Eastwood's life as an eager young contract player at Universal circa 1955, and it turned out to be a short one--the studio dropped him after a year and a half. On his own, he did what young actors do: played scenes in acting classes, worked out at the gym, went on auditions, did odd jobs (mostly he dug swimming pools under the hot sun of the San Fernando Valley). Every once in a while he got an acting job--on Highway Patrol, on Death Valley Days. Once a big time show flew him east to work on location on West Point Stories. He got to bully James Garner on an episode of Maverick. A couple of times his heart leapt up: he got good billing in a feature, The First Traveling Saleslady, playing opposite Carol Channing; and he thought for awhile that he had one of the leads in another feature, Lafayette Escadrille. But the first film was a flop, and he had to settle for a much 
smaller role in the second. When he finally got a decent part in a movie, it was in a B western so bad it almost caused him to quit the business. 
In short, his was the archetypal show-biz struggle. It ended archetypically, too. He was visiting a friend at CBS and strolling down one of its long corridors of power, when a man in a suit, an executive, popped out of a door, took a long look at this nice-looking kid and asked, "Are you an actor!" Turned out he was looking for someone to play the second lead in a western series called Rawhide that the network was about to produce. Thus was Rowdy Yates born. Thus did Clint Eastwood achieve his first fame and, if not fortune, then the security of a running part in a series that lasted seven years. 
Rowdy was like most everyone else Clint played in those years--a nice young man, politely spoken and highly principled, but to him, not very interesting. He once told an interviewer that he knew he "wouldn't make any impact until [his] 30s" because in those days he still looked like he was about 18 and "had a certain amount of living to do." Alas, he was still playing Rowdy, still in effect a juvenile, when he reached his early 30s, which was terribly frustrating to him. Which is why he agreed to spend the 1964 Rawhide hiatus in Spain making a western for an unknown Italian director. The money was poor, the prestige nonexistent, but the film that was eventually released as A Fistful of Dollars offered him a character he had never played--a grizzled grown-up, tough and morally ambiguous. 
Clint has never been given sufficient credit for the imaginative leap this undertaking represented, for the courage it required to willfully subvert his safe, boyish image of the time. By taking this long shot, he not only ended his long apprenticeship, he became a true rarity--an entirely self-made star. 
The essays presented in this biography were written by Richard Schickel and originally appear inside Starwave's 1995 Eastwood CD-ROM inset. Coincidentally,  Richard Schickel is also the author of the book, Eastwood: A Biography.
.form {background-color:#ffffff;color:#330000;font-family:Verdana,Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;font-size:12px;vertical-align:middle}
