=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Daniel Wroughton Craig[1] (born 2 March 1968)[2][3] is an English actor. He has played British secret agent James Bond since 2006.[4] Craig is an alumnus of the National Youth Theatre and graduated from the Guildhall School of Music and Drama in London, beginning his career on stage. His early on-screen appearances were in the films Elizabeth, The Power of One and A Kid in King Arthur's Court, and in Sharpe's Eagle and Zorro on television.
His appearances in the British films Love Is the Devil, The Trench and Some Voices attracted the industry's attention, leading to roles in bigger productions such as Lara Croft: Tomb Raider, Road to Perdition, Layer Cake and Munich. Craig achieved international fame when chosen as the sixth actor to play the role of James Bond in the official series, replacing Pierce Brosnan. Though he was initially greeted with skepticism, his debut in Casino Royale was highly acclaimed and earned him a BAFTA award nomination, with the film becoming the highest-grossing in the series at the time.
Quantum of Solace followed two years later. His third Bond film, Skyfall, premiered in 2012 and is now the highest-grossing film in the series, as well as the ninth highest-grossing film of all time.[5][6] In 2006, Craig joined the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Since taking the role of Bond, he has continued to appear in other films, most recently starring in the English language adaptation of The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. Craig made a guest appearance as Bond in the opening ceremony of the London 2012 Olympic Games, alongside Queen Elizabeth II.
Craig was born in Chester, Cheshire.[7] His mother, Carol Olivia (née Williams), was an art teacher, and his father, Timothy John Wroughton Craig, was the landlord of the pubs "Ring o' Bells" (in Frodsham) and the "Boot Inn" (Willington, Tarporley), having served as a midshipman in the Merchant Navy.[8][9][10] Both of Craig's parents were of half-Welsh descent.[11]
Craig was brought up on the Wirral Peninsula,[12] near Liverpool, and attended primary school in Frodsham, and later Holy Trinity Primary School[13] in Hoylake. After failing his Eleven plus, Craig (along with his older sister, Lea) attended Hilbre High School in nearby West Kirby.[14] Upon finishing his compulsory secondary school education at the age of sixteen, he joined Calday Grange Grammar School briefly as a sixth form student.[15] Craig played for Hoylake RFC Rugby Union Club.[16] He began acting in school plays at the age of six, and was introduced to serious acting by attending the Everyman theatre in nearby Liverpool city centre with his mother.[17] Craig moved to London when he was sixteen to join the National Youth Theatre.[10] He attended the Guildhall School of Music and Drama at the Barbican and graduated in 1991 after three years of study under Colin McCormack.[18]
Craig appeared as Joe in the Royal National Theatre's production of Tony Kushner's Angels in America in November 1993. Also in 1993, Craig appeared in an episode of Yorkshire Television's Heartbeat, which aired 31 October 1993.[19] An early starring role was as 'Geordie' in the BBC's 1996 drama Our Friends in the North, with early film roles being as Angelina Jolie's rival and love interest in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001), before appearing in Sam Mendes's movie Road to Perdition (2002), with Tom Hanks and Paul Newman. Other leading film roles include Sword of Honour (2001), The Mother (2003) with Anne Reid, Sylvia (2003) with Gwyneth Paltrow, Layer Cake (2004) with Sienna Miller, Enduring Love (2004) with Rhys Ifans, Steven Spielberg's Munich (2005) with Eric Bana, Infamous and Casino Royale (2006), The Golden Compass (2007), Quantum of Solace, Defiance (2008), Cowboys & Aliens (2011), The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo (2011), and Skyfall (2012).
In 2005, Craig was contracted by Eon Productions to portray James Bond. He stated he "was aware of the challenges" of the Bond franchise which he considered "a big machine that makes a lot of money". He aimed at bringing more "emotional depth" to the character.[20] Born in 1968, Craig is the first actor to portray James Bond to have been born after the Bond series started, and after the death of Ian Fleming, the novels' writer. Significant controversy followed the decision, as it was doubted if the producers had made the right choice. Throughout the entire production period Internet campaigns expressed their dissatisfaction and threatened to boycott the film in protest.[21]
The 5-foot-10-inch (178 cm) blond Craig was not considered by some protesters to fit the tall, dark Bond portrayed by the previous Bond actors, and to which viewers had apparently become accustomed.[22] The Daily Mirror ran a front page news story critical of Craig, with the headline, "The Name's Bland – James Bland".[23] Although the choice of Craig was controversial, numerous actors publicly voiced their support, most notably, four of the five actors who had previously portrayed Bond – Pierce Brosnan,[24] Timothy Dalton, Sean Connery and Roger Moore – called his casting a good decision. George Lazenby has since voiced his approval of Craig also.[25] Clive Owen, who had been linked to the role, also spoke in defence of Craig.[26]
The first film, Casino Royale, premiered 14 November 2006, and grossed a total of US$594,239,066 worldwide, which made it the highest-grossing Bond film until the release of Skyfall.[27] After the film was released, Craig's performance was highly acclaimed.[28] As production of Casino Royale reached its conclusion, producers Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli announced that pre-production work had already begun on the 22nd Bond film. After several months of speculation as to the release date, Wilson and Broccoli officially announced on 20 July 2006, that the follow-up film, Quantum of Solace,[29] was to be released on 7 November 2008, and that Craig would play Bond with an option for a third film.[30] On 25 October 2007, MGM CEO Harry Sloan revealed at the Forbes Meet II Conference that Craig had signed on to make four more Bond films, through to Bond 25.[31]
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences extended a membership invitation to Craig in 2006.[32] Craig sliced off the top of one of his fingers 12 June 2008, while filming Quantum of Solace.[33] The accident was one of a string of incidents surrounding the shoot, including a fire at one of the sets in Pinewood Studios, a car crash that left the stunt driver in a serious condition, and an Aston Martin skidding off the road and plunging into Lake Garda while being transported to the set in Italy.[34]
Craig describes his portrayal of Bond as an anti-hero: "The question I keep asking myself while playing the role is, 'Am I the good guy or just a bad guy who works for the good side?' Bond's role, after all, is that of an assassin when you come down to it. I have never played a role in which someone's dark side shouldn't be explored. I don't think it should be confusing by the end of the film, but during the film you should be questioning who he is."[35] Craig has stated that his own favourite previous Bond actor is Sean Connery, but says, "I'd never copy somebody else. I would never do an impression of anybody else or try and improve on what they did. That would be a pointless exercise for me." His own favourite Bond film is From Russia with Love.[36] On a James Bond-centric episode of The South Bank Show, Connery divulged his thoughts on Craig's casting as Bond, whom he described as "fantastic, marvelous in the part". When told that Craig had taken particular note of his performances, Connery said that he was "flattered" and that Craig really gets the "danger element" to Bond's character.[37]
The 19 April 2010-release of Craig's expected third Bond film (the 23rd overall in the series) was delayed, because of financial troubles with MGM,[38] but the film (Skyfall) was released on 23 October 2012, and was part of the year-long celebration of the 50th anniversary of Dr. No.[39] On 8 September 2012, Bond producers announced Craig had signed on for two future Bond films and not five as previously reported. This would bring his total to five films, which would be two fewer than Roger Moore's record of seven.[citation needed]
In 1999, Craig starred as Richard in a TV drama called Shockers: The Visitor. He portrayed Lord Asriel in The Golden Compass, the 2007 film adaptation of Philip Pullman's novel.[40] Eva Green, who played Bond girl Vesper Lynd in Casino Royale, also starred in the film, although she did not appear in any scenes with Craig. In a stage version of the book, Asriel had previously been played by Timothy Dalton, one of Craig's predecessors in the role of James Bond.
In early 2001, Craig expressed an interest in being a part of the Star Trek franchise, professing his love of the series to the World Entertainment News Network and a desire to have a "stint in the TV show or a film. It's been a secret ambition of mine for years."[41] On 16 March 2007, Craig made a cameo appearance as himself in a sketch with Catherine Tate who appeared in the guise of her character Elaine Figgis from The Catherine Tate Show. The sketch was made for the BBC Red Nose Day 2007 fundraising programme.[42]
In 2008's Defiance, he played Tuvia Bielski, a Jewish resistance fighter in the forests of Belarus during World War II who saved 1,200 people.[43] The shot in Casino Royale of Craig sporting swimming trunks has often topped many sexiest male celebrity polls,[44] and in 2009 Del Monte Foods launched an ice pop moulded to resemble Craig emerging from the sea.[45] He co-starred with Hugh Jackman in a limited engagement of the drama A Steady Rain, on Broadway, which played from 10 September through 6 December 2009 at the Schoenfeld Theatre.[46]
Craig lent his voice and likeness as James Bond for both the Wii game GoldenEye 007, an enhanced remake of the 1997 game for the Nintendo 64, and James Bond 007: Blood Stone, an original game for Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, Nintendo DS, and Microsoft Windows.[47] In August 2010, Craig was cast as crusading journalist Mikael Blomkvist in David Fincher's 2011 adaptation of Stieg Larsson's novel The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo.[48] Craig co-starred with Harrison Ford and Olivia Wilde in Cowboys & Aliens, an American science fiction Western film, based on Scott Mitchell Rosenberg's 2006 graphic novel of the same name.[49][50]
Craig hosted the American late-night live television sketch comedy Saturday Night Live on 6 October 2012.[51][52]
He and his wife starred in the Broadway play titled Betrayal. It began performances in October 2013, and continued until January 2014.[53][54] Despite mixed reviews, it grossed $17.5 million, becoming the second highest broadway play of 2013.[55]
Craig was set to star in the courtroom drama The Whole Truth directed by Courtney Hunt. In April 2014 just a few days before filming was set to commence he dropped out of the project for unknown reasons.
In 1992, Craig married actress Fiona Loudon, with whom he had a daughter, Ella. The marriage ended in divorce in 1994.[56] He is a longtime friend of actor Mark Strong and is the godfather of Strong's eldest son.[57]
After his divorce, he was in a seven-year relationship with German actress Heike Makatsch, ending in 2001.[58] He subsequently dated film producer Satsuki Mitchell from 2005 until 2010,[59][60] and reportedly had an affair with Sienna Miller in 2005.[61]
Craig and actress Rachel Weisz had been friends for many years, and worked together on the movie Dream House. They began dating in December 2010 and married on 22 June 2011,[59][62][63] in a private New York City ceremony, with just four guests in attendance, including Craig's 18-year-old daughter, Ella, and Weisz's 5-year-old son, Henry.[64]
In October 2008, Craig paid £4 million for an apartment in a converted old house in Primrose Hill near Regent's Park, London.[65] He also has a house in Sunninghill outside Ascot. He is a Liverpool FC supporter.[66] In 2013, he was given an Aston Martin V12 Vantage Roadster for his 45th birthday by his wife Rachel Weisz.[67]
Marshall, Sarah (2007). Daniel Craig: The Biography. John Blake Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84454-454-7. 
O'Brien, Daniel (2007). Daniel Craig – Ultimate Professional. Reynolds & Hearn Ltd. ISBN 978-1-905287-44-4. 
Ogle, Tina (2009). Daniel Craig: The Illustrated Biography. Carlton Books. ISBN 978-1-84732-266-1. 
Categories: 1968 births20th-century English male actors21st-century English male actorsActors from CheshireAlumni of the Guildhall School of Music and DramaBest Actor Empire Award winnersEnglish male film actorsEnglish male modelsEnglish people of Welsh descentEnglish male radio actorsEnglish male stage actorsEnglish male television actorsEnglish male video game actorsEnglish male voice actorsJames BondLiving peopleNational Youth Theatre membersPeople educated at Calday Grange Grammar SchoolPeople from ChesterRoyal National Theatre Company membersHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from March 2011Articles with Polish-language external linksArticles with dead external links from April 2012Articles with dead external links from September 2010Use British English from November 2012Use dmy dates from July 2013Articles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2014Commons category with local link same as on WikidataGood articlesWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Daniel Craig, one of British theatre's most famous faces who was waiting tables as a struggling teenage actor with the NYT, went on to star as "James Bond" in Casino Royale (2006), Quantum of Solace (2008) and Skyfall (2012).He was born Daniel Wroughton Craig on March 2, 1968, at 41 Liverpool Road, Chester, Cheshire, England. His father, Tim Craig, was a merchant seaman turned steel erector, then became landlord of "Ring O' Bells" pub in Frodsham, Cheshire. His mother, Carol Olivia Craig, was an art teacher. His parents split up in 1972, and young Daniel Craig was raised with his older sister, Lea, in Liverpool, then in Hoylake, Wirral, in the home of his mother. His interest in acting was encouraged by visits to the Liverpool Everyman Theatre arranged by his mother. From the age of 6, Craig started acting in school plays, making his debut in the Frodsham Primary School production of "Oliver!", and his mother was the driving force behind his artistic aspirations. The first Bond movie he ever saw at the cinema was Roger Moore's Live and Let Die (1973); young Daniel Craig saw it with his father, so it took a special place in his heart. He was also a good athlete and was a rugby player at Hoylake Rugby Club.At the age of 14, Craig played roles in "Oliver", "Romeo and Juliet" and "Cinderella" at Hilbre High School in West Kirby, Wirral, UK. He left Hilbre High at 16 to audition at the National Youth Theatre's (NYT) troupe on their tour in Manchester in 1984. He was accepted and moved down to London. There, his mother and father watched his stage debut as "Agamemnon" in Shakespeare's "Troilus and Cressida". As a struggling actor with the NYT, he was toiling in restaurant kitchens and as a waiter. Craig performed with NYT on tours to Valencia, Spain, and to Moscow, Russia, under the leadership of director Edward Wilson. He failed at repeated auditions at the Guildhall, but eventually his persistence paid off, and in 1988, he entered the Guildhall School of Music and Drama at the Barbican. There, he studied alongside Ewan McGregor and Alistair McGowan, then later Damian Lewis and Joseph Fiennes, among others. He graduated in 1991, after a three-year course under the tutelage of Colin McCormack, the actor from the Royal Shakespeare Company. From 1992-1994, he was married to Scottish actress Fiona Loudon, their daughter, named Ella Craig, was born in 1992. Daniel Craig made his film debut in The Power of One (1992). His film career continued on television, notably the BBC2 serial Our Friends in the North (1996). He shot to international fame after playing supporting roles in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001) and Road to Perdition (2002). He was nominated for his performances in the leading role in Layer Cake (2004), and received other awards and nominations. Craig was named as the sixth actor to portray "James Bond", in October of 2005, weeks after he finished his work in Munich (2005), where he co-starred with Eric Bana under the directorship of Steven Spielberg.Craig's reserved demeanor and his avoidance of the showbiz-party-red-carpet milieu makes him a cool "007". He is the first blonde actor to play Bond, and also the first to be born after the start of the film series, and also the first to be born after the death of author Ian Fleming in 1964. Four of the past Bond actors: Sean Connery, Roger Moore, Timothy Dalton and Pierce Brosnan have indicated that Craig is a good choice as "Bond".
      He was nominated for a 2002 London Evening Standard Theatre Award for Best Actor for his performance in A Number at the Royal Court Theatre Downstairs.
      One of the many actors considered to take over James Bond from Pierce Brosnan. He officially accepted the role in October, 2005.
      Was the last actor considered for the role of "Rorschach" in the movie adaptation of Alan Moore's comic-book mini-series, Watchmen (2009).
      Was the only member of the Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001) cast to be a huge fan of the Tomb Raider video games. His favorite in the series was Tomb Raider II (1997), released in 1997.
      His then girlfriend Satsuki Mitchell accompanied him to the world premiere of Casino Royale (2006) in London. It was their first public appearance together.
      Appeared in Sharpe's Eagle (1993) with Sean Bean. Bean played the villain in GoldenEye (1995), which was directed by Martin Campbell, who also directed Casino Royale (2006).
      While being relatively tall standing at 5 feet and 11 inches, he is the shortest actor to play the role of James Bond.
      Lord Aisrael, his character from The Golden Compass (2007), was previously played by Timothy Dalton in a London theater production. Craig and Dalton have also, of course, shared the role of James Bond.
      Between 2005 and 2008, Craig played militant Jewish soldiers or fighters three times in fairly quick succession: in Sorstalanság (2005) ("Fateless"), he plays an American soldier who identifies himself as Jewish while liberating a concentration camp; in Munich (2005), he plays the most militant member of a team of Mossad agents assigned to assassinate the terrorists responsible for killing Israeli athletes at the 1972 Munich Olympics; and in Defiance (2008), he plays one of three Jewish brothers who escape from Nazi-occupied Poland to join the resistance.
      He was a fan of the fantasy trilogy, His Dark Materials by Philip Pullman, before he was cast in the the trilogy's first chapter The Golden Compass (2007).
      Became good friends with Nicole Kidman, after they worked together on The Invasion (2007), and The Golden Compass (2007).
      While incognito at a cinema in the USA, he was once asked if anyone had ever told him that he looked like Daniel Craig. He answered "no" and walked away.
      Made his film debut in The Power of One (1992), which also featured John Gielgud. He later appeared in Elizabeth (1998), which turned out to be Gielgud's final film role.
      Is the fourth actor to play James Bond in more than two films, along with Sean Connery, Roger Moore, and Pierce Brosnan.
      January 30th: Started shooting on his new film Casino Royale (2006) in the Bahamas. [January 2006]
      People always say, "That stuff you did in Love Is the Devil: Study for a Portrait of Francis Bacon (1998) must have been difficult . . . but I say, "No, it wasn't really; that was some of the easier stuff to do", because it was always clear and made a lot of sense. It's when things are unclear and when you don't know what you're doing--that's when things are difficult.
      As far as I'm concerned, I want to be nowhere else. It's difficult in film because everybody wants to make a safe bet with roles. But if you are going to do stuff then you should be getting strong reactions. I don't want audiences to be going, 'Yeah, that's all right.'
      It's something else. I'm speechless. I've just got to step up to the plate and deal with it. I had a confidence about it but then that's because of the people around me who made me feel good about it. I knew positively on Monday. I was in Baltimore when I took the call. My first reaction was I needed a drink.
      I hate handguns. Handguns are used to shoot people and as long as they are around, people will shoot each other. That's a simple fact. I've seen a bullet wound and it was a mess. It was on a shoot and it scared me. Bullets have a nasty habit of finding their target and that's what's scary about them.
      I kind of feel that if you look at the track record of most Bonds - I mean Sean Connery obviously defined the part, and even he struggled for a while to get rid of the mantle. That's the pitfall and it could happen to me. I've been working so hard, for however long it is I've been doing this, to try and stick to doing stuff I totally believe in and that would be wiped out. I thought, God, this is all right: I'm doing what I want to do. And that was a huge weight off my shoulders.
      I just wanted to see him [James Bond] make a few mistakes. I want to make the audience believe that it's all going to go wrong and then when it goes right it's much more exciting. Every day you pick up an injury and you're battered and bruised. If you're not physically fit then it's difficult to get through. I'm a Bond fan. If I go and see a Bond movie there are certain things I think should be in it. And they're there. We've got them in spades. Nobody knows more than I do how important this is, and it's my job to get it right.
      [on the backlash from Bond fans] I didn't expect this backlash. You take it in, you can't help it. I've been trying to give 110% since the beginning, but after all the fuss, maybe I started giving 115%.
      [interview in Entertainment Weekly magazine] If I went onto the Internet and started looking at what some people were saying about me - which, sadly, I have done - it would drive me insane.
      [interview in Entertainment Weekly magazine] They [diehard James Bond fans] hate me. They don't think I'm right for the role. It's as simple as that. They're passionate about it, which I understand, but I do wish they'd reserve judgment.
      I hope it's going to be liberating. I'm not putting any negative spin on this because to be typecast as James Bond is a very high-class problem for an actor, and I'm certainly going to try to get as much out of it as I can. Of course I am always going to think about whether it is going to limit what I do. I plan for it not to, but if it does, I'll approach that problem when it comes.
      I wanted to do as much of the action work as I could, so that the audience can see it's me and it's real. I feel like I became a sportsman of sorts, and that meant acquiring injuries and carrying on and bashing through to the next level of pain. Although the stunt team did fantastic work to make sure that everything was as safe as possible, if you don't get bruised playing Bond, you're not doing it properly. I had black eyes, I had cuts, I was bruised, I had muscle strains, and I took a lot of painkillers. But it was part of the job. As much as I was hurt, the stuntmen were in much more pain.
      I was affected by it - of course I was. What bothered me was that I was being criticized before I had done the work. I wasn't going to get into an argument with these people, so my only response was, 'See the movie and then you have the right to criticize, but first see what I am trying to do.' It strengthened my resolve. I was hurt by it, but it just made me try harder. The pressure was there. I know a lot of people feel very passionate about the Bond movies, but so do I, so I just got on with it. What I tried to achieve was just making a movie people will want to go and see, and I think we have made a great movie. One of the things I was criticized for was that I looked like a bad guy, but I was happy with that because I think true good guys have to step into the dark side to do their job. I wanted people to question Bond's morals and his judgment.
Sean Connery set and defined the character. He did something extraordinary with that role. He was bad, sexy, animalistic and stylish, and it is because of him I am here today. I wanted Sean Connery's approval and he sent me messages of support, which meant a lot to me.
      [interview with David Giammarco, Hello! magazine, 11/27/06, about the plot for "Bond 21"] What we've done is set in process the idea that there's an organization out there and Bond is now after them. That's where we will pick up the next film. There's going to be a real element of revenge.
      [on-set interview with David Giammarco, The Globe and Mail, 3/27/06] I got a personal trainer for Casino Royale (2006), which has been an absolute godsend. I knew I had to be in the best shape I could be, otherwise I would never survive it. Because at the end of the day, there isn't any painting-it-in for this movie. These stunts aren't going to be helped by CGI . . . what you're seeing is the real thing. And I've got the bruises to prove it!
      [interview with David Giammarco, Hello! magazine, 11/27/06, on on being approached to take over the James Bond character] [Pierce Brosnan] and I had a few drinks over it and we discussed it. And his advice to me was, "Go for it!"--which I think is the best advice I could've gotten.
      [on preparing for his second James Bond performance] Last time I did a lot of weights to bulk up. This time I'll do more running. I won't be as "no-neck". But when this guy takes his shirt off, he should look like he could kill someone.
      Method actors suggest that you do sense memory exercises every time you do a scene. I use every method I can. Whatever works, I'll use.
      Well, competition is so important, even when you're an artist. And if you deny that there's competition, then you're a liar. That's what gives you your ambition.
      [on first hearing he had the role of James Bond) When [Bond producer Barbara Broccoli] rang me to tell me I'd got the part, I was buying dishwashing tablets in Whole Foods. I promptly dropped them and went and bought a bottle of vodka!
      arking on an injury he sustained on the set of Quantum of Solace (2008)] I lost my fingerprint, so now I can go out and commit all sorts of crimes.
      [on the delayed sequel to Quantum of Solace (2008)] The new Bond movie is on hold but I am champing at the bit to get going on it as quickly as possible. I love playing Bond - I don't want to be away from it for too long.
      I think there's a lot to be said for keeping your own counsel. It's not about being afraid to be public with your emotions or about who you are and what you stand for. But if you sell it off it's gone. You can't buy it back - you can't buy your privacy back. Ooh, I want to be alone. Fuck you. We've been in your living room. We were at your birth. You filmed it for us and showed us the placenta and now you want some privacy? Look at the Kardashians, they're worth millions. I don't think they were that badly off to begin with but now look at them. You see that and you think, 'What, you mean all I have to do is behave like a fucking idiot on television and then you'll pay me millions.' I'm not judging it - well, I am obviously.
      You talk to people in the movie business who have been doing this 40 years and they all say the difference is that, back in the day, you could go and have a drink in the bar, get drunk, fall over, have a good time, relax, whatever, and no one would know about it. But now everyone's got a camera. Not that all I want to do is get drunk in a bar, but that's an example. So you can't live a normal life anymore. Because it will become public knowledge that you've whatever-gotten drunk in a bar or skinny-dipped on a beach or something. Things that normal people do occasionally. And in a way that's kind of-I've got to be high-class. I've done a lot of things in my life. But you have to think in that way. Which is sad, because I like bars.
      [on how the character of James Bond has matured over time] What I'm doing is not what Pierce was doing, and Pierce wasn't doing what Roger Moore was doing, or what Sean was doing, or what Timothy [Dalton] was doing. Things have changed. It's just kind of the ride of it. Pierce used to say that it's like being responsible for a small country. It's kind of like you have to look after it diplomatically. I kind of get that, but I can't really say that's my deal. I'm not going to be the poster boy for this. Although I am the poster boy.It's amazing how many times I've sat in interviews like this in a bar or a hotel, and it's 11 o'clock in the morning and someone sends a martini over [laughing]. And it's like, Really? It's 11 o'clock! Cheers! I'm not going to drink it.
      [on product placement and the controversy over "Skyfall's" featuring of Heineken and not a martini] Now, product placement, whichever way you look at it, whether you like it or you think it's disgusting, or whatever, it's what it is. . . . Heineken gave us a ton of money for there to be Heineken in a shot in a bar. So, how easy is that? Just to say, O.K., there's Heineken. It's there-it's in the back of the shot. Without them, the movie couldn't get sold, so that all got kind of blown up. 'Bond's new drink is a Heineken.' He likes a lot of drinks-Heineken, champagne; it's all in there. I'll drink a beer in the shot, I'm happy to, but I'm not going to do an 'Ahhhhh' [pantomiming an actor looking refreshed]. And I would say this because they're paying, but they're kind of respectful about it. They don't want to screw the movie up.
      [on independent film] Sometimes shooting on a smaller scale, as long as things don't blow out of proportion, is very liberating. But I wouldn't like to self-consciously go out and look for some nice small project just to get a chance to prove my acting chops. It's like, I think I've... done enough of that.
      Most people who behave in a macho way, it's bluster. Most of the time we're all bullshitting our way through life. There are strong people on this planet, but it's all the swan technique: it looks beautiful on top and the legs are going like this, underneath, you know? Someone like Bond, it's 90 per cent confidence.
      [on the evolution of James Bond in his movies] Sexual politics has come a long way since '62, unless you want us slapping ladies on the ass and telling them to go and wait in the other room because the men are talking and that kind of stuff. Bond remains a little bit of a chauvinist, which I think is good, because it means if you stick strong women in front of him, then shit happens. It doesn't take the sexiness out of it. The fact is he could die in any minute, and therefore he might as well jump into bed with somebody.
      [on being asked to perform with Queen Elizabeth at the opening of the 2010 Olympics] My first reaction was 'How many people will be watching? A billion and a half?'! I guess I'm doing this!' She was great, a really good sport. When they brought it to me, they'd already told her that I'd be doing it. I didn't have much of a choice. It was literally a Luca Brasi situation from 'The Godfather' - an offer I couldn't refuse.
      Everybody always moans, 'Where's Bond gone? Where's all the jokes?' Well, give us time! I always had a master plan in the back of my head that with the third movie - if I ever got there - it would be time to take the gloves off and bring the gags back in'.
=======================================================
The world is full of what ifs, what might have beens. Where would we be now if we'd been braver, more loyal to our dreams? Would we be richer? More famous? Happier? Daniel Craig is a fine modern example of how things can turn out for the best. After the uproarious success of the series Our Friends In The North, he was cast by the tabloids as tough northern totty. Stereotyping TV offers came flooding in, lifestyle magazines were constantly knocking at his door. At the very least, he was all set to be the next Jimmy Nail.Instead, loathing this trivial publicity, he turned down the offers and walked away. With his eyes set on a more glittering prize, he honed his craft in a series of art-house and European productions, entering the mainstream only when a part demanded deep emotional exploration. And eventually, inevitably, his remarkable intensity saw him recognised at the highest levels. First Sam Mendes snapped him up to star alongside Tom Hanks and Paul Newman in Road To Perdition. Then it was the turn of Steven Spielberg. And then came James Bond. Craig's earlier, risky choice bore rich fruit, indeed. He was born Daniel Wroughton Craig on the 11th of November, 1968, at 41, Liverpool Road, Chester. His father, Tim, was a former merchant seaman turned steel erector (later landlord of the Ring O'Bells in Frodsham, Cheshire), while his mother, Carol Olivia (called Olivia), was a teacher. He had one sister, Lea, older than himself. Olivia had attended Liverpool Art College and won a place at RADA (which she didn't take up), and it was this background that most influenced Daniel after his parents divorced, Olivia taking him and Lea to live in central Liverpool when he was just 4. His mother spent a lot of time at the city's famously left-wing Everyman Theatre, then in its heyday with Bernard Hill, Julie Walters, Willy Russell and Alan Bleasdale strutting their stuff. The young boy would soak in the life onstage and in the Green Room, enjoying the larger-than-life camaraderie. It was this, and seeing these familiar faces on TV, that convinced Craig that he too would become an actor. He now claims this epiphany took place when he was just 6.When Daniel was 9, the family would move to Hoylake, on the west coast of the Wirrel, looking out over Liverpool Bay. Here, having failed his 11-Plus, he was sent to a tough secondary modern. At Hilbre High School at nearby West Kirby (other former pupils include cyclist Chris Boardman and pop stars The Coral and Orchestral Manoevres In The Dark) he played rugby (he also played for Hoylake Rugby Club), supported the then near-invincible Liverpool FC and joined in with the school's plays, taking the lead in Oliver, Romeo And Juliet and Cinderella. Academically, however, he was not a good student. This is not to say he was disinterested as he reacted well when his mother (who'd get remarried to the artist Max Blond) fed his imagination with literature. Indeed, having received Ted Hughes' Crow on his 10th birthday, he would even sneak into a local girls' grammar school to hear Hughes read selections from his work (he recalls Hughes' voice being a disappointing monotone). It was just that play-acting was all he ever wanted to do, and this meant the "realistic" play-acting of the Everyman. To Craig and his classmates, Shakespeare was a foreign language and classical theatre just upper-class poncing around onstage.. This was not easy for Olivia to accept. Like most mothers, she wanted her son to gain a proper education, particularly as Liverpool in the middle of Margaret Thatcher's reign was a depressing black hole of unemployment and despair. Yet when Daniel had reached 16 and was clearly not up for further studies - he'd left school, tried a foundation course, then chucked it in - she supported him. She applied on his behalf to the National Youth Theatre and sent him to the troupe's Manchester auditions in 1984. And her efforts paid off - he was accepted.Moving down to London, Craig worked to finance his seasons with the NYT, toiling mostly in restaurant kitchens and as a waiter. These were hard times. He crashed on friends' floors many, many times and was not above renting flats and doing a runner when payments were long overdue. But there were many great moments. His parents watching his proper stage debut as Agamemnon in Troilus And Cressida was one. The NYT tours to Valencia and Moscow, under the guardianship of director Ed Wilson, were also a relief from the constant poverty.What he really wanted, though, was a place at drama school, and it was not readily forthcoming. At repeated auditions he admits to "failing miserably", but at last he was taken on by the renowned Guildhall School of Music and Drama at the Barbican, being tutored by the Royal Shakespeare Company and Royal Court stalwart Colin McCormack. Here, between 1988 and 1991, he would receive one of the country's finest and harshest thespian educations, and was in good company, his early peers including Rhys Ifans, Ewan McGregor and Alistair McGowan, then later Joseph Fiennes and Damian Lewis.His career proper would begin very promisingly, being cast, even before leaving the school, in the high-budget movie The Power Of One. This followed the story of an English-speaking orphan in South Africa who's sent to an Afrikaans school. Here he falls foul of a Brit-hating neo-Nazi clique and is bullied mercilessly. Tired of the beatings, when grown he turns to trainer Morgan Freeman and learns to box, his victories making him a symbol of racial unity. Craig would turn up as the former head bully, now a cruel and corrupt officer in the state security force, menacing the hero's girl and generally asking for it big-time. And, of course, this being John Avildsen's anti-apartheid version of his own Rocky, get it he does.. Craig would later explain that the only roles available to British actors in the early Nineties were Nazis or fops. He even admits to cultivating a tousled mop in the hope of scoring a Merchant-Ivory part. This situation certainly explains why his second outing saw him as a mean German officer, battling it out with Sean Patrick Flanery's Young Indiana Jones in Daredevils Of The Desert. This, written by Frank Darabont (soon to find fame with The Shawshank Redemption), had begun as an episode of the Young Indie TV series, then been extended to two hours and released to video. In it, Flanery would aid the Brits and Aussies in an attack on a Turkish-held desert town, become involved in intrigue with a glamorous spy (Catherine Zeta Jones in a very early Hollywood outing) and finally get into a major scrap with Daniel. The film was also notable for its extensive use of action footage from director Simon Wincer's earlier work The Lighthorsemen.Both these productions would be released in 1992 (as would a Zorro movie, tacked together from two episodes of the TVseries), a busy year for Daniel. He'd also appear on TV in an episode of Boon, and onstage at Hammersmith's Lyric Theatre in No Remission, with the Midnight Theatre Company. This was a tough prison drama where a bank robber, a double murderer and a paratrooper who's torn someone's ribcage open would be forced to share a cell. Craig would play the soldier, cold and carrying himself with military precision until he cracks when his cell-mates reveal that Christabelle, the girl he adores, is no more than a common tart. It was a great success, for Daniel in particular, The Independent review saying that he"contains his violence like an unexploded mine".There was also a further opportunity on TV, unfortunately one that turned to dust. This was Covington Cross, a mediaeval family drama set around the time of the Crusades. Made by Thames TV ostensibly for the American market, there'd be jousting tournaments and Robin Hood fugures, witches and romance. The series would furthermore reunite Nigel Terry and Cherie Lunghi, Arthur and Guinevere from John Boorman's brilliant Excalibur (Craig's future co-star Alex Kingston would also pop up). Sadly, in the US only seven of the first 13 shows were aired while, in the UK, the pilot was screened at Christmas, 1992, but the series remained unseen. Nevertheless, things were looking good for Daniel. Having met and married Scottish actress Fiona Loudon (they were both 24), 1992 saw him become a father for the first time, his wife bearing him a daughter, Ella.This busy beginning did not, though, lead to a meteoric rise, rather a gradual consolidation. 1993 saw Daniel appear in episodes of the news satire Drop The Dead Donkey, the hard-hitting police corruption series Between The Lines, and the soft country cop caper Heartbeat. Onstage, he appeared at the Royal National Theatre in the original London production of Angels In America, the fantastical, Pulitzer Prize-winning AIDS drama. Here he would play four roles, one being that of Joseph Porter Pitt, a married but secretly homosexual Republican protege of the infamous Roy Cohn. There'd also be two major TV dramas. First came Sharpe's Eagle, a continuance of Bernard Cornwell's Peninsular War saga. Here Sean Bean's Sharpe takes over a useless batallion, much to the chagrin of the regiment's commander who sets two beastly officers, one being Daniel, to insult, undermine and generally rile our hero. Daniel sets about this with much gusto, even setting about Sharpe's girlfriend with a riding crop and consequently accepts Sharpe's offer of a duel. Before this can take place, though, they're sent out on patrol together and Daniel is done in just as he's aiming to sneakily cause Sharpe's demise. As with his earlier fascists, he made a fine fist of another brooding hoodlum. The year would end with a brief role in the black comedy Genghis Cohn, where Robert Lindsay played a former camp commandant haunted by a Jewish comedian he'd murdered.. The next year would see Craig onstage once again, in The Rover, for the Women's Playhouse Trust. This was a dark Restoration comedy, involving mercenaries enjoying a night on the town (literally raping and pillaging), and featuring Dougray Scott and Andy Serkis. It was a very lively production, staged in a sand-filled arena, with actors whizzing around on bikes and rickshaws, and would be filmed by the BBC. Then, on the big screen, there'd be the Disney movie A Kid In King Arthur's Court, a rewrite of the Mark Twain novel, where an American kiddie is summoned accidentally by Merlin and expected to save Camelot from an evil knight, who plans to steal the kingdom and marry the king's beautiful daughter, played by Kate Winslet. Daniel would appear as Master Kane, a stable-boy that Winslet loves and longs to marry.In 1996, his work paid off. His major breakthrough came with the lauded and popular TV series Our Friends In The North, which followed four Newcastle buddies (Craig, Christopher Eccleston, Gina McKee and Mark Strong) from innocent beginnings in 1964, through the social turbulence of the Thatcher years, and on to a happy-ish reunion in 1995. While Eccleston and McKee entered the world of Labour politics, Craig's Geordie Peacock would give up on a dodgy pop career to work for London porn baron Malcolm McDowell, getting involved in all manner of sexy shenanigans before being sent down for McDowell's sins and swearing revenge. It really was the most eye-catching part, as he returned home to start selling drugs for corrupt coppers before descending into dosserdom and, after a spot of arson, getting jailed for life - only to escape and rediscover his old mates. It was no wonder the tabloids latched onto him as a sexy reprobate and began to push him into a box reserved usually for soap opera hard-men.. Craig quickly tired of the media circus, wishing instead to be seen as a "serious actor". This was fair enough, as Our Friends In The North was just one of many very varied onscreen appearances in 1996. Aside from showing up beside Gayle Hunnicutt and Ute Lemper in an episode of Tales From The Crypt, there was also a headlining role in the complicated police drama Kiss And Tell. Here Craig would play a sloppy cop, on the verge of being fired, who stakes his career on catching a man suspected of killing his missing wife. Daniel gets his psychologist ex-girlfriend to romance the subject in order to con a confession out of him, but grows desperately jealous when he listens in on their conversations. Meanwhile, the missing wife, if she's alive, must be found and treated for cancer.On top of this, there was Andrew Davies' high-profile and bawdy adaptation of Daniel Defoe's The Fortunes And Misfortunes Of Moll Flanders. With former colleague Alex Kingston in the title role, this told the tale of a street girl who attempts to wangle her way to a fortune, using her body as a passport and a weapon. Returning from an initial trip to the new world of Virginia, she poses as a lady in order to snag a rich hubbie, only to fall for highwayman Daniel, himself pretending to be wealthy so he can catch a wife capable of restoring his bankrupt estate. Obviously made for one another, they would nevertheless endure a tempestuous relationship that set a big TV audience's pulse racing. Naturally, this didn't help Craig in his avoidance of beefcake status. He stopped doing interviews altogether.Craig's final appearance of 1996 would be in the far less populist Saint-Ex, a BBC production. This would be a biopic of Antoine de Saint-Exupery, the French author of The Little Prince and a daring pilot for the French postal service and air force, before and during World War II. Daniel would star as Saint-Exupery's best friend Guillaumet, a charismatic hero who survives a crash in the Andes and inspires the writer to ever greater heights, only to be lost in the war. It was a very classy production, involving such heavyweights as Miranda Richardson, Janet McTeer and Katrin Cartlidge, and, though some compared it to The English Patient (released the same year), it was a far more complex piece, working as a tone poem and a re-examination of the biopic, as well as being interspersed with interviews with real-life acquaintances of Saint-Exupery. It was no wonder, in a year that saw Craig deliver comedy horror, psychological drama, rough-house period romance and an art-house epic, that he didn't just want to be seen as a northern beefcake.Though he'd come to feel that movies would be his future, Daniel would still take TV and theatre parts if he found them sufficiently interesting. 1997 saw him move on to The Ice House where three women, suspected of lesbianism and witchery, live together in a country house (as one of them is the sultry and dangerous Frances Barber, lesbianism and witchery are easy accusations to make). The discovery of a corpse on the estate revives an investigation into the disappearance of one of the women's husband ten years before, with the locals and chief detective Corin Redgrave keen for a conviction. Daniel would appear as Redgrave's second-in-command, a man who, his marriage on the rocks, complicates the issue by falling for one of the women, a magnetic but exasperating Kitty Aldridge. Love and loyalty are tested as the deadly intrigue continues.. After a one episode spot in the erotic vampire series the Hunger, alongside Karen Black and Jason Flemying, he returned to the stage and a run in Hurlyburly at the Old Vic for Peter Hall's company. Daniel and Rupert Graves played divorced casting agents who indulge in a riot of drink and drugs, treating their women (one being Kelly MacDonald) very poorly indeed. Andy Serkis would again co-star, along with Elizabeth McGovern. One show would be interrupted by a bomb scare, the cast, much to the delight of the critics, performing the last 20 minutes on the green outside. More important, though, certainly in terms of Craig's off-screen life, would be Obsession, where he played a Zimbabwean stone-cutter doing restoration work in Berlin and seeking a photo of a man crossing the Niagara Falls on a tight-rope fifty years before, a man he believes had a tragic affair with his grandmother (Craig's grandmother, that is, not his own grandmother - though, given the nature of some of Daniel's later subject matter, that would not be beyond the realms of possibility). An incident involving an old shoplifter and brutal police is then the catalyst for a love triangle involving Craig, girl band member Heike Makatsch and a French scientist. His relationship with Makatsch would also blossom off-screen. She was a big star in Germany, with her own light entertainment show, and was just beginning to delve into more serious material. Outside Germany, audiences would know her best as the sexually predatory secretary who seduces Alan Rickman in Love Actually. She and Craig would be together for seven years, finally splitting in January, 2004.1998 would be another good year onscreen, his best yet. First came a small but impressive role in Elizabeth where he played a monk involved in the Babington plot against the Queen, using a rock to smash in the head of one of Francis Walsingham's spies (an improvised moment, said Craig later). Then came another breakthrough when he starred alongside Derek Jacobi in John Maybury's Love Is The Devil. This was a biopic of the artist Francis Bacon, Jacobi playing him as cold and emotionally careless. Daniel would appear as George Dyer, a petty crook who breaks into Bacon's house and stays to become his lover, the price he pays being the gradual disintegration of his personality as Bacon treats him with growing disdain. It was a hard part and Craig was brave to take it, as not only did he have to engage in various sado-masochistic love scenes (one involving the burning of Bacon's flesh with a cigarette) but he also had to survive a scene-chewing performance by Jacobi. Revealing a rapid growth in his confidence and abilities, he did both with great aplomb.. Jacobi would say later that Craig was living fast during the making of Love Is The Devil, drinking all night and getting by on two hours sleep. His work, though, remained top-notch as he moved on to Love And Rage to play James Lynchehaun, the brilliant and psychotic manipulator who inspired JM Synge's The Playboy Of The Western World. Here he wormed his way into the affections and employment of Greta Scaachi, an estate-owner in County Mayo, then began to take over, gradually revealing a murderous streak that ultimately sees him beat her to a pulp, bite off her nose and leave her to die in a fire. It was a fascinating real-life story, as Lynchehaun would flee to America where he'd be feted as a Republican freedom-fighter for his blows against the English. Even President Roosevelt would get involved in saving him from extradition. The movie would see him return, years later, for a final violent confrontation with Scaachi. Like George Dyer, this was a fascinating role to play, further proof that Craig liked to find twisted characters and dig deep to find their reason and humanity.1999 would continue Craig's run of fine form with The Trench, William Boyd's WWI saga, which examined the misery and madness of the front. Set during the run-up to the Battle of the Somme, this saw Daniel as Sergeant Telford Winter, an experienced soldier attempting to keep discipline and morale high among a band of fearful recruits. As the time approaches to go over the top, he risks his position and even his life by confronting an officer who refuses to share his whiskey with the men. Eventually, despite his need to keep things together, his experience tells him what is about to happen and fear begins to erode his courage.Next would come The Visitor, part of Channel 4's Shockers season. This would see three young house-sharers awaiting the cousin of the fourth, who's away for several months. When Daniel shows up, they assume he's their man and let him in. By the time they discover their mistake, he's already insinuated his way into their lives and does not want to leave. It was a very effective thriller, with Daniel excellent as the nameless invader. One review would compare it to a Pinter play, where the intruder is a cross between Iago and Vinnie Jones.With very rare exceptions, Craig was now concentrating on films, and he moved on to the epic I Dreamed Of Africa, directed by Hugh Hudson. This saw Kim Basinger as an Italian socialite divorcee persuaded by Vincent Perez to go live in the harsh highlands of Kenya back in 1972. Once there, she'd discover Perez was far more interested in hunting trips with his pals than caring for their land, so she's left to deal with poachers and wild animals, and with the tough task of impressing Daniel's flinty-eyed Declan Fielding, the manager of their 100,000 acre ranch.Returning to indie movies and "difficult" characters, now came Some Voices, adapted from Joe Penhall's play, which saw him as a schizophrenic released from care back into the life of his brother. Falling for his former Hurlyburly co-star Kelly MacDonald, Craig decides that his newfound happiness will allow him to come off medication, and consequently begins to hallucinate, his condition threatening both his relationship and his freedom. It was another tremendous performance, including a naked run down Goldhawk Road, that kept the film from mawkishness and saw it deliver a sympathetic portrait of mental illness. A more comical approach would be taken by his next venture, Hotel Splendide, which concerned a guest house on a remote island where weird rules on discipline and health have been long-enforced by a fierce matriarch, now dead. Everyone on the island, both family and strange guests, have been brainwashed into thinking that leaving means death and attempt to continue as normal. But rebellious son and chef Daniel knows better and, when his ex-girlfriend Toni Collette arrives, bringing the real world with her, the place falls into chaos.2001 would bring a real change of pace when Daniel turned tortured aristocrat for a TV miniseries of Evelyn Waugh's Sword Of Honour, adapted by William Boyd, his director for The Trench. As Guy Crouchback, he suffered at the hands of his spiteful, unfaithful wife (Megan Dodds) then volunteered for action in WWI, being forced due to his age into misfit outfit the Halberdiers. We see him pass through crazy training before a combat misadventure that sees him and his men mistakenly hailed as heroes. Craig was here great again - reserved and troubled at home, then expansive in war - and the performance would quickly prove to be one of the most important of his career.The same year would see Craig's first error of judgment. This was Lara Croft: Tomb Raider, the screen adaptation of the notorious computer game, where Angelina Jolie would play the titular adventuress, racing about the globe in her attempt to prevent the sinister Illuminati from gaining control of time itself. Daniel would play her former lover Alex West, now a mercenary who's teamed up with the bad guys. Craig's problem wasn't that the film was a failure, rather that, as it was a riproaring effects-fest with little attention paid to the story, he felt that it was a waste of his time.He'd make up for this straight away as his role in Sword Of Honour now had its effect. While casting for Road To Perdition, director Sam Mendes had watched the show with playwright Patrick Marber, the latter noting that Craig might be excellent in Mendes' new picture. And so it was that Craig became Connor Rooney, the nutty son of mobster Paul Newman. It would be his actions that drove the movie forward, first when he commits an unnecessary murder in front of hitman Tom Hanks' son, then when he takes it upon himself to wipe out Hanks' whole family, beginning a cycle of vengeance that destroys the whole operation. With Hanks taciturn and Newman quietly ruthless, it was left to Craig, with his psychotic jealousy, to bring passion to a deliberately dark movie. Consequently his was the stand-out performance. He was on his way.. This success did not cause Craig to immediately decamp to Hollywood. Instead, he would continue his quest for testing roles. His next project was a brief spot in Ten Minutes Older: The Cello, where eight directors, including Godard and Bertolucci, were given ten minutes to express a vision of time. Daniel would appear in Michael Radford's segment, Addicted To The Stars, playing a spaceman who returns to Earth after 80 years, having aged only ten minutes. Next would come Copenhagen, adapted from Michael Frayn's acclaimed play, where Craig would play Werner Heisenberg, head of Nazi Germany's atomic energy programme, on a visit to his mentor, Stephen Rea, in occupied Denmark. It was fascinating stuff, not only discussing quantum science but leaving us unsure whether Craig is digging for Allied secrets, trying to justify his position, or very subtly explaining that he's actually retarding the Nazis' progress.After popping up in the short Occasionally, Strong, a tale of gangsters and lost lottery tickets, Daniel would return to confrontational thespianism with The Mother, written by Hanif Kureishi and directed by Roger Michell (amazingly the director of Notting Hill). This saw a long-married couple visiting their grown-up kids in London, where the husband proceeds to die of a heart attack. Soon the wife, now aged 60, moves down permanently and takes a shine to Daniel, a carpenter who's building a solarium for her son. Daniel's in an unhappy marriage with an autistic son and reacts well to her approaches. They're comfortable with each other, laugh a lot and, despite the 30-year age gap, inevitably enter a sexual relationship, shown graphically. Unfortunately, he's already having an affair with the woman's daughter, who's been expecting him to leave his wife, and now all hell breaks loose as desires and disguises are unflinchingly revealed.In some ways, Craig's next part was equally controversial as he now played the poet Ted Hughes (who he'd seen perform so many years before) in Sylvia, a biopic of Sylvia Plath, many of whose fans still believe that she was driven to suicide by her husband Hughes. Colin Firth had been the original choice, but refused to screen-test. The movie, with Gwyneth Paltrow in the title role, would follow the couple from their college meeting, over to Massachusetts and back to England, where Hughes becomes famous (and unfaithful) and Plath succumbs to mental illness, destroying his office, burning his papers and eventually putting her head in the oven. Of course, Paltrow's efforts would be more showy, but Craig's were more powerful, containing much of Hughes' famed charisma.. Late 2004 would see Daniel back onscreen and still varying his roles wildly. First would come Layer Cake, based on JJ Connelly's London crime novel and directed by Matthew Vaughn, producer of Lock, Stock And Two Smoking Barrels. Here Craig would play a nameless coke dealer who wants to retire but is pushed by Mr Big (Kenneth Cranham) to take on a job in Holland. Of course, it all goes horribly wrong and Craig finds himself pursued by angry gangs and cold-eyed hitmen. Fortunately, it possessed none of Lock Stock's over-stylised slapstick, instead having more in common with Light Sleeper or American Gigolo. Extra gravitas was brought by Michael Gambon, one of Craig's co-star in Sylvia who had also, in 2002, played with Craig downstairs at the Royal Court in Caryl Churchill's A Number, directed by Stephen Daldry. This had seen Daniel tested in three separate roles, cloned brothers speaking directly to the audience, who gradually reveal their different natures - all of it leading to a horrible revelation.Following Layer Cake would come Enduring Love, again directed by Roger Michell, where Daniel played a lecturer who's picnicking with girlfriend Samantha Morton when a hot air balloon takes off with a young boy trapped inside. Several men, including Daniel, run to grab the ropes, with terrible results, and Daniel suffers appalling guilt. His relationship with Morton slides and he also has to deal with the attentions of his old Guildhall peer Rhys Ifans, who was there at the accident and appears to be infatuated with him. The eventual effect of these conflicting obsessions is hugely disturbing and earned the movie excellent reviews.2004 also saw Daniel in the headlines for other reasons. Having split from Heike Makatsch in January, he was seen out several months later with supermodel Kate Moss. They claimed to just be mutual friends of Paltrow and Ifans, but the tabloids were relentless in their pursuit, Craig making a reluctant return to restaurant kitchens when he had to flee through them and out the back door. When it was all over, after four months, he said he had not enjoyed the realities of that kind of fame, and would not allow it to happen again. By October he was seeing Satsuki Mitchell, an executive producer he'd met while filming his next Hollywood picture, The Jacket. Having already produced Robert De Niro's Godsend for 2929 Productions, Mitchell would move on to a remake of the horror classic Black Christmas.2005 would bring continued success for Craig. First there'd be a brief spot in Sorstalansag, a historical drama adapted from Nobel Prize winner Imre Kertesz's masterpiece about a young Hungarian Jew caught up in WW2 then the Holocaust. Shot in beautiful blues and grays, the movie was deeply touching and disquieting, more ambiguous and consequently fascinating than Spielberg's Schindler's List, Craig appearing as an American GI liberating the camp at Buchenwald. Following this would come The Jacket, reuniting Craig with director John Maybury. This would see Adrien Brody as a Gulf War veteran, shot in the head then, on his return home, framed for murder and confined to a Vermont asylum for the criminally insane. Experimented upon by doctor Kris Kristofferson, he comes to believe he can travel through time, on his real or imagined trips learning of the moment of his death and, back in the real world, attempting to avoid it. Craig would appear as a fellow inmate, garrulous and strange, who attempts to befriend Brody. Quite cheerfully, he claims he's made an attempt on his wife's life but is revealed to have lost his mind when she left him. It was only a bit part but Craig was quite brilliant, so manic, twitchy and delusional he's almost unrecognisable, and he adds much to the nightmarish atmosphere enveloping the innocent Brody.. Having turned down big money to take the role of Biggles on TV, Craig moved on to Archangel, set in communist Russia, where he played an academic who, after meeting a former bodyguard of Stalin, seeks out Stalin's notebook, apparently snatched from the dictator's death-bed by the infamous Beria, head of the NKVD and directly responsible for the death of millions. Naturally, murder and deceit abound, with Craig drawn into a circle of politicians, thugs and prostitutes, all covering up a secret that could change the course of modern history. After some delay, there would then be Steven Spielberg's Munich, concerning Mossad's pursuit of the Palestinian terrorists who murdered Israeli athletes at the Olympics in 1972. Craig would play a South African Jew recruited into a secret Mossad hit squad employed to track down and eliminate the perpetrators of the atrocity. At first he's the most gung-ho of the gang, convinced of the rectitude of an eye for an eye. But gradually, no longer convinced even that they're killing the right people, he comes to wonder if his revenge has any moral justification.Flitting from disturbing indies to a Spielberg blockbuster, Daniel Craig had surely entered thespian nirvana. He was even - along with Eric Bana, Clive Owen, Dougray Scott et al - mentioned as a potential James Bond. Unlike the others, though, he was actually chosen, October 2005 seeing him named as the successor to Pierce Brosnan. And the fans went mental. He was too short, he was too craggy, he was too blonde - the Internet was awash with criticism, most of it personal. Craig attempted to keep his distance and concentrate on the work, but the madness clearly got to him. After all, this was a guy recently freaked by Kate Moss's level of fame. Now he was Bond, and a bad Bond to boot. It can't have been easy.. 2006 would clearly be a big year, the biggest yet. He began it by lending his voice to Renaissance, an excellent Sin City-style noir animation, set in Paris in 2054, where Craig would play a maverick cop hunting down a kidnapped scientist and falling for her sister (Catherine McCormack), all under the eye of the sinister Avalon corporation. After this would come Infamous, held back for a year to avoid direct competition with the very similar Capote. This would see Tobey Jones as the writer Truman Capote, dazzling New York high society with his sharp wit, hitting big with In Cold Blood then fading away as he cannot follow his masterwork. Craig would play Perry Smith, the Kansas killer whose crimes inspired Capote's book. He'd be vulnerable but dangerous, threatening but also sexual, bringing a different edge to the famous Smith-Capote relationship. But though the movie boasted such stars as Sigourney Weaver, Sandra Bullock and Gwyneth Paltrow (again), and despite the fact that it dealt bravely with Capote's sexuality, it was still overshadowed by its recent predecessor, Philip Seymour Hoffman's Oscar win still being fresh in people's minds.And then it came - Casino Royale. On many occasions the Bond producers had attempted to refresh the franchise by introducing contemporary elements - Roger Moore's Seventies suavity, for example, or Timothy Dalton's Thatcher age brutality. With Craig onboard, they did the psychology-thing and went back to the beginning with Ian Fleming's first Bond novel (already filmed twice), showing how the legendary agent grew into his 007 role. Thus Craig would begin as a reckless and careless operative, earning his stripes before taking on the menacing Le Chiffre (a character apparently based on the notorious Aleister Crowley) in a high stakes Bahamas poker game. There'd be babes, of course, but this time, at Craig's insistence, there'd be an emotional connection, Bond bonding with Eva Green's Vesper Lynd, an executive sent to watch over his spending. There'd be fights and stunts, of course, but the violence was more visceral than before, the torture sequence truly horrifying and, coupled with the Green relationship, this lent the movie genuine impact. It would take nearly $600 million worldwide, making it the most successful Bond movie of them all.Naturally, Craig was now a major star, but he was to face some difficult choices. His work so far - in Love Is The Devil, The Mother, Some Voices and the rest - had marked him out as a challenging, risk-taking performer. Like Dalton before him, he was an actor first, Bond second. Yet Bond had the power to wipe away everything that had gone before, and he desperately needed to maintain an identity outside the character. He'd also have to deal with a new level of intrusion, not always doing so with perfect grace. Nominated for a BAFTA for Casino Royale in 2007, he'd be accosted on the red carpet by gay journalist Johan Hari who'd make a weak and salacious crack about his swimming trunks in the movie, a visibly irritated Craig calling him a "fucking fool".This would be written up in the pink press as homophobia, an outrageous slur as there was nothing hateful in the remark. Craig had been dead right, if a little impolitic.. His first release of 2007 would be The Invasion, the movie he was making when informed by Barbara Broccoli that he would be Bond. This had begun as a simple update of the oft-filmed Invasion Of The Body Snatchers, but had mutated into a more original piece. Now psychiatrist Nicole Kidman would notice a sneaky epidemic that changes people's behaviour, would question whether it was due to extra-terrestrial interference, and would then be forced to protect her son, who may well hold the key to saving mankind from alien spores brought to Earth by a returning space shuttle. Craig would appear as Kidman's colleague and love interest, who aids her in her struggle, as director Oliver Hirschbiegel took repeated stabs at the warmongering governments that rule over us. At least, that was the plan. Hirschbiegel had been aiming for an art-house take on the old story. He'd brought back the gloom and dread of the Don Siegel original and sought to explore the totalitarian nature of the new humans, The Invasion thus having much in common with his earlier works, the critically lauded Downfall and The Experiment. This is certainly what attracted the notoriously picky Craig to the project. But the producers weren't happy with Hirschbiegel's vision, wanting a more mainstream thriller. So they brought in James McTeigue to direct new scenes written by the Wachowski brothers, re-editing and adding absurd action sequences that left the film caught between two stools. In the process Craig would disappear from large chunks of the movie, his gravitas being sorely missed. The movie bombed at the box office, in America taking just $15 million against a budget of $80 million, and one wonders how much more successful a Hirschbiegel cut might have been.Still, The Invasion would do much to keep the non-Bond Craig in the spotlight, though more important would be The Golden Compass, the first in an intended trilogy based on Philip Pullman's bestselling His Dark Materials. Here the world is run by a shady Catholic-style organisation called the Magisterium, which seeks to control thought and end free will. Craig would play the cosmopolitan intellectual and explorer Lord Asriel, in political combat with the Magisterium and helping his young niece Lyra when she travels north to seek out her kidnapped friend Roger. There'd be zeppelins and armoured bears, duels and battles, with further interest being added by two of Craig's recent co-stars - Nicole Kidman as the charming, evil Mrs Coulter and Eva Green as the witch queen, Serafina. However, though being competently made, the movie lacked a certain spark and would fail to make back its massive budget in the States. It would be a big hit in the UK, where Pullman is more revered and religious zealots wield less power, but it nevertheless seemed unlikely that the trilogy would be completed. Coincidentally, in an earlier London stage production of His Dark Materials, Asriel had been played by former Bond Timothy Dalton.. 2008 would be another wildly varied year for Craig. His first release would be Flashbacks Of A Fool, written and directed by Baillie Walsh. Craig had met Walsh on the set of Love Is The Devil, Walsh at the time being the partner of director John Maybury, and the pair had become good friends. Walsh had written Flashbacks with Craig in mind, the project taking six years to come together, picking up pace when Craig himself became executive producer. The film would see Craig once again challenging his Bond audience, being first spied snorting coke in the nude as his character's a British film star who's sold his soul to Hollywood, lost his direction and, in a haze of drink and drugs, moves towards suicide. To explain his predicament, the film flashes back to the early 1970s when the young Craig, played by Harry Eden, falls in love with a girl but wrecks the relationship by engaging in an affair with an older woman. In dealing with memory, the film would look strangely bright and idyllic, and would also feature a powerful female cast - Helen McCrory, Olivia Williams, Claire Forlani, Keeley Hawes, Jodhi May - as well as Mark Strong, Craig's former co-star in Our Friends From The North. Following this would come Defiance, a powerful drama directed by Edward Zwick. Here Craig, Liev Schreiber and Jamie Bell would play Jewish brothers in Poland as it's attacked by the Nazis. Taking off into the woods of Belarus, they join with the Russian resistance and attempt to build both a village and an army, all the while being hunted by Hitler's butchers. It was action-packed but, like Zwick's earlier Glory, also powerful and uplifting.Craig's final release of the year would be Quantum Of Solace, his second outing as James Bond. Once again an artier team would be put together, the film being directed by Marc Forster, who'd made Monster's Ball and The Kite Runner, and written by Paul Haggis, who'd done Crash and Million Dollar Baby (and made additions to Casino Royale). Based on a Fleming short story, the film would begin immediately after the end of Casino Royale with Bond seeking revenge for the killing of Vesper Lynd. The bad guy this time would be Mathieu Amalric, playing a dodgy businessman who's using eco-friendly hotels as a front to tap into natural resources, Bond pursuing him across the globe, from London to Haiti, and being aided in his task by Olga Kurylenko's Camille and Gemma Arterton's Agent Fields. Again the violence would be strong and the emotion high as Craig struggled to place duty before personal satisfaction.Despite the ongoing Bond franchise (and possibly follow-ups to The Golden Compass), we can expect Daniel Craig to carry on in much the same vein as before, concentrating on indies far more than most actors in his exalted position. "Everybody wants to make a safe bet with roles," he once said "But if you're going to do stuff then you should be getting strong reactions. I don't want audiences to be going 'Yeah, that's alright'." Given his performances thus far, you can be sure he'll be garnering strong reactions for years to come.Dominic Wills 
			NEW YORK - MAY 03: Actor Daniel Craig and Satsuki Mitchell attend the Costume Institute Gala Benefit to celebrate the opening of the "American Woman: Fashioning a National Identity" exhibition at The Metropolitan Museum of Art on May 3, 2010 in New York City.  (Photo by Larry Busacca/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - OCTOBER 26:  Satsuki Mitchell and actor Daniel Craig attend the 5th Annual Worldwide Orphans Foundation Benefit Gala at Capitale on October 26, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - OCTOBER 26:  Satsuki Mitchell and actor Daniel Craig attend the 5th Annual Worldwide Orphans Foundation Benefit Gala at Capitale on October 26, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - OCTOBER 26:  Satsuki Mitchell and actor Daniel Craig attend the 5th Annual Worldwide Orphans Foundation Benefit Gala at Capitale on October 26, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - OCTOBER 26:  Satsuki Mitchell and actor Daniel Craig attend the 5th Annual Worldwide Orphans Foundation Benefit Gala at Capitale on October 26, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - OCTOBER 19:  Actor Daniel Craig attends the Courage In Concert at The Public Theater on October 19, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Michael Loccisano/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - OCTOBER 19:  Actor Daniel Craig attends the Courage In Concert at The Public Theater on October 19, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Michael Loccisano/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 29:  Actors Daniel Craig and Hugh Jackman attend a press conference for the broadway premiere of "A Steady Rain" at The Harvard Club on September 29, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Jemal Countess/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 29:  Actor Daniel Craig attends a press conference for the broadway premiere of "A Steady Rain" at The Harvard Club on September 29, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Jemal Countess/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 29:  Actors Daniel Craig (L) and Hugh Jackman attend a press conference for the broadway premiere of "A Steady Rain" at The Harvard Club on September 29, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Jemal Countess/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 29:  Actors Daniel Craig (L) and Hugh Jackman attend a press conference for the broadway premiere of "A Steady Rain" at The Harvard Club on September 29, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Jemal Countess/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 29:  Actors Daniel Craig (L) and Hugh Jackman take a bow during opening night curtain call for the broadway production of  "A Steady Rain" at the Gerald Schoenfeld Theatre on September 29, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Jemal Countess/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 29:  Actor Daniel Craig takes a bow during opening night curtain call for the broadway production of  "A Steady Rain" at the Gerald Schoenfeld Theatre on September 29, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Jemal Countess/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 29:  Actors Daniel Craig (L) and Hugh Jackman take a bow during opening night curtain call for the broadway production of  "A Steady Rain" at the Gerald Schoenfeld Theatre on September 29, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Jemal Countess/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 29:  Actors Daniel Craig (L) and Hugh Jackman take a bow during opening night curtain call for the broadway production of  "A Steady Rain" at the Gerald Schoenfeld Theatre on September 29, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Jemal Countess/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 18:  Actors Daniel Craig (C) and Hugh Jackman (R) pay a surprise visit to TV personality Oprah Winfrey on The Oprah Winfrey Show: Fridays Live From New York at Rumsey Playfield on September 18, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Michael Loccisano/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 18:  Actors Daniel Craig (C) and Hugh Jackman (R) pay a surprise visit to TV personality Oprah Winfrey on The Oprah Winfrey Show: Fridays Live From New York at Rumsey Playfield on September 18, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Michael Loccisano/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 18:  Actors Daniel Craig (C) and Hugh Jackman (R) pay a surprise visit to TV personality Oprah Winfrey on The Oprah Winfrey Show: Fridays Live From New York at Rumsey Playfield on September 18, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Michael Loccisano/Getty Images)
			LIVERPOOL, UNITED KINGDOM - MAY 03:  Actor Daniel Craig looks on prior to the Barclays Premier League match between Liverpool and Newcastle United at Anfield on May 3, 2009 in Liverpool, England.  (Photo by Clive Brunskill/Getty Images)
			LIVERPOOL, UNITED KINGDOM - MAY 03:  Actor Daniel Craig looks on prior to the Barclays Premier League match between Liverpool and Newcastle United at Anfield on May 3, 2009 in Liverpool, England.  (Photo by Clive Brunskill/Getty Images)
Eat, Pray, LoveThe Other GuysDinner For SchmucksScott Pilgrim vs The WorldSaltThe ExpendablesThe Last AirbenderKnight and DayThe Karate KidThe A-Team
adam sandler angelina jolie colin firth daniel craig george clooney jackie chan jennifer lopez johnny depp judi dench leonardo dicaprio liam neeson mel gibson meryl streep morgan freeman penelope cruz robert de niro steven spielberg tom cruise vin diesel will smith 
	This site uses cookies. If you continue without changing your settings, you're consenting to receive the cookies set by our website.  Find out more 
=======================================================
                Daniel Wroughton Craig was born in 1968 to Olivia, an art teacher, and Timothy, who worked in the Navy but also took on various other work whilst he was ashore.When Craig was nine, the family moved to the Wirral where he attended Hilbre High School and enjoyed playing rugby and taking part in school plays. It was Olivia’s background, attending Art College and winning a place at RADA (which she didn’t take), that was to have the biggest influence on Daniel when his parents divorced. Academically, Craig wasn’t a natural and after spending his childhood in Liverpool, he decided to move to London when he was 16 to join the National Youth Theatre. He worked mostly in restaurant kitchens to finance his studies at the NYT. Despite the hardship of working endless hours, he reveled in the theatre’s tours to Valencia and Moscow and made his first proper stage debut in 'Troilus and Cressida'. After the NYT, Craig won a place at drama school, which proved more of a challenge than anticipated as he continually failed audition after audition and it seemed his wish may go unfulfilled. But, he was finally accepted at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama in 1988 and for the next three years he received the education he’d always longed for, being tutored by the Royal Shakespeare Company in classes with names such as Ewan McGregor and Rhys Ifans. Craig’s career began promisingly when he was cast in the film 'The Power of One' before he had even graduated. 1992-1993 would be a busy year in his acting CV when several of the roles he’d filmed were released in quick succession. Parts in the 'Young Indiana Jones' series and 'Drop the Dead Donkey' were enough to pay the bills, but not to attract any significant attention from the critics. Nevertheless things continued to look good, as a stream of steady parts continued to roll in and, having met and married Scottish actress Fiona Loudon in the midst of his career rise, Craig became a father for the first time when Fiona gave birth to a daughter, Ella. The couple’s relationship soon broke down though and they divorced two years later in 1994. Craig continued to work onstage as well as on television, appearing at the Royal National Theatre in the original London production of 'Angels in America', which would go on to win a Pulitzer Prize.In 1996, his hard work finally paid off when he landed a part in the hugely successful TV series, 'Our Friends in the North'. The drama followed four Newcastle friends - Craig, Christopher Eccleston, Gina McKee and Mark Strong from 1964, through the Thatcher years, right up to a reunion in 1995. The series’ success helped notch up Craig’s status in the critics’ eyes but he was adamant he would take on as many challenging roles as possible and establish himself as a ‘serious’ actor with potential beyond television. Andrew Davies' high-profile television adaptation of 'The Fortunes and Misfortunes of Moll Flanders' was to earn Craig more screen time but he grew a little irritated by the press honing in on his sex symbol potential and stopped giving interviews in protest. Craig's final appearance of 1996 would be in 'Saint-Ex', a biopic of Antoine de Saint-Exupery, the French author of 'The Little Prince' and a daring pilot for the French postal service and air force, before and during World War II. Craig starred as Saint-Exupery's best friend, Guillaumet, alongside Miranda Richardson and Janet McTeer. Reviews earned comparisons with the acclaimed movie 'The English Patient', which was released the same year. After a one episode spot in the erotic vampire series 'The Hunger', Craig returned to the stage in 'Hurlyburly' at the Old Vic in London. One show had to be interrupted by a bomb scare and the cast, much to the delight of the critics, performed the last 20 minutes on the green outside. More importantly for Craig’s off-screen life though was his role in the 1997 film 'Obsession', where he was to meet German actress Heike Makatsch (known to many as the secretary who seduces Alan Rickman in the film 'Love Actually'). Makatasch and Craig would be together for seven years, finally splitting in 2004. 1998 would be one of Craig’s best years yet. He enjoyed a starring role in the big budget film 'Elizabeth', playing a monk alongside Oscar-nominated Cate Blanchett. Another less recognised but impressive turn came in 'Love is the Devil' about the artist Francis Bacon; Craig starred as Bacon’s lover to David Jacobi’s Bacon and had to engage in several sado-masochistic sex scenes. The following year, Craig continued a steady run of roles which allowed him to showcase his talent as an actor in films such as the World War I saga, 'The Trench'. Craig was now concentrating on films rather than television. A blip on the fame game plan occurred in 2001 when Craig appeared in 'Lara Croft: Tomb Raider' with Angelina Jolie, the film adaptation of the famous computer game. A huge leap from his previous declaration to be seen as a serious actor, the film was a commercial flop but more annoyingly for Craig, it contained endless special effects rather than any concrete story line and he considered it a waste of his time.Luckily, reparation came in the form of Sam Mendes who had seen Craig on stage and made a note to cast him in his next film, 'Road to Perdition'. Starring alongside Tom Hanks and Paul Newman, the success of the film had the desired effect of elevating Craig’s audience-pull and seducing a league of film critics worldwide. Craig didn’t let the new found attention go straight to his head and instead of immediately winging his way to Hollywood, he continued to embark on a series of film roles that would best test his skills and appeal not only to the commercial critics, but also to an ‘indie’ audience. Examples of these more ‘challenging’ roles included 'Ten Minutes Older: The Cello' (2002), where eight directors were given ten minutes to express a vision of time with Craig appearing in Michael Radford's segment; and 'Addicted to the Stars', where he played a spaceman who returns to Earth after 80 years having aged only ten minutes. Craig's next role was in 'Sylvia', the film biopic of Sylvia Plath, where he played the poet Ted Hughes. Sylvia, which featured Gwyneth Paltrow in the title role, would follow the couple from their college meeting to her eventual suicide. Despite it not being a huge box office success, it once again marked Craig as a powerful screen presence. 2004 would see Craig back onscreen and continuing to vary his roles. First would come the violent 'Layer Cake', directed by Matthew Vaughn, producer of 'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels'. Following Layer Cake would come 'Enduring Love', which reunited Craig with director Roger Mitchell ('The Mother', 2003), and old Guildhall peer, Rhys Ifans. The film’s plot revolved around conflicting obsessions and was emotionally disturbing yet earned rave reviews. Craig’s private life began to create headlines in 2004. Having split from Heike Makatsch in January that year, he was seen out several months later with supermodel Kate Moss. Claims also circulated linking him to Sienna Miller (his Layer Cake co-star), whose relationships automatically sparked furore due to her on-off links to Jude Law. The press hounded Craig, forcing him to endure the kind of attention he loathed as it centred on his personal life rather than his acting career. Vowing not to make the headlines in the tabloid gossip pages ever again, he was eventually seen with Satsuki Mitchell, an executive producer he'd met while filming his next Hollywood film, 'The Jacket', and he proposed to her late in 2007.2005 would bring continued success for Craig, particularly with regard to 'The Jacket', starring Adrien Brody, and Steven Spielberg’s much-hyped 'Munich'. But it was the rumour mill surrounding the James Bond franchise that would spark the most interest in Craig that year. After Pierce Brosnan stepped down from the role, the inevitable whispers began to fly as to who would fill those big spy shoes. Brits Clive Owen and Dougray Scott were named as contenders but it was in October 2005 that Craig was officially announced as the next 007, having signed a three-film contract. Initially, there was a clash of opinion between die-hard Bond fans and fans of Craig independently. The fact that Craig would be the first blonde Bond caused a public backlash and there was talk of boycotting the new film but when several of the previous Bond actors stepped forward to support Craig, the tantrums appeared to die down. The first film with Craig at the helm was released on 14 November 2006. 'Casino Royale' took a total of $594 million at the box office, making the film the highest grossing Bond film ever and proving the sceptics wrong. Craig's performance was highly acclaimed and he was nominated for a BAFTA Award for Best Actor and won the Best Actor award at the Evening Standard British Film Awards - both firsts for an actor in the James Bond role. In October 2007, it was revealed that Craig had signed on for four more Bond films and after several months of speculation as to the release date, producers Michael G Wilson and Barbara Broccoli officially announced that the follow-up to Casino Royale would be released in November 2008. Like Timothy Dalton before him, Craig stands by the fact he is an actor first and Bond second and is adamant he will maintain an identity outside the famous character. To support this, Craig took the part of Lord Asriel in what will be the first of an intended trilogy of Philip Pullman’s bestselling books. Based on the first novel, 'The Golden Compass' was released late in 2007 with an all-star cast including Craig’s former Bond girl co-star, Eva Green. 'The Invasion' (2007), a science fiction horror film, saw Craig team up with Nicole Kidman in a project that failed both critically and financially. This was followed up with another disappointment in 2008 British drama 'Flashbacks of a Fool', which won Craig praise for his acting while the movie’s scripting was criticised. However, the run of bad luck and box office failures was brought to an end with Craig’s second portrayal of Bond in his next outing as the spy in the 22nd 007 film. Released in 2008, 'Quantum of Solace' performed well at the box office and earned Craig an Empire Award nomination for best actor. While the movie was not praised as much as Casino Royale, it was well received by audiences and broke the UK opening weekend record. True to his promise not to let Bond’s character define his roles, Craig went on to star in 'Defiance', a 2008 World War II film set during the occupation of Belarus by Nazi Germany. It opened to mixed reviews from critics and just about broke even commercially. Craig’s fans are in for a treat in 2011, with the star scheduled to appear in a number of films. These include 'The Adventures of Tintin: Secret of the Unicorn', 'Dream House', 'Cowboys & Aliens' and 'The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo', while his third Bond film has a 2012 release date.
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
1991Theatrical RootsAfter leaving home at age 16 to pursue acting full time in London, Craig graduates from the Guildhall School of Music & Drama, and makes a name for himself on the London stage, appearing in the Pulitzer-prize winning Angels in America. In 1993, he marries actress Fiona Loudon, with whom he has a daughter, Ella. In 1994, they divorce. Two years later, things look up – at least professionally – when Craig makes his big break in the 1996 BBC mini-series Our Friends in the North.2001Bored By AngelinaAfter a few low-profile roles, Craig gets the chance to romance Angelina Jolie in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider. But the actor insists the experience working on a Hollywood blockbuster was far from enjoyable. "I had a horrible time," he tells EW. "It was f---ing boring." Still, his turn as the ruggedly handsome Alex West brings his first widespread recognition.2002In Good CompanyCraig plays an unhinged mobster in Road to Perdition, costarring fellow Brit Jude Law and screen legends Paul Newman (left) and Tom Hanks. It brings Craig his first glimpse of superstardom. "You go out to dinner with Tom Hanks and the food is brought in massive quantities," he tells PEOPLE. "It's mad. There are 800 dishes. The chef comes out and just starts cooking at your table. Things you didn't even order!" 2004Kiss Me, Kate!Fresh from his critically acclaimed role in Sylvia (opposite Gwyneth Paltrow), Craig briefly dates supermodel Kate Moss – becoming an instant tabloid target in the U.K. "I used to get very hung up about it," he tells EW. "I don't enjoy having someone go to my mother's door. It's like having the Secret Service on your back."OctoberTasty CakeCraig plays a cool-and-callous coke dealer trying to quit the business in Layer Cake. (He's later linked to his costar, Sienna Miller). The New York Times says of his performance, "Mr. Craig grabs your attention by the raw force of his physical presence." The film catches the eye of producers looking to cast the next James Bond. "We considered every actor in the world," Sony chairman Amy Pascal tells EW. "But after [they] saw him in Layer Cake, Daniel became the front-runner. From then on, he was the one to beat." In 2005, Craig inherits the role from Pierce Brosnan.2006November 14Who's That Girl?Craig hits the world premiere of Casino Royale with American movie producer Satsuki Mitchell. Although the pair had been dating for more than a year – since working together on 2005's The Jacket – the London event marks their first public appearance together. "I couldn't get through [all the Bond hype] without her," he later tells Britain's The Times. "You've got to have a sense of perspective and she gives me that." Shaken and StirredToo blond for Bond? Nonsense! Craig proves all the naysayers wrong, as Casino Royale becomes the highest-grossing Bond film in history ($595 million, to be exact!). As EW notes, "Daniel Craig floods the screen with personality the way the old stars did, using his saturnine sexiness, his implosive intelligence, and the silent lone-wolf hunger at his core." Craig also becomes a major sex symbol, thanks to the now-infamous scene in which he steps out of the sea wearing a pair of barely-there swim trunks. TIME notes that his shoulders and pecs are "so well defined, they could be in Webster's."2007Double Kidman FeatureAfter winning raves as Bond, Craig follows it up with a pair of movies costarring Nicole Kidman: The Invasion (a remake of Invasion of the Body Snatchers) and The Golden Compass. The appeal of working with Kidman? "She turns me on," he tells W. "In the nicest possible way, you understand. Not in any sordid, horrible way. Well, come to think of it …."2008November 14Bond Reigns at Box OfficeCraig's second bow as Bond in Quantum of Solace rakes in $67.5 million opening weekend, scoring the highest-grossing debut in the franchise's history. "His anger and his passion drive him," the actor tells reporters of 007 learning to cope with the death of his beloved Vesper Lynd (Eva Green). "He probably misbehaves more in this than he did in the last one." 2010DecemberHello, Rachel!After quietly splitting from girlfriend Satsuki Mitchell, Craig moves on with British actress Rachel Weisz, who is also fresh off her split from Black Swan director Darren Aronofsky. The pair, who are set to appear in September's Dream House together, waste no time settling down, marrying on June 22 in a secret ceremony in New York.
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): Everett Collection; Everett Collection; Brad Barket/WireImage, Jeff Vespa/Wireimage; Everett Collection; Dani Abramowicz/FilmMagic; INF; Everett Collection; Columbia Pictures; Startraks 
									Rachel Weisz, wife (2010 to present) Satsuki Mitchell, ex-girlfriend (2005 to 2010)Kate Moss, ex-girlfriend (2004) Heike Makatsch, ex-girlfriend (1997 to 2004) Fiona Loudon, ex-wife (1992 to 1994)  
   Sep 20, 2013 PUT A CAP ON IT  Donning a baseball cap and sunglasses, Daniel Craig tries to fly incognito while making his way around… See Photo   Jul 08, 2013 IN THE BAGS  Daniel Craig keeps his hands full as he makes his way through New York City's John F. Kennedy International… See Photo
=======================================================
				background: url(http://static.ak.fbcdn.net/images/icons/favicon.gif) top left no-repeat !important;
			}a:lang(ar),a:lang(ckb),a:lang(fa),a:lang(kk-arab),a:lang(mzn),a:lang(ps),a:lang(ur){text-decoration:none}a.new,#quickbar a.new{color:#ba0000}
Commander James Bond, C.M.G., R.N. (born April 13, 1968) is a Senior Operational Officer of the 'Double-O' ('00') Branch, an ultra-covert Black Ops unit within the British Secret Intelligence Service (MI6). As an agent of MI6, Bond holds code number "007". The 'double-O' prefix indicates his discretionary licence to kill in the performance of his dutiesDaniel Craig was cast in the role. He appeared in Casino Royale (2006), Quantum of Solace (2008), Skyfall (2012) and is contracted to perform the role for two more films. In addition he also provided his voice and likeness for several James Bond video games.
James Bond was born on April 13, 1968, in West Berlin, Germany. His father Andrew Bond of Glencoe, Scotland, was a Senior Accounts Manager for Vickers Defence Systems (now BAE Systems Land & Armaments Group), while his mother Monique Bond (née Delacroix) was originally from Yverdonm Canton de Vaud, Switzerland. Until age 11, Bond was educated in Switzerland and Germany, where his father was stationed as a Vickers executive. Both parents died tragically in a climbing accident while attempting to scale north-east ridge of the Aiguille de la Persévérance. After the death of his parents, he was privately tutored by his aunt and guardian, Miss Charmain Bond of Pett Bottom, Kent.[1] He also lived at the family's estate in Scotland, Skyfall Lodge .
From age 12 to 13, Bond attended Eton until he was expelled for repeated curfew violations and 'trouble' with one of the maids. He then attended his father’s alma mater, Fettes College. While there he won numerous athletic competitions and twice boxed for the school as a light weight. He also formed the first intermural judo league for the public school circuit. During his teens, he spent time studying both climbing and skiing with local Austrian instructor Hannes Oberhauser of Kitzbühel during term breaks at Fettes. Bond's one strong relationship, this friendship ended when Oberhauser disappeared mysteriously. Bond has referred to Oberhauser as a second father.[2] During a stint at the University of Geneva under an exchange program with Fettes, Bond led an expedition to the very mountain where his parents had died. Bond climbed it with friends and never told them of his personal and tragic link to the location.
After graduating from Fettes at the age of 17, Bond began attending the Britannia Royal Naval College. While there, Bond excelled in all areas of training. Bond matriculated from his coursework at BRNC with passable marks. However, whilst excelling at athletic competitions, strategic operations, and counter-intelligence courses, his unconventional approach to his education, his diffident attitude to some of his superiors, and a lack of respect for curfew drew him many demerits. On more than one occasion, a fellow candidate was strongly suspected of lying to protect Bond from punishment. In his later teens, Bond lost his one surviving close relative, his aunt Charmain Bond.
Bond conducted his year of Sea Service with high recommendations from his Chief Petty Officers and Warrant Officers. He applied for and was uniformly recommended for work in Naval Intelligence. Bond served as an intelligence officer on HMS Exeter both before and during Operation Granby, and later was able to transfer to submarine service, touring on the HMS Turbulent. His natural abilities, mental quickness and confidence impressed his commanding officers. Within the year of being assigned to HMS Turbulent, it became apparent that Bond was not being sufficiently challenged with his duties, so Bond volunteered for the Special Boat Service. Bond excelled at SC3 and Underwater and Aquatic Warfare training. He constantly equaled or bested his superior officers and instructors in all areas after nominal experience.
Bond earned the distinction of being the only candidate to entirely escape detection during the night limpet placement operation at Plymouth. There was some doubt as to whether Bond had actually accomplished the mission per the assignment until he demonstrated his rather ingenious method of eluding the underwater infra-red cameras and sonar systems in-place. His techniques were rapidly included in future training.
Upon completion of UAW training, Bond commenced Advanced Commando Parachute training at Brize Norton. A very dramatic incident occurred when Bond participated in the first group freefall exercise. At 900 meters the third jumper Lieutenant Cameron's ripcord pins jammed causing the main chute to malfunction, and he panicked. As the fourth jumper, Bond spotted Cameron, and at great personal risk, repositioned himself to aerially intercept Lt. Cameron at approximately 450 meters, and deploy Lt. Cameron's chute. Bond deployed at 250 meters. Lt. Cameron shattered his hip upon landing, although Bond escaped without serious injury.
Bond's record with training earned him placement with the 030 Special Forces Unit, rather than deployment as a swimmer-canoeist with the standard SBS Units in Poole. During further training with 030 SFU, Bond earned certifications for the operation of assault helicopters, Harrier-class jets, fixed wing aircraft, hovercrafts, marine assault vessels, armored vehicles, and other crafts. Bond served with distinction in the 030 Special Forces Unit. He proved adept at training other candidates, initiating athletic competitions, and fostering a creative environment. During his three-year tenure with the 030 SFU, Bond rose to the rank of Lieutenant Commander. He saw covert service in Iraq, Somalia, Iran, Libya, and active service in Bosnia. Upon completion of his duties in Bosnia, where Bond was credited with saving the lives of nearly 100 men from a Serbian militia in one village. Bond was recruited by the RNR Defence Intelligence Group and awarded the rank of Commander.
Bond's work with the Defence Intelligence Group at Defence Intelligence and Security Centre, Chicksands, proved highly satisfactory, although his fellow officers noted Bond's rather casual attitude toward command structure and protocol. Bond's work provided vital intelligence during key moments with Libya, Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, Cyprus, Indonesia, China (during the Hong Kong handover) and North Korea. In Libya, Bond was able to secure detailed assessments of the status of the Libyan government's reputed financial ties to numerous terrorist organizations, as well as crucial information related to the settlement of issues related to the Pan Am 103 case. In Iraq, Bond was able to monitor Iraqi counter-moves to the UNSCOM (now UNMOVIC) inspections process during one key period. Bond undertook a particularly hazardous mission into Afghanistan to rescue a researcher deemed important to Her Majesty's government who was being imprisoned by the Taliban government. During the S-300 missile crisis in Cyprus, Bond helped undermine the Republic of Cyprus government's confidence, and, it is felt, helped bring a peaceful resolution to the matter. During his tenure at the RNR DI Group, Bond attended specialized courses at Cambridge (where he achieved a first in Oriental Languages), Oxford and other institutions. Bond left the RNR DI Group after recruitment by MI6 at the age of 30.
Bond completed all orientation and MI6 Covert Operations training in eight weeks. He received exceptionally high marks for physical endurance, logic, and Psychological Ops exercises. His first assignment was at the British Embassy in Kingston, Jamaica. His duties there included: translation of Haitian, French and Dutch West Indies communiqués, interdiction efforts with gun and drug smuggling between Kingston and London (resulting in a letter of commendation from his superior, Charles DaSilva), and four days of Black Ops reconnaissance in Cuba, penetrating military compounds.
Bond then was appointed Senior Advisor at the British Embassy in Rome. He was promoted to Ops Specialist simultaneous with this posting. Although based nominally in Rome, his duties took him to Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran, Lebanon, France, Spain, China and the United States. He worked back-channel sources to aid in solving a minor crisis between the U.S. and China. Bond worked with his former Special Forces unit to penetrate and gain intelligence on Iraqi military and suspected unconventional weapons installations in late-2002 and early-2003. Afterwards, Bond was posted to the MI6 headquarters in London, where he continued to work as a Mission Specialist (within Black Ops) in such locations as Cuba, the United States, Austria, Spain, Russia, the Ukraine, Uzbekistan, the Sudan, and the UAE.
At the age of 38, Bond was promoted to 'Double-O' ('00') status. The ultra-secret '00' Branch is the elite of the Secret Intelligence Service. These covert agents, known as 'double-Os', have proven themselves capable enough in the field to be entrusted with the license to kill -- the authorization to, at their own discretion, commit assassination and acts that might be otherwise considered murder in order to complete their missions, without having to seek permission from headquarters first.
Bond earned his stripes in the '00' Branch by killing two people, Section Chief Dryden - who had been selling secrets from within MI6 - and Dryden's contact. After Bond killed Dryden's contact in a bathroom in Lahore, Pakistan, he flew to the Czech Republic, where he assassinated Dryden in the Section Chief's office. Bond was consequently granted '00' status and awarded the infamous code number "007".
On his first mission as agent 007, Bond and an agent named Carter worked cooperatively in an attempt to capture international bomb-maker, Molloka. At a mongoose/cobra fight in Madagascar, Bond and Carter conducted surveillance on Molloka but, due to a foolish mistake made by Carter, the suspected criminal realized he was being watched and attempted to escape. Bond pursued Molloka through the jungle, up an enormously high construction site, where the two engaged brutally in hand-to-hand combat, and finally to the Nambutu Embassy, where he attempted to arrest the suspected bombmaker. However, since Bond found himself surrounded by Nambutu soldiers, he manages to escape after he shot and killed Molloka and caused an explosion that partly also destroyed the embassy. The incident infuriated the British government, as Bond had only been instructed to capture Molloka, but the criminal's cell phone led Bond to discover a terrorist plot to blow up a gigantic prototype Skyfleet airliner at Miami International Airport. Bond managed to stop the terrorists from succeeding and killed a man named Carlos, who had replaced Molloka as the criminal responsible for destroying the airliner.
Following this success, M informed Bond that the mastermind of the incident was a man known as Le Chiffre, who served as private banker to terrorists. Le Chiffre had been using his clients' money to short sell successful companies and then would engineer terrorist attacks to sink their stock values so he could make a fortune. When Bond foiled Le Chiffre's plan to destroy the Skyfleet, the banker was left with a major loss since he had shorted the company's shares.
Having lost several high-ranking operatives in his organisation and needing to recoup his clients' money, Le Chiffre had set up a high-stakes poker tournament at the Casino Royale in Montenegro. Hoping that a defeat would force Le Chiffre to aid the British government in exchange for protection from his creditors, MI6 entered Bond into the tournament. He was assisted in the mission by a fellow MI6 officer named René Mathis and Vesper Lynd, a foreign liaison agent from HM Treasury's Financial Action Task Force. She was sent to make sure that Bond adequately managed the funds provided by MI6. Bond overcame several obstacles: He was forced to save Le Chiffre from a vengeful Steven Obanno which resulted in the latter's death, he was beaten in the game but Felix Leiter bought him back in, and he was also poisoned by Le Chiffre's sweetheart, Valenka, but Vesper manages to save him. Despite everything, Bond went on to win the tournament and since then James Bond has proven himself to be one of the most capable officers in MI6's employ.
At one point, as he and Vesper has dinner, he receives information from a call from Mathis that Le Chiffre was apprehended by the Central Intelligence Agency. He soon realizes that Vesper is missing and goes to rescue her. However, as he races to find Le Chiffre on the road, he swerves his car when a bounded Vesper is put on the road. The impact of the swerve immediately injures him, rendering Bond unconscious. Bond and Vesper are captured by Le Chiffre and his cronies. At a nearby tramp steamer, Bond is stripped and tied to a chair, where Le Chiffre proceeds to torture him of using a rope to strike his scrotum. Bond refuses to give information to Le Chiffre of the password to the account of where the winnings are secured to. Le Chiffre is about to castrate Bond but Mr. White arrives, murdering Le Chiffre's goons, and personally executes Le Chiffre. After murdering Le Chiffre, Mr White rescues Bond and Vesper, leaving the two of them for MI6 to find.
Bond regains consciousness at a hospital where Mathis, who is beside him, reveals that he is the mastermind behind his and Vesper's capture. M16 agents appears to capture Mathis. Vesper visits Bond to confess her love for him and a Swiss banker gives them the password. Bond resigns to go on vacation with Vesper.
In Venice, Italy, M phones Bond about his resignation and that the British government wants the money returned. Vesper soon arranges a secret meeting to a man named Gettler and his cronies. Bond ensues a gunfight with the men, where he wins and kills them. Vesper, however, locks herself and takes her own life by drowning herself. Bond manages to recover her and attempts to revive but to no avail.
Later, after informing M about Vesper having a boyfriend being held in Le Chiffre's organization, Bond finds Mr. White's number through Vesper's cell phone and tracks him down. Bond anonimously phones Mr. White and suddenly shoots him in the leg. Bond appears, saying to White "The name's bond. James Bond."
Taking place right after Casino Royale ended, Bond has captured Mr. White and manages to evade pursuit by his various minions in a chaotic car chase. After interrogating him with M at an closed off location, Bond and M are both betrayed by a disguised minion who after a toss and tumble is later dispatched and killed by James. Mr. White takes this time to vanish and is never seen or heard from again.
Bond then makes it his mission to go after Dominic Green when he realizes his connection to Vesper's death. He is forced to go rogue after one of M's assistants, Strawberry Fields, is killed off by mysterious assailants (in a similar manner seen in Goldfinger). He is aided by Camille Montes in his raid on Greene's fortress. Bond later is wished a happy farewell by Camille after he interrogates and leaves Greene to die in the nearby desert. Bond later helps arrest another notorious member of the mysterious Quantum organization and is reinstated by M.
James Bond, two years after the events of Quantum of Solace, is in Istanbul, Turkey, teamed up with two other agents to protect a computer drive later revealed to contain the identities of every NATO agent embedded in terrorist organisations the world over. His two companion agents are Eve Moneypenny and Sebastian Ronson. A French mercenary called Patrice eludes Bond and ransacks the safehouse, where he fights and kills Ronson and steals the computer drive. Bond, armed with his standard-issue Walther PPK, finds Ronson's body and briefly tries to save the latter, but M coerces him into pursuing the Frencman.
Leaving Ronson to die, Bond and Moneypenny briefly pursue him in a van, but they eventually corner him in the Grande Bazaar. The local police try to defuse the situation. Patrice unsheaths a machine-gun and mows down the police, cornering Bond. Moneypenny distracts him and Patrice tries to escape on a motorbike, but Bond steals a motorbike himself and gives chase, going over the rooftops of the Bazaar. The chase drives the two of them to a bridge, where Patrice boards the top of the train and Bond heroically severs the motorbike in an attempt at boarding the train too. After a destructive chase, Bond corners Patrice and they fight. Patrice manages to hold out against the 00 agent and soon manages to gain the upper hand. Bond is about to beat Patrice before Moneypenny unwillingly shoots him. Bond is thrown from the train, into the waterfall, allowing Patrice to escape with the computer drive.
It is revealed that Bond has survived the bullet, the fall, the water and the asphyxiation. He is somewhere in the Caribbean, engaging in gambling, alcoholism and prostitution almost obsessively. When news arrives of the attack on MI6 headquarters, Bond finally decides to go back to England and protect M. He breaks into her flat one night and reveals his survival. He and M argue fiercely and then Bond decides to rejoin MI6, since being officially dead means he isn't part of MI6 anymore. He is taken to the new MI6 headquarters in the War Rooms and immediately engages in training. Meanwhile, Bill Tanner tells him about the situation with M's attacker. He then engages in psychological tests, where he scornfully labels M as 'bitch'. Then, after digging into his biography, the examiner mentions 'Skyfall'. The examiner repeats several times, but Bond remains extensively silent. Then, with a callous gesture of disinterest, he mutters 'Done' and leaves the room.
He actually fails the tests because of his sexual engagement, excessive use of drugs and alcohol. He was also unhinged by the mention of Skyfall, triggering immense childhood trauma. He then removes the bullets that Patrice gave him during the chase on the train, gets them analysed. He identifies Patrice as a serial killer-for-hire and is assinged to pursue and apprehend the mercenary so they can discover the identity of his paymaster. He meets Gareth Mallory, who coldly suggests that Bond 'stays dead' since very few agents get the opportunity to retire so peacefully. Bond makes it clear that it is because he puts his country before his ego. Mallory, whom Bond deduced to be a former prisoner of the IRA (A feat that expresses extreme bravery and patriotic loyalty), leaves with a sarcastic demand not to 'cock it up'. He then meets wiht his Quartermaster, a teenager who is also an intellectual genius, as he liked to boast, who gives him a specially adapted Walther PPK, modified so only Bond can use it. He also gives him a distress signal device, and M dutifully sends him to Macau, where he hunts down Patrice.
He corners Patrice at the top of a building, where he is about to make a kill. Bond stalks the man right up to the moment where Patrice completes the kill. Then Bond tries to sneak-attack him. Patrice recognises him from the motorbike chase and turns around just as Bond attacks. They fight briefly, ending with the French mercenary hanging over the edge of the building. Bond angrily interrogates him, but Patrice remains silent and commits suicide, falling to his death. Bond reacts furiously, scolding himself. And then he spots a woman in a backless black dress, staring at him malevolently. He then tracks the woman to a casino, where Moneypenny revelas that the man who stole the list has put the first handfull of names on YouTube. Later, she accompanies him as he tracks the woman in the backless dress into the casino, where she reveals herself to be Severine. They flirt until he deduces that her 'bodyguards' are using fear to manipulate her.
He deduces that she was once a teenage prostitute at the age of twelve when the man who stole the list saved her and used her as a contact and, for his own means, sex slave. She reacts angrily, but he remains calm to her. She reveals that her bodyguards are going to kill him if he tries to leave. She tells him the location of her boat, and that she will take him to her employer. Bond lets her leave then attempts to leave, himself. Severine's bodyguards stand in his way. Bond sarcastically replies, then fights back. The skirmish takes him and the surviving thug into the sandpit, where a Kommodo dragon is circling them. The thug regains consciousness and they fight brutally. After using Q's cunning devices to survive, Bond finally manages to kill the thug, who is later eaten by the Kommodo dragon. Bond escapes and has sex with Severine.
They sail to a deserted island, which the man revealed to be Raoul Silva tricked the settlers ot retreat after a faux gas leak. Bond is left alone in a church hall and Silva reveals himself. They talk for a long time and Silva reveals that he attacked M's headquarters and hired Patrice. He then unearths that M lied and that he failed all the tests, but M sent him anyway because she trusted him to save the day. Silva later makes it clear that he hates M, and then takes Bond out where a bloodied Severine is held captive against a pillar. Silva challenges him to a marksmanship contest, places a glass of scotch on Severine's head and challenges Bond to shoot the glass off without hitting her head. Bond deliberately misses in an attempt to save her life, but Silva arrogantly sees through him and shoots her in the head, killing her and spilling the scotch. Bond shows no emotion to this, but he is clearly devastated. He then attacks, killing Silva's thugs in a matter of seconds, and then holds Silva at gunpoint. Bond reveals he called MI6 after arriving on the island and Silva is overpowered and arrested.
Silva is interrogated, where he reveals his affairs with M and that she left him for dead with the Chinese after his illegal cyberterrorist activities. M reluctantly reveals that Silva's real name was Tiago Rodriguez, that he was an excellent agent if it hadnt been for his sexual appetites and criminal habits. Bond and Q then try and hack Silva's computer, and Silva then outthinks them and escapes. Bond leaves and starts a lengthy chase through the London Underground, which leads to several accounts of violence and illegal activity. Silva outmatches Bond several times and storms M's trial. Bond arrives just in time and an intense shootout breaks out. Mallory, Moneypenny, M and Bond himself overpower Silva's men, during which Mallory is injured, and Silva escapes. M is led to a car to take her to a safehouse, but Bond takes her hostage and they escape to Skyfall Lodge.
Bond is traumatised by his return to his childhood home, and eventually meets Kincade, who helps to arm Bond with several minor weapons, but they make up for it with several traps and explosives. Silva's men arrive and they easily overpower them. Then Silva arrives with a large amount of mercenaries and a climatic battle ensues. Bond duels Silva, who arrives by helicopter. He holds out lengthily against the cyberterrorist, but then decides to destroy the lodge and kill Silva's men and, he hoped, Silva himself. He sets up numerous explosives and, before he leaves through a priest's hole he used as a boy, he remarks that 'He always hated this place', then he leaves, setting off the explosives. The helicopter and all but two of Silva's men are incinerated, but Silva narrowly survives.
Bond then confronts Silva on the frozen lake, but Silva tries to kill him, ending with Bond and one of Silva's men fighting under the lake. Bond gains the upper hand and arrives just in time to kill Silva, once and for all, by hurling a meat-cleaver at him from the other end of the chapel. Silva's spine is severed, he begins to bleed internally. Bond reveals himself and sarcastically remarks Last rat standing, remembering their conversation back on the island. Silva dies and Bond is left to be the last person M sees before she dies of injuries hse suffered during the battle.
With M dead, Gareth Mallory takes his place. Bond returns to London, traumatised, exhausted and triumphant, but still alive. He briefly confronts Moneypenny, who reveals that M left her Churchill bulldog, an ornament that survived Silva's attack, to Bond in her will. Bond accepts Moneypenny as his secretary and goes in to meet Mallory. After the battle, Mallory was left with his arm in a sling. He is now head of MI6 and remarks that he was unused to field work, considering his injury a trophy. Mallory hands him a file with his name and serial number on it. Mallory asks Bond if he is ready to get back to work. Eager for the next chance to save the day, Bond replies: With pleasure, M. With pleasure!
Bond has never been married. He has had many liaisons with members of the opposite sex, but none of particular closeness or length. He rarely makes long-lasting relationships with men or women. He professes to have never fallen in love. Bond maintains no friendships from before his parents' death and only the most irregular contact with friends from his late teens.
His one strong relationship with an adult from his teens and early twenties - one Hannes Oberhauser of Kitzbuhel, Austria - ended when Oberhauser disappeared mysteriously. Bond has referred to Oberhauser as a second father. Bond also developed a close relationship with M throughout his work with her; although this was shown on numerous occasions, perhaps the most memorable is when she died in his arms and confessed that he was one thing that she got right. Following her death, Bond shed a tear and affectionately kissed her body before shutting her eyes for the last time.
Bond has excelled in solitary sport. He is an avid climber, diver, swimmer, and an excellent runner. Bond does not race cars, but he does enjoy driving very expensive vehicles very fast. Bond has gambled at many European casinos, although never to ruin. He has been known to gamble more than he can afford to lose, although he always gambles with a plan and a clear understanding of the odds. Bond drinks, but not to excess. His drinking seems to be a way for him to test his personal limits at times rather than a vice.
Strategist: Bond proved to be an excellent strategist, able to create several plans to achieve his goals. 
Detective:  James also proved very effective in getting information. He also possessed a unique analytical ability, he was able to deduce the origin and character of Vesper, only their clothes and vocabulary, he was also able to deduce that Severine was a prostitute  only for a small tattoo on her arm. Bond always makes analysis of the environment and people, being the minimum preparad for any kind of hostile reaction.  Bond has used a system of mnemonics, where he can store Thousands of pieces of information of any kind to or filed away memory, available for immediate recall, in his memory of the computer. Most information was related to work, so best were not committed to writing in any case.
Multilingualism: Bond is skilled with languages, and speaks fluently without accent in Italian, French and German, and speaks, reads and writes a passable Greek, Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese and Japanese.
Persuasion: James always uses inductive or psychological changes of tricks to people make other information you deem, or do you favors. For women, it easily seduce, usually leading to the bed.
Peak Physical Condition: Physically, Bond is at the peak of physical condition for a man his age who engages in an intense exercise regimen, he is tough and as accomplished as a commando. He is muscular and an impressive physical specimen. James engages in daily exercise, these including: swimming, diving, running and shooting. Bond could run for long times without tiring, while doing free running movements. He also had a large lung capacity, and since he could stay underwater for more than 1 minute.
Master Combatant: Bond is incredibly skillful at martial arts and has a great ability to melee combat, being pro-effective in various types of martial arts and judo expert, and can kill a grown man with a single blow of his hand, when put enough pressure on the fingers. While he prefers eliminate your targets with guns and undetected, Bond is sometimes forced to fight melee in such cases he fights with tenacity, with their attacks based on accurate and fast strokes, or counterattacks. Generally it neutralizes the opponent, breaking limbs like arms and wrists. Bond also has a tendency to use objects in the environment to your advantage, such as heights, desks, scissors, stairs, doors and windows and even the weapons of their enemies. Alone was able to knock out several MI6 agents, even handcuffed.
Reflexes: James has great reflexes and reaction time, he was able to get an unloaded gun in the air, and throws it into Mollaka, while he was on a crane lifted several feet tall.
Endurace: Due to his physical topping, Bond has great physical strength, he was the strike fiercely several times, dropped from great heights, was shot, stabbed and tortured, however rarely stopped fighting, or sketched pain. Bond also has high tolerance to pain when tortured by Le Chiffre, he was attacked several times in the testes, however seize the tremendous pain, he still made ​​fun of Le Chiffre.
Free Running: Bond showed remarkable ability to run free and can move quickly while evading various obstacles, and glide over narrow passages. He could make big jumps between rooftops and walls, and even jump on moving vehicles. He managed to stay with Mollaka, even though the specialist of Parkour.
Skilled Assassin: Bond is an excellent assassin, trained to eliminate the target anyway,being possibly the best assassin around MI6. At first their preferred form of murder, is with pistols with silencer. However depending on the situation, it can eliminate the target with any object, such as scissors, knives, and axes. It can also eliminate them physically, usually with strangulation, he has proved capable of strangling a man of low water using legs. He can also use explosive objects, high places to kill.
Markmanship: Due to his self military training, Bond became expert in handling all types of weapons. He also exceptional precision, speed and reaction, which can eliminate many men simultaneously without wasting a shot. He proved perfectly capable of handling machine guns, sub-machine guns and sniper rifles, as has however preferably 9mm pistols. Bond could handle handguns with uc nique ability, using both in the physical attacks and shots, he often quickly disarms his enemies, and use an enemy's weapon while using his body as a human shield. His accuracy was unmatched with weapons, he always fatal shooting in locations such as organs and head, even when their targets are moving and attacking. Their responsiveness is formidable, he could draw his weapon with incredible speed and hitting targets simultaneously. Bond also the ability to switch between weapons with great speed, how to adapt to different places, varying its position, lying down, taking cover even able to strike a killing blow on a target while blindfolded.
Skill With Blades: He is a great expert in combat with knives and blades varied. With precise knowledge of the human body, Bond can kill an enemy quickly, hitting a vein or artery specifies, but also simply paralyze a muscle or limb. He also has preference for shaving knives. Bond showed great skill to knife throwing, with a precision unmatched. Bond also shows himself to be highly proficient with a knife in hand-to-hand combat, shown several times in Casino Royale and Quantum of Solace. He carries a straight razor during the events of Skyfall. He also uses a stiletto whilst on Silva's island and uses a meatknife to kill Silva himself by throwing it at a long range.
Stealth: Bond showed remarkable skill at description, and can move quickly and quietly through places full of enemies. He proved easily capable of killing a man in a busy place, without being noticed.
Vehicular Driver: James remarkably, has a formidable ability to drive cars and motorbikes, doing tricks and amazing places through steep and narrow, even at high speed. With a bike he was able to climb stairs, jump through windows and even fly over the Grand Bazaar.
Aviation: James also proved to be able to fly planes with relative ease, as shown who was able to escape from two planes, standing with a cargo aircraft.
Sky Diving: Bond skydived and parachuted along with her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II into the London 2012 Olympic Stadium during the Opening Ceremony on 27th July 2012. Having served in the Royal Navy and the SAS, Bond is obviously an expert skydiver.
Self-control: Bond is adept at psychological warfare. He has superb emotional control and is capable of remaining calm in the most difficult situations, including interrogations and hostage situations.Edit
The stereotype of a spy, detective, martial artist and assassin, Bond is a highly unique individual. He appears to be of sound mind and strong spirit. He is extensively intelligent, highly cunning and diabolically independent. He is also extremely sensible, calm, mature and sly. Like most who lose parents in their youth, Bond has abandonment issues. He rarely makes long-lasting relationships with men or women. He professes to have never fallen in love. He maintains no friendships from before his parents’ death and only the most irregular contact with friends from his late teens.
At first, Bond was arrogant and conceited, almost overconfident that he would be able to win each situation he got himself into. He self-sufficiently murdered his targets when he was meant to bring them back to MI6 for questioning, and cockily shot up the Nanbutu Embassy in Madagascar in order to escape from the Madagascar Police, and almost got himself arrested in Miami after thwarting the plot to blow up the Skyfleet prototype. However, when he got to know Vesper, she began to make him a better person. However, when he discovered her betrayal, he became angry, obsessive and vengeful. He became murderous and quite sly, but when he finally managed to defeat Dominic Greene and discover Quantum, and found out that Vesper was an innocent, he was finally at peace.
Bond is not nostalgic, but lives firmly in the present. He has only vague notions or thoughts about old age and retirement, which he does not seem to think he will live to see. He enjoys pushing himself to the limit, both mentally and physically. Bond's stress levels actually drop when the stakes are higher. He is prone to boredom and mild depression when not challenged.
Bond has strong interpersonal skills. He can act comfortably in many situations, but does not seek out companionship except, most notably, for sexual recreation. Bond's lone wolf personality-type tends to attract others. He is highly manipulative, calculating and possesses a high level of intelligence. He has a hot temper, as shown in Skyfall where he blames M for ordering Eve Moneypenny to shoot him. Otherwise, he is very self controlled and calm, displaying extreme psychological mastery.
Bond is goal-oriented, but he often seeks these goals in an indirect and secretive way. He has kept many areas of his life meticulously compartmentalized, never allowing the emotional issues from the loss of his family or from relationships to intrude on his professional life. Bond seems to have an emotional and mental need for multiple layers of reality. He thrives when not revealing all of himself, carefully organizing the aspects of his personality he reveals to others. Thus Bond is excellent as burying information he does not wish to reveal, making him a very good security risk if questioned under almost any circumstance.
Bond seeks structure in his life. He is a man of pattern and habit. He has acquired strong tastes. Bond both thrives under structure yet finds subtle ways of rebelling against it. He is not self-destructive, but he can be a challenge to his superiors.
Bond uses humor as a shield and a weapon. He is skilled at making cutting remarks that reveal insecurities of others or mock death, danger and risk.
Most importantly, Bond is deeply loyal to institutions. After his parents' death, Bond embraced his British and Scottish roots. His concept of his nationality is a large part of his identity. This is reflected in some of his social attitudes, which seem to embrace a British identity of the not to distant past. When pressed, Bond seems to identify with the notion of helping to "protect the realm", or "serving the monarch" and the ideals embodied in the mythic notion of St. George.
Bond is idealistic, but solitary. He does not console himself by surrounding himself with others. His athletic pursuits tend to be solitary: running, skiing, hiking, swimming, diving, and most remarkably, climbing.
While the world is far from black and white to James Bond, he doesn't tend to see it in stark terms of chaos and order, tradition and change. Bond has chosen to identify with order and tradition. Because of his complete self-sufficiency and independence, Bond became an incredible tactician when it comes to pursuits and assassinations. He is also vengeful, as he manages to ambush Mr White for Vesper Lynd's betrayal and death, and later goes independently up against Quantum, despite constant demands not to.
=======================================================
				background: url(http://static.ak.fbcdn.net/images/icons/favicon.gif) top left no-repeat !important;
			}a:lang(ar),a:lang(ckb),a:lang(fa),a:lang(kk-arab),a:lang(mzn),a:lang(ps),a:lang(ur){text-decoration:none}a.new,#quickbar a.new{color:#ba0000}
Daniel Wroughton Craig (born March 2, 1968) is an English actor. Born the year after the release of You Only Live Twice, Craig is the first James Bond actor to be born after the start of the film series, also making him the first Bond actor to be born after Ian Fleming died. Much media attention has also been given to him for being the "blondest" official Bond actor.
He was born in Chester, the son of a steel erector and an art teacher. He was brought up in Prescot, near Liverpool. He attended Hilbre High School, West Kirby (near Liverpool) and played rugby at nearby Hoylake Rugby Club. He moved to London when he was 16 to join the National Youth Theatre, later securing a place at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama.
As early as February 2005, Craig had been named in the media as a possible contender to replace Pierce Brosnan as James Bond. On April 6, 2005 Craig was reported to have been signed by EON Productionsas part of a three-film contract worth £15 million, however, this news was later debunked by the BBC who contacted EON for an official report. According to Craig, MGM offered him the role but the Broccoli family never got in touch with him.        
Finally, on October 14, 2005, Eon Productions named Daniel Craig as the sixth actor to portray 007, taking over from Pierce Brosnan. Craig signed a three-film contract, with the first, Casino Royale, to begin filming in January 2006 with an expected release of November 17, 2006. The announcement was made at noon in London at HMS President, a Royal Naval Reserve station at St. Katharine Docks, on the banks of the River Thames downstream of Tower Bridge.
His first marriage, from 1992–1994, was to actress Fiona Loudon, with whom he has a daughter, Ella. After that marriage ended, he later was in two serious relationships, one with German actress Heike Makatsch that ended in 2001, and with American film producer Satsuki Mitchell, which lasted from 2004 to 2010. He was also rumored to have had an affair with his Layer Cake co-star Sienna Miller in 2005.
Craig and Rachel Weisz, his co-star in the film Dream House, started dating in December 2010 and were married on June 22, 2011 in a small ceremony in New York with only four guests including Craig's daughter Ella and Weisz's
son Henry. The couple had been friends for many years before their relationship turned romantic while working on Dream House.
=======================================================
                BUY TICKETS, GET MUSIC. Buy any ticket on Fandango this month and get a free Amazon Music code for two songs!
            Within 48 hours of your ticket purchase, you’ll receive an email from Fandango with your Amazon Music promotional code. You’ll receive one promotional code per ticket transaction, limit one per Amazon account. Offer is valid through 9:00 AM PDT 6/30/2014, while supplies last. Amazon.com account required. Amazon Music promotional code expires 11:59pm PDT, 7/30/14. This is a promotional code and is not to be shared, is not for resale, has no cash value, and will not be replaced if lost or stolen. Terms and conditions apply. See www.amazon.com/fandangoMP3 for details.
                                                        News Bites: Disney is making a live-action 'Beauty and the Beast'
                                                        Watch how Emily Blunt almost killed Tom Cruise on the set of 'Edge of Tomorrow'
                                                        J.J. Abrams tweets 'Star Wars' photo from onboard the Millennium Falcon
British actor Daniel Craig became known to audiences the world over when he was revealed as the new James Bond, slated to cement his role as the suave spy in 2006's Casino Royale. His status as an action star was quite sudden, and many were surprised at the announcement, thinking of him as an unknown. Ironically, the classically trained actor had put nearly 50 roles under his belt over the previous 15 years, from star-studded Hollywood features to highly respected independent ventures. Before Craig was a working actor, much less a famous one, he didn't just want to be an actor, he wanted to be a good one. At the age of six he was appearing in school plays in Liverpool, at 14 he was acting on his high school stage in West Kirby, and by 16 he auditioned for and joined the National Youth Theater's troupe for their tours of Manchester, Spain, and Russia. He went on to toil through low-paying jobs as he repeatedly auditioned for the prestigious Guildhall School of Music and Drama, determined to get in and undergo the classical training that would help him excel at his craft. Finally in 1988 at the age of 20, he was accepted and proceeded to study there for the next three years under the tutelage of Royal Shakespeare Company veteran Colin McCormack. After graduating in 1991, Craig had a whirlwind of activity to keep up with. In 1992 he began his career on screen, appearing in the film The Power of One. He also married Scottish actress Fiona Loudon, who gave birth to their daughter Ella that same year. He would appear in over ten films, TV movies, television shows, and failed pilots over the next two years, until his marriage to Louden came to an end in 1994. He got back in the game in 1995 with a role in the Disney film A Kid in King Arthur's Court, returning to England soon afterward to star in the acclaimed BBC2 miniseries Our Friends in the North and the four-part series Moll Flanders.  It seemed that the actor couldn't stay busy enough, working on several projects a year that ranged from highly respectable drama to trash TV horror. In 1997 he worked with German director Peter Sehr on Obsession where he met his future girlfriend, German actress Heike Makatsch. His first leading role in the U.K. came in 1998 with his portrayal of George Dyer, the intimate friend of painter Francis Bacon (played by Derek Jacobi) in John Maybury's Love Is the Devil. He was developing an impressive resumé and a great skill at taking on an entirely new persona with each new role. He would play a 19th century Irish refuge in Love & Rage, a young soldier in the WWI film The Trench, a framed Jesuit priest in the royal biopic Elizabeth (Starring Cate Blanchett), a Kenyan gamekeeper in the Kim Basinger film I Dreamed of Africa, and the manager of a run-down hotel and health-spa in the satirical comedy Hotel Splendide.  American audiences finally got a real taste of Craig's acting when he took a part in an action-packed summer blockbuster, 2001's Lara Croft: Tomb Raider. Playing Angelina Jolie's present rival and former lover, Craig was so effective at his trademark immersion into his role that audiences hardly recognized him when he appeared the next year in The Road to Perdition as the spoiled son of an Al Capone-era mob boss, complete with a perfect American accent. His skill for blending so adeptly into his character and environment gave him the odd combination of being wildly praised but seldom recognized. He would appear in many more challenging and thought-provoking roles over the next few years, most notably as Ted Hughes, poet and husband to Sylvia Plath (Played by Gwyneth Paltrow) in the biopic Sylvia (2003). In 2004, he took British audiences on a thrill ride as a coke dealer without a name in Layer Cake, which became a sleeper hit in the U.S. as well. The following year found him playing significant roles in American films like The Jacket and Steven Spielberg's Munich.  The script that would mark his debut in the franchise would be Casino Royale, the only of author Ian Flemming's original James Bond books to have never been adapted into a screenplay for the film franchise, as its rights were purchased  in 1967 to make a spoof of the film series rather than a real Bond movie. The choice of Craig for such a famous and well-loved character had some audiences scratching their heads, but those who'd taken a look at the actor's long and impressive filmography were ready to see him take on the job. To say his debut as Bond was a success is an understatment: Released in late 2006, Casino Royale quickly rung up the highest box-office tally of any Bond film, and it garnered the best reviews the franchise had seen in years. Audiences and critics alike became Craig loyalists. He would stick with the Bond franchise for years to come, but the veteran actor continued to take risks on the big screen with such efforts as Defiance, Cowboys & Aliens, Dream House, and The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. ~ Cammila Collar, Rovi
						and authorize Fandango and its service providers to deliver FanTexts and other promotional texts to your mobile phone. 
                    You can unsubscribe at any time by texting "STOP" or seek help by texting "HELP" to "FNDGO" (36346).
