=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Stanley Kubrick (/ˈkuːbrɪk/; July 26, 1928 – March 7, 1999) was an American film director, screenwriter, producer, cinematographer, and editor who did much of his work in the United Kingdom. He is regarded as one of the great filmmakers. He was part of the New Hollywood wave of filmmaking. His films, typically adaptations of novels or short stories, are noted for their "dazzling"[1] and unique cinematography, attention to detail in the service of realism, and the evocative use of music. Kubrick's films covered a variety of genres, including war, crime, literary adaptations, romantic and black comedies, horror, epic and science fiction. Kubrick was also noted for being a demanding perfectionist, using painstaking care with scene staging, camera-work and coordinating extremely closely both with his actors and his behind-scenes collaborators.
Starting out as a photographer in New York City, he taught himself all aspects of film production and directing after graduating from high school. His earliest films were made on a shoestring budget, followed by one Hollywood blockbuster, Spartacus, after which he spent most of the rest of his career living and filming in the United Kingdom. His home at Childwickbury Manor in Hertfordshire (north of and near to London) became his workplace where he did his writing, research, editing and management of production details. This allowed him to have almost complete artistic control, but with the rare advantage of having financial support from major Hollywood studios.
Many of his films broke new ground in cinematography, including 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968), a science-fiction film which director Steven Spielberg called his generation's "big bang", with innovative visual effects and scientific realism.[2] For Barry Lyndon (1975), Kubrick obtained lenses developed by Zeiss for NASA in order to film scenes under natural candlelight and The Shining (1980) was among the first feature films to make use of a Steadicam for stabilized and fluid tracking shots. As with his earlier shorts, Kubrick was the cinematographer and editor on the first two of his thirteen feature films. He directed, produced and wrote all or part of the screenplays for nearly all his films.
While some of Kubrick's films were controversial with mixed reviews, such as Paths of Glory (1957), Lolita (1962), and A Clockwork Orange (1971), most of his films were nominated for Oscars, Golden Globes or BAFTAs. Film historian Michel Ciment considers his films to be "among the most important contributions to world cinema in the twentieth century"[3] while director Norman Jewison calls him one of the "great masters" that America has produced.[4]
Stanley Kubrick was born on July 26, 1928, in Manhattan, New York, at Lying-In Hospital at 302 2nd Avenue,[5]:7 the first of two children of Jacob Leonard Kubrick (1901–85), known as Jack or Jacques, and his wife Sadie Gertrude Kubrick (née Perveler; 1903–85), both of whom were Jewish living in the Bronx. His sister, Barbara Mary Kubrick, was born in May 1934.[6] Jacob Kubrick, whose parents and paternal grandparents were of Polish, Austrian, and Romanian origin, was a doctor. At Stanley's birth, the Kubricks lived in an apartment at 2160 Clinton Avenue in the Bronx.[5]:6 Kubrick biographer Geoffrey Cocks writes that Kubrick's family was not religious, although his parents had been married in a Jewish ceremony.[7] In 1980 Kubrick told Michel Ciment that he had not had a religious upbringing.[8]
A friend of Kubrick's family notes that although his father was a prominent doctor, Stanley and his mother were unpretentious.[5]:24 As a boy, he was considered "bookish" and generally uninterested in activities in his Bronx neighborhood. According to a friend, Kubrick was one of a group of talented people as a teenager.[7] Many of his friends from his "close-knit neighborhood" became involved with his early films, including writing music scores and scripts.[7]
When Kubrick was twelve, his father taught him chess. The game remained a lifelong obsession and appeared in many scenes in his films. Kubrick explained that chess helped him develop "patience and discipline" in making decisions.[9]:11 At the age of thirteen, Kubrick's father bought him a Graflex camera, triggering a fascination with still photography.He become friends with a neighbour, Marvin Taub, who shared his passion for photography. Taub had his own darkroom where he and the young Kubrick would spend many hours perusing over photographs and watching the chemicals "magically make images on photographic paper".[6] The two would indulge in many photographic "assignments", crawling the streets looking for interesting subjects to capture, and would also spend much time in local cinemas studying films. As a teenager, Kubrick was interested in jazz, and briefly attempted a career as a drummer. His father was disappointed in his failure to achieve excellence in school,of which he felt Stanley fully capable. He encouraged him to read from his library at home while, at the same time, permitting him to take up photography as a serious hobby.[7]
Kubrick attended William Howard Taft High School from 1941 to 1945 (one of his classmates was Edith Gormezano, later known as the singer Eydie Gorme).[10] He joined the school's photographic club which permitted him to photograph the school's events in their magazine,[6] although he was a poor student, with a meager 67 grade average.[11] According to his English teacher, Kubrick was interested in literature from an early age.[5]:23 Kubrick had a poor attendance record, and often skipped school to watch double-feature films.[5]:15 He graduated in 1945, but his poor grades, combined with the demand for college admissions from soldiers returning from the Second World War, eliminated hope of higher education. Later in life, Kubrick spoke disdainfully of his education and of education in general, maintaining that nothing about school interested him. His parents sent him to live with relatives for a year in Los Angeles in the hopes that it would help his academic growth.
While still in high school, he was chosen as an official school photographer for a year. In 1946, since he was not able to gain admission to day session classes at colleges, he briefly attended evening classes at the City College of New York (CCNY).[5]:33 Eventually, he sought jobs as a freelance photographer, and by graduation, he had sold a photographic series to Look magazine, having taken a photo to Helen O'Brian, head of the photographic department of Look, who purchased it without hesitation for £25 on the spot.[12] It was printed on 26 June 1945. Kubrick supplemented his income by playing chess "for quarters" in Washington Square Park and various Manhattan chess clubs.[13]
In 1946, he became an apprentice photographer for Look and later a full-time staff photographer.[a] Kubrick became known for his story-telling in photographs from the beginning through mini photo stories. His first, published on 16 April 1946 was entitled "A Short Story from a Movie Balcony" and staged a fracas between a man and a woman, who the man was making advances upon in the cinema. Kubrick, friends with both of the subjects, gave each of them separate orders, and the shock of the man is captured in one of the four photographs after he is slapped by the woman in the face, caught genuinely by surprise.[12] Kubrick, a boxing enthusiast, eventually began photographing boxing matches for the magazine. His earliest, "Prizefighter", was published on 18 January 1949 and captured a boxing match and the events leading up to it, featuring Walter Cartier. On 2 April 1949 he published a photo essay, named "Chicago-City of Extremes" in Look, which displayed his talent early on for creating atmosphere with imagery, including a photograph (pictured) taken above a congested Chicago street at night. The following year, on 18 July 1950, the magazine published his photo essay, "Working Debutante - Betsy von Furstenberg", which featured a Pablo Picasso portrait of Angel F. de Soto in the background.[15]
During his Look magazine years, Kubrick married his high-school sweetheart Toba Metz in May 1948. They lived together in Greenwich Village. During this time, Kubrick began frequenting film screenings at the Museum of Modern Art and the cinemas of New York City. He was inspired by the complex, fluid camerawork of the director Max Ophüls, whose films influenced Kubrick's later visual style, and by the director Elia Kazan, whom he described as America's "best director" at that time, with his ability of "performing miracles" with his actors.[3] Friends began to notice that Kubrick had become obsessed with the art of filmmaking—one friend, David Vaughn, observed that Kubrick would scrutinize the film at the cinema when it went silent, and would go back to reading his paper when people started talking.[12] He also spent many hours reading books on film theory and writing down notes.
In 1951, Kubrick made a few short documentaries, beginning with The March of Time newsreels to movie theatres. His first was the independently financed Day of the Fight (1951) featuring his earlier boxing subject Walter Cartier, notable for using reverse tracking shot, later to become one of Kubrick's characteristic camera movements.[16] Inspired by this early success, Kubrick quit his job at Look and began work on others, including, Flying Padre (1951) and The Seafarers (1953), Kubrick's first color film. These three films constitute Kubrick's only surviving documentary works, although some historians believe he made others.[17] He also served as second unit director on an episode of the TV show, Omnibus, about Abraham Lincoln, clips of which are included in the documentary Stanley Kubrick: A Life in Pictures (2001).
Kubrick told writer Joseph Gelmis in 1969 that Alex Singer, a friend from high school, encouraged him to make documentaries.[18]
At the time, Singer worked in the offices of the newsreel production company, The March of Time, and Kubrick felt he could make a film for much less than the company was paying other filmmakers, expressing surprise at how much a short film cost to make.[19] He began learning all he could about filmmaking on his own, calling film suppliers, laboratories, and equipment rental houses. Kubrick decided to make a short film documentary about a boxer, the same one he wrote a story about for Look a year earlier. He rented a camera and produced a 16-minute black-and-white documentary, Day of the Fight. Kubrick described his first effort at filmmaking as having been valuable as he was forced to do everything himself,[18] and later declared that the "best education in film is to make one".[6] He has stated that he was given confidence during this period to become a filmmaker because of the number of lousy films which he had seen, remarking that "I don't know a goddamn thing about movies, but I know I can make a better film than that".[20]
Fear and Desire (1953), Kubrick's first feature film, was a low-budget production about a team of soldiers caught behind enemy lines in a fictional war. Kubrick and his wife Toba Metz were the only crew on the film, which was written by his friend Howard Sackler. It garnered some respectable reviews but was still a commercial failure. Kubrick was later embarrassed by the film as an amateur effort and tried to keep it out of circulation.[21] He called it a "bumbling, amateur film exercise ... a completely inept oddity, boring and pretentious."[22]
The film is said to demonstrate Kubrick's early interest in warfare and, observes film historian James Naremore, "He's especially interested in how rational, militaristic planning spins out of control and becomes irrational." Kubrick's later films expressed different aspects of that theme, including Paths of Glory, Dr. Strangelove, and Full Metal Jacket.[22]
The film was shown on television for the first time on Turner Classic Movies in December 2011,[23] and four of his early films, including this one, became available in the fall of 2012.[24]
Killer's Kiss is a 67-minute film noir film about a young heavyweight boxer's involvement with a woman being abused by her criminal boss. Like Fear and Desire, it was privately funded by Kubrick's family and friends, and production was again made with "a virtual one-man crew", with Kubrick co-writing the script with Sackler.[25]
Although the film met with limited commercial success,[26][27] film historian Alexander Walker finds it was "oddly compelling".[9]:45 The film's striking aspects, states Walker, include Kubrick's lighting and photography, and the tone of the film with its urban loneliness and melancholy.[9]:45
The Killing is a fictional story of a meticulously planned racetrack robbery gone wrong, starring Sterling Hayden. This is Kubrick's first full-length feature film shot with a professional cast and crew. Its non-linear narrative had a major influence on later directors, including Quentin Tarantino.[28][29][30] The Killing followed many of the conventions of film noir, in both its plotting and cinematography style, and although the genre peaked in the 1940s, many critics regard this film as one of its best.[31] Not a financial success, it still received good reviews,[32] and brought Kubrick and his producer partner, James B. Harris, to the attention of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer,[33] which offered them its collection of stories from which to choose their next project.
Kubrick's next film, Paths of Glory, set during World War I, is based on Humphrey Cobb's 1935 antiwar novel, and stars Kirk Douglas. It follows a French army unit ordered on an impossible mission by their superiors. The film was his first significant commercial success, and established Kubrick as an up-and-coming young filmmaker.
Critics praised the film's unsentimental, spare, and unvarnished combat scenes and its raw, black-and-white cinematography.[34] The film was banned in both France and (for less time) Germany for many years for its fictionalized depictions of the French military.
Kubrick's cinematography was particularly commented on by critics, along with other directors. "Colonel Dax's (Kirk Douglas) march through his soldier's trench in a single, unbroken reverse-tracking shot has become a classic cinematic trope cited in film classes," and director Steven Spielberg once named this his favorite film.[citation needed]
Kubrick worked for six months on the Marlon Brando vehicle One-Eyed Jacks (1961). The script was written by then unknown Sam Peckinpah, and Kubrick insisted on rewriting it. Kubrick quit as director, explaining that that "Brando wanted to direct the movie."[35] Kubrick much impressed Brando who said of the director "Stanley is unusually perceptive, and delicately attuned to people. He has an adroit intellect, and is a creative thinker—not a repeater, not a fact-gatherer. He digests what he learns and brings to a new project an original point of view and a reserved passion".[36]
Spartacus is based on the true life story of the historical figure and the events of the Third Servile War. It was produced by Kirk Douglas, who also starred as rebellious slave Spartacus, and Laurence Olivier as his foe, the Roman general and politician Marcus Licinius Crassus. Douglas hired Kubrick to take over direction soon after he fired director Anthony Mann.
Kubrick had, at 31, already directed four feature films, and this became his largest by far, with a cast of over 10,000. At the time this was the most expensive film ever made in America.[25] It was also the first time that Kubrick filmed using anamorphic 35mm horizontal Super Technirama process to achieve ultra-high definition, which allowed him to capture large panoramic scenes, including one with 8,000 trained soldiers from Spain representing the Roman army. Kubrick was accustomed to staging and lighting all scenes, as a result of his photography background. According to film author Alan K. Rode, Kubrick began directing cinematographer Russell Metty, who was twice Kubrick's age, how to photograph and light scenes, which led to Metty threatening to quit. Metty later muted his criticisms after winning the Oscar for Best Cinematography, his only win during his career.[37]:134
Kubrick had conflicts with Douglas, including his dissatisfaction with the screenplay. He also complained about not having full creative control over the artistic aspects. For Douglas, the film was a "labor of love". He had used his own funds to purchase an option on the book Spartacus from author Howard Fast, and he hired all the primary creative forces involved in production, including Kubrick.[38]:226 Kubrick realized that in the future he wanted to have autonomy on any films he worked on.[5]:193[39]
Originally, Fast was hired to adapt his own novel as a screenplay, but he had difficulty working in the format. He was replaced by Dalton Trumbo, who had been blacklisted as one of the Hollywood Ten. Douglas insisted that Trumbo be given screen credit for his work, which helped to break the blacklist.[40][41]
The filming was plagued by the conflicting visions of Kubrick and Trumbo. Kubrick complained that the character of Spartacus had no faults or quirks, and he later distanced himself from the film.[42] Despite the on-set troubles, Spartacus was a critical and commercial success and established Kubrick as a major director, receiving six Academy Award nominations and winning four. It marked the end of the working relationship between Kubrick and Douglas. Co-star Tony Curtis, in his autobiography, called Kubrick his favorite director, and praised his individual relationships with actors.[5]:193
In 1962, Kubrick moved to England to film Lolita, his first attempt at black comedy. It was an adaptation of the novel of the same name by Vladimir Nabokov, the story of a middle-aged college professor becoming infatuated with a 12-year-old girl. It starred Peter Sellers, James Mason, Shelley Winters, and Sue Lyon. Lolita was Kubrick's first film to generate controversy because of its provocative story.[43] Kubrick toned down the screen adaptation to remove much of the eroticism in the novel[5]:225 and made it into "an epic comedy of frustration rather than lust", writes film author Adrian Turner.[25]
Kubrick searched for nearly a year to find what Nabokov called "the perfect nymphet" to play the part. After interviewing Sue Lyon, he found her to be nearly perfect and recalls his reaction:
From the first, she was interesting to watch—even in the way she walked in for her interview, casually sat down, walked out. She was cool and non-giggly. She was enigmatic without being dull. She could keep people guessing about how much Lolita knew about life. When she left us, we shouted to each other, 'Now if she can only act!'[5]:203
Kubrick was deeply impressed by the chameleon-like range of actor Peter Sellers and gave him one of his first opportunities to wildly improvise during shooting while filming him with three cameras. To best utilize Sellers' talents, Kubrick, in consultation with him, vastly expanded the role of Clare Quilty and added new material in which Quilty impersonates various other characters.[5]:204–205
Stylistically, Lolita was a transitional film for Kubrick, "marking the turning point from a naturalistic cinema ... to the surrealism of the later films", notes film critic Gene Youngblood.[44] The film received mixed reviews, with some critics praising it for its daring subject matter, while others, like Pauline Kael, describing it as the "first new American comedy" since the 1940s. "Lolita is black slapstick and at times it's so far out that you gasp as you laugh."[5]:224
According to social historian Stephen E. Kercher, the film "demonstrated that its director possessed a keen, satiric insight into the social landscape and sexual hang-ups of cold war America". Kubrick had shown an affinity for liberal satire when he approached others he hoped would become collaborators: he asked comedian Lenny Bruce to work with him on a film, and did the same with fellow Bronx native, cartoonist Jules Feiffer, whom he invited to Los Angeles to work with him on a screenplay titled Sick, Sick, Sick.[45]:331
Kubrick's next project was Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964), another satirical black comedy. Because Kubrick came of age after World War II and the beginning of the Cold War period, he, like many others, was worried about the possibilities of nuclear war. He became preoccupied with it in the late 1950s, fearing that New York, where he lived, could be a likely target, and even considered moving to Australia, particularly Sydney or Melbourne. He began consulting with others about the possibility of making the subject into a movie.[5]:227
The novel Red Alert was recommended to Kubrick, and after reading it he saw in it the makings of a good film story about nuclear war. Kubrick then began working on a screenplay along with his producer, James B. Harris, who had produced three of his previous films.
During that writing period, Kubrick decided that turning the otherwise frightening and serious story into a satire would be the best way to make it into a film, although Harris felt otherwise, and chose not to produce it. Kubrick told Harris, "The only way this thing really works for me is as a satire. It's the same point, but it's just a better way of making the point."[5]:228–229 Harris recalls being worried that Kubrick had ruined his career, but being pleased with the result.[5]:229
According to LoBrutto and others, "Kubrick was taking a bold and dangerous leap" in his decision to make Red Alert into a comedy, as the topic of nuclear war as a film subject at that time was "considered taboo" and "hardly socially acceptable".[5]:229 Before writing the screenplay as a satire, Kubrick studied over forty military and political research books, including unclassified information on nuclear weapons and effects from Charles B.Yulish, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission. He decided that a "serious treatment" of the subject would not be believable, and that some of his most salient points would be fodder for comedy. He then decided to try to "treat the story as a nightmare comedy."[9]:29
Kubrick found that the film would be impossible to make in the U.S. for various technical and political reasons, forcing him to move production to England. There, he developed what became the "first important visual effects crew in the world".[5]:233 To help him write the screenplay, Kubrick hired noted black comedy and satirical writer Terry Southern. Together, they worked closely to transform Red Alert into "an outrageous black comedy" loaded with "outrageous dialogue". LoBrutto notes that the final product is a "raucous satire" that merges Kubrick's "devilishly dark sense of humor" from the New York streets and Southern's "manic comedic mind."[5]:233
From his collection of thousands of record albums, both classical and golden oldies, Kubrick also selected background songs and music which added to the satirical and sardonic effect: during the opening credits with B-52 bombers in flight, the song "Try a Little Tenderness" set the scene; the pilots proceeded to fly into hostile territory, knowing they would not return, to the tune of "When Johnny Comes Marching Home"; scenes depicting nuclear explosions featured the song "We'll Meet Again".
The War Room set created for the film by Ken Adam was considered a "classic of movie design." Director Steven Spielberg told Adam that it was the "best set that's ever been designed."[46]
Because of perception that Peter Sellers had been pivotal to the success of Lolita, Sellers was again cast to employ his ability to mimic different characters, this time in three different roles. As he had in Lolita, Kubrick allowed Sellers to improvise his dialogue.[47]
The film stirred up much controversy and mixed opinions. New York Times film critic Bosley Crowther worried that it was a "discredit and even contempt for our whole defense establishment ... the most shattering sick joke I've ever come across".[45] Whereas Time, the Nation, Newsweek and Life, among many, gave it "positive, often ecstatic reviews".[45] Kubrick stated:
A satirist is someone who has a very skeptical view of human nature, but who still has the optimism to make some sort of a joke out of it. However brutal that joke might be.[48]
Kubrick spent five years developing his next film, 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968). The film was adapted from the short story The Sentinel, by science fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke, and the screenplay was written by Kubrick and Clarke in collaboration. The film's theme, the birthing of one intelligence by another, is developed in two parallel intersecting stories on two very different times scales. One depicts transitions between various stages of man, from ape to "star child", as man is reborn into a new existence, each step shepherded by an enigmatic alien intelligence seen only in its artifacts: a series of seemingly indestructible eons-old black monoliths. It also depicts human interaction with our own more directly created and controlled offspring intelligence (which we were evidently not quite ready for).[citation needed] The film was conceived as a Cinerama spectacle and was photographed in Super Panavision 70.
Upon its release in 1968, the film was said[by whom?] to defy genre convention and was claimed[by whom?] to be unlike any science-fiction movie before it, and different from any of Kubrick's earlier films or stories.[49] It contained ground-breaking special effects designed by Kubrick to give the viewer a "dazzling mix of imagination and science", and winning Kubrick his only personal Oscar, an Academy Award for Visual Effects.[50]
Kubrick was very much interested in science and the possibilities that life existed beyond Earth. When Kubrick first contacted Clarke through his friend about helping him write the film, he assumed Clarke was a "recluse", then living in Ceylon. They first met in person in New York, although Kubrick did not offer Clarke the job of writing at that point, nor was the possible film discussed. LoBrutto notes that Clarke was impressed with Kubrick's intelligence.[5]:257
Subsequently, after they agreed to the story, Kubrick worked closely with Clarke for three months to produce a 130-page treatment for the film, and consulted with other experts and agencies while doing so.[51]:146 Initially, Clarke worked in Kubrick's apartment office on Central Park West with an electric typewriter.[52]
Kubrick describes the movie as "a nonverbal experience",[53] but would not elaborate on the film's meaning during a Playboy magazine interview in 1968:
[I] tried to create a visual experience, one that bypasses verbalized pigeon-holing and directly penetrates the subconscious with an emotional and philosophic content ... just as music does ... You're free to speculate as you wish about the philosophical and allegorical meaning.[53]
In an interesting contrast within a film infused with allegory and symbolism, the film was also noted for its groundbreaking scientific realism in depicting space flight, for example in its depiction of various strategies to deal with zero-gravity, the absence of sound in outer space, artificial intelligence, and the fact that interplanetary space travel will require different kinds of vehicles engineered for different stages of the journey.[54]
2001 was the first of several Kubrick films in which classical music played an important role. At the suggestion of Jan Harlan, Also Sprach Zarathustra by Richard Strauss was included,[55] used for the opening credits, in the "The Dawn of Man" sequence and again in the ending scene which astronaut David Bowman, as the "star child", gazes at Earth. Kubrick also used music by avant-garde Hungarian composer György Ligeti, his work's first wide commercial exposure, along with Johann Strauss's Blue Danube Waltz.
The film was not an immediate hit among many critics, who faulted its lack of dialogue, slow pacing, and seemingly impenetrable storyline. Others, like Penelope Gilliatt,[56] called it "a great film", and numerous directors were inspired by it.[5]:314 Many today[when?] consider it among the greatest science fiction films ever made,[57] as well as one of the most influential.[58] After it was shown at a private screening at the Vatican, producer Jan Harlan recalls that a cardinal stood up and said to the audience, "Here is a film made by an agnostic who hit the bullseye."[59]
Today, many film critics and moviemakers regard it as the most significant Hollywood film of its generation,[53] with some, such as Spielberg, calling it his generation's "big bang".[60] Lockwood considers 2001 a "life-changer" in terms of technology and the possibilities of film, realizing it would be even during the filming: "When you've got the best moviemaker of all time, Stanley Kubrick, with one of the best sci-fi writers of all time, Arthur C. Clarke, combining, well, I kinda knew."[54] It is a staple on All Time Top 10 lists.[61]
Following 2001 (1968), Kubrick planned to make a film about the life of the French emperor Napoleon. He had already spent two years doing extensive research about Napoleon's life, and would use a screenplay he wrote in 1961. The film was well into pre-production and ready to begin filming in 1969 when MGM cancelled the project, partly due to its projected cost, and the poor reception the Soviet version received.[62]
Screenwriter and director Andrew Birkin, one of Kubrick's young assistants on 2001, helped research the life of Napoleon for Kubrick. He was sent to the Isle of Elba, Austerlitz and Waterloo, taking thousands of pictures which he later went over with Kubrick. Kubrick also had him read scholarly monographs about Napoleon as well as Napoleon's personal memoirs and commentaries.
In 2011, Taschen published the book, Stanley Kubrick's Napoleon: The Greatest Movie Never Made, a large volume compilation of literature and source documents from Kubrick, such as scene photo ideas and copies of letters Kubrick wrote and received. Kubrick had already approached numerous stars to play leading roles, including Audrey Hepburn for Empress Josephine, a part which she could not accept.[62][63]
In March 2013, Spielberg, who previously collaborated with Kubrick on A.I. Artificial Intelligence, announced that he would be developing Napoleon as a TV miniseries based on Kubrick's original screenplay.[64]
When financing for Napoleon fell through, Kubrick searched for a project that he could film quickly on a small budget. He settled on A Clockwork Orange (1971). His adaptation of Anthony Burgess's novel of the same name is an exploration of violence and experimental rehabilitation by law enforcement authorities. LoBrutto describes the film as a "sociopolitical statement about the government's threat against personal freedom",[5]:371 and Ciment explains that, through the story, Kubrick "is denouncing brainwashing of every kind and making a plea for free-will".[3]:122 Kubrick did not deny those conclusions, asserting that even with good motives there were limits to how society should maintain "law and order": "The State sees the spectre looming ahead of terrorism and anarchy, and this increases the risk of its over-reaction and a reduction in our freedom."[3]:163
Because of its depiction of teenage violence, the film became one of the most controversial films of the decade, and part of an ongoing debate about violence in cinema.[65] Detractors claimed the film glorified violence. Kubrick personally pulled the film from release in the United Kingdom after receiving death threats following a series of copycat crimes based on the film; it was thus completely unavailable legally in the UK until after Kubrick's death, and not re-released until 2000. Kubrick disagreed that a film could transform a person into a criminal, and argued that "violent crime is invariably committed by people with a long record of anti-social behavior".[3]:163
Kubrick defended the depiction of violence in the film, arguing that "The violence in the story has to be given sufficient dramatic weight so that the moral dilemma it poses can be seen in the right context", otherwise the viewer would not reach a "meaningful conclusion about relative rights and wrongs". The State cannot turn even the most "vicious criminals into vegetables".[3]:162–163
Kubrick also expanded his ideas to the nation's popular media and worried that it could have a similar effect on a wider scale. In a letter Kubrick had published by the New York Times in 1972, he warned against what he described as multimedia "fascism" that could also turn human beings into "zombies". Author Julian Rice explains that, in this larger context, Kubrick implies that "spectators" of media can become a "massive entity subject to predictable response".[66]
A Clockwork Orange was rated 'X' for violence in the US on its original release, just a year before that rating became linked to pornography. Kubrick later released a cut version for an 'R' rating, though the original version has since been re-rated to 'R'.[citation needed]
Special lenses were developed for Barry Lyndon to film candlelit scenes. This is the only film with candlelight scenes in which the candles are the only actual light source on the set[citation needed]
Barry Lyndon (1975) was an adaptation of William Makepeace Thackeray's The Luck of Barry Lyndon (also known as Barry Lyndon), a picaresque novel about the adventures of an 18th-century Irish gambler and social climber. The cinematography and lighting techniques that Kubrick, together with his cinematographer John Alcott, used in Barry Lyndon were highly innovative. Most notably, interior scenes were shot with a specially adapted high-speed f/0.7 Zeiss camera lens originally developed for NASA to be used in satellite photography. The lenses allowed many scenes to be lit only with candlelight, creating two-dimensional, diffused-light images reminiscent of 18th-century paintings.[67] Cinematographer Allen Daviau says that it gives the audience a way of seeing the characters and scenes as they would have been seen by people at the time.[68]
A number of production experts have described the efforts that Kubrick took to both acquire the lenses, considered "priceless" by the head of Panavision, and adapt them for use on his camera.[68] He had to have the camera engineered and rebuilt, which made it dedicated for that one lens only. Ed Di Giulio, who rebuilt the camera for Kubrick, says that it is two f-stops faster than even the fastest lenses currently[when?] available.[68]
Barry Lyndon found a great audience in Europe, particularly in France. Its measured pace and length at three hours put off many American critics and audiences, but the film was nominated for seven Academy Awards and won four, more than any other Kubrick film. As with most of Kubrick's films, Barry Lyndon's reputation has grown through the years, particularly among filmmakers. The director Martin Scorsese has cited it as his favorite Kubrick film. Spielberg has praised its "impeccable technique", although he had panned it when much younger.[69] Like its two predecessors, the film does not have an original score. Irish traditional songs (performed by The Chieftains) are combined with classical works from the period.
According to some critics who recognized the technical skills and special lenses used for the film, "every scene could have been a painting".[citation needed] Writer George Lewis points out that, for many of the scenes, Kubrick posed the actors for an instant before the action, thereby emphasizing this painterly quality. He adds, "The scenes look like European paintings of the 1700s and 1800s", and such paintings are considered art in the American popular mind.[70] The effect was accentuated, notes Ciment, by Kubrick's use of "slow reverse zoom which, moving out from a single character, enlarges the field of vision until its powerful scrutiny takes possession of the whole decor".[3]:114 Kubrick told Ciment, "I created a picture file of thousands of drawings and paintings for every type of reference that we could have wanted. I think I destroyed every art book you could buy in a bookshop."[71]
The Shining, released in 1980, was adapted from the novel of the same name by bestselling horror writer Stephen King. The film stars Jack Nicholson as a writer who takes a job as a winter caretaker of a large and isolated hotel in the Rocky Mountains. He spends the winter there with his wife, played by Shelley Duvall, and their young son, who displays paranormal abilities. During their stay, they confront both Jack's descent into madness and apparent supernatural horrors lurking in the hotel.
Kubrick, who gave his actors freedom to extend the script, and even improvise on occasion, did so with the film's two main stars. Nicholson notes that actors were given new script pages or revisions on almost a daily basis. According to LoBrutto, Kubrick made it clear that the printed script was to be used as a guide. On the set, Nicholson always appeared in character, and if Kubrick felt confident, after they considered how a scene could be shot, that he knew his lines well enough, he might encourage him, as he did Peter Sellers, to improvise.[5]:434 As a result, Nicholson's 'Here's Johnny!' line was improvised.[5]:433
Vivian Kubrick's film, The Making of The Shining, shows Nicholson and Duvall rehearsing the scene and revising the script along with Kubrick.[72] Kubrick allowed his daughter Vivian to film the documentary, an unusual move as he kept access to the set closed to all others.[5]:434
Kubrick made extensive use of the newly invented Steadicam, a weight-balanced camera support, which allowed for smooth hand-held camera movement in scenes where a conventional camera track was impractical. According to Garrett Brown, Steadicam's inventor, it was the first picture to utilize its full potential.[73] Kubrick's perfectionist style required dozens of takes of certain scenes.[74] Nicholson's scene with the ghostly bartender was shot thirty-six times, for example.
As with most Kubrick films, subsequent critical reaction has treated the film favorably. Among horror movie fans, The Shining is a cult classic.[75] The film's financial success renewed Warner Brothers' faith in Kubrick's ability to make profitable films after the commercial failure in the US of Barry Lyndon.
While Kubrick admitted he had always been interested in the subject of ESP and paranormal experiences, he first became interested in doing the film only after he read King's novel.[3]:181
Seven years later, Kubrick made his next film, Full Metal Jacket (1987), an adaptation of Gustav Hasford's Vietnam War novel The Short-Timers.
It was filmed in a derelict gasworks in the London Docklands area that was adapted as a ruined-city set, which makes the film visually very different from other Vietnam War films. Instead of a tropical jungle, the second half of the picture depicts urban warfare.[5]:469–470 Reviewers and commentators thought this contributed to the bleakness and seriousness of the film.[76]
According to Ciment, the film contained some of Kubrick's trademark characteristics, such as his selection of ironic music, portrayals of men being dehumanized, and attention to extreme detail to achieve realism. At the beginning of the film, as new and expressionless recruits have their hair cut down to their scalp, the song "Goodbye Sweetheart, Hello Vietnam" is playing in the background; in a later scene where United States Marines patrol the ruins of an abandoned and totally destroyed city, the theme song to the Mickey Mouse Club is heard as a sardonic counterpoint.[citation needed]
The film is split into halves. The recruits in boot camp are also subjected to what Ciment calls "a form of lobotomy, a barrage of physical and verbal aggression". Ciment writes, "In the transition from man to weapon, Kubrick underlines the process of dehumanization ... the same contradiction between the mechanical and the living that is manifest in A Clockwork Orange."[3]:234 According to one review, notes co-star Matthew Modine, "The first half of FMJ is brilliant. Then the film degenerates into a masterpiece."[77]
Ciment also recognizes aspects of this war film with Paths of Glory, which Kubrick directed thirty years earlier. There are similarities in both films, such as the use of natural lighting, an off-screen narrator, attention to detail, a sense of chaos, and the exploration of panoramic spaces. As a result, both films "accentuate the impression of reality ... and photographic hyper-realism".[3]:236
Kubrick explained he made the film look realistic by using natural light, and achieved a "newsreel effect" by making the Steadicam shots less steady.[3]:246
Kubrick's final film was Eyes Wide Shut (1999), starring Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman as a wealthy Manhattan couple on a sexual odyssey. The story is based on Arthur Schnitzler's Freudian novella Traumnovelle (Dream Story in English), which Kubrick relocated from turn-of-the-century Vienna to New York City in the 1990s. The film's theme has been described by Nicholson as delving into questions of the "dangers of married life", and the "silent desperations of keeping an ongoing relationship alive".[78]
Screenwriter Michael Herr notes that although the film outwardly presents "sex and thrills" as its subject, its ending conveys a message valuing "marriage and fidelity". The "core theme" of the film, writes Webster, is that of "monogamous fidelity".[79]:142
The secret password that Cruise needed in the film was "Fidelio". Historian Stuart McDougall adds that Fidelio is, "ironically", the title of Beethoven's only opera, and which is subtitled, "Married Love".[80] "One could argue Kubrick strengthened this idea via his choice of password in the film", adds Webster, as the original password by Schnitzler was "Denmark". According to Herr, "Fidelio" is the password and the presiding spirit of the piece.[81]:82
The title of the film also gives a clue to that theme. Webster sees an antecedent to the title phrase, "eyes wide shut", in a quotation by Benjamin Franklin on marriage: "keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards."[79]:142[82] Critic Charles Whitehouse agrees, stating, "My guess is that the phrase "Eyes Wide Shut" is shorthand for the most successful attitude a monogamous couple can adopt to viewing each other's inner life."[79]:142
Kubrick's wife noted his long-standing interest in the project, saying, "over the years he would see friends getting divorced and remarried, and the topic [of the film] would come up". She knew that this was a subject he wanted to make into a film.[78] Kidman observed that "Stanley's expectations of people were not really high".[78]
Although Kubrick was almost seventy, he worked relentlessly for 15 months in order to get the film out by its planned release date of July 16, 1999. He worked 18 hours a day, all the while maintaining complete confidentiality about the film. Press releases were sent to the media, stating briefly that "Stanley Kubrick's next film will be Eyes Wide Shut, a story of jealousy and sexual obsession".[79]:141 Eyes Wide Shut, like Lolita and A Clockwork Orange before it, faced censorship before release. Kubrick sent an unfinished preview copy to the stars and producers a few months before release, but his sudden death on March 7, 1999 came a few days after he finished editing. He never saw the final version released to the public.[3]:311
Film critic Michel Ciment believes that "he literally worked himself to death", trying to complete the film to his liking. Ciment explains that Kubrick's desire to keep this, and many of his earlier films, private and unpublicized during its production, was an expression of Kubrick's "will to power", and not a penchant for secrecy: "Kubrick felt, quite rightly, that the public generally knows far too much about a film before it opens and that the surrounding media frenzy made the joy of surprise and pleasure of discovery impossible".[3]:311
Speaking about the film, Kidman notes that, despite some critics describing the film's theme as "dark", in essence "it is a very hopeful film". During an interview in the documentary, Stanley Kubrick: A Life in Pictures, she says that Kubrick was indirectly stressing the moral values of "commitment and loyalty", adding that "ultimately, Eyes Wide Shut is about that commitment".[78] Although there were rumors at the time that making the film may have negatively impacted her marriage to Cruise, and they both recognized that "Stanley wanted to use our marriage as a supposed reality ... obviously it wasn't us", and she does not believe it affected their relationship.[83] She also felt that acting under Kubrick's direction "was like having a great, great teacher."[84]
Sydney Pollack, who acted in the film, adds that "the heart of [the film] was illustrating a truth about relationships and sexuality. But it was not illustrated in a literal way, but in a theatrical way."[78] Ciment agrees with Kidman, and notes the positive meaning underlying the film, pointing out how some of it is voiced through the dialog, and suggests that the words "resonate like an epitaph" to Kubrick: "Maybe, I think, we should be grateful ... grateful that we've managed to survive through all of our adventures, whether they were real or only a dream".[3]
Throughout the 1980s and early 1990s, Kubrick collaborated with Brian Aldiss on an expansion of his short story "Super-Toys Last All Summer Long" into a three-act film. It was a futuristic fairy-tale about a robot that resembles and behaves as a child, and his efforts to become a 'real boy' in a manner similar to Pinocchio. Kubrick reportedly held long telephone discussions with Steven Spielberg regarding the film, and, according to Spielberg, at one point stated that the subject matter was closer to Spielberg's sensibilities than his.[85]
In 1999, following Kubrick's death, Spielberg took the various drafts and notes left by Kubrick and his writers and composed a new screenplay based on an earlier 90-page story treatment by Ian Watson written under Kubrick's supervision and according to Kubrick's specifications. In association with what remained of Kubrick's production unit, he directed the movie A.I. Artificial Intelligence.[86] which was produced by Kubrick's longtime producer (and brother-in-law) Jan Harlan. Sets, costumes and art direction were based on work by conceptual artist, Chris Baker, who had also done much of his work under Kubrick's supervision.
Although Spielberg was able to function autonomously in Kubrick's absence, he said he felt "inhibited to honor him," and followed Kubrick's visual schema with as much fidelity as he could, writes author Joseph McBride. Spielberg, who once referred to Kubrick as "the greatest master I ever served," now with production underway, admitted, "I felt like I was being coached by a ghost".[87]
The film was released in June 2001. It contains a posthumous production credit for Stanley Kubrick at the beginning and the brief dedication "For Stanley Kubrick" at the end. The film contains many recurrent Kubrick motifs, such as an omniscient narrator, an extreme form of the three-act structure, the themes of humanity and inhumanity, and a sardonic view of psychiatry.[citation needed] In addition, John Williams' score contains many allusions to pieces heard in other Kubrick films.[88]
Kubrick both developed and was offered several film ideas which never saw completion. The most notable of these were an epic biopic of Napoleon and a Holocaust-themed film entitled Aryan Papers. Kubrick had done much research on Napoleon and it was well into pre-production, when the studio suddenly pulled the plug after another big-budget biopic about Napoleon entitled Waterloo failed financially. Work on Aryan Papers depressed Kubrick enormously, and he eventually decided that Steven Spielberg's Schindler's List covered much of the same material.
Tony Frewin, an assistant who worked with the director for a long period of time, revealed in a March 2013 Atlantic article: "He [Kubrick] was limitlessly interested in anything to do with Nazis and desperately wanted to make a film on the subject." The article then elaborates upon Frewin's statement and discusses another World War II film that was never realized—a film based on the life story of Dietrich Schulz-Koehn, a Nazi officer who used the pen name "Dr. Jazz" to write reviews of German music scenes during the Nazi era. Kubrick had been given a copy of the Mike Zwerin book Swing Under the Nazis after he had finished production on Full Metal Jacket, the front cover of which featured a photograph of Schulz-Koehn. A screenplay was never completed and Kubrick's film adaptation plan was never initiated (the unfinished Aryan Papers was a factor in the abandonment of the project).[89]
Kubrick was also unable to direct a film of Umberto Eco's Foucault's Pendulum as Eco had given his publisher instructions to never sell the film rights to any of his books after his dissatisfaction with the film version of The Name of the Rose. Eco was unaware of Kubrick's interest and later said he would have relented had he known of it.[citation needed]
When the film rights to Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings were sold to United Artists, the Beatles approached Kubrick to direct them in a film based on the books, but Kubrick told John Lennon he felt the story was unfilmable.[90] Director Peter Jackson has reported that Tolkien was against the involvement of the Beatles.[91][92]
Kubrick's family and many critics felt that his Jewish ancestry may have contributed to his worldview and aspects of his films. After his death, both his daughter and wife stated that although he was not religious, "he did not deny his Jewishness, not at all".[7] His daughter noted that he wanted to make a film about the Holocaust, to have been called Aryan Papers, having spent years researching the subject.[93] Most of his friends and early photography and film collaborators were Jewish, and his first two marriages were to daughters of recent Jewish immigrants from Europe.[7] British screenwriter Frederic Raphael, who worked closely with Kubrick in his final years, believes that the originality of Kubrick's films was partly because he "had a (Jewish?) respect for scholars".[7] He said that it was "absurd to try to understand Stanley Kubrick without reckoning on Jewishness as a fundamental aspect of his mentality".[7][94]
Walker notes that Kubrick was influenced by the tracking and "fluid camera" styles of director Max Ophüls, and used them in many of his films, including Paths of Glory and 2001: A Space Odyssey.[9][95] Kubrick noted how in Ophuls' films "the camera went through every wall and every floor".[96] He once named Ophüls' Le Plaisir as his favorite film. According to film historian John Wakeman, Ophüls himself learned the technique from director Anatole Litvak in the 1930s, when he was his assistant, and whose work was "replete with the camera trackings, pans and swoops which later became the trademark of Max Ophuls".[53]
Film critic Robert Kolker sees the influence of Welles' moving camera shots on Kubrick's style. LoBrutto notes that Kubrick identified with Welles and influenced the making of The Killing, with its "multiple points of view, extreme angles, and deep focus".[5]:126, 318[97]
Kubrick adapted all but his first two full-length films from existing novels or short stories. Many of the subjects Kubrick used for his films came to him unintentionally and indirectly, from books, newspapers, and talking with friends about various topics. Once he found a subject that interested him, "he devoured all relevant material" he could find about the topic, notes Walker. He occasionally collaborated with writers established outside the film world (often novelists or reporters) for several of his screenplays: Terry Southern for Dr. Strangelove, Arthur C. Clarke for 2001, and Diane Johnson for The Shining.
Geoffrey Cocks believes that Kubrick was also influenced by Ophüls' stories of thwarted love and a preoccupation with predatory men,[7] while Herr notes that Kubrick was deeply inspired by G. W. Pabst, who earlier tried but was unable to adapt Schnitzler's Traumnovelle, the basis of Eyes Wide Shut.[81]:27[98]
Kubrick said that "anyone who has ever been privileged to direct a film knows that, although it can be like trying to write War and Peace in a bumper car at an amusement park, when you finally get it right, there are not many joys in life that can equal that feeling."[99] As a young man, Kubrick was fascinated by the films of Soviet filmmakers such as Eisenstein and Pudovkin.[5]:55 Kubrick read Pudovkin's seminal theoretical work, Film Technique, which argues that editing makes film a unique art form, and it needs to be employed to manipulate the medium to its fullest. Kubrick recommended this work to others for years to come. Thomas Nelson describes this book as "the greatest influence of any single written work on the evolution of [Kubrick's] private aesthetics".[100] Kubrick also found the ideas of Constantin Stanislavski to be essential to his understanding the basics of directing, and gave himself a crash course to learn his methods.[9]:21 Kubrick had cited David Lynch's Eraserhead (1977) as one of his favorite films and used it as a creative reference during the directing of The Shining.[101]
Kubrick's films typically involve expressions of an inner struggle, examined from different perspectives.[99] He was very careful not to present his own views of the meaning of his films and leave them open to interpretation. He explained in a 1960 interview with Roberto Emmett Ginna: "One of the things I always find extremely difficult, when a picture's finished, is when a writer or a film reviewer asks, 'Now, what is it that you were trying to say in that picture?' And without being thought too presumptuous for using this analogy, I like to remember what T. S. Eliot said to someone who had asked him—I believe it was The Waste Land—what he meant by the poem. He replied, 'I meant what I said'. If I could have said it any differently, I would have".[102] Kubrick likened the understanding of his films to popular music, in that whatever the background or intellect of the individual, a Beatles record, for instance, can both be appreciated by the Alabama truck driver and the young Cambridge intellectual in the way that his films can because their "emotions and subconscious are far more similar than their intellects". He believed that the subconscious emotional reaction evoked by audiences was far more powerful in the film medium than in any other traditional verbal form, and was one of the reasons why he often relied on long periods in his films without dialogue, placing emphasis on images and sound.[102] In a Time magazine interview in 1975, Kubrick further stated: "The essence of a dramatic form is to let an idea come over people without it being plainly stated. When you say something directly, it is simply not as potent as it is when you allow people to discover it for themselves."[20]
Diane Johnson, who co-wrote the screenplay for The Shining with Kubrick, notes that he "always said that it was better to adapt a book rather than write an original screenplay, and that you should choose a work that isn't a masterpiece so you can improve on it. Which is what he's always done, except with Lolita".[3]:293 Ciment notes that Kubrick always emphasized that finding a 'good' story was the biggest part of making a film, its visual aspect never posing an insoluble problem for him. And he had "tremendous respect for the writers he worked with" when adapting a book for the screen.[3]:232
When deciding on a subject for a film, there were a number of aspects that he looked for, and he always made films which would "appeal to every sort of viewer, whatever their expectation of film".[103] According to his co-producer Jan Harlan, Kubrick mostly "wanted to make films about things that mattered, that not only had form, but substance". Harlan explains this during an interview with Charlie Rose in June 2001:[104]
While his films are all very different from each other ... there is something that connects them all, and that is a very serious look at human nature, at human frailty.[104]
In selecting subjects for his screenplays, he rarely had any particular theme in mind. Kubrick stated, "Somehow, the question presumes that one approaches a film with something resembling a policy statement, or a one-sentence theme, ... Maybe some people work this way, but I don't, and even though you obviously have some central preoccupation with the subject, ... the characters and the story develop a life of their own.[9]:38 Nor did he like to explain the theme or story even after the film was completed, preferring to let the viewers and critics interpret their own meanings. Walker explains that "Kubrick preferred to leave the film as the only real comment he could make on his work".[9]:37 Kubrick himself believed that audiences quite often were attracted to "enigmas and allegories" and did not like films in which everything was spelled out clearly. He felt a film was "spoiled" for those
unfortunate enough to have read what the filmmaker "has in mind". ... I..enjoy those subtle discoveries where I wonder whether the filmmaker ... was even aware that they were in the film[9]:38
Kubrick did enjoy surprising his audience by alternating dramatically the types of stories he filmed, notes Ciment, and it became a key aspect of his originality as a filmmaker. Ciment states that Kubrick often tried to confound audience expectations by establishing radically different moods from one film to the next
It is as if Kubrick were obsessed with contradicting himself, with making each work a critique of the previous one.[3]:59
Kubrick's films are unpredictable, examining "the duality and contradictions that exist in all of us".[105]
Ciment notes that The Shining (1980) continued this process, again being the "antithesis of the film which preceded it, Barry Lyndon. "Such a succession only confirms his habit over the last twenty years of alternating between deliberately slow-paced, meditative, even melancholic works and others with a taut, staccato rhythm, generated by a dynamism which can occasionally be frenetic."[3]:150 Kubrick explains:
There is no deliberate pattern to the stories that I have chosen to make into films. About the only factor at work each time is that I try not to repeat myself.[3]:153
His preference for finding and adapting unique stories and filming them with photographic realism, was not usually appreciated upon their initial release. Ciment notes that "it's easy to forget just how controversial his films were. Many were rejected by critics at the time of their release, only to become classics of the cinema years later."[3]:305 Jack Nicholson, who starred in The Shining, also recognized, but couldn't explain that aspect of critical reviews.[3]:297
"This man, in spite of the widespread reputation he had for mastering his means of expression, was misunderstood and misinterpreted every time he made a film. I've often asked myself why. In fact, only once did he have unanimously positive reviews, and they were for ...Paths of Glory. I've never understood how people who are so attached to film never realized that he was number one."
Although a few of his films were obvious satires and black comedies, such as Lolita and Dr. Strangelove, many of his other films also contained less visible elements of satire or irony. "All his films have a streak of irony," states Nicholson. "This is just one among many things where he and I agreed completely, and I had a lot of fun working on the film," noting that Kubrick "loved to tease".[3] :298 Film author Julian Rice describes many ironic scenes and dialog within Kubrick's films, including The Shining, Full Metal Jacket, 2001, Barry Lyndon and Eyes Wide Shut.[66]
Gilbert Adair, writing in a review for Full Metal Jacket, commented that "Kubrick's approach to language has always been of a reductive and uncompromisingly deterministic nature. He appears to view it as the exclusive product of environmental conditioning, only very marginally influenced by concepts of subjectivity and interiority, by all whims, shades and modulations of personal expression".[106]
Speaking with him was like speaking with another writer. Much more so than other directors I've worked with. They represented things visually but had little interest in narrative elements, ... Kubrick was very sensitive to the story itself ... He thought like a writer, which I found quite unique.[3]:295
That trait was also observed by Ciment, who stated that "he liked to talk and he loved words". He adds that Kubrick, although he was a visual thinker, "liked writers and worked with them on his screenplays ... He preferred them to professional screenwriters who he felt were too involved in the well-worn pathways of convention."[3]:310
Before shooting began, Kubrick tried to have the script as complete as possible, but still allowing himself enough space to make changes during the actual filming. Citing the importance of being in the place of the audience, Kubrick described this early stage of production:
One has to work out very clearly what the objectives of a scene are from the point of view of narrative and character, but once this is done, I find it much more profitable to avoid locking up any ideas about staging or camera or even dialogue prior to rehearsals[9]:26
Film author Patrick Webster notes that Kubrick's methods of writing and developing scenes fit with the auteur theory of directing, whereby Kubrick's script would be "far from a final shooting script; in other words that numerous changes were made in collaboration with the actors during filming".[79]:68 Actor Malcolm McDowell recalled Kubrick's collaborative emphasis during their discussions and his willingness to allow him to improvise a scene:
There was a script and we followed it, but when it didn't work he knew it, and we had to keep rehearsing endlessly until we were bored with it.[107]:68
Once he was confident in the overall staging of a scene, and felt the actors were prepared, he would then develop the visual aspects, including camera and lighting placement. As Walker points out, Kubrick was able to handle that phase quickly and easily with his background in cinematography: "He was one of the very few film directors competent to instruct their lighting photographers in the precise effect they want."[9]:26
Kubrick was noted for requiring multiple takes during filming. His high take ratio was considered by some critics as "irrational," although he firmly believed that actors were at their best during the actual filming, as opposed to rehearsals. He stated: "Actors who have worked a lot in movies don't really get a sense of intense excitement into their performances until there is film running through the camera".[5]:403
"They work with Stanley and go through hells that nothing in their careers could have prepared them for, they think they must have been mad to get involved, they think that they'd die before they would ever work with him again, that fixated maniac; and when it's all behind them and the profound fatigue of so much intensity has worn off, they'd do anything in the world to work for him again. For the rest of their professional lives they long to work with someone who cared the way Stanley did, someone they could learn from. They look for someone to respect the way they'd come to respect him, but they can never find anybody ... I've heard this story so many times."
Nicole Kidman explains that the large number of takes he often required stopped actors from consciously thinking about technique, thereby helping them enter a "deeper place." She describes what she understood to be Kubrick's reasoning:
He believed that what it does to you, as an actor, was that you would lose control of your sense of self, of the part of you that was internally watching your own performance. Eventually, he felt, you would stop censoring yourself."[108]
Many actors considered the large number of takes to be extremely difficult. Although "none of his actors has ever questioned the merits of this method, however much he might have suffered from it," states Ciment.[3]:38 Jack Nicholson adds, "Stanley's demanding. He'll do a scene fifty times and you have to be good to do that."[3]:38 During an interview, Ryan O'Neal recalled Kubrick's directing style:
God, he works you hard. He moves you, pushes you, helps you, gets cross with you, but above all he teaches you the value of a good director. Stanley brought out aspects of my personality and acting instincts that had been dormant ... My strong suspicion [was] that I was involved in something great.[5]:385
O'Neal describes how he felt after successfully completing one long and very difficult scene in Barry Lyndon requiring multiple takes: "Stanley grabbed my hand and squeezed it. It was the most beautiful and appreciated gesture in my life. It was the greatest moment in my career."[5]:396 During an interview in late 2012, he sums up his feelings about working with Kubrick:
It was a stunning experience. I'm still not recovered. He was magnificent. He was breath-taking. I had a man-love for him.[109]
Actors especially liked that Kubrick would often devote his personal breaks to have lengthy discussions with them so they could gain more confidence. Among those who valued his attention was Tony Curtis, star of Spartacus, who said Kubrick was his favorite director, adding, "his greatest effectiveness was his one-on-one relationship with actors."[5]:193 Similarly, Malcolm McDowell recalls the long discussions he had with Kubrick to help him develop his character in A Clockwork Orange (1971) noting that on his sets, he felt entirely uninhibited and free, saying "This is why Stanley is such a great director."[3]:38
A decade earlier, Kubrick's work with Peter Sellers on Lolita (1962), a black comedy, gave them both the chance to use improvisation, which Sellers did successfully. According to Sellers' biographer Alexander Walker, his collaborative work with Kubrick became a turning point in his career, noting that "for the first time, he tasted what it was like to work creatively during shooting," as opposed to the preproduction stage. The experience also lifted Sellers' spirit as an actor. Kubrick describes this change:
When Peter was called to the set he would usually arrive walking very slowly and staring morosely ... As work progressed, he would begin to respond to something or other in the scene, his mood would visibly brighten and we would begin to have fun. ... [At times] Peter reached ... a state of comic ecstasy.[110]:135
Walker adds that Sellers "was 'licensed' to break the rules, ... [and] encouraged by Kubrick to explore the outer limits of the comédie noire—and sometimes, he felt, go over them—in a way that appealed to the macabre imagination of himself and his director."[110]:136
Costume designer Marit Allen noted that Kubrick's directing style combined "slow interminable rehearsals" and "a kind of malicious humour". Kubrick would "accept anything from anyone, providing they knew what was at stake and did their best, and at the same time he was very demanding with everyone."[3]:279
Shelley Duvall, who starred in The Shining, had an especially difficult time with many of the long and highly emotional scenes, and had to repeat them until Kubrick was satisfied. She enjoyed the liberal atmosphere and on-set humor during filming, and stated that she learned more about acting in that one year than in all her previous years combined:[111]
He made life miserable for me, but he expanded my scope as an actress. . .[and] to my great surprise, Kubrick gave a great deal of freedom, to Jack and myself, in our acting[3]:301
Kubrick was also noted for his attention to accessory details. Gay Hamilton, a co-star in Barry Lyndon, notes that even for her costumes he asked to look at every one before approving them. "He was in touch with everything ... There was no question that he had his finger on every single aspect of moviemaking."[5]:396 That impression was shared by cinematographer John Alcott, who worked closely with Kubrick on four of his films, and won an Oscar for Best Cinematography on Barry Lyndon: "He questions everything."[5]:407 Kubrick worked with Alcott in camera placement, scene composition, choice of lens, and even operating the camera. "He's the nearest thing to genius I've ever worked with, with all the problems of a genius," adds Alcott.[5]:391 James B. Harris, who produced many of his early films, agreed that he was a perfectionist:
For him, every single detail was extremely important and he was ready to give himself up totally to his goal – which was the movie – for you have to live with your work to the end of your life.[3]:202
In deciding which props and settings would be used, he tried to collect as much background material as possible, "a bit like being a detective," Kubrick stated. For Barry Lyndon he gathered a large file of paintings and drawings of the period from art books, which he used as reference. From those sources, he made clothes, furniture, hand props, architecture, vehicles, etc. Kubrick also found the research process a personal benefit to himself:
You have an important reason to study a subject in much greater depth ... ,and then you have the satisfaction of putting the knowledge to immediate good use.[3]:176
Kubrick was also noted for working intensely, with full concentration, when directing. Michael Herr was surprised when visiting him on the set: "I was amazed at how fast he moved, and how light, darting around the crew and cameras like one of the Sugar Rays, grace and purpose in motion."[81]:16 Kubrick states that he rarely adds camera instructions in the script, preferring to handle that after a scene is created:
It never takes me long to decide on set-ups, lighting or camera movements. The visual part of filmmaking has always come easiest to me, and that is why I am careful to subordinate it to the story and performance.[3]:177
Kubrick credited the ease with which he photographed scenes to his early years as a photographer. It was his first "step up to movies", and for Kubrick the one essential piece of knowledge required to film well.[3]:196
John Alcott also saw the connection, stating that Kubrick "is, in his heart of hearts, a photographer, ... As a result, even in his later films, ... Kubrick would still collaborate with his cinematographers to make sure they captured scenes exactly as he wanted. "[3]:214 He adds that Kubrick displayed his talent as a photographer in some of his earliest films, noting especially the tracking shots in the trenches of Paths of Glory which "because of the angle chosen and the general movement of the scene, appears extremely stable."[3]:214
Having worked with Kubrick as cinematographer on four films over ten years, he states that Kubrick was "capable of becoming an expert in every field," adding that as a result, "with him there can be no excuses and no tricks because he is on to them immediately." For him, the positive aspect to Kubrick's attention to cinematic detail, was that he gave his crew a great deal of inner energy. "When you're shooting a film with him, it's eight o'clock in the evening before you know it."[3]:216
Among Kubrick's notable innovations in cinematography are his use of special effects, as in 2001, where he used both slit-scan photography and front-screen projection, which won Kubrick his only Oscar for special effects.
Some reviewers have described and illustrated with video clips, Kubrick's use of "one-point perspective", which leads the viewer's eye towards a central vanishing point. The technique relies on creating a complex visual symmetry using parallel lines in a scene which all converge on that single point, leading away from the viewer. Combined with camera motion it could produce an effect that one writer describes as "hypnotic and thrilling."[112][113]
The Shining was among the first half-dozen features to use the then-revolutionary Steadicam (after the 1976 films Bound for Glory, Marathon Man and Rocky). Kubrick used it to its fullest potential, which gave the audience smooth, stabilized, motion-tracking by the camera.[73][114] Kubrick described why he wanted to use it in many scenes:
The Steadicam allows one man to move the camera any place he can walk – into small spaces where a dolly won't fit, and up and down staircases ... You can walk or run with the camera, and the Steadicam smooths out any unsteadiness. It's like a magic carpet. The fast, flowing, camera movements in the maze would have been impossible to do without the Steadicam.[3]:189
Garrett Brown, its inventor, was the operator of the Steadicam for the film. In order to use it, it had to be mounted to a spring-loaded arm attached to a frame, which is then strapped to the operator's shoulders, chest and hips. Kubrick states that it "in effect, makes the camera weightless." During filming, Kubrick would walk alongside him and direct the camera's movements and angles.[3]:190 A scene showing the Steadicam being used while running on the hedge-maze set was filmed by Vivian Kubrick for her documentary The Making of "The Shining".[72]
Kubrick catalyzed the most important extension to the Steadicam since its inception. Since he wanted it to be able to shoot from just above floor level, Brown came up with the "low mode" bracket which mounts the camera on an inverted post, greatly increasing the creative angles of the system which previously could not go much lower than the operator's waist height.[115]
Kubrick was among the first directors to use video assist during filming. At the time he began using it in 1966, it was considered cutting-edge technology, requiring him to build his own system. Having it in place during the filming of 2001, he was able to view a video of a take immediately after it was filmed.[5]:294
On some films, such as Barry Lyndon, he used custom made zoom lenses. This allowed him to start a scene with a close-up and slowly zoom out to capture the full panorama of scenery. LoBrutto records that he ordered the customized 20:1 zoom lens along with a special joystick directly from the manufacturer. He also had them develop a quick-response aperture adjustment device. It allowed him to film long takes under changing outdoor lighting conditions by making aperture adjustments while the cameras rolled. LoBrutto notes that Kubrick's technical knowledge about lenses "dazzled the manufacturer's engineers, who found him to be unprecedented among contemporary filmmakers."[5]:389 Kubrick also operated the cameras himself for many scenes.
For that film he also used a specially adapted high-speed (f/0.7) Zeiss camera lens, originally developed for NASA, to shoot numerous scenes lit only with candlelight. Actor Steven Berkoff recalls that Kubrick wanted scenes to be shot using "pure candlelight," and in doing so Kubrick "made a unique contribution to the art of filmmaking going back to painting ... You almost posed like for portraits."[5]:400 LoBrutto notes that the candlelight scenes became an "instant legend" in the film business.
Cinematographers all over the world wanted to know about Kubrick's magic lens ... he had set a technical and artistic standard that took a Zen-like discipline and dedication to the art of film.[5]:408
Ryan O'Neal remembers that Kubrick often looked through 18th century art books as reference for setting up a scene: "He found a painting—I don't remember which one—and posed Marisa and me exactly as if we were in that painting."[5]:395
For Kubrick, written dialogue was one element to be put in balance with mise en scène (set arrangements), music, and especially, editing. Inspired by Pudovkin's treatise on film editing,[116] Kubrick realized that one could create a performance in the editing room and often "re-direct" a film. Kubrick explained this:
I love editing. I think I like it more than any other phase of filmmaking ... Editing is the only unique aspect of filmmaking which does not resemble any other art form—a point so important it cannot be overstressed ... It can make or break a film.[9]:42
Kubrick stated that he used two Steenbeck editing tables and a Moviola, which he said allowed him to work faster. He often spent extensive hours editing, often working seven days a week, and more and more hours a day as he got closer to deadlines.[9]:42
Walker adds that whether he was directing or editing, "his work so obsessed him that nothing was allowed to distract him from it, disturb or destabilize him. Everything in his daily agenda was arranged with that singular aim."[9]:360 And because he often shot numerous takes of scenes, he could edit with copious options, explains biographer John Baxter:
Instead of finding the intellectual spine of a film in the script before starting work, Kubrick felt his way towards the final version of a film by shooting each scene from many angles and demanding scores of takes on each line. Then over months ... he arranged and rearranged the tens of thousands of scraps of film to fit a vision that really only began to emerge during editing.[107]
His wife Christiane has stated 'He was addicted to music, he played it always, all day long. He worked with music, ... classical and the pop songs and he liked jazz music. You name it, a very catholic taste in music'.
In his last six films, Kubrick usually chose music from existing sources, especially classical compositions. He preferred selecting recorded music over having it composed for a film, believing that no hired composer could do as well as the public domain classical composers. He also felt that building scenes from images great music often created the "most memorable scenes" in the best films.[3]:153:156
His attention to music was an aspect of what many referred to as his "perfectionism" and extreme attention to minute details. In one instance, for a scene in Barry Lyndon which was written into the screenplay as merely, "Barry duels with Lord Bullingdon," he spent forty-two working days in the editing phase. During that period, he listened to what Lobrutto describes as "every available recording of seventeenth-and eighteenth- century music, acquiring thousands of records to find Handel's sarabande used to score the scene."[5]:405 Jack Nicholson likewise observed his attention to music for his films, stating that Kubrick "listened constantly to music until he discovered something he felt was right or that excited him."[3]:297
Kubrick is credited with introducing Hungarian composer György Ligeti to a broad Western audience by including his music in 2001, The Shining and Eyes Wide Shut. His music in 2001 employed the new style of micropolyphony, which used sustained dissonant chords that shift slowly over time, a style which he originated. Its inclusion in the film became a "boon for the relatively unknown composer" partly because it was introduced alongside background by notable composers, Johann Strauss and Richard Strauss.[117]
Main articles: Personal life of Stanley Kubrick and Political and religious beliefs of Stanley Kubrick
Biographer Vincent LoBrutto notes that Kubrick's desire for privacy led to spurious stories about his reclusiveness, "producing a mythology more than a man," similar to those about Greta Garbo, Howard Hughes, and J. D. Salinger.[5]:1 Michael Herr, Kubrick's co-screenwriter on Full Metal Jacket, who knew him well, considers his "reclusiveness" to be myth: "[H]e was in fact a complete failure as a recluse, unless you believe that a recluse is simply someone who seldom leaves his house. Stanley saw a lot of people ... he was one of the most gregarious men I ever knew, and it didn't change anything that most of this conviviality went on over the phone."[81]:3 Herr describes his voice and conversational style, noting that he had an "especially fraternal temperament" and quite a few women found him "extremely charming."[81]:4–5 Herr also notes similarities between Kubrick's temperament and satirist and comedian Lenny Bruce, who was nearly the same age, with their love of jazz, ball games, and their common hipster persona.[81]:26 Marisa Berenson, who starred in Barry Lyndon said "There was great tenderness in him and he was passionate about his work. What was striking was his enormous intelligence, but he also had a great sense of humor. He was a very shy person and self-protective, but he was filled with the thing that drove him twenty-four hours of the day."[3]:289
Kubrick married his high-school sweetheart Toba Metz, a keen caricaturist, on 29 May 1948, when he was nineteen years of age. They had attended Taft High School together and had lived in the same apartment block on Shakespeare Avenue.[12] The couple lived together in Greenwich Village and divorced three years later in 1951.
He met his second wife, the Austrian-born dancer and theatrical designer Ruth Sobotka, in 1952. They lived together in New York's East Village from 1952 until their marriage in January 1955. They moved to Hollywood six months afterwards, where she played a brief part as a ballet dancer in Kubrick's film, Killer's Kiss (1955). The following year she was art director for his film, The Killing (1956). They divorced in 1957.
During the production of Paths of Glory (1957) in Munich, Kubrick met and romanced young German actress Christiane Harlan, who played a small though memorable role. Kubrick married Harlan in 1958, and in 1959 they settled into a home in Beverly Hills with Harlan's daughter, Katherina, age six.[5]:165 They also lived in New York, during which time Christiane studied art at the Art Students League of New York, later becoming an independent artist. Like Kubrick, she wanted "solace to think, study, and practice her craft," writes LoBrutto.[5]:224 They remained together 40 years, until his death in 1999. Besides his stepdaughter, they had two daughters together.
Actor Jack Nicholson, who starred in The Shining (1980), observed that "Stanley was very much a family man."[78] Similarly, Nicole Kidman, who starred in Eyes Wide Shut (1999), adds that Christiane "was the love of his life. He would talk about her, he adored her, something that people didn't know. His daughters adored them ... I would see that, and he would talk about them very proudly."[78] The opinion was shared by Malcolm McDowell, who starred in A Clockwork Orange: "He was happily married. I remember his daughters, Vivian and Anya, running around the room. It was good to see such a close-knit family."[3]:287
Kubrick moved to the United Kingdom to make Lolita because of easier financing via the Eady Levy, since at least 85% of the film was shot in the UK, and freedom from censorship and interference from Hollywood studios. When he hired Peter Sellers to star in his next film, Dr. Strangelove, Sellers was unable to leave the UK.[118] Kubrick made Britain his permanent home thereafter, although "he never considered himself an expatriate American," notes Walker.[9]:26 He also shunned the Hollywood system and its publicity machine,[119] resulting in little media coverage of him as a personality.[120] Christiane Kubrick told the London Times how rough New York had become, with children having to be escorted to school by police, people being rude, and smashed glass all over the street.[5]:271 Although he thrived on the manic energy of New York, Kubrick soon adapted to the more genteel atmosphere of Britain, where he set up his life so that family and business were one.[121]
In 1965 the Kubricks moved to Abbots Mead, Barnet Lane, just south of the Elstree/Borehamwood studio complex. This was a turn of the 19th century house, sold to him by Simon Cowell's father. Kubrick worked almost exclusively from this home for 14 years where, with some exceptions, he researched, invented special effects techniques, designed ultra-low light lenses for specially modified cameras, pre-produced, edited, post-produced, advertised, distributed and carefully managed all aspects of four of his films: 2001: A Space Odyssey (1965 to 1968), A Clockwork Orange (1969 to 1971), Barry Lyndon (1972 to 1975) and most of The Shining (1976 to 1980 - finished the year after he left for Childwickbury Green)
In 1978, Kubrick moved into Childwickbury Manor in Hertfordshire, UK, a mainly 18th century building about 48 km (30 mi) north of London and a 10 minute drive from his previous home at Abbotts Mead. His new home, originally a large country mansion once owned by a wealthy racehorse owner, became a workplace for Kubrick and Christiane. One of the large ballroom-size rooms became her painting studio. Kubrick converted the stables into extra production rooms besides ones within the home that he used for editing and storage.[9]:368 Christiane called their home "a perfect family factory."[5]:374 Kubrick rarely left England during the forty years before he died. Although Kubrick once held a pilot's license, some have claimed that he later developed a fear of flying and refused to take airplane trips.[122] Matthew Modine, star of Full Metal Jacket, stated that the stories about his fear of flying were "fabricated," and that "he wasn't afraid to fly." He simply preferred spending most of his time in England, where his films were produced and where he lived.[77]
On March 7, 1999, four days after screening a final cut of Eyes Wide Shut for his family and the stars, Kubrick died in his sleep at the age of 70, after suffering a massive heart attack. His funeral was held on March 12 at his home estate with only close friends and family in attendance, totaling approximately 100 people. The media was kept a mile away outside the entrance gate.[9]:372
Alexander Walker, who attended the funeral, describes it as a "family farewell, ... almost like an English picnic," with cellists, clarinetists and singers providing song and music from many of his favorite classical compositions. Although Kaddish, the Jewish prayer of mourning, was recited, the funeral had no religious overtones, and few of his obituaries mentioned his Jewish background.[9]:373–374[94]
Among those who gave eulogies were Terry Semel, Jan Harlan, Steven Spielberg, Nicole Kidman and Tom Cruise. He was buried next to his favorite tree in Childwickbury Manor, Hertfordshire, England.[123] In her book dedicated to Kubrick, his wife Christiane included one of his favorite quotes by Oscar Wilde:
Kubrick is one of the most influential film directors in the history of cinema.[125][126] Leading directors, including Martin Scorsese, Steven Spielberg, James Cameron, Woody Allen, Terry Gilliam, the Coen brothers, Ridley Scott, and George A. Romero,[127] have cited Kubrick as a source of inspiration, and in the case of Spielberg, collaboration.[128][129] On the DVD of Eyes Wide Shut, Steven Spielberg, in an interview, comments on Kubrick that "nobody could shoot a picture better in history", and the way that Kubrick "tells a story is antithetical to the way we are accustomed to receiving stories". Writing in the introduction to a recent edition of Michel Ciment's Kubrick, film director Martin Scorsese notes that most of Kubrick's films were misunderstood and under-appreciated when first released. Then came a dawning recognition that they were masterful works unlike any other films. Perhaps most notably, Orson Welles, one of Kubrick's greatest personal influences and all-time favorite directors, famously said that: "Among those whom I would call 'younger generation' Kubrick appears to me to be a giant."[130] The directors Richard Linklater,[131]
Kubrick continues to be cited as a major influence by many directors, including Christopher Nolan,[132][133] David Fincher,[134] Guillermo del Toro,[135] David Lynch,[136] Lars Von Trier,[137] Michael Mann,[138] and Gaspar Noé.[139] Many filmmakers imitate Kubrick's inventive and unique use of camera movement and framing.Film critic Roger Ebert for instance noted that Burton's Mars Attacks! was partially inspired by Dr. Strangelove.[140] Paul Thomas Anderson (who was fond of Kubrick as a teenager)[141] in an interview with Entertainment Weekly, stated "it's so hard to do anything that doesn't owe some kind of debt to what Stanley Kubrick did with music in movies. Inevitably, you're going to end up doing something that he's probably already done before. It can all seem like we're falling behind whatever he came up with."[142]
Numerous film directors, notably Frank Darabont, have been inspired by Kubrick's use of music. In an interview with The Telegraph, he states that 2001 took "the use of music in film" to absolute perfection, and one shot employing classical music in The Shawshank Redemption follows Kubrick's lead. Critics also occasionally detect a Kubrickian influence when the filmmaker acknowledges none.
In 2000 BAFTA renamed their Britannia lifetime achievement award the "Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award".[143] Kubrick is among filmmakers such as D. W. Griffith, Laurence Olivier, Cecil B. DeMille, and Irving Thalberg, all of whom have had annual awards named after them. Kubrick won this award in 1999, and subsequent recipients have included George Lucas, Warren Beatty, Tom Cruise, Robert De Niro, Clint Eastwood, and Daniel Day-Lewis.[144]
A number of people who worked with Kubrick on his films created the 2001 documentary Stanley Kubrick: A Life in Pictures, produced and directed by Kubrick's brother-in-law, Jan Harlan, who had executive produced Kubrick's last four films.[145] The film's chapters each cover one of Kubrick's films and Kubrick's childhood is explored in the introductory section.
On October 30, 2012, an exhibition devoted to Kubrick opened at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA) and concluded in June 2013. Exhibits include a wide collection of documents, photographs and on-set material assembled from 800 boxes of personal archives that were stored in Kubrick's home-workplace in the U.K.[146] A number of celebrities attended and spoke at the museum's pre-opening gala, including Steven Spielberg, Tom Hanks and Jack Nicholson,[147] while Kubrick's widow, Christiane, appeared at the pre-gala press review.[148]
In October 2013, the Brazil Sao Paulo International Film Festival paid tribute to Kubrick, staging an exhibit of his work and a retrospective of his films.[149] The exhibit is also scheduled to open at the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) in late 2014.[150]
Kubrick is widely reference in popular culture. The TV series The Simpsons is said to contain more references to Kubrick films than any other pop culture phenomenon. References abound to many of his films, including 2001, A Clockwork Orange, and The Shining.[151] When the Director's Guild of Great Britain gave Kubrick a lifetime achievement award, they included a cut-together sequence of all the homages from the show.[152]
In 2009, an exhibition of paintings and photos inspired by Kubrick's films was held in Dublin, Ireland, entitled 'Stanley Kubrick: Taming Light'.[153] Pop singer Lady Gaga's concert shows have included the use of dialogue, costumes, and music from A Clockwork Orange.[154]
See also: Moon landing conspiracy theories § Stanley Kubrick involvement and 2001: A Space Odyssey (film) § Mock hoaxes and conspiracy theory
Kubrick has been portrayed on film by actor Stanley Tucci in the film The Life and Death of Peter Sellers. Although Sellers acted in two of Kubrick's films, the material here is almost wholly focused on their work together in Dr. Strangelove.
In the early 1990s, a con artist named Alan Conway frequented the London entertainment scene claiming to be Stanley Kubrick, and temporarily deceived New York Times theatre critic Frank Rich, as well as multiple aspiring actors. Kubrick's personal assistant, Anthony Frewin, who helped track Conway down, wrote the screenplay for a film based on the Conway affair Colour Me Kubrick starring John Malkovich as Alan Conway. Kubrick's widow, Christiane Kubrick, was also a consultant for the film. The film contains several tongue-in-cheek homages to scenes from Kubrick's films. Conway was earlier the subject of a short documentary film The Man Who Would be Kubrick.
In 2002, the French documentary film maker William Karel (occasionally referred to as "Europe's Michael Moore") made initial plans for a documentary on Stanley Kubrick, but changed course. Karel was fascinated by the pervading conspiracy theory that Kubrick had faked footage of the NASA moon landings during the filming of Space Odyssey, and chose to make a parody "mockumentary" entitled Dark Side of the Moon advancing the same thesis entirely in jest. He had the help of Kubrick's surviving family who both acted as consultants for the film and gave scripted fake interviews. In spite of clues that the film is a news parody, some test audiences believed the film to be sincere, including at least one believer in the moon landing conspiracy.
"2001: A Space Odyssey – Alex North's unused Soundtrack". mfiles.co.uk. Retrieved December 24, 2007. 
Abrams, Jerold J., ed. (2009). The Philosophy of Stanley Kubrick. University Press of Kentucky. ISBN 978-0-8131-9220-8. 
Alberti, John, ed. (2005). Leaving Springfield: The Simpsons and the Possibility of Oppositional Culture. Wayne State University Press. ISBN 978-0-8143-2849-1. 
Alt.movies.kubrick faq. "What did Kubrick have to say about what 2001 "means"?". ALT.MOVIES.KUBRICK FAQ. Retrieved December 24, 2007. 
Anthony, Andrew (March 14, 1999). "The counterfeit Kubrick". The Guardian (UK). Retrieved January 11, 2010. 
Aragay, Mireia (2006). Books in Motion: Adaptation, Intertextuality, Authorship. Rodopi. ISBN 978-90-420-1957-7. 
Baxter, John (1997). Stanley Kubrick: A Biography. Carroll & Graf Publishers. ISBN 978-0-7867-0485-9. 
Bianculli, David (April 27, 1997). "'The Shining,' By the Book". New York Daily News. Retrieved January 10, 2010. 
Bogdanovich, Peter (July 4, 1999). "What They Say About Stanley Kubrick". New York Times. Retrieved January 9, 2010. 
"Business as Usual". Star Trek: Deep Space Nine. Season 5. Episode 18. April 7, 1997. http://swedish.imdb.com/title/tt0708510/.
Caldwell, Thomas (March 27, 2006). "(Review of) The wolf at the door: Stanley Kubrick, history & the Holocaust". Screening the Past (Latrobe University) 19. ISSN 1328-9756. Archived from the original on November 1, 2012. Retrieved October 25, 2008. 
Carr, Jay, ed. (2002). The A List: The National Society of Film Critics' 100 Essential Films. Da Capo. ISBN 978-0-306-81096-1. 
Castle, Alison (2005). The Stanley Kubrick Archives. Taschen. ISBN 978-3-8228-2284-5.  (Storyboard for The Shining, Castle, Alison (editor) and Kubrick, Stanley (photographs))
Castle, Alison, ed. (2009). Stanley Kubrick's Napoleon: The Greatest Movie Never Made. Taschen. ISBN 978-3-8228-3065-9. 
Ciment, Michel (1982). "Kubrick on A Clockwork Orange: An interview with Michel Ciment". The Kubrick Site. Retrieved January 9, 2010. 
Ciment, Michel (1982a). "Kubrick on The Shining: An interview with Michel Ciment". The Kubrick Site. Retrieved December 24, 2007. 
Cocks, Geoffrey (2004). The Wolf at the Door: Stanley Kubrick, History, and the Holocaust. Peter Lang. ISBN 978-0-8204-7115-0. 
Cocks, Geoffrey; Diedrick, James; Perusek, Glenn, eds. (2006). Depth of Field: Stanley Kubrick, Film, and the Uses of History. University of Wisconsin Press. ISBN 978-0-299-21614-6. 
Coyle, Wallace (1980). Stanley Kubrick, a Guide to References and Resources. G.K. Hall. ISBN 978-0-8161-8058-5. 
Cohan, Steven; Rark, Ina Rae, eds. (1993). Screening the Male: Exploring Masculinities in Hollywood Cinema. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-07759-0. 
Comstock, Tony (April 2007). "How "X-rated" became synonymous with "porn," and the death of movie making for grown-ups". The Intent to Arouse. Retrieved January 10, 2010. 
Drout, Michael D. C., ed. (2006). J.R.R. Tolkien Encyclopedia: Scholarship and Critical Assessment. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-96942-0. 
Dunn, Brad (2006). When They Were 22: 100 Famous People at the Turning Point in Their Lives. Andrews McMeel. ISBN 978-0-7407-5810-2. 
Dupont, Joan (September 15, 2001). "Kubrick Speaks, Through Family's Documentary". New York Times. Retrieved May 8, 2008. [dead link]
Ebert, Roger (February 11, 1972). "A Clockwork Orange". Chicago Sun-Times. Retrieved January 9, 2010. 
Ebert, Roger (July 11, 1999). "Dr. Strangelove (1964)". Chicago Sun-Times. Retrieved January 9, 2010. 
Ebert, Roger (June 15, 1999). "Cruise opens up about working with Kubrick". Chicago Sun-Times. Retrieved October 25, 2008. 
Ericson, John Lars (January 4, 2004). "The measure of a man: Stanley Kubrick's "Full Metal Jacket"". Blogcritics Video. Retrieved January 10, 2010. 
Friedman, Lester D.; Notbohm, Brent, eds. (2001). Steven Spielberg: Interviews. University Press of Mississippi. ISBN 978-1-57806-113-6. 
Gelmis, Joseph (1970). The Film Director as Superstar (Kubrick, Lester, Mailer, Nichols, Penn, Polanski). Doubleday. ISBN 978-0-436-17370-7. 
Greenwald, Ted (September 26, 2007). Q&A: Ridley Scott Has Finally Created the Blade Runner He Always Imagined 15 (10). Wired Magazine. Retrieved January 16, 2010. 
Hare, William (2008). L.A. Noir: Nine Dark Visions of the City of Angels. McFarland. ISBN 978-0-7864-3740-5. 
Harris, James (Fall 2002). "Lolita at 40: Producer James B. Harris. The Five-0 Interview". Hollywood Five-0. Retrieved January 9, 2010. 
Haut, Woody (2002). Heartbreak and Vine: The Fate of Hardboiled Writers in Hollywood. Serpent's Tail. ISBN 978-0-253-21390-7. 
Stephen Holden (March 8, 1999). "Stanley Kubrick, Film Director With a Bleak Vision, Dies at 70". New York Times. Retrieved July 21, 2007. 
IMDb Movie/TV News: Studio Briefing (October 31, 2006). "New "Kubrick Film" To Be Made". IMDb. Retrieved January 12, 2010. 
Jackson, Kenneth T.; Markoe, Karen; Markoe, Arnie, eds. (2001). The Scribner Encyclopedia of American Lives. Volume 5. Charles Scribner's. ISBN 978-0-684-80663-1. 
Jones, James Earl (November 16, 2004). "A Bombardier's Reflection. The 40th anniversary of "Dr. Strangelove" prompts some Cold War reminiscences". The Wall Street Journal. 
Kagan, Norman (2000). The cinema of Stanley Kubrick. Continuum International Publishing Group. ISBN 978-0-8264-1243-0. 
Kemp, Philip (spring / summer 2006). "The Kubrick Legacy". University of the Arts London Magazine (University of the Arts London): 8–17. Retrieved January 12, 2010.  Check date values in: |date= (help)
Kobel, Peter (April 22, 2001). "Nabokov Won't Be Nailed Down". New York Times. Retrieved January 16, 2010. 
Lucas, Sandy. "7 Classic Movies that Influenced Quentin Tarantino: Horror, Suspense, Film Noir – and Plenty of Laughs". About.com. Retrieved January 11, 2010. 
Lyon, Christopher; Doll, Susan, eds. (1984). Macmillan Dictionary of Films and Filmmakers: Films V. 1. Macmillan. ISBN 978-0-333-33525-3. 
Mason, Darryl (October 4, 2000). "The greatest movie Stanley Kubrick never made". Salon. Retrieved January 10, 2010. 
McGregor, Craig (January 30, 1972). "Nice Boy from the Bronx?". New York Times. Retrieved January 11, 2010. 
Morgan, Stephanie (September 30, 2002). "Stanley Kubrick: An Indoor-Plumbing Luddite". Columbus Wired Columnist (Columbus Wired). Retrieved October 25, 2008. 
Naperstak, Ben (December 15, 2007). "The Armani of Literature". The Age (Melbourne). Retrieved January 17, 2010. 
Nelson, Thomas Allen (1982). Kubrick: Inside a Film Artist's Maze. Indiana University Press. ISBN 978-0-253-21390-7. 
Nelson, Thomas Allen (2000). Kubrick: Inside a Film Artist's Maze. New and Expanded Edition. Indiana University Press. ISBN 978-0-253-21390-7. 
Nielsen Wire (blog) (December 11, 2008). "In U.S., Hi-Def TV Household Penetration Tops 23%". nielsen.com. Retrieved January 17, 2010. 
Nordern, Eric (September 1968). "The Playboy Interview: Stanley Kubrick". Playboy.  Reprinted in: Philips 2001; extract in The ALT.MOVIES.KUBRICK FAQ
Paul, Duncan (2003). Stanley Kubrick: Visual Poet 1928–1999. Taschen America. ISBN 978-3-8228-1592-2. 
Philips, Gene D. (1999). Major Film Directors of the American and British Cinema. Lehigh University Press. ISBN 978-0-934223-59-1. 
Philips, Gene D., ed. (2001). Stanley Kubrick: Interviews. University Press of Mississippi. ISBN 978-1-57806-297-3. 
Rhodes, Gary D., ed. (2006). Stanley Kubrick: Essays on His Films and Legacy. McFarland. ISBN 978-0-7864-3297-4. 
Rice, Julian (2008). Kubrick's hope: discovering optimism from 2001 to Eyes wide shut. The Scarecrow Press, Inc. ISBN 978-0-8108-6206-7. 
Rose, Lloyd (June 28, 1987). "Stanley Kubrick, at a Distance". Washington Post. Retrieved January 11, 2010. 
Roud, Richard (1980). Cinema: A Critical Dictionary: The Major Film-makers, Volume 2. Viking Adult. ISBN 978-0-670-22257-5. 
Schwam, Stephanie, ed. (2000). The Making of 2001, A Space Odyssey. Random House, Modern Library. ISBN 978-0-375-75528-6. 
Sleeper, Mick (March 1997). "la Fiction du Pulp: Tarantino's trail of bread crumbs leads to the French New Wave". Images. Retrieved January 11, 2010. 
Southern, Terry (2002). Southern, Nile; Friedman, Josh Alan, eds. Now Dig This: The Unspeakable Writings of Terry Southern, 1950–1995. Grove Press. ISBN 978-0-8021-3894-1. 
Sperb, Jason (2006). The Kubrick Facade: Faces and Voices in the Films of Stanley Kubrick. Scarecrow Press. ISBN 978-0-8108-5855-8. 
Strick, Philip; Houston, Penelope (Spring 1972). "Interview with Stanley Kubrick regarding A Clockwork Orange". Sight & Sound. 
Tatara, Paul (July 15, 1999). "Review: 'Eyes Wide Shut' – All undressed with no place to go". CNN. Retrieved January 14, 2010. 
Thuss, Holger (2002). Students on the Right Way: European Democrat Students, 1961–2001. Books on Demand GmbH. ISBN 978-3-8311-4129-6. 
Watson, Ian (May 2000). "Plumbing Stanley Kubrick". The New York Review of Science Fiction (141). ISSN 1052-9438. 
Westfahl, Gary, ed. (2005). The Greenwood Encyclopedia of Science Fiction and Fantasy: Themes, Works, and Wonders. Greenwood. ISBN 978-0-313-32950-0. 
Walker, Alexander; Sybil Taylor; Ulrich Ruchti (2000). Stanley Kubrick, director. W. W. Norton & Company. p. 376. ISBN 978-0-393-32119-7. 
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Stanley_Kubrick&oldid=611473061"					
Categories: Stanley Kubrick1928 births1999 deathsAcademy Award winnersAmerican cinematographersObscenity controversiesAmerican expatriates in the United KingdomAmerican film directorsAmerican film editorsAmerican film producersPeople from ManhattanAmerican people of Austrian-Jewish descentAmerican people of Romanian-Jewish descentAmerican people of Polish-Jewish descentAmerican emigrants to the United KingdomAmerican screenwritersBest Director BAFTA Award winnersBest Visual Effects Academy Award winnersCensorship in the artsCinema pioneersCity College of New York alumniDeaths from myocardial infarctionPeople from HertfordshirePeople from the BronxAmateur chess playersHorror film directorsScience fiction film directorsSpecial effects peopleJewish American writersJewish agnosticsAmerican agnosticsHidden categories: CS1 errors: datesAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from April 2011Use mdy dates from October 2012Articles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2014Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from April 2014Vague or ambiguous time from April 2014Articles with unsourced statements from May 2014Articles with unsourced statements from October 2011Articles with dead external links from October 2010Commons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with ULAN identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Stanley Kubrick was born in New York, and was considered intelligent despite poor grades at school. Hoping that a change of scenery would produce better academic performance, Kubrick's father Jack (a physician) sent him in 1940 to Pasadena, California, to stay with his uncle Martin Perveler. Returning to the Bronx in 1941 for his last year of grammar school, there seemed to be little change in his attitude or his results. Hoping to find something to interest his son, Jack introduced Stanley to chess, with the desired result. Kubrick took to the game passionately, and quickly became a skilled player. Chess would become an important device for Kubrick in later years, often as a tool for dealing with recalcitrant actors, but also as an artistic motif in his films.Jack Kubrick's decision to give his son a camera for his thirteenth birthday would be an even wiser move: Kubrick became an avid photographer, and would often make trips around New York taking photographs which he would develop in a friend's darkroom. After selling an unsolicited photograph to Look Magazine, Kubrick began to associate with their staff photographers, and at the age of seventeen was offered a job as an apprentice photographer.In the next few years, Kubrick had regular assignments for "Look", and would become a voracious movie-goer. Together with friend Alexander Singer, Kubrick planned a move into film, and in 1950 sank his savings into making the documentary Day of the Fight (1951). This was followed by several short commissioned documentaries (Flying Padre: An RKO-Pathe Screenliner (1951), and (The Seafarers (1953), but by attracting investors and hustling chess games in Central Park, Kubrick was able to make Fear and Desire (1953) in California.Filming this movie was not a happy experience; Kubrick's marriage to high school sweetheart Toba Metz did not survive the shooting. Despite mixed reviews for the film itself, Kubrick received good notices for his obvious directorial talents. Kubrick's next two films Killer's Kiss (1955) and The Killing (1956) brought him to the attention of Hollywood, and in 1957 he directed Kirk Douglas in Paths of Glory (1957). Douglas later called upon Kubrick to take over the production of Spartacus (1960), by some accounts hoping that Kubrick would be daunted by the scale of the project and would thus be accommodating. This was not the case, however: Kubrick took charge of the project, imposing his ideas and standards on the film. Many crew members were upset by his style: cinematographer Russell Metty complained to producers that Kubrick was taking over his job. Kubrick's response was to tell him to sit there and do nothing. Metty complied, and ironically was awarded the Academy Award for his cinematography.Kubrick's next project was to direct Marlon Brando in One-Eyed Jacks (1961), but negotiations broke down and Brando himself ended up directing the film himself. Disenchanted with Hollywood and after another failed marriage, Kubrick moved permanently to England, from where he would make all of his subsequent films. Despite having obtained a pilot's license, Kubrick was rumored to be afraid of flying.Kubrick's first UK film was Lolita (1962), which was carefully constructed and guided so as to not offend the censorship boards which at the time had the power to severely damage the commercial success of a film. Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964) was a big risk for Kubrick; before this, "nuclear" was not considered a subject for comedy. Originally written as a drama, Kubrick decided that too many of the ideas he had written were just too funny to be taken seriously. The film's critical and commercial success allowed Kubrick the financial and artistic freedom to work on any project he desired. Around this time, Kubrick's focus diversified and he would always have several projects in various stages of development: "Blue Moon" (a story about Hollywood's first pornographic feature film), "Napoleon" (an epic historical biography, abandoned after studio losses on similar projects), "Wartime Lies" (based on the novel by Louis Begley), and "Rhapsody" (a psycho-sexual thriller).The next film he completed was a collaboration with sci-fi author Arthur C. Clarke. 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) is hailed by many as the best ever made; an instant cult favorite, it has set the standard and tone for many science fiction films that followed. Kubrick followed this with A Clockwork Orange (1971), which rivaled Lolita (1962) for the controversy it generated - this time not only for its portrayal of sex, but also of violence. Barry Lyndon (1975) would prove a turning point in both his professional and private lives. His unrelenting demands of commitment and perfection of cast and crew had by now become legendary. Actors would be required to perform dozens of takes with no breaks. Filming a story in Ireland involving military, Kubrick received reports that the IRA had declared him a possible target. Production was promptly moved out of the country, and Kubrick's desire for privacy and security resulted in him being considered a recluse ever since.Having turned down directing a sequel to The Exorcist (1973), Kubrick made his own horror film: The Shining (1980). Again, rumors circulated of demands made upon actors and crew. Stephen King (whose novel the film was based upon) reportedly didn't like Kubrick's adaptation (indeed, he would later write his own screenplay which was filmed as The Shining (1997).)Kubrick's subsequent work has been well spaced: it was seven years before Full Metal Jacket (1987) was released. By this time, Kubrick was married with children and had extensively remodeled his house. Seen by one critic as the dark side to the humanist story of Platoon (1986), Full Metal Jacket (1987) continued Kubrick's legacy of solid critical acclaim, and profit at the box office.In the 1990s, Kubrick began an on-again/off-again collaboration with Brian Aldiss on a new science fiction film called "Artificial Intelligence (AI)", but progress was very slow, and was backgrounded until special effects technology was up to the standard the Kubrick wanted.Kubrick returned to his in-development projects, but encountered a number of problems: "Napoleon" was completely dead, and "Wartime Lies" (now called "The Aryan Papers") was abandoned when Steven Spielberg announced he would direct Schindler's List (1993), which covered much of the same material.While pre-production work on "AI" crawled along, Kubrick combined "Rhapsody" and "Blue Movie" and officially announced his next project as Eyes Wide Shut (1999), starring the then-married Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman. After two years of production under unprecedented security and privacy, the film was released to a typically polarized critical and public reception; Kubrick claimed it was his best film to date.Special effects technology had matured rapidly in the meantime, and Kubrick immediately began active work on Artificial Intelligence: AI (2001), but tragically suffered a fatal heart attack in his sleep on March 7th, 1999.After Kubrick's death, Spielberg revealed that the two of them were friends that frequently communicated discretely about the art of filmmaking; both had a large degree of mutual respect for each other's work. "AI" was frequently discussed; Kubrick even suggested that Spielberg should direct it as it was more his type of project. Based on this relationship, Spielberg took over as the film's director and completed the last Kubrick project.How much of Kubrick's vision remains in the finished project -- and what he would think of the film as eventually released -- will be the final great unanswerable mysteries in the life of this talented and private filmmaker.
        [Narration] Nearly all of his films contain a narration at some point (2001: A Space Odyssey (1968)) contains narration in the screenplay, as does the screenplay for Eyes Wide Shut (1999), and The Shining (1980) has some sparse title cards.
        Adapted every film he made from a novel, excluding his first two films: Killer's Kiss (1955) and Fear and Desire (1953) (both from original source material), and 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968).
        [Symmetry] Symmetric image composition. Often features shots down the length of tall, parallel walls, e.g. the head in Full Metal Jacket (1987), the maze and hotel coridors in The Shining (1980) and the computer room in 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968).
        [CRM 114] He often uses the sequence CRM114 in serial numbers. CRM-114 is the name of the decoder in Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964), the Jupiter explorer's "licence plate number" in 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) is CRM114, and in A Clockwork Orange (1971) Alex is given "Serum 114" when he undergoes the Ludovico treatment.
        Known for his exorbitant shooting ratio and endless takes, he reportedly exposed an incredible 1.3 million feet of film while shooting The Shining (1980), the release print of which runs for 142 minutes. Thus, he used less than 1% of the exposed film stock, making his shooting ratio an indulgent 102:1 when a ratio of 5 or 10:1 is considered the norm.
        [Beginning Voice-over] Paths of Glory (1957), Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964) and A Clockwork Orange (1971) all begin with a voice over, and The Killing (1956) features narration.
        Involves his wives in his movies. His first wife, Toba Etta Metz Kubrick, was the dialogue director for Stanley's first feature film Fear and Desire (1953). His second wife, Ruth Sobotka Kubrick, was in Killer's Kiss (1955) as a ballet dancer named Iris in a short sequence for which she also did the choreography. Kubrick's third, and final, wife, Christiane Harlan Kubrick, appeared (as Susanne Christian) in Paths of Glory (1957) before she married him as the only female character (a German singing girl) in the movie. She also did some of  the now-infamous paintings for A Clockwork Orange (1971) and some  more for Eyes Wide Shut (1999). In addition, her brother, Jan, was  Stanley's assistant for A Clockwork Orange (1971) and the executive  producer for all of Kubrick's films starting with Barry Lyndon (1975) and  going through The Shining (1980), Full Metal Jacket (1987) and  Eyes Wide Shut (1999). Also, his daughter, Vivian Kubrick, is the  little girl who asks for a Bush Baby for her birthday in 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968).
        Almost always uses previously composed music (such as The Blue Danube and  Thus Spake Zarathustra in 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968))
        Preferred to shoot his films in the Academy ratio (1.37:1). The exceptions were: Spartacus (1960), in Panavision, and 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968), in Cinerama. Much of his films consist of wide-angle shots that give the impression of a wide-screen movie, wide up-and-down as well as wide sideways. From The Killing (1956) onward, his films looked increasingly odder, bigger, and more properly viewed from the rows closer to the screen.
        One of his signature shots was "The Glare" - a character's emotional meltdown is depicted by a close-up shot of the actor with his head tilted slightly down, but with his eyes looking up - usually directly into the camera. Examples are the opening shot of Alex in A Clockwork Orange (1971), Jack slowly losing his mind in The Shining (1980), Pvt. Pyle going mad in Full Metal Jacket (1987) and Tom Cruise's paranoid thoughts inside the taxicab in Eyes Wide Shut (1999). Even HAL-9000 has "The Glare" in 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968).
        [First-person] Uses the first person viewpoint (the character's perspective) at least once in each film.
        Credits are always a slide show. He never used rolling credits except for the   opening of The Shining (1980).
        Varies aspect ratios in a single film. Apparent in Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964) and A Clockwork Orange (1971).
        In almost every movie he made, there is a tracking shot of a character  (the camera following the character).
        All of his films end with "The End", when this became out of style in later years  because of the need to run end credits, he moved "The End" to the end of the  credits.
        Often uses music to work against on-screen images to create a sense of irony. In A Clockwork Orange (1971), Alex sings "Singin' in the Rain" while raping Mrs. Alexander. In Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964), images of nuclear holocaust are accompanied by the song "We'll Meet Again". The final scene in Full Metal Jacket (1987) has the battle hardened Marines singing the theme to "The Mickey Mouse Club".
        [Dark humor] All of Kubrick's films, especially "Dr. Strangelove", have elements of black humor in them.
        Preferred mono sound over stereo. Only three of his movies - Spartacus (1960), 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) and Eyes Wide Shut (1999) - were originally done in stereo sound.
        [Duality] Kubrick's last five films, minus The Shining (1980), are structurally split into two distinct halves, most likely to mimic the nature of duality in the characters of his films. For example, A Clockwork Orange (1971) shows Alex (Malcolm McDowell) as a sadistic rapist and murderer in the first half of the film and a mind-controlled guinea pig in the second half. In Eyes Wide Shut (1999), Bill (Tom Cruise) travels amidst sexual temptation in New York at night in the first half of the film and rude awakenings during the day in the second half.
        Frequently uses strong primary colors in his cinematography and sharp contrast between black and white.
        Slow-paced dialogue; often had actors pause several beats between line delivery. Also, rarely (if ever) did his dialogue overlap.
      Father-in-law of Philip Hobbs, stepfather of Katharina Kubrick, & brother-in-law of Jan Harlan.
      He wanted to make a film based on Umberto Eco's novel "Foucault's Pendulum" which appeared in 1988. Unfortunately, Eco refused, as he was dissatisfied with the filming of his earlier novel Der Name der Rose (1986) and also because Kubrick wasn't willing to let him write the screenplay himself.
      Planned to direct a film called "I Stole 16 Million Dollars" based on notorious 1930s bank robber Willie Sutton. It was to be made by Kirk Douglas' Bryna production company, but Douglas thought the script was poorly written. Kubrick tried to get Cary Grant interested, which must have proved to be a failure as well, since the film was never made.
      Rarely gave interviews. He did, however, appear in a documentary made by his daughter Vivian Kubrick shot during the making of The Shining (1980). According to Vivian, he was planning on doing a few formal TV interviews once Eyes Wide Shut (1999) was released, but died before he could.
      He had a well-known fear of flying, but he had to fly quite often early in his career. Because of his hysteria on planes, he simply tried to lessen the amount of times he flew. According to Malcolm McDowell, Kubrick listened to air traffic controllers at Heathrow Airport for long stretches of time, and he advised McDowell never to fly.
      Refused to talk about his movies on set as he was directing them and never watched them when they were completed.
      The controversy around A Clockwork Orange (1971)'s UK release was so strong that Kubrick was flooded with angry letters and protesters were showing up at his home, demanding that the film never be shown in England again. He personally petitioned the studio to pull it from theaters, despite his legal inability to control a film after production. The studio, out of respect for Kubrick, eventually decided to pull the film out of theaters prematurely.
      His next project after Eyes Wide Shut (1999) was to be Artificial Intelligence: AI (2001), which was taken over by Steven Spielberg. It is dedicated to Kubrick's memory.
      His dislike of his early film Fear and Desire (1953) is well known. He went out of his way to buy all the prints of it so no one else could see it.
      In addition to The Seafarers (1953) (shot for the Seafarers International Union), he may have directed another commissioned project in the early fifties, "World Assembly of Youth," for the United Nations, documenting a UN-sponsored gathering in New York City of young people from throughout the world. No copy of the film has been found and it has never been conclusively proven that it even existed in the first place (as with "The Seafarers," Kubrick never publicly acknowledged it).
      The only author that Kubrick worked with personally was Arthur C. Clark for 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968).
      Loved the work of Franz Kafka, H.P. Lovecraft, Carlos Saura, Max Ophüls, Woody Allen and Edgar Reitz (esp. Heimat - Eine deutsche Chronik (1984)), among many others.
      Was voted the 23rd Greatest Director of all time by Entertainment Weekly. He was the least prolific director on this list, having made only 16 films over the course of a 48 year career.
      Kubrick's favorite pastime was chess and he was said to be a master at it. Many crew members and actors found themselves on the losing end of chess matches with him.
      People would come to his door looking for him, and as few people knew what he looked like, he would tell them that "Stanley Kubrick wasn't home."
      Had an extensive and rich friendship with Malcolm McDowell during the filming of A Clockwork Orange (1971). After filming ended, Kubrick never contacted him again.
      Often read about psychology, and knew how to manipulate his cast quite well. A fine example of this is with Shelley Duvall in The Shining (1980).
      He reportedly briefly considered leaving England for either Vancouver, Canada or Sydney, Australia.
      He was so reclusive that the press would make up wild stories about him. One such story was that he shot a fan on his property, and then shot him again for bleeding on the grass.
      According to his wife Christiane Kubrick, he would screen every movie he could get ahold of. One of his favorites was The Jerk (1979). He considered making Eyes Wide Shut (1999) a dark sex comedy with Steve Martin in the lead. He even met with Martin to discuss the project.
      He was a big fan of American sitcoms Seinfeld (1989), Roseanne (1988) and The Simpsons (1989). He was also a fan of American football and would have his friends in America tape games and send them to him. In addition to being a sports fan, he was fascinated by the craft of television commercials. He was particularly impressed by how they could effectively tell a story in 30 seconds.
      According to his close friend Michael Herr, he watched The Godfather (1972) over ten times and said it was probably the greatest film ever made.
      He considered Elia Kazan the best American director of all time. His list of favorite directors included at various times Federico Fellini, David Lean, Ingmar Bergman, Vittorio De Sica, François Truffaut, and Max Ophüls.
Daniel Waters wrote the original 180 page screenplay for Heathers (1988) intending for Kubrick to direct it, as he believed Kubrick was the only director who could get away with making a three-hour high school film. Kubrick wasn't interested, and when the film was made the screenplay was cut nearly in half, resulting in a 102-minute film.
      According to a biography, Kubrick's wife finally convinced him once to take what she considered a long-overdue vacation. While vacationing, she noticed he was taking copious notes about something. When asked what he was writing, she discovered he was jotting some ideas down about a film project!
      He was considered to be a well-read man with an extreme attention to detail. For his aborted film project on Napoléon Bonaparte, he had one of his assistants go to various bookstores to acquire every book he could find on the French emperor, and he returned with well in excess of 100. Kubrick read them all and astonished his associates with his level of retention. When working on a battlefield scene, he even examined an historical painting of the battle so he could note exactly what the weather was in the painting and make sure to film the battle on a day with similar weather patterns.
      Due to his poor grades in high school (67% average) he was not accepted to a university. Although he never enrolled, he would sit in during classes at Columbia University.
      According to biographer Michael Herr, Kubrick was often noted for wanting to stick to each word of dialogue without changing it or an actor adding lines of his own. The two exceptions were Peter Sellers (with whom he worked on Lolita (1962) and Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964)) and R. Lee Ermey (from Full Metal Jacket (1987)).
      Seven of his last nine films were nominated for Oscars. He was nominated for Best Director four consecutive times, for his pictures starting with Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964) and ending with Barry Lyndon (1975).
      Was an avid feline lover, once having 16 of them at one point. He would often let his cats lay around his editing room after filming completed as his way of making up for time he lost with them while he was working.
      At the age of 16, he snapped a photograph of a news vendor in New York the day after President Franklin D. Roosevelt died. He sold the photograph to Look magazine, which printed it. The magazine eventually hired him as an apprentice photographer while he was still in high school.
      Starting with Lolita (1962), he independently produced all his films from his adopted home of England, UK.
      In 1950, after creating and publishing a photo essay for Look magazine on boxing, he used the proceeds from the sale to the magazine to make his first film, a 16-minute documentary on the same subject entitled Day of the Fight (1951).
Abigail Rosen, who co-starred with Viva in Andy Warhol's Tub Girls (1967), was the first door lady at Max's Kansas City, a nightclub in New York City. She claims she had the honor of throwing Kubrick out of the club. "At first Mickey [Ruskin] hired me as the coat-check girl, but it was on the second floor and we were schlepping coats from downstairs to upstairs, and taking them back down where the people wanted to leave. It was not a good plan, besides which people would go up and steal coats. So we abandoned the whole idea and I became the door lady with Bob Russell. The embarrassing times were when Mickey asked us to kick somebody out. The philosophy behind it was that no one would beat on or abuse a woman. I was asked one night to kick Stanley Kubrick out. He was drunk and obnoxious and neither Mickey or I knew who he was. I said, 'Sir, I think it's time for you to leave now, you're not going to be happy here.' And he left. Then Mickey found out the next day who we had kicked out, and he yelled at me for not recognizing him. 'That's why I have you here,' he said, 'you're supposed to know who these people are.'".
Carlo Fiore, who was credited as an assistant to the producer on One-Eyed Jacks (1961) and helped develop the picture, wrote that the firing of Kubrick by Marlon Brando (who went on to direct the film) was perhaps inevitable, as there was only room for one "genius" on the picture. Brando had originally intended to direct the film himself, but Paramount Pictures pressured him to hire a director. Both Kubrick and Brando, at the time, were represented by Music Corp. of America (MCA).
      In his 1974 memoir "Bud: The Brando I Knew," 'Carlo Fiore' (I)-- writing of his experience developing and working on the movie One-Eyed Jacks (1961) with his friend Marlon Brando - said that Kubrick had wanted to hire Spencer Tracy to play the character of Dad Longworth in the film. The part had already been cast with Karl Malden, and Brando countered that Malden was a fine actor. Kubrick agreed, but said that Malden played "losers" and the part needed a heavyweight to balance Brando's character of Rio. Brando immediately vetoed the idea of Tracy and forbade any more discussion on the topic.
      Kubrick and his partner James B. Harris, during the development of Lolita (1962), hired Marlon Brando's friend Carlo Fiore -- whom Kubrick had worked with on the development of One-Eyed Jacks (1961) -- to write a screenplay of Vladimir Nabokov's novel "Kamera obskura," which Fiore had optioned himself. Written in Russian in 1932, "Kamera obskura" was first translated into English around 1938 as "Camera Obscura" and again circa 1960 as "Laughter in the Dark.") The book had elements in common with "Lolita," and Kubrick -- who was worried he was being hustled when Fiore approached him with the rights to the novel -- tied up the production of a potential rival film by hiring Fiore. Nothing came of Fiore's foray into film development, although Tony Richardson later made a movie of the novel with Nicol Williamson starring.
      "I want you to be big -- Lon Chaney big," Kubrick instructed Vincent D'Onofrio during the filming of Full Metal Jacket (1987).
      Used his favorite piece of music "Thus spoke Zaratustra" by Richard Strauss, recorded by Herbert von Karajan as the music score in 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968).
      Kubrick had started pre-production on Full Metal Jacket (1987) in 1980, a full seven years before it was theatrically released. The success of similar films during that time (particularly Oliver Stone's Platoon (1986) and John Irvin's Hamburger Hill (1987)) left him a bit jaded, feeling like he had been beaten at his own game. This sentiment stayed with him in the early 1990s when he decided to shelve Aryan Papers, his adaptation of the Louis Begley novel Wartime Lies. Kubrick had completed the script and had done a large amount of pre-production work on Aryan Papers; Johanna ter Steege and Joseph Mazzello had been cast in the lead roles and locations had been scouted in Denmark, Czech Republic and Slovakia. Warners officially announced the project as Kubrick's next film in April 1993 and it was scheduled for a December 1994 release. Around the same time Steven Spielberg was shooting Schindler's List (1993), and Kubrick thought the Holocaust-based subject matter of the two projects was too similar. The shelving of this project helps to explain the 12-year gap between Full Metal Jacket (1987) and Eyes Wide Shut (1999).
      He directed four of the American Film Institute's 100 Most Greatest Movies: 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) at #15, Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964) at #39, A Clockwork Orange (1971) at #70, and Spartacus (1960) at #81.
      He once called Ken Russell in the early 1970s but ended the conversation abruptly because, according to Russell, he had been frightened by a bee. He then called several days later to ask Russell where he had found the lovely English locations for his period films. Russell told him and Kubrick used the locations in his next film, Barry Lyndon (1975). Russell said, "I felt quite chuffed.".
      In interviews upon with the release of his highly controversial A Clockwork Orange (1971), Kubrick cited The Ox-Bow Incident (1943) as the kind of movie he did NOT want to make when defending the use of an "evil" protagonist (Alex). Kubrick reasoned that The Ox-Bow Incident (1943) was bad art, as it took the stand that lynching was evil because innocent people might be lynched, not the stand that lynching (i.e, extra-judicial murder) was itself evil. He wanted Alex explicitly evil (thus, the jettisoning of the last chapter of the original novel, in which Alex is reformed; this chapter was not in the American edition that Terry Southern had given to Kubrick). Kubrick felt that an explicitly evil Alex underscores the point that the state's invasion of the prisoner's soul (turning him into a mechanical man, a "clockwork orange") was evil whatever the guilt or innocent, and the level thereof, of the prisoner.
      He had no intention of having Anthony Burgess' write the screenplay for A Clockwork Orange (1971), intending to do it himself. In fact, there is little that Kubrick added to Burgess' work except for editorial decisions such as eliminating the second murder Alex commits in prison and replacing Billy Boy with Georgie as police constable Dim's partner (the entire last chapter of the novel was jettisoned, but it had been in the American edition of the novel that Kubrick had first read. Americans, as Burgess reasoned, did not like to see their criminals reformed). The dialog was considered by many critics and cineastes as being lifted almost straight from the book (though there are enough differences to dismiss that as a valid criticism of Kubrick the screenwriter). This is the first of the two movies in which Kubrick has sole credit as screenwriter (Barry Lyndon (1975), which immediately followed A Clockwork Orange (1971) is the other). Kubrick was one of the first director-writers to actually take credit on a film. Going back to the beginnings of the film industry, directors had often participated in the writing of their films, but most did not take credit. It might have been the fact that Kubrick used less of Vladimir Nabokov's credited screenplay and more of his own writing (and the improvisations of Peter Sellers) for Lolita (1962) that influenced him to become a credited screenwriter. Lolita (1962) was shot at the time that the "auteur" theory (which held the director was the main author of a film) was gaining prominence, and from Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964) onward Kubrick took credit as a screenwriter. Earlier, he had worked uncredited on the screenplays of Paths of Glory (1957) and One-Eyed Jacks (1961), which he had originally been hired by Marlon Brando to direct. As he was one of the greatest masters the cinema has ever had and truly was the author of his films, Kubrick likely was encouraged to go it alone on A Clockwork Orange (1971) and Barry Lyndon (1975) (which allegedly he shot in an improvisatory manner after reading sections of the novel, which he carried with him during shooting).
      According to "The London Standard" (29 June 1999 edition), Kubrick left £66,000 in cash and his house, Childwickbury Manor in Hertfordshire, England, to his wife Christiane Kubrick in a 24-page will drawn up on 22 July 1974. He also left her £21,000 in personal property. Before his death, Kubrick established a minimum of two private trusts, the Stanley Kubrick Trust Number One and the Children's Trust, in which his wealth was collected. Proceeds from the trusts will be distributed among his two children and one stepchild.
      Out of all of his feature films, Spartacus (1960) is the only one to which he hasn't contributed in writing the screenplay.
      He joined with directors Martin Scorsese, Woody Allen, Francis Ford Coppola, Steven Spielberg, Robert Redford, Sydney Pollack and George Lucas in forming the Film Foundation (promotes restoration and preservation of film - May 1990).
      According to Kirk Douglas, Kubrick allegedly wanted to take credit for the Spartacus (1960) screenplay that was primarily written by Dalton Trumbo. Trumbo, who was blacklisted at the time, originally was going to use the alias Sam Jackson. During the production of the film, Otto Preminger announced he had hired Trumbo to write the screenplay for Exodus (1960). Douglas, in turn, announced that he had been the first to hire Trumbo, who would be credited on his film. Preminger's film was released six months earlier than "Spartacus," which was released in October 1960. Douglas later said he decided to give Trumbo credit because he was appalled at Kubrick's attempt to hog the credit. This "recollection" likely was colored by the fact that Kubrick went on to become a great director, and the film was seen as a Kubrick film rather than as the product of Kirk Douglas, who produced it. Douglas viewed the film as a fulfillment of his personal vision. It is highly unlikely that Kubrick would try to take the credit, as Trumbo served as one of the members of the film's executive committee - screenwriter Dalton Trumbo, executive producer Kirk Douglas and producer Edward Lewis," according to Duncan L. Cooper's 1996 article "Who Killed 'Spartacus'?" Trumbo was a friend of Edward Muhl, the boss of Universal Pictures. which was financing the film. According to Cooper, Howard Fast, a former Communist Party member who wrote the novel the film is based on, worked on the screenplay but received no credit. Walter Winchell had already revealed that Trumbo was working on the film, and it was widely known that Trumbo had won an Oscar using the pseudonym Robert Rich on The Brave One (1956), and that his "front", Ian McLellan Hunter, had won an Oscar for the story of Roman Holiday (1953) that Trumbo had, in fact, written. In other words, the blacklist was a sham. There were rumors that the House Un-American Activities Committee was going to investigate the movie industry again, and right-wingers began attacking the film. Douglas gave into studio boss Muhl's idea that the class conflict at the heart of Spartacus (1960) be muted, thus betraying both Trumbo's screenplay and Fast's novel. A major battle scene showing the triumph of Spartacus' slave army over the Romans was deleted lest it seem too provocative, and medium and closeup shots of Laurence Olivier that showed his character - Roman dictator Crassus - experiencing fear over the slave rebellion were replaced with wide shots. Scenes where the slave army was crushed, of course, remain, though their length was cut back to minimize the carnage of the original 197-minute cut. Part of what remains - Olivier's Crassus looking for Spartacus' body among the living and the dead slaves - is shot indifferently on a sound stage and seems mismatched with the rest of the scene. Trumbo himself realized the necessity of muting his own passions in order to make the screenplay moderate so the film would be a success at the box office. He told an interviewer, "If the film had failed, neither I nor any other blacklisted writer would ever have been able to work again." The actions of Preminger and Douglas to give Trumbo credit effectively ended the blacklist, though many blacklisted screenwriters continued to write under pseudonyms until the early 1970s.
      His favorite cartoon character was Woody Woodpecker. Kubrick reportedly loved Woody Woodpecker so much that he wanted to feature him in every film he ever made (similar to what George Pal did) but Walter Lantz creator of Woody Woodpecker refused. In the final interview Lantz did he stated that he didn't regret his decision when he saw films like The Shining (1980) or A Clockwork Orange (1971), but he did regret the decision when he saw films like 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) or Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964).
      Has directed two actors in Oscar-nominated roles: Peter Sellers (Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964)) and Peter Ustinov (Spartacus (1960)). Ustinov won his Oscar.
      According to his daughter, Vivian Kubrick, the family name is pronounced like "Que-brick," rather than like "koo-brick".
      In 1963 he was asked by the US publication Cinema to compile a list of his favorite films. They were: I vitelloni (1953) (Federico Fellini, 1953), Smultronstället (1957) ("Wild Strawberries" USA title, Ingmar Bergman, 1958), Citizen Kane (1941) (Orson Welles, 1941), The Treasure of the Sierra Madre (1948) (John Huston, 1948), City Lights (1931) (Charles Chaplin, 1931), The Chronicle History of King Henry the Fift with His Battell Fought at Agincourt in France (1944) ("Henry V" USA title, Laurence Olivier, 1945), La notte (1961) (Michelangelo Antonioni, 1961), The Bank Dick (1940) (W.C. Fields, 1940), Roxie Hart (1942) (William Wellman, 1942), Hell's Angels (1930) (Howard Hughes, 1930).
      In 1969, after the success of 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968), Kubrick turned to one of his life-long obsessions into a motion picture screenplay - Napoleon. The script would have required an extremely large budget to be made into a film, and it was all on its way well into pre-production, when the studio suddenly decided to pull the plug after another big-budget biopic on the life of Napoleon, Waterloo (1970), failed financially. Kubrick, angry and depressed that his film was canceled, would later in his career (and even in the production of other films) attempt to get the project back on its feet with different companies over the years. The requirements needed would have been to write a completely new screenplay, and Kubrick, feeling he couldn't match the masterpiece that was his original draft, dropped the project.
      A few days before his abrupt death, he revealed his least and most favorite personal films. He labeled Fear and Desire (1953) as his least favorite personal film, and Eyes Wide Shut (1999) as his most favorite personal film.
      In the 5th edition of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die (edited by Steven Jay Schneider), 9 of Kubrick's films are listed. He is the director with the greatest percentage of films listed, since Kubrick made only 13 feature films. His listed films are Paths of Glory (1957), Spartacus (1960), Lolita (1962), Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964), 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968), A Clockwork Orange (1971), Barry Lyndon (1975), The Shining (1980) and Full Metal Jacket (1987).
      Shared a love of photography and home movie making with Peter Sellers and they would often photograph each other at work.
      Shares his birthday with 'Peter Hyams', who directed 2010 (1984), sequel of 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968), which is directed by Kubrick.
      First grew his famous beard during the making of "2001:A Space Odyssey". He kept the beard for the rest of his life and kept his hair long.
      Legendary director Billy Wilder was a great admirer of Kubrick, and claimed that Kubrick "never made a bad picture." Wilder also once told Cameron Crowe that the first half of Full Metal Jacket was "the best picture I've ever seen.".
      While working for, One-Eyed Jacks (1961), in Brando's home, Brando asked visitors to remove their shoes so as not to scratch the wooden floor. Kubrick often removed his pants as well, choosing to work in nothing but his shirt and underwear.
      A heavy chain smoker in his youth, he mostly quit smoking in the 1970s (his forties), but would still smoke occasionally under the pressure of his shoots. On the other hand, he was said to rarely ever drink alcohol.
      Wore a suit and tie every day while directing until the 1970s, when he began to dress in casual work clothes. His wife claimed he didn't like choosing what to wear, and had a wardrobe full of identical shirts and pants.
      When Kubrick bought Simon Cowell's childhood home, he turned the entire ground floor into a private cinema.
      Despite being known for his meticulous methods of filming, he was quite prolific in his earlier years. Beginning with Fear and Desire (1953) and ending with Barry Lyndon (1975), the average time between his films was two years. His last three films took much longer to complete. It took him five years to complete and release The Shining (1980), seven years to complete Full Metal Jacket (1987), and a whopping 12 years to complete Eyes Wide Shut (1999).
      I never learned anything at all in school and didn't read a book for pleasure until I was 19 years old.
      A film is - or should be - more like music than like fiction. It should be a progression of moods and feelings. The theme, what's behind the emotion, the meaning, all that comes later.
      I would not think of quarreling with your interpretation nor offering any other, as I have found it always the best policy to allow the film to speak for itself.
      Anyone who has ever been privileged to direct a film also knows that, although it can be like trying to write 'War and Peace' in a bumper car in an amusement park, when you finally get it right, there are not many joys in life that can equal the feeling.
      I think the big mistake in schools is trying to teach children anything, and by using fear as the basic motivation. Fear of getting failing grades, fear of not staying with your class, etc. Interest can produce learning on a scale compared to fear as a nuclear explosion to a firecracker.
      How could we possibly appreciate the Mona Lisa if Leonardo ['Leonardo Da Vinci'] had written at the bottom of the canvas, 'The lady is smiling because she is hiding a secret from her lover'? This would shackle the viewer to reality, and I don't want this to happen to 2001.
      The screen is a magic medium. It has such power that it can retain interest as it conveys emotions and moods that no other art form can hope to tackle.
      {on the complaint that his films were emotionally cold] I ought not to be regarded as a once happy man who has been bitten in the jugular and compelled to assume the misanthropy of a vampire.
      Call it enlightened cowardice, if you like. Actually, over the years I discovered that I just didn't enjoy flying, and I became aware of compromised safety margins in commercial aviation that are never mentioned in airline advertising. So I decided I'd rather travel by sea, and take my chances with the icebergs [...] I am afraid of aeroplanes. I've been able to avoid flying for some time but, I suppose, if I had to I would. Perhaps it's a case of a little knowledge being a dangerous thing. At one time, I had a pilot's licence and 160 hours of solo time on single-engine light aircraft. Unfortunately, all that seemed to do was make me mistrust large aeroplanes.
      I believe Ingmar Bergman, Vittorio De Sica and Federico Fellini are the only three filmmakers in the world who are not just artistic opportunists. By this I mean they don't just sit and wait for a good story to come along and then make it. They have a point of view which is expressed over and over and over again in their films, and they themselves write or have original material written for them.
      I've never achieved spectacular success with a film. My reputation has grown slowly. I suppose you could say that I'm a successful filmmaker - in that a number of people speak well of me. But none of my films have received unanimously positive reviews, and none have done blockbuster business.
      I've got a peculiar weakness for criminals and artists, neither takes life as it is. Any tragic story has to be in conflict with things as they are.
      The criminal and the soldier at least have the virtue of being against something or for something in a world where many people have learned to accept a kind of grey nothingness, to strike an unreal series of poses in order to be considered normal.... It's difficult to say who is engaged in the greater conspiracy - the criminal, the soldier, or us.
      I don't think that writers or painters or filmmakers function because they have something they particularly want to say. They have something that they feel. And they like the art form; they like words, or the smell of paint, or celluloid and photographic images and working with actors. I don't think that any genuine artist has ever been oriented by some didactic point of view, even if he thought he was.
      Perhaps it sounds ridiculous, but the best thing that young filmmakers should do is to get hold of a camera and some film and make a movie of any kind at all.
      I haven't come across any recent new ideas in film that strike me as being particularly important and that have to do with form. I think that a preoccupation with originality of form is more or less a fruitless thing. A truly original person with a truly original mind will not be able to function in the old form and will simply do something different. Others had much better think of the form as being some sort of classical tradition and try to work within it.
      I believe that drugs are basically of more use to the audience than to the artist. I think that the illusion of oneness with the universe, and absorption with the significance of every object in your environment, and the pervasive aura of peace and contentment is not the ideal state for an artist. It tranquilizes the creative personality, which thrives on conflict and on the clash and ferment of ideas. The artist's transcendence must be within his own work; he should not impose any artificial barriers between himself and the mainspring of his subconscious. One of the things that's turned me against LSD is that all the people I know who use it have a peculiar inability to distinguish between things that are really interesting and stimulating and things that appear to be so in the state of universal bliss that the drug induces on a "good" trip. They seem to completely lose their critical faculties and disengage themselves from some of the most stimulating areas of life. Perhaps when everything is beautiful, nothing is beautiful.
      I don't mistrust sentiment and emotion, no. The question becomes, 'Are you giving them something to make them a little happier, or are you putting in something that is inherently true to the material?' Are people behaving the way we all really behave, or are they behaving the way we would like them to behave? I mean, the world is not as it's presented in Frank Capra films. People love those films - which are beautifully made - but I wouldn't describe them as a true picture of life. The questions are always, is it true? Is it interesting? To worry about those mandatory scenes that some people think make a picture is often just pandering to some conception of an audience. Some films try to outguess an audience. They try to ingratiate themselves, and it's not something you really have to do. Certainly audiences have flocked to see films that are not essentially true, but I don't think this prevents them from responding to the truth.
      [on An Officer and a Gentleman (1982)] I think Louis Gossett Jr.'s performance was wonderful, but he had to do what he was given in the story. The film clearly wants to ingratiate itself with the audience. So many films do that. You show the drill instructor really has a heart of gold - the mandatory scene where he sits in his office, eyes swimming with pride about the boys and so forth. I suppose he actually is proud, but there's a danger of falling into what amounts to so much sentimental bullshit.
      I have a wife, three children, three dogs, seven cats. I'm not a Franz Kafka, sitting alone and suffering.
      To make a film entirely by yourself, which initially I did, you may not have to know very much about anything else, but you must know about photography.
      Sanitized violence in movies has been accepted for years. What seems to upset everybody now is the showing of the consequences of violence.
      [on Charles Chaplin] Chaplin is all content and little form. Nobody could have shot a film in a more pedestrian way than Chaplin.
      The essence of dramatic form is to let an idea come over people without it being plainly stated. When you say something directly, it's simply not as potent as it is when you allow people to discover it for themselves.
      Eisenstein does it with cuts, Max Ophuls does it with fluid movement. Chaplin does it with nothing. Eisenstein seems to be all form and no content, Chaplin is all content and little form. Nobody could have shot a film in a more pedestrian way than Chaplin. Nobody could have paid less attention to story than Eisenstein. Alexander Nevsky is, after all, a pretty dopey story. Potemkin is built around a heavy propaganda story. But both are great filmmakers.
      There's something inherently wrong with the human personality. There's an evil side to it. One of the things that horror stories can do is to show us the archetypes of the unconscious: we can see the dark side without having to confront it directly. Also, ghost stories appeal to our craving for immortality. If you can be afraid of a ghost, then you have to believe that a ghost may exist. And if a ghost exists, then oblivion might not be the end.
      [on why he chose Shelley Duvall for The Shining (1980)] I had seen all of her films and greatly admired her work. I think she brought an instantly believable characterization to her part. The wonderful thing about Shelley is her eccentric quality. The way she talks, the way she moves, the way her nervous system is put together. Shelley seemed to be exactly the kind of woman who would marry someone like Jack and be stuck with him.
      There are very few directors, about whom you'd say you automatically have to see everything they do. I'd put Fellini, Bergman and David Lean at the head of my first list, and Truffaut at the head of the next level.
      Part of my problem is that I cannot dispel the myths that have somehow accumulated over the years. Somebody writes something, it's completely off the wall, but it gets filed and repeated until everyone believes it. For instance, I've read that I wear a football helmet in the car.
      One of the things that gave me the most confidence in trying to make a film was seeing all the lousy films that I saw. Because I sat there and thought, Well, I don't know a goddamn thing about movies, but I know I can make a film better than that.
      [on Jack Nicholson] I believe that Jack is one of the best actors in Hollywood, perhaps on a par with the greatest stars of the past like Spencer Tracy and James Cagney. I should think that he is on almost everyone's first-choice list for any role which suits him. His work is always interesting, clearly conceived and has the X-factor, magic. Jack is particularly suited for roles which require intelligence. He is an intelligent and literate man, and these are qualities almost impossible to act. In The Shining (1980), you believe he's a writer, failed or otherwise.
      [on why he decided to make Dr Strangelove as a comedy] As I kept trying to imagine the way in which things would really happen, ideas kept coming to me which I would discard because they were so ludicrous. I kept saying to myself: 'I can't do this. People will laugh.'
      I can't honestly say what led me to make any of my films. The best I can do is to say I just fell in love with the stories. Going beyond that is a bit like trying to explain why you fell in love with your wife: she's intelligent, has brown eyes, a good figure. Have you really said anything? Since I am currently going through the process of trying to decide what film to make next, I realize just how uncontrollable is the business of finding a story, and how much it depends on chance and spontaneous reaction. You can say a lot of "architectural" things about what a film story should have: a strong plot, interesting characters, possibilities for cinematic development, good opportunities for the actors to display emotion, and the presentation of its thematic ideas truthfully and intelligently. But of course, that still doesn't really explain why you chose something, nor does it lead you to a story. You can only say that you probably wouldn't choose a story that doesn't have most of those qualities.
      From the very beginning, all of my films have divided the critics. Some have thought them wonderful, and others have found very little good to say. But subsequent critical opinion has always resulted in a very remarkable shift to the favorable. In one instance, the same critic who originally rapped the film has several years later put it on an all-time best list. But of course, the lasting and ultimately most important reputation of a film is not based on reviews, but on what, if anything, people say about it over the years, and on how much affection for it they have.
      [on Barry Lyndon (1975)] Ryan O'Neal was the best actor for the part. He looked right and I was confident that he possessed much greater acting ability than he had been allowed to show in many of the films he had previously done. In retrospect, I think my confidence in him was fully justified by his performance, and I still can't think of anyone who would have been better for the part. The personal qualities of an actor, as they relate to the role, are almost as important as his ability, and other actors, say like Al Pacino, Jack Nicholson or Dustin Hoffman, just to name a few who are great actors, would nevertheless have been wrong to play Barry Lyndon. I liked Ryan and we got along very well together.
      [on The Shining (1980)] I've always been interested in ESP and the paranormal. In addition to the scientific experiments which have been conducted suggesting that we are just short of conclusive proof of its existence, I'm sure we've all had the experience of opening a book at the exact page we're looking for, or thinking of a friend a moment before they ring on the telephone. But The Shining didn't originate from any particular desire to do a film about this. I thought it was one of the most ingenious and exciting stories of the genre I had read. It seemed to strike an extraordinary balance between the psychological and the supernatural in such a way as to lead you to think that the supernatural would eventually be explained by the psychological: "Jack must be imagining these things because he's crazy." This allowed you to suspend your doubt of the supernatural until you were so thoroughly into the story that you could accept it almost without noticing. The novel is by no means a serious literary work, but the plot is for the most part extremely well worked out, and for a film that is often all that really matters.
=======================================================
                Clockwork Orange, 2001, Full Metal Jacket, Lolita, The Shining and ‘I’m Spartacus’...if you saw no other films, you would have seen some of the best. But for all his wide, engrossing work he remains one of cinemas great enigmatic directors.Stanley Kubrick was born in the Bronx district of New York, into a family with Jewish ancestry. As a child, Stanley was considered intelligent, but he did not achieve particularly high grades at school. His father, Jack, who worked as a doctor in New York, was concerned to find a remedy for his son’s poor academic performance, so in 1940 he sent him to stay with his uncle in California, hoping that a change of scene would help to improve Stanley’s grades.  Stanley returned to New York in 1941 but his grades remained as mediocre as ever. He was very interested in music, however and developed a passion for jazz drumming. In desperation, his father taught him to play chess, hoping that this would stimulate him mentally and spur him on to greater intellectual achievement. His dad was right - Stanley took to chess with gusto and soon became an accomplished player. He even played chess for money at the Marshal and Manhattan clubs and in Washington Square Park in Greenwich Village. Kubrick graduated from William Taft High School in 1946 but was unable to get into college because his grades were so low. His father then hit upon the idea of giving Stanley a camera for his birthday, which led indirectly to his son’s discovering his future destiny as a film director. Stanley soon developed a passion for photography and began taking trips all over New York in order to take photographs, which he then developed in a friend’s darkroom. Whilst he was still a teenager, Stanley succeeded in selling an unsolicited photograph to “Look” magazine. At the age of 17, he landed a job as a staff photographer at “Look” magazine and spent the next few years traveling throughout the United States working on photographic assignments. Meanwhile, Stanley had also developed a keen interest in cinema and attended as many movie screenings as his busy schedule would permit. By 1951, when he was just 23 years old, he had begun to dream of becoming a film director. He used his own savings to finance his first film, a 13-minute documentary short about the boxer Walter Cartier, called Day Of The Fight. Stanley acted as producer, director and cinematographer on this first film; he’d first met Cartier whilst shooting a magazine photo assignment. The young Kubrick knew nothing about filmmaking and was taught how to use the equipment by the man who rented it to him. Stanley’s first short film was a success and was bought by RKO for its This Is America series, earning Stanley a small profit. Several other short films followed, including Flying Padre (1951) and The Seafarers (1952). Finally, thanks to the money he’d earned hustling chess games, Stanley raised enough cash to be able to make his first full-length film, Fear and Desire, which he filmed in California in 1953. Meanwhile, Stanley had married his high school sweetheart, Toba Metz - but filming Fear and Desire was a difficult and traumatic experience and the marriage did not survive. Kubrick received mixed reviews for Fear and Desire but his talent for directing began to be noticed further a field. His next two movies, Killer’s Kiss (1955) and The Killing (1956) succeeded in attracting the attention of the big Hollywood production houses and in 1957, he was asked to direct Paths of Glory, starring Kirk Douglas as leading actor. Stanley subsequently went on to direct Kirk Douglas again in the epic movie Spartacus in 1960 and clearly relished being given the opportunity to flex his directorial muscles in a large-scale arena. Kubrick took command of the project, but provoked a certain amount of antagonism among the crew, allegedly for seeking to impose his own ideas and standards of production on the film as a whole. To give one example, the cinematographer Russell Metty reportedly complained to the movie’s producers that Kubrick was taking over his job, claiming that Stanley apparently told him to “sit there and do nothing”! Metty apparently did as he was told - and went on to win the Academy Award for Best Cinematography. Next, Stanley was scheduled to direct Marlon Brando in the movie One Eyed Jacks, but discussions broke down and Brando eventually wound up directing the film himself. With his second marriage, to Ruth Sobotka now on the rocks, Stanley became thoroughly disillusioned with Hollywood and decided to move to England. He moved to the UK in 1962 and remained here for the rest of his life. The first film that Kubrick shot in England was Lolita, based on Vladimir Nabokov’s novel of the same name. The film told the controversial story of a teenage girl and her love affairs and had to be filmed with great care, so as not to be banned by the Board of Censors. Next came one of Kubrick’s biggest successes, Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned To Stop Worrying and Love The Bomb, made in 1964. Stanley originally wrote the script as a drama, but then came to the conclusion that the film contained too many funny ideas for it to be taken seriously. Starring Peter Sellers, Dr. Strangelove was a huge success, both artistically and financially. With his newfound status and financial security, Stanley could afford to take greater risks as a film-maker. From now on, he would always have several projects in various stages of development and production. The next film he actually completed was another massive success, namely 2001: A Space Odyssey, which was a collaboration with sci-fi author Arthur C. Clarke. This was a ground-breaking sci-fi movie which soon became a cult classic, regarded by many as Stanley Kubrick’s greatest achievement. Always keen to innovate and break new ground, Kubrick followed up his sci-fi success with one of his most controversial movies yet, namely A Clockwork Orange (1971), which starred Malcolm McDowell. This film caused a furore when it was released, on account of its graphic portrayal of violence. Kubrick changed pace yet again with his next big hit, a film called Barry Lyndon (1975). By now, Stanley had become renowned as a difficult taskmaster of a director, who required actors and technical crew alike to match his exacting, unrelentingly high standards. This frequently involved actors being made to do take after take - often dozens of takes - without a break. By the early 1970s, he had also acquired a reputation for being something of a recluse and had a strongly developed sense of both security and privacy. Next, Kubrick turned his attention to directing a horror film, one of the few genres he had not yet explored on film. He turned down an invitation to direct a sequel to The Exorcist, instead deciding to adapt Stephen King’s classic chiller, The Shining, for the big screen. The Shining, which starred Jack Nicholson, quickly became a cult classic since it was first shown in 1980.Following The Shining, there were increasing intervals between Kubrick’s movie projects. He had married again for the third time; his new wife was called Christiane and she and Stanley had three children together. The next major film Kubrick released was Full Metal Jacket, in 1987, which explored the themes of war and violence. Rumour has it that during the long pre-production period of this movie, Kubrick became disillusioned by the success that other war films released during this time had enjoyed, such as Platooon, and Hamburger Hill. But when Full Metal Jacket was eventually released, it soon earned the fame and respect that was routinely afforded to all Kubrick’s movies. An even longer interval of time ensued before the release of Kubrick’s next movie, Eyes Wide Shut. In the early 1990s, he began an intermittent collaboration with Brian Aldiss on a new sci-fi project called Artificial Intelligence - AI - but this project progressed very slowly, because the special effects technology that Kubrick wanted took so long to be developed. Whilst the technology labs struggled to keep up, Stanley turned his attention to other projects. He developed a project called The Aryan Papers, a wartime movie that then became known as Wartime Lies - but shelved this project when he discovered that Steven Spielberg was about to start production on his own holocaust movie, Schindler’s List. Pre-production work on “AI” was still moving along, albeit very slowly, when Kubrick began work with Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman on what would actually be his last film, Eyes Wide Shut. The film explored the intricacies and dynamics of marriage and Kubrick claimed he thought it was his best film yet. In the late 1990s, Kubrick returned to working on “AI” but tragically, his dream of finally releasing this movie was cut short when he suffered a heart attack and died in his sleep on 7 March, 1999. Since Stanley had frequently discussed this project with his friend Steven Spielberg, it was then decided that Spielberg would take over as the film’s director and finish the project on Stanley’s behalf. “AI” was finally released in 2001 but the question of whether Stanley Kubrick would have approved of the final version - and what kind of movie he himself would have directed - will forever remain one of the great unanswered questions in movie history.
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
   background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/twister/tiny-snake._V192199047_.gif') no-repeat scroll 0px 0px;
  cursor: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-in._V184888790_.bmp'),pointer;
  cursor: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-out._V184888738_.bmp),pointer;
.swSprite { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; margin: 0;padding: 0; position: relative; overflow: hidden; vertical-align: middle; background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler div.disabled-button { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image {  background-position: -60px -80px;background-color: white;}
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image { background-position: -30px -80px; background-color: white;}
.dpSprite { background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-dp-2._V384267953_.png'); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.udpSprite { background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/udp-sprite-dp-2._V358106326_.png') no-repeat; vertical-align: middle; display: inline-block;}
.cmtySprite { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-communities._V136632413_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192250049_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V156431432_.png);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192190832_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite._V192250042_.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192239831_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/customerimage/shuttle-gradient._V192250138_.gif); 
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V192238939_.gif');
    background: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/sprite-carousel-btns-stars2._V376388587_.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_left_17._V248144977_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_right_17._V248144979_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_left._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top._V265110086_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_left._V265110084_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom._V265110084_.png); }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-arrow-v._V219326286_.png);
     #twister .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; } #twister .a-dropdown-container span.a-button-dropdown { display: none !important } 	
     #buybox_feature_div .a-native-dropdown, #buybox .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; font-weight: normal;}
     #buybox_feature_div label.a-native-dropdown, #buybox label.a-native-dropdown {padding-right: 5px;}
     #buybox_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown, #buybox .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown  { display: none !important;} 
     #defaultChildDropdown_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown { display: none !important;}
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York TimesŽ Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
No Kindle device required. Download one of the free Kindle apps to start reading Kindle books on your smartphone, tablet and computer.
FREE Two-Day Shipping is available to Amazon Prime members. To join, select "Yes, I want FREE Two-Day Shipping with Amazon Prime" above the Add to Cart button and confirm your Amazon Prime free trial sign-up during checkout.
Important:  Your credit card will NOT be charged when you start your free trial or if you cancel during the trial period. If you're happy with Amazon Prime, do nothing. At the end of the free trial, your membership will automatically upgrade to an annual membership.
Comment: Condition: Very good condition., Binding: Paperback / Publisher: Da Capo Press / Pub. Date: 1999 Attributes: 579pp / Illustrations: B&W Photographs Stock#: 2050225 (FBA) * * *This item qualifies for FREE SHIPPING and Amazon Prime programs! * * * 
Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) is a service we offer sellers that lets them store their products in Amazon's fulfillment centers, and we directly pack, ship, and provide customer service for these products. Something we hope you'll especially enjoy: FBA items qualify for FREE Shipping and .
    * https://omni-grok.amazon.com/xref/src/appgroup/websiteTemplates/retail/SoftlinesDetailPageAssets/udp-intl-lock/src/legacy.css?indexName=WebsiteTemplates#40
 Stanley Kubrick, director of the acclaimed filmsPath of Glory, Spartacus, Lolita, Dr. Strangelove, 2001: Space Odyssey. A Clockwork Orange, The Shining, and Full Metal Jacket, is arguably one of the greatest American filmmakers. Yet, despite being hailed as a giant” by Orson Welles, little is known about the reclusive director. Stanley Kubrickthe first full-length study of his lifeis based on assiduous archival research as well as new interviews with friends, family, and colleagues.Film scholar Vincent LoBRutto provides a comprehensive portrait of the director, from his high school days, in the Bronx and his stint as a photographer for Look magazine, through the creation of his wide-ranging movies, including the long-awaited Eyes Wide Shut. The author provides behind-the-scenes details about writing, filming, financing, and reception of the director’s entire output, paying close attention to the technical innovations and to his often contentious relationships with actors. This fascinating biography exposes the enigma that is Stanley Kubrick while placing him in context of film history.
{"currencyCode":"USD","itemData":[{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":19.16,"ASIN":"0306809060","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":18.9,"ASIN":"0253213908","isPreorder":0}],"shippingId":"0306809060::xKYNd52S%2BuiqSrZWR78yq%2FUPIbkV37Zn3IzOb%2FtvGujDA0Te%2FWgACV9XTRx3V3brtMbYMqJGB5km9uU2irqftMwqVI5nucdJgAQzBgE34XY%3D,0253213908::wFu4lWq7pQHSEFG4F2lLmzZqBaCSxDuSeIJUL%2Bebtp074zR4%2B2du9qx2kG6oh678QX5nh8W%2BgOXR7ektLnDivM%2BTGuAkCjMj%2Burd9%2B4LbXw%3D","sprites":{"addToWishlist":["wl_one","wl_two","wl_three"],"addToCart":["s_addToCart","s_addBothToCart","s_add3ToCart"],"preorder":["s_preorderThis","s_preorderBoth","s_preorderAll3"]},"shippingDetails":{"xy":"same"},"tags":["x","y","z"],"strings":{"addToWishlist":["add to wishlist","Add both to Wish List","Add all three to Wish List"],"addToCart":["Add to Cart","Add both to Cart","Add all three to Cart"],"showDetailsDefault":"Show availability and shipping details","shippingError":"An error occurred, please try again","hideDetailsDefault":"Hide availability and shipping details","priceLabel":["Price:","Price for both:","Price for all three:"],"preorder":["Pre-order this item","Pre-order both items","Pre-order all three items"]}}
0802138187,3836527758,0345437764,0307743659,0786704853,1578062977,0253213908,0393321193,1879505622,B000055Y0X,0385339038,B000HRVCB2,B004L9GMBC,1594204306,3836508893,0792841409,1452206252,B000UJCAKY,1844571424,3836523353,187950507X,0449001172,0275972917,B004O724M2,0571199860,0743244583,0140127224,0941188248,0679727299,1451656297,0060951613,B008RO875Q,0307277046,1615930876,B000UJ48VI,0792841387,1566635063,B00AQ6J5JU,B005152C78,B004PF0FJM,B005152C9G,B007K8ILUQ,0240523830,B007K8ILTW,085170932X,0684811677,039304601X,1841506117,0030639492
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V397906885_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-right._V192549178_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_br._V192190565_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_03._V192190907_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-topleft._V192549173_.gif');
Tell us that you'd like this title to be produced as an audiobook, and we'll alert our colleagues at Audible.com. If you are the author or rights holder, let Audible help you produce the audiobook: Learn more at ACX.com. 
       In 1962, an MGM trailer teased its audience by asking "How Did They Ever Make a  Movie Out of Lolita?" Readers of this book, which recounts the life of Lolita's  director, might ask, "How Did They Ever Write a Biography of Stanley Kubrick?" Kubrick is  the most reclusive of celebrities, a man who seems mysterious even to those who have known and worked  with him. Vincent Lobrutto's engrossing and beautifully researched biography succeeds in tracing this  meticulous and brilliant visionary from his childhood and early career as a photographer for Look  magazine to his creation of masterpieces such as Dr. Strangelove, 2001: A Space Odyssey, A Clockwork Orange, and Full Metal Jacket. Lobrutto concludes his book by discussing  projects that have not yet been realized: Eyes Wide Shut, a film about sexual obsession, the  Holocaust drama Aryan Papers, and the most eagerly awaited of Kubrick's prospective movies, the  science fiction film A. I.
       Despite making only 12 feature films in 40 years, Stanley Kubrick (b. 1928) is arguably the greatest living American filmmaker, the principal creative force behind such movies as Paths of Glory, Dr. Strangelove, 2001: A Space Odyssey, A Clockwork Orange and The Shining. He is famous for his reclusiveness and eccentricity. Although this biography falls short of its stated purpose to be the first complete account of Kubrick's private life, it succeeds in presenting a convincing portrait of a man who is utterly devoted to every aspect of filmmaking, down to poster design. LoBrutto (Elia Kazan: Film Director), a film professor at the School of Visual Arts in N.Y.C., provides an exhaustively researched and detailed account of the making of Kubrick's films, including long interviews with many of the actors, writers and film craftsmen who have worked with the director over the years. Kubrick comes across as a soft-spoken tyrant in full command of every detail who somehow manages to win and keep the respect of those who work for him. For the true film buff, there's an astonishing amount of technical information, but there's also a good deal of illuminating backstage human interest?Kubrick cutting Kirk Douglas's final close-up in Spartacus as a joke, beating George C. Scott at chess between takes of Dr. Strangelove, asking Malcolm McDowell if he knew any songs he might sing during the rape scene in A Clockwork Orange. The tone of the book is a bit gee-whiz at times, but it's hard to fault LoBrutto for that: from the evidence here, Kubrick's boundless energy and passion for film are as breathtaking as the best of his movies. Photos and filmography. Copyright 1996 Reed Business Information, Inc.
Published in 1999, prior to the release of "Eyes Wide Shut" and the death of his subject, Stanley Kubrick, Vincent LoBrutto's biography arrived, however unfairly, at the wrong time.  Since Kubrick did not grant LoBrutto the kind of access a strong biography needs, he had to do the nasty gruntwork that makes biographical writing, particularly of the deceased, such a demanding, but ultimately rewarding adventure.  We can only speculate, but now that Kubrick has been dead for nearly eight years, that perhaps Christiane Kubrick and their daughters would grant access into the secretive, obsessive world that made Kubrick such a mythic filmmaking figure.Instead, we have a text that owes to LoBrutto's extensive knowledge of cinema more than it does to the insight of Stanley Kubrick.  The book starts off poorly, reading like a catalog of events and dates, lacking any real musical sensibility for his use of the English language.  LoBrutto hits his stride when describing the making of Kubrick's breakthrough film "The Killing."  From there, LoBrutto's research into the depths of Kubrick's approach to filmmaking is rewarding.  We learn about Kubrick's use of specific movie cameras, lenses, his approach to scoring films, "needle-dropping," his approach to lighting and his encyclopedic absorption of the subject matter pertaining to the films he made.However, as a "biography," a study in human character, LoBrutto's book is thin.  We learn little about Kubrick's attitudes towards his Jewish heritage.  His first two marriages are passed over without any real depth.  His obsessive nature and the creation of his own closed-off world, akin a filmmaker's Xanadu, are provided little to no psychological depth or inquiry.Read more ›
  Despite my great interest in Stanley Kubrick's work and personality, I couldn't finish this biography by Vincent LoBrutto. Disappointment sets in very quickly as one realizes that LoBrutto's writing style is very tedious,  amateurish and repetitive. The irony is that the author is clearly an  admirer of Kubrick and has done extremely meticulous research -- what a  shame that the editing was not nearly as careful, quite unlike a Kubrick  film.I switched to John Baxter's recently published biography and,  though that book certainly has its own weaknesses, it is much more concise  and has a livelier style. After finishing it, I picked up the LoBrutto book  again in an attempt to at least skim it for additional detail, especially  since it offers more technical information. I have again given up. The poor  style is too much to endure and the extra detail is not interesting. One  wonders whether the Baxter biography is merely a more professional rewrite  of the LoBrutto book.
Apologetic to Stanley Kubrick, STANLEY KUBRICK: A BIOGRAPHY (c. 1997) by Vincent LoBrutto is a first order inquiry which sets the Plutarchian biographical tone of Stanley Kubrick as a benevolent director pursuing his childhood infatuation with the photographic image.  Vincent LoBrutto concentrates on the interesting behind-the-scenes business dealings Mr. Kubrick contends with in Hollywood.  He also describes Stanley Kubrick's initial inspiration to photography in high school; the exertion and drive Kubrick demonstrated to complete a film; his relationships with some of Hollywood's biggest stars; Kubrick's impartial business decision to make movies in England; his experiences with contracts, lawyers, and lawsuits; the polite opinions of cohorts and co-workers regarding Mr. Kubrick himself; a few of Mr. Kubrick's own views regarding his life pursuing cinema; and his hobbies, marriages, and habits.The biography falls short in one regard that it paints too good a portrait of a director who allegedly never lost his temper; it glosses over any motivation for his two divorces; it emphasized some personal information (such as he liked hot dogs) and de-emphasized others (was Kubrick right-handed or left-handed? or was Kubrick a rated chess player?).  The book further does not explore the differences between brilliance and genius: would Stanley Kubrick have been able to pass the test to join Mensa?Using secondary and tertiary sources typical of biographies, Vincent LoBrutto fails to capture the historic Stanley Kubrick with this work steeped in the mechanical aspects of his subject's life.Read more ›
  This was the first full biography of Stanley Kubrick I read, buying it in hardback as soon as it was published.  There had been very little biographical info on the director until his death in 1999 and I think I read most of the books about his films up to that point.I was disappointed with this bio.  It got to the point where the last sentence in every third paragraph read, "And there was only one man for that job, and that man was Stanley Kubrick."I found John Baxter's bio, also called STANLEY KUBRICK, much more entertaining and enlightening.If you've seen Kubrick's daughter's short film, "The Making of THE SHINING," on THE SHINING DVD, you get a glimpse of the rewriting frenzies that went on--a genuine shock to me since Kubrick's films appeared so tight and controlled ("We make it up as we go," Jack Nicholson jokes as a Kubrick assistant literally cringes), a look at the director's temper when a scene doesn't go right, and the scenes featuring his disregard for Shelley Duvall border on cruelty.All of this is more than you'll find in LoBrutto's biography.
      I read tons of biographies, and I'm deeply interested in film.  But this has to be the most grating, poorly-constructed book I've ever attempted to finish.
      I've read this book for the first time in the first semester of 1998, when Kubrick was still alive, finishing his latest film, "Eyes Wide Shut".
      Upfront: I'm not an expert, but I've been a fan of Kubrick and his films for decades.Stanley Kubrick is a remarkable subject but I hate the biographies that fawn over...
      Definitely helped my research project on Dr. Strangelove. Would reccomend to anyone studying or researching Kubrick's films
      Even though, as others have correctly observed below, this biography was written some time before Stanley Kubrick's death, Lobrutto is about as well equipped to write definitively...
      I got this book in 1998 to read a bit about the man before he was to pass away a few years later. For this reason the book is probably a bit dated now and does not cover his Eyes...
      If you want to know about Stanley Kubrick, outside of viewing his films, this is THE book !This book fills in the blanks, about this enigmatic filmmaker, with a very concise,...
      If you're looking for a biography rather than a filmography that encapsulates Kubrick's career, try Vincent LoBrutto's Stanley Kubrick: A Biography.
      It's difficult how to presume if any biography can be what we expect. But this a serious piece of work. It brings the real quality of what a biographies have to do.
      This book does not fit the description of "biography." It is more of a "filmography" with some personal tidbits thrown in  occasionally.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMens GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
.ap_classic { border-top:1px solid #ccc;border-left:1px solid #ccc;border-bottom:1px solid #2F2F1D; border-right:1px solid #2F2F1D;background-color:#EFEDD4;padding:3px; }
.ap_classic .ap_content { clear:both;background-color:white;border:1px solid #ACA976;padding:8px;font-size:11px; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png");  
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV  Amazons Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
                                    told Bernard Weinraub of the New York Times that watching poorly made films sparked his
                                    film any worse than the ones I was seeing.  I was seeing, I also felt I could, in fact, do them a lot
                                    photographs on a regular basis.  After the death of the President FDR, Stanley happened to
                                    distraught.  The ever-ambitious youngster took full advantage of the
=======================================================
From All Movie Guide: As one of the most universally acclaimed and influential directors of the postwar era, Stanley Kubrick enjoyed a reputation and a standing unique among the filmmakers of his day. A perennial outsider, he worked far beyond the confines of Hollywood, maintaining complete artistic control and making movies according to the whims and time constraints of no one but himself, but with the rare advantage of studio financial support for all of his endeavors. Working in a vast range of styles and genres spanning from black comedy to horror to crime drama, Kubrick was an enigma, living and creating in almost total seclusion, far away from the watchful eye of the media. His films were a reflection of his obsessive nature, perfectionist masterpieces which remain among the most provocative and visionary motion pictures ever made. Born July 26, 1928 in New York City, Kubrick initially earned renown as a photographer, selling his first free-lance pictures to Look magazine while still in high school. By the age of 17 he was working as a Look staff photographer, travelling the world in their employ for several years. He subsequently enrolled as a non-matriculating student at Columbia University, attending classes taught by the likes of Calvin Trillin and Mark Van Doren. In the late 1940s Kubrick became enamored of filmmaking, attending Museum of Modern Art showings regularly. To supplement his income, he also played chess for money in Greenwich Village.  In 1951, Kubrick used his life savings to finance his first film, Day of the Fight, a 16-minute documentary profiling boxer Walter Cartier. The piece was later purchased by RKO for its <I>This Is America</I> series and played at the Paramount Theatre in New York. Encouraged by his success, Kubrick quit his post at Look to pursue filmmaking full-time. Soon, RKO assigned him to helm a short for their documentary series <I>Pathe Screenliner</I>. Titled Flying Padre, the nine-minute work spotlighted Fred Stadtmueller, a priest who piloted a Piper Cub around his 400-mile New Mexico parish. In 1953 the Atlantic and Gulf Coast District of the Seafarers International Union commissioned Kubrick to direct a half-hour industrial documentary called The Seafarers, his first color film. With the aid of relatives, Kubrick raised some $13,000 in order to finance his feature debut, the war story Fear and Desire. Filmed in the San Gabrielle mountains near Los Angeles with a crew of less than ten people (including Kubrick's then-wife Toba Metz), the picture was filmed silently, with its dialogue dubbed-in later (a measure which ultimately added $20,000 to the final cost). Shown only briefly on the New York arthouse circuit, Fear and Desire failed to earn back its initial investment and was later disowned by its creator. His sophomore feature, the gangland melodrama Killer's Kiss, followed in 1955. A more successful effort, it was sold to United Artists and received worldwide distribution, playing primarily as a second feature.  In 1956 Kubrick directed his first studio picture, The Killing. A heist film told via an ambitious overlapping time structure, the film starred Sterling Hayden, with dialogue from the legendary hard-boiled crime novelist Jim Thompson. The result was the director's first artistic triumph, and it brought him to the attention of MGM production head Dore Share, where Kubrick was teamed with novelist Calder Willingham to develop future projects. After preparing a screenplay based on Steven Zweig's story "The Burning Secret" which went unproduced, Thompson joined the duo to adapt the Humphrey Cobb war novel Paths of Glory. Studio after studio rejected the project until Kirk Douglas agreed to star, resulting in a financing deal with United Artists. Shot in Germany, the 1957 film won considerable critical acclaim, and further cemented Kubrick's reputation as a rising talent.   However, the next two years left him in a state of limbo, as a pair of proposed projects -- <I>I Stole 16 Million Dollars</I>, a planned vehicle for Douglas based on the life of safecracker Herbert Emmerson Wilson, and an untitled film about Mosby's Rangers, a southern guerilla force active during the U.S. Civil War -- both failed to come to fruition. Kubrick then spent some six months on pre-production work for the Marlon Brando western One-Eyed Jacks, only to look on helplessly as Brando decided at the eleventh hour to direct the picture himself. Finally, in 1959 he replaced Anthony Mann on Spartacus, a lavish historical epic starring Douglas, Laurence Olivier, and Tony Curtis. The most costly film produced in Hollywood to date, with a budget of over $12 million, it proved to be a major hit, winning the Golden Globe Award for "Best Picture."  In 1962 Kubrick resurfaced with the controversial Lolita, based on the infamous Nabokov novel about a man's infatuation with his teenaged stepdaughter. Due to a number of financial and legal difficulties, the film was shot in England, where Kubrick continued to live and work after the project's completion. He next turned to his first undisputed masterpiece, the 1964 Cold War-era black comedy Dr. Strangelove or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb, a brilliant adaptation of the Peter George novel {-Red Alert} starring Peter Sellers in three different roles.   In December of 1965 Kubrick began production on what was to become his crowning achievement, 2001: A Space Odyssey. Inspired by the Arthur C. Clarke story {-The Sentinel}, the 1968 film -- a complex meditation on man's instinctive desire for violence, set against a backdrop of an American spacecraft's contact with extraterrestrial intelligence -- quickly emerged as a landmark in motion picture history, growing in status to become recognized as one of the greatest and most thought-provoking movies ever released. A biography of Napoleon was projected as the follow-up, but when expected costs proved too prohibitive, the film never moved beyond the planning stages.  Instead, Kubrick turned to another controversial novel, Anthony Burgess' A Clockwork Orange. A satiric 1971 essay on crime and punishment set in a violent future world, the film initially scored an "X" rating in the U.S. but proved surprisingly popular regardless, even netting several Oscar nominations. In Britain, A Clockwork Orange played theatrically for a year without incident, but was pulled after a number of copy-cat crimes which authorities blamed on the picture's influence, including a brutal gang-rape mirroring a scene in the film. Moving from the future to the past, in 1975 Kubrick adapted William Makepeace Thackery's 19th century novel Barry Lyndon, a lavish costume drama detailing the rise and fall of an Irish rogue (Ryan O'Neal) during the 1700s.  In 1980, Kubrick helmed The Shining, an adaptation of a horror novel by author Stephen King. While one of the director's greatest popular successes, critical notice was less kind, and he spent the early half of the decade away from the camera, plotting his next move. The result was 1987's Full Metal Jacket, a Vietnam War drama which scored with both audiences and critics. Despite the film's success, Kubrick again went into hibernation. Finally, in late 1996 Kubrick began work on Eyes Wide Shut, starring husband and wife Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman. In 1997, Kubrick was given two of the film world's highest honors, winning the D.W. Griffith Award from the Director's Guild of America as well as the Golden Lion Award at the 54th Venice International Film Festival. Two years later, Eyes Wide Shut was released to extremely mixed reviews; a dreamlike erotic odyssey, it proved to be Kubrick's last film. He died of natural causes on March 7 of that year, leaving behind one of the cinema's most provocative, varied, and altogether brilliant legacies. ~ Jason Ankeny, Rovi      
© 2010 All Media Guide, LLC Portions of content provided by All Movie Guide ®, a trademark of All Media Guide, LLC
=======================================================
A rundown of the recognition both Kubrick and his films have received from critics and industry peers.
Stanley Kubrick was born July 26th, 1928, in The Bronx, New York. The son of a successful Manhattan physician father and a Rumanian born mother (his family name is most often pronounced "KOOB-rik").  His sister  Barbara Mary was born in 1934.
Kubrick by his own admission was "a lonely child," and a "misfit in high school." His parents had wanted him to become a doctor but he graduated with a 70% average which fell short of the marks needed to get into medical college. Kubrick grew up on the Grand Concourse and 196th Street in the Bronx, attending Taft High School. His love of film began at an early age he would go to Loew's Paradise and R.K.O. Fordham twice a week to view the double features.  He would later say of this experience: "One of the important things about seeing run-of-the-mill Hollywood films  eight times a week was that many of them were so bad [...] Without even beginning to understand what the problems of making films were, I was taken with the impression that I could not do a film any worse than the ones I was seeing. I also felt I could, in fact, do them a lot better." 
 Kubrick said that everything good that happened in his life was by the sheerest stroke of luck. At the age of 13, his father bought him a stills camera and he soon became fascinated by photography. He soon became an excellent amateur photographer, selling his pictures to magazines whilst still at high school. Later when he was looking for a job, Helen O'Brien, a picture editor at "Look" magazine, whom Kubrick had befriended, asked him if he would like to be a junior photographer for $50 a week. After 6 months Kubrick 
made it to staff photographer.  He travelled around the country and abroad (including Europe) and learned "a lot about people and things." In 1951 he made a documentary about the boxer Walter Cartier "Day of the Fight," which he sold to RKO for a small profit which started him on his movie making career. 
Kubrick was married three times: to Toba Metz 1948-54,  Ruth Sobtka 1955-1957 and Christiane Harlan 1958-99. Christiane, under the stage name of Susanne Christian,  played the German peasant girl who sings for the soldiers at the end of Paths of Glory.  She said, they were both in "grotesquely unhappy marriages and both in the throes of divorce" at the time of their meeting.  The Kubrick's had three daughters; Katharina (Christiane's child from her previous marriage) Anya and Vivian. (1)
After leaving the US in the mid-sixties, Kubrick spent the remainder of his life with Christiane and their children in Abbots Mead and later Childwick Bury, both residences located on the outskirts of North London near the town of St. Albans. "It's very pleasant, very peaceful, very civilised, here," Mr. Kubrick said in an interview. "London is, in the best sense, the way New York must have been in about 1910. I have to live where I make my films and, as it has worked out, I have spent most of my time during the last 10 years in London." 
Mr. Kubrick died at home in the Spring of 1999 of a heart attack, and is survived by his wife and daughters. 
Kubrick interviewed by Robert Emmett Ginna in 1962,  published in the UK Guradian newspaper July 16 1999, available to read online at  www.filmunlimited.co.uk
(1) Vivian Kubrick who directed "Making the Shining" is also known as 'Abigail Mead,' the writer of the original music for "Full Metal Jacket".  (back)
While scrolling through the information listed below, it's worth baring in mind that awards schemes are subjects to certain anomalies, for instance Time magazine did not compile a "10 best list" from 1962 through to 1968, so we don't know how they would have rated Lolita, Dr Strangelove or 2001. 
Researching Kubrick's awards statistics reveals a few surprises, for instance  Barry Lyndon, assumed by many critics to have been 'misunderstood and neglected' at the time of it's release, garnered the most awards of any Kubrick film.
Note:For a transcript of Kubrick's acceptance speech go to:  Kubrick on Griffith and His Wings of Fortune
=======================================================
[Original works from the Stanley Kubrick Estate.Stanley Kubrick and Geoffrey Unsworth developed a system for calculating from the grey tones of b/w Polaroids the right lighting for filming 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY.]
Stanley Kubrick: I was born in New York. My father was a doctor. My parents had wanted me to be a doctor but I was such a misfit in high school that when I graduated I didn't have 
Stanley Kubrick was the son of a doctor. His Jewish paternal grandparents stemmed from Austria and Romania.
Kubrick directs FLYING PADRE, a short film about a priest who ministers his parish in New Mexico by aeroplane.
Kubrick shoots his first colour film, THE SEAFARERS, a documentary on the Seafarers' International Union.
=======================================================
  In recent weeks I have read  through several interviews and biographies of Stanley Kubrick to glean new  information about his methods, character and artistic leanings. In this article  I have compiled what I consider to be some of the more interesting stories and  quotes from these sources.
  In some instances these  notes serve as additional support for my own film analysis videos and articles  relating to Kubrick’s films, in particular the monolith of 2001 as a symbolic  cinema screen rotated 90 degrees. On that basis the notes are primarily related  to the more cryptic phase of his career (from 2001 through to Eyes Wide Shut)  in which Kubrick used multiple narratives and complex subliminals. These seemed  to be absent from his earlier works.
  For those wishing to enhance  their own film making skills there is also plenty of good advice in this  article, sometimes quoted in Kubrick’s own words and sometimes through the  observations of his collaborators.
  I’ve also included snippets  of info here purely out of my own puzzlement and amusement, regarding some of  Kubrick’s unusual work habits.
 The majority of these  notes are quoted exactly as worded from the original sources, but on occasion I  have condensed large sections of text into short summaries.
I don’t like to talk about  2001 too much because it’s essentially a non-verbal experience. It attempts to  communicate more to the subconscious and to the feelings than it does to the  intellect. I think clearly there’s a problem with people who are not paying  attention with their eyes. They’re listening. And they don’t get much from  listening to this film. Those who won’t believe their eyes won’t be able to  appreciate this film.  - Kubrick talking  to Jerome Agel, page 277 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
At one point a private  contractor was asked to mold a large block of Lucite. Kubrick was interested in  experimenting with projecting images onto its surface (the monolith). The block was cast and  received a lot of newspaper coverage about it being the largest casting of  plastic ever attempted. The optics weren’t up to Kubrick’s standards, though,  and he scrapped the idea. – production of 2001, p280 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent  Lobrutto
Kubrick was revising the  novel (2001) with Clarke and simultaneously preparing his shooting script … At  the end of August Clarke decided that the novel should end with Bowman standing  beside an alien ship. Kubrick was not satisfied with this conclusion and the  search went on. - p283 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
For a handheld shot that  followed Dr Floyd and the team as they walked down a ramp into the excavation  toward the monolith, Kubrick manned the camera himself.  - p285 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
The senior NASA  administrator of the Apollo project, George Mueller, and astronaut chief Deke  Slayton came to visit the 2001 set. - p286 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
At times he (Kubrick) would  give two separate crews the same objective so they would work hard to compete  with each other. - p287 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Clarke attempted to convince  Kubrick that the novel’s manuscript was ready for publication. Kubrick was  still unwilling to declare the novel finalized … Clarke firmly stated that he  was the writer and should have the clout to pronounce the novel complete.  Clarke was frustrated that he had lost $15,000 in commissions while working on  the lengthy revisions of the novel. - p298 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Clarke was in debt and tried  to get a publishing contract signed with Delacorte Press, but Kubrick refused  to sign, even after Delacorte had spent $10,000 on the project. Kubrick would  immediately praise the new version, then within a few days point out flaws,  errors and imperfections until the new prose crumbled into worthless fragments.  - p299 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
The art department prepared  a flow of abstract creations utilizing op art paintings, architectural  drawings, printed circuits and electron microscope photographs of crystal and  molecular structures. – special effects of the stargate, p303 Stanley Kubrick  by Vincent Lobrutto
In the sequence where he  (Bowman) is being locked outside, and doesn’t have his helmet on, some films  are being projected onto his face. It makes no sense, but looks great. - Douglas  Trumball discussing special effects for 2001, quoted from p304 Stanley Kubrick  by Vincent Lobrutto
Never! He never talked about  the philosophy of the film to us. – Kier Dullea (actor ‘Dave Bowman’ 2001) p305  Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Kubrick made numerous  substantive excisions after a contractually bound screening for MGM executives  …The prologue of experts discussing the possible existence of extraterrestrials  was cut from the work print. In an attempt to give even more power to the  film’s visuals, a voiceover narration that helped explain many of the film’s  scientific and philosophical principles was also removed. 2001: A Space Odyssey  was a new kind of nonnarrative feature film. - p308 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent  Lobrutto
Kubrick called his central  production office for 2001 ‘mission control’. The astronauts in the film also  had frequent communications with ‘mission control’.
Sydney Kramer of New  American Library, buying the book rights after seeing the film previewed –  “Okay, I’ll buy it, purely on your recommendation, because I’ll tell you the  truth, I don’t know what the hell this picture is all about!” - p310 Stanley  Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
On April 5th  (1968), in New York    City, Kubrick  cut 17 minutes out of the 156 minute version (of 2001: A Space Odyssey) that  had been screened for film critics. - p310 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
IBM, the company that  personified computers, was not happy with a film that featured a computer that  murdered people. Kubrick had removed prominent IBM logos from pieces of  equipment on the set, but some still remained on the instrument panels of the  Discovery. Management frowned upon mention of the film and counselled their  employees against seeing 2001. - p314-315 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
If you accept the idea that  one views a film in a state of ‘daydream,’ then this symbolic dreamlike content  becomes a powerful factor in influencing your feelings about the film. Since  your dreams can take you into areas which can never be a part of your conscious  mind, I think a work of art can ‘operate’ on you in much the same way as a  dream does. – Kubrick talking about A Clockwork Orange to Andrew Bailey, p340 Stanley  Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
2001, on the other hand, is  basically a visual, nonverbal experience. It avoids intellectual verbalization  and reaches the viewer's subconscious in a way that is essentially poetic and  philosophic. The film thus becomes a subjective experience which hits the  viewer at an inner level of consciousness, just as music does, or painting. –  Kubrick interviewed by Joseph Gelmis 1969
The final scenes of the film seemed more metaphorical  than realistic. Will you discuss them -- or would that be part of the  "road map" you're trying to avoid? 
  No, I don't mind discussing  it, on the lowest level, that is, straightforward explanation of the plot. You  begin with an artifact left on earth four million years ago by extraterrestrial  explorers who observed the behavior of the man-apes of the time and decided to  influence their evolutionary progression. Then you have a second artifact  buried deep on the lunar surface and programmed to signal word of man's first  baby steps into the universe -- a kind of cosmic burglar alarm. And finally  there's a third artifact placed in orbit around Jupiter and waiting for the  time when man has reached the outer rim of his own solar system. 
  When the surviving  astronaut, Bowman, ultimately reaches Jupiter, this artifact sweeps him into a  force field or star gate that hurls him on a journey through inner and outer  space and finally transports him to another part of the galaxy, where he's  placed in a human zoo approximating a hospital terrestrial environment drawn  out of his own dreams and imagination. In a timeless state, his life passes  from middle age to senescence to death. He is reborn, an enhanced being, a star  child, an angel, a superman, if you like, and returns to earth prepared for the  next leap forward of man's evolutionary destiny. 
That is what happens on the film's simplest level. Since an encounter with an advanced interstellar  intelligence would be incomprehensible within our present earthbound frames of  reference, reactions to it will have elements of philosophy and metaphysics  that have nothing to do with the bare plot outline itself. 
  They are the areas I prefer  not to discuss because they are highly subjective and will differ from viewer  to viewer. In this sense, the film becomes anything the viewer sees in it. If  the film stirs the emotions and penetrates the subconscious of the viewer, if  it stimulates, however inchoately, his mythological and religious yearnings and  impulses, then it has succeeded.
It's a totally different  kind of experience, of course, and there are a number of differences between  the book and the movie. The novel, for example, attempts to explain things much  more explicitly than the film does, which is inevitable in a verbal medium. The  novel came about after we did a 130-page prose treatment of the film at the  very outset. This initial treatment was subsequently changed in the screenplay,  and the screenplay in turn was altered during the making of the film. But  Arthur took all the existing material, plus an impression of some of the  rushes, and wrote the novel. As a result, there's a difference between the  novel and the film. – Kubrick interviewed by Joseph Gelmis 1969
To take one specific, in the novel the black monolith  found by curious man- apes three million years ago does explicit things which  it doesn't do in the film. In the movie, it has an apparent catalytic effect  which enables the ape to discover how to use a bone as a weapon-tool. In the  novel, the slab becomes milky and luminous and we're told it's a testing and  teaching device used by higher intelligences to determine if the apes are worth  helping. Was that in the original screenplay? When was it cut out of the film? 
  Yes, it was in the original  treatment but I eventually decided that to depict the monolith in such an  explicit manner would be to run the risk of making it appear no more than an  advanced television teaching machine. You can get away with something so  literal in print, but I felt that we could create a far more powerful and  magical effect by representing it as we did in the film. – Kubrick interviewed  by Joseph Gelmis 1969
I think that the divergences  between the two works (2001 film and novel) are interesting. Actually, it was  an unprecedented situation for someone to do an essentially original literary  work based on glimpses and segments of a film he (Arthur C Clarke) had not yet  seen in its entirety. – Kubrick interviewed by Joseph Gelmis 1969
Nothing is cut without me.  I'm in there every second, and for all practical purposes I cut my own film; I  mark every frame, select each segment, and have everything done exactly the way  I want it. Writing, shooting, and editing are what you have to do to make a  film. - From the magazine Sight&Sound, Spring 1972
I think, in addition to the  personal qualities I mentioned, there is the basic psychological, unconscious  identification with Alex. If you look at the story not on the social and moral  level, but on the psychological dream content level, you can regard Alex as a  creature of the id. He is within all of us. In most cases, this recognition  seems to bring a kind of empathy from the audience, but it makes some people  very angry and uncomfortable. They are unable to accept this view of themselves  and, therefore, they become angry at the film. It's a bit like the King who  kills the messenger who brings him bad news and rewards the one who brings him  good news. - From the magazine Sight&Sound, Spring 1972
There is no positive  evidence that violence in films or television causes social violence. To focus  one's interest on this aspect of violence is to ignore the principal causes,  which I would list as: 
  To try to fasten any  responsibility on art as the cause of life seems to me to put the case the  wrong way around. Art consists of reshaping life but it does not create life,  nor cause life. Furthermore to attribute powerful suggestive qualities to a  film is at odds with the scientifically accepted view that, even after deep  hypnosis, in a posthypnotic state, people cannot be made to do things which are  at odds with their natures. - From the magazine Sight&Sound, Spring 1972
  Yes, all of the hand-held  camerawork is mine. In addition to the fun of doing the shooting myself, I find  it is virtually impossible to explain what you want in a hand-held shot to even  the most talented and sensitive camera operator. - From the magazine  Sight&Sound, Spring 1972
When you think of the  greatest moments of film, I think you are almost always involved with images  rather than scenes, and certainly never dialogue. The thing a film does best is  to use pictures with music and I think these are the moments you remember. -  From the magazine Sight&Sound, Spring 1972
  As much as there are hours  in the day, and days in the week. I think about a film almost continuously. I  try to visualise it and I try to work out every conceivable variation of ideas  which might exist with respect to the various scenes, but I have found that  when you come down to the day the scene is going to be shot and you arrive on  the location with the actors, having had the experience of already seeing some  of the scenes shot, somehow it's always different. You find out that you have  not really explored the scene to it' fullest extent. You may have been thinking  about it incorrectly, or you may simply not have discovered one of the  variations which now in context with everything else that you have shot is simply  better than anything you had previously thought of. The reality of the final  moment, just before shooting, is so powerful that all previous analysis must  yield before the impressions you receive under these circumstances, and unless  you use this feedback to your positive advantage, unless adjust to it, adapt to  it and accept the sometimes terrifying weaknesses it can expose, you can never  realise the most out of your film. - From the magazine Sight&Sound, Spring  1972
When I'm editing, I'm only  concerned with the questions of 'Is it good or bad?' 'Is it necessary?' 'Can I  get rid of it ?' 'Does it work ?' My identity changes to that of an editor. I  am never concerned with how much difficulty there was to shoot something, how  much it cost, and so forth. I look at the material with completely different  eyes. I'm never troubled losing material. I cut everything to the bone. When  you're shooting, you want to make sure you don't miss anything and you cover it  as fully as time and budget allow. When you're editing, you want to get rid of  everything that isn't essential. - From the magazine Sight&Sound, Spring  1972
As the supernatural events  occurred you searched for an explanation, and the most likely one seemed to be  that the strange things that were happening would finally be explained as the  products of Jack's imagination. It's not until Grady, the ghost of the former  caretaker who axed to death his family, slides open the bolt of the larder  door, allowing Jack to escape, that you are left with no other explanation but  the supernatural. The novel is by no means a serious literary work, but the  plot is for the most part extremely well worked out, and for a film that is  often all that really matters. – interview with Michael Ciment about The  Shining
Don't you think that today it is in this sort of  popular literature that you find strong archetypes, symbolic images which have  vanished somehow from the more highbrow literary works? 
  Yes, I do, and I think that  it's part of their often phenomenal success. There is no doubt that a good  story has always mattered, and the great novelists have generally built their  work around strong plots. But I've never been able to decide whether the plot  is just a way of keeping people's attention while you do everything else, or  whether the plot is really more important than anything else, perhaps  communicating with us on an unconscious level which affects us in the way that  myths once did. I think, in some ways, the conventions of realistic fiction and  drama may impose serious limitations on a story. For one thing, if you play by  the rules and respect the preparation and pace required to establish realism,  it takes a lot longer to make a point than it does, say, in fantasy. At the  same time, it is possible that this very work that contributes to a story's  realism may weaken its grip on the unconscious. Realism is probably the best  way to dramatize argument and ideas. Fantasy may deal best with themes which  lie primarily in the unconscious. I  think the unconscious appeal of a ghost story, for instance, lies in its  promise of immortality. If you can be frightened by a ghost story, then you  must accept the possibility that supernatural beings exist. If they do, then  there is more than just oblivion waiting beyond the grave. – interview with  Michael Ciment about The Shining
  I believe fantasy stories at  their best serve the same function for us that fairy tales and mythology  formerly did. The current popularity of fantasy, particularly in films,  suggests that popular culture, at least, isn't getting what it wants from  realism. The nineteenth century was the golden age of realistic fiction. The  twentieth century may be the golden age of fantasy. – interview with Michael Ciment  about The Shining
I try to avoid any  systematic approach to reading, pursuing instead a random method, one which  depends as much on luck and accident as on design. I find this is also the only  way to deal with the newspapers and magazines which proliferate in great piles  around the house -- some of the most interesting articles turn up on the  reverse side of pages I've torn out for something else. – interview with  Michael Ciment about The Shining
When The Shining came up she  (Diane Johnson) seemed to be the ideal collaborator, which, indeed, she proved  to be. I had already been working on the treatment of the book, prior to her  starting, but I hadn't actually begun the screenplay. With "The  Shining," the problem was to extract the essential plot and to re-invent  the sections of the story that were weak. - interview with Michael Ciment about  The Shining
The exterior of the hotel  was filmed at the Timberline Lodge, near Mount Hood, in Oregon. It had a room 217 but no room 237, so the hotel  management asked me to change the room number because they were afraid their  guests might not want to stay in room 217 after seeing the film. - interview  with Michael Ciment about The Shining
We wanted the hotel to look  authentic rather than like a traditionally spooky movie hotel. The hotel's  labyrinthine layout and huge rooms, I believed, would alone provide an eerie  enough atmosphere. interview with Michael Ciment about The Shining
From the more convincing  accounts I have read of people who have reported seeing ghosts, they were  invariably described as being as solid and as real as someone actually standing  in the room. The movie convention of the see-through ghost, shrouded in white,  seems to exist only in the province of art. - interview with Michael Ciment  about The Shining
Most films are really little  more than stage plays with more atmosphere and action. I think that the scope  and flexibility of movie stories would be greatly enhanced by borrowing  something from the structure of silent movies where points that didn't require  dialog could be presented by a shot and a title card. Something like: Title:  Billy's uncle. Picture: Uncle giving Billy ice cream. In a few seconds, you  could introduce Billy's uncle and say something about him without being  burdened with a scene. This economy of statement gives silent movies a much  greater narrative scope and flexibility than we have today. In my view, there  are very few sound films, including those regarded as masterpieces, which could  not be presented almost as effectively on the stage, assuming a good set, the  same cast and quality of performances. You couldn't do that with a great silent  movie. - interview with Michael Ciment about The Shining
Well, as I've said, in  fantasy you want things to have the appearance of being as realistic as  possible. People should behave in the mundane way they normally do. You have to  be especially careful about this in the scenes which deal with the bizarre or  fantastic details of the story. - interview with Michael Ciment about The  Shining
If Danny had perfect ESP,  there could be no story. He would anticipate everything, warn everybody and  solve every problem. So his perception of the paranormal must be imperfect and  fragmentary. This also happens to be consistent with most of the reports of  telepathic experiences. The same applies to Halloran. One of the ironies in the  story is that you have people who can see the past and the future and have  telepathic contact, but the telephone and the short-wave radio don't work, and  the snowbound mountain roads are impassable. Failure of communication is a  theme which runs through a number of my films. - interview with Michael Ciment  about The Shining
Most of the hotel set was  built as a composite, so that you could go up a flight of stairs, turn down a  corridor, travel its length and find your way to still another part of the  hotel. It mirrored the kind of camera movements which took place in the maze.  In order to fully exploit this layout it was necessary to have moving camera  shots without cuts, and of course the Steadicam made that much easier to do. - interview  with Michael Ciment about The Shining
The title music was based on  the Dies Irae theme which has been used by many composers since the Middle  Ages. It was re-orchestrated for synthesizer and voices by Wendy Carlos and  Rachel Elkind, who did most of the synthesizer music for A Clockwork Orange.  Bartok's Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta was used for several other  scenes. One composition by Ligeti was used. But most of the music in the film  came from the Polish composer Krystof Penderecki. One work titled Jakob's Dream  was used in the scene when Jack wakes up from his nightmare, a strange  coincidence. Actually there were a number of other coincidences, particularly  with names. The character that Jack Nicholson plays is called Jack in the  novel. His son is called Danny in the novel and is played by Danny Lloyd. The  ghost bartender in the book is called Lloyd. - interview with Michael Ciment  about The Shining
The child creates a double to protect himself,  whereas his father conjures up beings from the past who are also anticipations  of his death. 
  A story of the supernatural  cannot be taken apart and analysed too closely. The ultimate test of its  rationale is whether it is good enough to raise the hairs on the back of your  neck. If you submit it to a completely logical and detailed analysis it will  eventually appear absurd. In his essay on the uncanny,Das Unheimliche, Freud  said that the uncanny is the only feeling which is more powerfully experienced  in art than in life. If the genre required any justification, I should think  this alone would serve as its credentials. - interview with Michael Ciment  about The Shining
Jack comes to the hotel  psychologically prepared to do its murderous bidding. He doesn't have very much  further to go for his anger and frustration to become completely  uncontrollable. He is bitter about his failure as a writer. He is married to a  woman for whom he has only contempt. He hates his son. In the hotel, at the mercy  of its powerful evil, he is quickly ready to fulfil his dark role. - interview  with Michael Ciment about The Shining
For the purposes of telling  the story, my view is that the paranormal is genuine. Jack's mental state  serves only to prepare him for the murder, and to temporarily mislead the  audience. - interview with Michael Ciment about The Shining
I suppose my excuse is that  the picture was ready only a few weeks before it opened and I really had no  time to do any interviews. But if I'm to be completely honest, it's probably  due more to the fact that I don't like doing interviews. There is always the  problem of being misquoted or, what's even worse, of being quoted exactly, and  having to see what you've said in print. Then there are the mandatory -- "How  did you get along with actor X, Y or Z?" -- "Who really thought of  good idea A, B or C?" I think Nabokov may have had the right approach to  interviews. He would only agree to write down the answers and then send them on  to the interviewer who would then write the questions. - interview with Michael  Ciment about The Shining
I've always found it  difficult to talk about any of my films. What I generally manage to do is to  discuss the background information connected with the story, or perhaps some of  the interesting facts which might be associated with it. This approach often  allows me to avoid the "What does it mean? Why did you do it?"  questions. For example, with Dr. Strangelove I could talk about the spectrum of  bizarre ideas connected with the possibilities of accidental or unintentional  warfare. 2001: A Space Odyssey allowed speculation about ultra-intelligent  computers, life in the universe, and a whole range of science-fiction ideas. A  Clockwork Orange involved law and order, criminal violence, authority versus  freedom, etc. With Barry Lyndon you haven't got these topical issues to talk  around, so I suppose that does make it a bit more difficult. - interview with  Michael Ciment about The Shining
  I try to be, anyway. I think  that one of the problems with twentieth-century art is its preoccupation with  subjectivity and originality at the expense of everything else. This has been  especially true in painting and music. Though initially stimulating, this soon  impeded the full development of any particular style, and rewarded  uninteresting and sterile originality. At the same time, it is very sad to say,  films have had the opposite problem -- they have consistently tried to formalize  and repeat success, and they have clung to a form and style introduced in their  infancy. The sure thing is what everyone wants, and originality is not a nice  word in this context. This is true despite the repeated example that nothing is  as dangerous as a sure thing. - interview with Michael Ciment about The Shining
Kubrick used the the  abbreviation CRM to describe what he called the Critical Rehearsal Moment – the  detailed and time consuming development of “key” scenes in a film - p347 Stanley  Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
When I visited Stanley’s house I noticed lots of Turkish towels covering  one wall. It runed out that they concealed his cross-reference system. He likes  secrecy. – Malcolm McDowell talking to Paul D. Zimmerman, quoted from p356 Stanley  Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
People have written about  the failure of culture in the twentieth century: the enigma of Nazis who  listened to Beethoven and sent millions off to the gas chambers. – talking to  Victor Davies of the Daily Express, quoted from p356 Stanley Kubrick by  Vincent Lobrutto
Telling a story  realistically is such a slowpoke and ponderous way to proceed, and it doesn’t  fulfil the psychic needs that people have. – Kubrick talking to Paul D.  Zimmerman, quoted from p360 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
High standards of moral  behaviour can only be achieved by the example of right thinking people and  society as a whole, and cannot be achieved by the coercive effect of the law.  Or that of certain newspapers. – Kubrick responding to the Village Voices  decision not to feature any promotional ads for A Clockwork Orange, quoted from  p362 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
We have seen so many times  that the body of a film serves merely as an excuse for motivating a final  blood-crazed slaughter by the hero of his enemies, and at the same time to  relieve the audience’s guilt of enjoying this mayhem. – Kubrick speaking to  Andrew Bailey of Rolling Stone magazine, quoted from p363 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
During the self-imposed ban,  Channel 4 in England ran a 25 minute documentary on A Clockwork Orange, which included 12  minutes and thirty seconds of the film. At Kubrick’s urging, Time Warner took  legal action against the broadcaster. Channel 4 said it had a journalistic  right due to the “fair use” provision of the 1988 copyright act. Time Warner  claimed Channel 4 had obtained the images illegally by reproducing them from an  American laser disc of the film. A court of appeals ruled in favour of Channel  4. - p370 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Variety speculated that  Kubrick was filming a project previously announced by Warners, an adaptation of  the Arthur Schnitzler novel Traumnovelle, which a press release described as a  psychologically dramatic story of a doctor and his wife whose love is  threatened by the revelation of their dreams. – during production of Barry  Lyndon p384 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Kubrick’s deal with Warner  Bros. was studio financing with Kubrick reaping 40 percent of all profits.” – production  details of Barry Lyndon, p386 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
(movies) haven’t scratched  the surface of how to tell stories in their own terms. – Kubrick speaking to  Richard Schickel, quoted from p407 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
King had written a  screenplay adaptation of his novel (The Shining) for Warner Bros before Kubrick  became attached to it, but Kubrick chose not to read the script because he  decided he wanted to infuse the skeleton of King’s story with his own ideas. -  p412 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Johnson (co-writer on The  Shining screenplay) and Kubrick worked together in England for three months in 1978 … Sitting at a big table in  a large hall, Johnson and Kubrick first worked separately, outlining the film.  They compared the two outlines and discussed each scene. The process was  repeated two or three times as the plot evolved. - p414 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
It’s just the story of one  man’s family quietly going insane together. – Kubrick discussing The Shining  with John Hofsess, quoted from p415 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
An early treatment for the  screenplay reveals that … A scrapbook on Jack’s writing table contains a  photograph of a New Year’s celebration in 1999 with Jack in the photo. - p415 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
The exterior façade of the  rear view of the Overlook hotel was built on the backlot of the EMI-Elstree  studios and was modelled after the Timberline Lodge. - p416 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
In the bathroom scene outlined  in the treatment, Jack encounters the living corpse of Grady’s murdered wife,  but she is not first revealed as a young, seductive, beautiful, naked woman, as  in the film. - p416 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
The shot where the camera  follows Wendy up three flights of stairs and slows down just moving ahead of  her when she sees two ghosts in the midst of a sexual act, became one of Garret  Brown’s favorits – he got thirty-six opportunities to shoot it. – p425 Stanley  Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Annie, the actress who  played the doctor in The Shining, was made to go shopping with Kubrick for  clothes. She tried various outfits to which he repeatedly said “no” and told  her to try the next one. Eventually she walked into his office and he pointed  at the clothes she was already wearing and said “That’s what I want her to look  like. Let’s get those clothes”. The strange thing was that they were the same clothes she was already wearing when she first met him to go shopping. Then after having Annie do endless takes of the  scene in which she interviews Shelley, during which he refused to give her any  direction or answer her questions, he used her very first take in the film.  Annie, “I know he used the first take because there were many more colours in  the first one than in the others.”
  Also … Regarding the scene  of her interviewing Danny on the bed, Kubrick rejected the notion that her  character should be comforting to the child. He told Annie “I don’t want any of  that, I want it very businesslike." – condensed from pages 427 to 429 Stanley  Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Barry Jackson told Annie  that he had around thirty-five takes for saying one line “Hiya Jack”. - Condensed  from p429 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
A single camera position of  Scatman Crothers explaining The Shining to little Danny racked up 148 takes.  The shot lasted seven minutes and Kubrick printed all of them - Condensed from p430 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
40 takes of Scatman Crothers  being axed to death and 36 of Nicholson talking to Lloyd the barman – Condensed  from p431 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
My contract was for a week.  I just had two short scenes in the movie. I stayed for six weeks because  Stanley and I were playing chess. I beat him in the first or second game we  played, but then I didn’t beat him any more after that. - Tony Burton, who  played Larry Durkin in The Shining (his scenes were cut from the European  release of the film) p432 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Vivian was going around  shooting us making the picture all the time. She had a little cart that she  pushed around. You would be in conversation with Stanley, some debate or subject would come up and he would  say ‘Yeah I was talking to Jack about that yesterday. Vivian, what was that  Jack said?’ and she would go into the cart, find what the conversation was  about and read it back to him. - Tony Burton, who played Larry Durkin in The  Shining (his scenes were cut from the European release of the film) p434 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Kubrick had an exacting  overhead-view map of the maze, which was used to get in and out and to plan  shots. Copies were given to the crew, who nevertheless continued to get lost  throughout the production. Garret Brown (steadicam inventor and operator)  recalled that if you got lost and called out “Stanley!” Kubrick’s laughter seemed to come out from all  directions inside the maze. - p437 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
For the shot where Danny  backs up into his own footprints and hides to fool his father, who can’t figure  out why the footsteps just stop, Garret Brown wore special stilts that had  Danny’s shoes nailed to them so he could walk in the child’s footprints. - p438 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Note: Irony – The Shining book  ends with Overlook burning down. In the film Grady talks of his daughter’s  trying to burn it down, and the actual set partially burned down.
In one scene I had to get  out of the Sno-Cat and walk across the street. No dialogue. Fifty takes. He had  Shelley, Jack and the kid walk across the street. Eighty-seven takes. Man, he  always wants something new, and he doesn’t stop until he gets it. – Actor  Scatman Crothers (Halloran in The Shining) p443 Stanley Kubrick by  Vincent Lobrutto
I’m a great off-stage  grumbler. I complained that he was the only director to light the sets with no  stand-ins. We had to be there even to be lit. Just because you’re a perfectionist  doesn’t mean you’re perfect. - Jack Nicholsonp443Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
The final shot in the film  was the last one to actually be shot on the set. Tony Burton, “They shot that  for days. Stanley would just look at the monitor and say ‘Let’s go  again.’ They couldn’t get a third of the way across the lobby. It took them a  week before they got a third of the way across. Stanley kept seeing bumps – he wanted it to be smooth. So  they changed the cart on the dolly. Then they put it on a track. Then they  changed the wheels. Then they put some more weight on it. Then it wasn’t enough  weight. They put more people on it. People were hanging onto this cart trying  to keep still so they could get this shot.” - P443Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Tony Burton, “I don’t know  how many times they shot the blood in the elevator. Somebody told me they had  been shooting that ever since the shoot first started the year before. They  shot it three times while I was there. About every ten days they would shoot it  again and Stanley would say ‘It doesn’t look like blood,’ and they  would say, ‘Well, is it the texture? Is it the colour?’ It would take them like  nine days to set the shot up and then they would come back, the door would  open, it would come out and Stanley would say, ‘It doesn’t look like blood.’  But finally they got it.” - P444Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Note: Two girls in The Shining,  possibly inspired by Twin Girls photo by Diane Arbus, who had once “taken  Kubrick under her wing”.
We were shown an incomplete  film. There were great gobs of scenes that never made it into the film. There  was a whole strange and mystical scene in which Jack Nicholson discovers  objects that have been arranged in his working space in the ballroom with  arrows and things. He walks down and thinks he hears a voice and someone throws  a ball back to him. - Wendy Carlos discussing production of The Shining score, P447 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
I literally go into  bookstores, close my eyes and take things off the shelf.  If I don’t like that book after a bit, I  don’t finish it, but I like to be surprised. – talking to Tim Cahill of Rolling  Stone, quoted from P458 Stanley Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
Vietnam was such a phony  war, in terms of the hawkish technocrats fine-tuning the facts like an ad  agency, talking of ‘kill ratios’ and ‘hamlet pacification’ and encouraging men  to falsify a body count or at least total up the ‘blood trails’ on the supposition  they would lead to bodies. – talking to Alexander Walker, quoted from P458 Stanley  Kubrick by Vincent Lobrutto
I'm not going to be asked  any conceptualizing questions, right? … It's the thing I hate the worst. … The  truth is that I've always felt trapped and pinned down and harried by those questions.
  Exactly. And that's almost  impossible to answer, especially when you've been so deeply inside the film for  so long. Some people demand a five-line capsule summary. Something you'd read  in a magazine. They want you to say, "This is the story of the duality of  man and the duplicity of governments." [A pretty good description of the  subtext that informs Full Metal Jacket, actually.] I hear people try to do it --  give the five-line summary -- but if a film has any substance or subtlety,  whatever you say is never complete, it's usually wrong, and it's necessarily  simplistic: truth is too multifaceted to be contained in a five-line summary.  If the work is good, what you say about it is usually irrelevant.
  Oh, God, no. I'm trying to  be true to the material. You know, there's another extraordinary accident.  Cowboy is dying, and in the background there's something that looks very much  like the monolith in 2001. And it just happened to be there. 
  The whole area of combat was  one complete area -- it actually exists. One of the things I tried to do was  give you a sense of where you were, where everything else was. Which, in war  movies, is something you frequently don't get. The terrain of small-unit action  is really the story of the action. And this is something we tried to make  beautifully clear: there's a low wall, there's the building space. And once you  get in there, everything is exactly where it actually was. No cutting away, no  cheating. So it came down to where the sniper would be and where the marines  were. When Cowboy is shot, they carry him around the corner -- to the very most  logical shelter. And there, in the background, was this thing, this monolith.  I'm sure some people will think that there was some calculated reference to  2001, but honestly, it was just there. 
  [Laughs] I know it's an  amazing coincidence. - Kubrick interviewed by Tim Cahill for Rolling Stone.
What I like about not  writing original material -- which I'm not even certain I could do -- is that  you have this tremendous advantage of reading something for the first time. You  never have this experience again with the story. You have a reaction to it:  it's a kind of falling-in-love reaction. 
  That's the first thing. Then  it becomes almost a matter of code breaking, of breaking the work down into a  structure that is truthful, that doesn't lose the ideas or the content or the  feeling of the book. And fitting it all into the much more limited time frame  of a movie. - Kubrick interviewed by Tim Cahill for Rolling Stone.
  I think Lou Gosset's  performance was wonderful, but he had to do what he was given in the story. The  film clearly wants to ingratiate itself with the audience. So many films do  that. You show the drill instructor really has a heart of gold -- the mandatory  scene where he sits in his office, eyes swimming with pride about the boys and  so forth. I suppose he actually is proud, but there's a danger of falling into  what amounts to so much sentimental bullshit. - Kubrick interviewed by Tim  Cahill for Rolling Stone.
The questions are always, is  it true? Is it interesting? To worry about those mandatory scenes that some  people think make a picture is often just pandering to some conception of an  audience. Some films try to outguess an audience. They try to ingratiate  themselves, and it's not something you really have to do. Certainly audiences  have flocked to see films that are not essentially true, but I don't think this  prevents them from responding to the truth. - Kubrick interviewed by Tim Cahill  for Rolling Stone. 
Kubrick had read through  Traumnovelle more than twenty years before and bought the rights to it in the  early seventies. – p7, Kubrick by  Michael Herr
He’d never talk about his  movies while he was making them, and he didn’t like talking about them  afterward very much … Most of all he didn’t want to talk about their ‘meaning’  … He might tell you how he did it, but never why. – p71, Kubrick by Michael Herr
Somebody asked him how he  thought of the ending of 2001. ‘I don’t know’, he said, ‘How does anyone ever  think of anything?’ – P4, Kubrick by  Michael Herr
Don’t laugh, but I’m  fascinated with the possibility of extra-terrestrials. - Kubrick speaking to  Roger Caras, Columbia film publicist, p201 Stanley Kubrick: A Biography by  John Baxter
Among the possibilities they  (Kubrick and Clarke) discussed was a Rand Corporation report on the possibility  of life on other planets, which Kubrick had read during his research on nuclear  warfare, and which had already contributed to the framing ‘documentary by  aliens’ device planned for Dr Strangelove. - p205 Stanley Kubrick: A Biography  by John Baxter
To the Moon and Beyond was a  Canadian documentary film viewed by Kubrick during his research for 2001.
Original title of 2001: A  Space Odyssey was How The Solar System Was Won (also went by the title Journey  Beyond The Stars) – Condensed from p208 Stanley Kubrick: A Biography by John  Baxter
If you want to see god  laugh, tell him your plans. - p210 Stanley Kubrick: A Biography by John Baxter
A scene cut from 2001 was  “Howard Johnson’s Earthlight Room.” Howard Johnson’s is a chain of restaurants  and hotels in North America.
Arthur C. Clarke, back in Ceylon, continued to wrangle with Kubrick about the novel,  the final text of which the director still refused to approve. Each time Clarke  felt sure the script and book were set, Kubrick would cable him for some more  dialogue or a new scene, none of which, Clarke claimed, ever found their way  into the film. … Kubrick almost certainly did delay the book in order to  protect the film. The film took on its own life as it was being made, and  Clarke became increasingly irrelevant. Kubrick could probably have shot 2001  from a treatment, since most of what Clarke wrote, in particular some windy  voice-overs which explained the level of intelligence reached by the ape men,  the geological state of the world at the dawn of man, the problems of life on  the Discovery and much more, was discarded during the last days of editing,  along with the explanation of HALs breakdown. - p227 / 228 Stanley Kubrick: A  Biography by John Baxter
When 2001 was sold to tv,  Kubrick attempted to prevent the use of pan-and-scan by urging that the film be  shown in ‘letterbox’ format, with a black area at the top and bottom. – p252  Stanley Kubrick: A Biography by John Baxter
The erotic décor in the film  (Clockwork Orange) suggests a slightly futuristic period for the story. The  assumption being that erotic art will eventually become popular art, and just  as you now buy African wildlife paintings at Woolworth’s, you may one day buy  erotica. – Kubrick talking about ACO p254 Stanley Kubrick: A Biography by John Baxter
Attempts by writers to  examine his life or career in detail were scrutinized and, more often than not,  thwarted, usually by the same method. Kubrick would initially agree to  co-operate, on condition that he had the right to authorize the text. He would  then withhold approval until the deadline passed or the writer lost patience.  In 1968 the magazine Books recorded eight hours of conversation under this  restriction, but was permitted to use only four sentences. – p297 Stanley  Kubrick: A Biography by John Baxter
Why are you telling me that?  I can’t do anything if it’s good news. It’s only when there are problems that I  can intervene. – Kubrick talking to Julian Senior, quoted from p310 Stanley Kubrick: A  Biography by John Baxter
For the scene in which  Halloran shows Wendy and Danny through the storage rooms of the kitchen,  Kubrick demanded eighty-five takes, in the middle of which Crothers broke down  and cried in frustration. ‘What do you want, Mr Kubrick?’ he screamed, ‘What do  you want?!’ … Nobody was ever sure if this system bore fruit. - p316 Stanley  Kubrick: A Biography by John Baxter
That long tracking shot  where Jack Nicholson pursued Shelley Duvall up the staircase while she’s waving  a baseball bat at him was taken fifty or sixty times. Typically, Nicholson’s  first take would be absolutely brilliant. Then the thing would start to get  stale after about ten takes. … the impression I got is that Stanley tended to go for the most eccentric and rather  over-the-top ones. There were plenty of times when Stanley and I were viewing  the stuff where my private choice of the best performance – or sometimes he  would ask me – wasn’t in, while the more eccentric one was. - Gordon Stainforth  on editing The Shining, quoted from p317 Stanley Kubrick: A Biography by John  Baxter
Kubrick said he’d been  rethinking ‘Super Toys’ (A.I), in particular another of its characters. Henry  Swinton, David’s ‘father’, is an android engineer who has just launched a new  product, a synthetic ‘serving man’ with a computer brain ‘capable of dealing  with any situation he may encounter in the home’. Kubrick told Shaw that the  serving man was the key to the story. He offered him a six week contract to  work on the script. Before Shaw left, Kubrick gave him copies of Aldiss’s  story, Pinocchio and a book called Mind Children, about artificial  intelligence, and said he wanted all these combined in the script. … (A week  later) I read him out my treatment, but I could see his face getting gloomier  and gloomier. ‘Finally he stopped me and said, “What’s all this stuff about the  butler?”’ – Bob Shaw on working on the A.I script, quoted from p357-358 Stanley  Kubrick: A Biography by John Baxter
Kubrick took over the  Rothschild’s giant country house Mentmore for some scenes, and hired an entire  floor of London’s Lanesborough Hotel for a week, including its  $6,000 a night Royal Suite. Retracing his 2001 steps, Kubrick began shooting at  the mansion of Luton Hoo, which had been the site for an unused portion of the earlier film. -  Shooting of Eyes Wide Shut, p363 Stanley Kubrick: A Biography by John Baxter
You may one day be as great  a film-maker as myself, if only you oppose utterly and to the limits of your  energy every attempt to impose on your work any will but your own. – Quoted  from p364 Stanley Kubrick: A Biography by John Baxter
