=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Tom Cruise (born Thomas Cruise Mapother IV; July 3, 1962) is an American film actor and producer. He has been nominated for three Academy Awards and has won three Golden Globe Awards. He started his career at age 19 in the 1981 film Endless Love. After portraying supporting roles in Taps (1981) and The Outsiders (1983), his first leading role was in Risky Business, released in August 1983. Cruise became a full-fledged movie star after starring as Pete "Maverick" Mitchell in Top Gun (1986). He is well known for his role as secret agent Ethan Hunt in the Mission: Impossible film series between 1996 and 2011.
Cruise has starred in many successful films, including The Color of Money (1986), Cocktail (1988), Rain Man (1988), Born on the Fourth of July (1989), Far and Away (1992), A Few Good Men (1992), The Firm (1993), Interview with the Vampire: The Vampire Chronicles (1994), Jerry Maguire (1996), Eyes Wide Shut (1999), Magnolia (1999), Vanilla Sky (2001), Minority Report (2002), The Last Samurai (2003), Collateral (2004), War of the Worlds (2005), Valkyrie (2008), Knight and Day (2010), Jack Reacher (2012) and Oblivion (2013). In 2012, Cruise was Hollywood's highest-paid actor.[1] Fourteen of his films grossed over $100 million domestically; twenty have grossed in excess of $200 million worldwide.[2]
Cruise was born in Syracuse, New York, the son of Mary Lee (née Pfeiffer), a special education teacher, and Thomas Cruise Mapother III (died 1984),[4] an electrical engineer.[5] Cruise has three sisters, Lee Anne, Marian, and Cass. Cruise's surname originates from his great-grandfather, born Thomas Cruise O'Mara, who was renamed "Thomas Cruise Mapother".[6][7][8] Cruise is of Irish,[9] German, and English ancestry.[10] One of his paternal great-great-great-grandfathers, Patrick Russell Cruise, was born in north County Dublin, in 1799; he married Teresa Johnson in Warrenstown House, County Meath, in 1825. They left Ireland for America that same year and settled in New York.[9]
He grew up in near poverty, and had a Catholic upbringing. The family was dominated by his abusive father, whom Cruise has described as "a merchant of chaos."[11]
He was the kind of person where, if something goes wrong, they kick you. It was a great lesson in my life—how he’d lull you in, make you feel safe and then, bang! For me, it was like, 'There's something wrong with this guy. Don't trust him. Be careful around him.'[11]
Cruise's family spent part of his childhood in Canada. They moved to the Ottawa suburb of Beacon Hill in late 1971 so that Cruise's father could take a position as a defense consultant with the Canadian Armed Forces.[12] There, Cruise attended the just opened Robert Hopkins Public School for much of grade four as well as grade five.[12][13] It was while in grade four that Cruise first became involved in drama, under the tutelage of George Steinburg. Cruise and six other boys put on an improvised play to music called IT at the Carlton Elementary School drama festival.[12] Drama organizer Val Wright, who was in the audience that night, reflected that "the movement and improvisation were excellent. It was a classic ensemble piece."[12] Cruise also enjoyed sports at the school including playing floor hockey, though he was known more for his aggression than his talent. For grade six Cruise went to Henry Munro Middle School. However, in the spring of that year Cruise's mother left his father, taking Cruise and his sisters back to the US.[12] His father died of cancer.[14]
He briefly attended a Franciscan seminary in Cincinnati on a church scholarship and aspired to become a Catholic priest.[15] In his senior year, he played football for the varsity team as a linebacker, but he was cut from the squad after getting caught drinking beer before a game.[16][17]
Cruise first appeared in a small bit part in the 1981 film Endless Love, followed by a major supporting role as a crazed military school student in Taps later that year. In 1983, Cruise was part of the ensemble cast of The Outsiders. That same year he appeared in All the Right Moves and Risky Business, which has been described as "A Generation X classic, and a career-maker for Tom Cruise",[18] and which, along with 1986's Top Gun, cemented his status as a superstar. Cruise also played the male lead (Jack O' the Green) in Legend (released 1986).
Cruise followed up Top Gun with The Color of Money, which came out the same year, and which paired him with Paul Newman. 1988 saw him star in Cocktail, which earned him a nomination for the Razzie Award for Worst Actor. Later that year he starred with Dustin Hoffman in Rain Man, which won the Academy Award for Best Film and Cruise the Kansas City Film Critics Circle Award for Best Supporting Actor. Cruise portrayed real-life paralyzed Vietnam War veteran Ron Kovic in 1989's Born on the Fourth of July, which earned him a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor - Motion Picture Drama, the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Best Actor, the People's Choice Award for Favorite Motion Picture Actor, a nomination for BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role, and Cruise's first Best Actor Academy Award nomination.
Cruise's next films were Days of Thunder (1990) and Far and Away (1992), both of which co-starred then-wife Nicole Kidman as his love interest. In 1994, Cruise starred along with Brad Pitt, Antonio Banderas and Christian Slater in Neil Jordan's Interview with the Vampire, a gothic drama/horror film that was based on Anne Rice's best-selling novel. The film was well received, although Rice was initially quite outspoken in her criticism of Cruise having been cast in the film, as Julian Sands was her first choice. Upon seeing the film however, she paid $7,740 for a two-page ad in Daily Variety praising his performance and apologizing for her previous doubts about him.[19]
In 1996, Cruise appeared as superspy Ethan Hunt in the reboot of Mission: Impossible, which he produced. It was a box office success, although it received criticism regarding the Jim Phelps character being a villain despite being a protagonist of the original television series.[20] In 1996, he took on the title role in Jerry Maguire, for which he earned a Golden Globe and his second nomination for an Academy Award. In 1999, Cruise costarred with Kidman in the erotic Stanley Kubrick film Eyes Wide Shut, and took a rare supporting role as a motivational speaker Frank T.J. Mackey in Magnolia, for which he received another Golden Globe and nomination for an Academy Award.
In 2000, Cruise returned as Ethan Hunt in the second installment of the Mission Impossible films, releasing Mission: Impossible II. The film was directed by Hong Kong director John Woo and branded with his gun fu style, and it continued the series' blockbuster success at the box office, taking in almost $547M in worldwide figures, like its predecessor, being the third highest grossing film of the year, despite being a success it along with its predecessor received a mixed reception. Cruise received an MTV Movie Award as Best Male Performance for this film. His next five films were major critical and commercial successes.[21][22] The following year Cruise starred in the romantic thriller Vanilla Sky (2001) with Cameron Diaz and Penélope Cruz. In 2002, Cruise starred in the dystopian science fiction thriller, Minority Report which was directed by Steven Spielberg and based on the science fiction short story by Philip K. Dick.
In 2003, he starred in the Edward Zwick's historical drama The Last Samurai, for which he received a Golden Globe nomination as best actor. In 2005, Cruise worked again with Steven Spielberg in War of the Worlds, a loose adaptation of the H. G. Wells novel of the same name, which became the fourth highest grossing film of the year with US$591.4 million worldwide. Also in 2005, he won the People's Choice Award for Favorite Male Movie Star, and the MTV Generation Award. Cruise was nominated for seven Saturn Awards between 2002 and 2009, winning once. Nine of the ten films he starred in during the decade made over $100 million at the box office.[21]
In 2006, he returned to his role as Ethan Hunt in the third installment of the Mission Impossible film series, Mission: Impossible III. The film was more positively received by critics than the previous films in the series, it grossed nearly $400 million at the box office.[23] In 2007, Cruise took a rare supporting role for the second time in Lions for Lambs, which was a commercial disappointment. This was followed by an unrecognizable appearance as "Les Grossman" in the 2008 comedy Tropic Thunder with Ben Stiller and Jack Black. This performance earned Cruise a Golden Globe nomination. Cruise played the central role in the historical thriller Valkyrie released on December 25, 2008 to box office success.[24]
In March 2010, Cruise completed filming the action-comedy Knight and Day, in which he re-teamed with former costar Cameron Diaz; the film was released on June 23, 2010.[25] On February 9, 2010, Cruise confirmed that he would star in Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol, the fourth installment in the Mission:Impossible series. The film was released in December 2011[26] to high critical acclaim[27] and box office success.[28] Unadjusted for ticket price inflation, it is Cruise's biggest commercial success to date.[29]
On May 6, 2011, Cruise was awarded a humanitarian award from the Simon Wiesenthal Centre and Museum of Tolerance for his work as a dedicated philanthropist.[30] In mid-2011, Cruise started shooting the movie Rock of Ages, in which he played the character Stacee Jaxx. The film was released in June 2012.[31]
Cruise starred as Jack Reacher, an adaptation of British author Lee Child's 2005 novel One Shot. The film was released on December 21, 2012.[32] It met with positive reviews from critics and was a box office success grossing $216,568,266 worldwide.[33][34] In 2013, he starred in the science fiction film Oblivion based on director Joseph Kosinski graphic novel of the same name. The film met with mixed reviews and grossed $285,600,588 worldwide. It also starred Morgan Freeman and Olga Kurylenko.[35][36]
Cruise partnered with his former talent agent Paula Wagner to form Cruise/Wagner Productions in 1993,[38] and the company has since co-produced several of Cruise's films, the first being Mission: Impossible in 1996 which was also Cruise's first project as a producer.
Cruise is noted as having negotiated some of the most lucrative film deals in Hollywood, and was described in 2005 by Hollywood economist Edward Jay Epstein as "one of the most powerful – and richest – forces in Hollywood." Epstein argues that Cruise is one of the few producers (the others being George Lucas, Steven Spielberg and Jerry Bruckheimer) who are regarded as able to guarantee the success of a billion-dollar film franchise. Epstein also contends that the public obsession with Cruise's tabloid controversies obscures full appreciation of Cruise's exceptional commercial prowess.[39]
Cruise/Wagner Productions, Cruise's film production company, is said to be developing a screenplay based on Erik Larson's New York Times bestseller, The Devil in the White City about a real life serial killer, H. H. Holmes, at Chicago's World's Columbian Exposition. Kathryn Bigelow is attached to the project to produce and helm. Meanwhile, Leonardo DiCaprio's production company, Appian Way, is also developing a film about Holmes and the World's Fair, in which DiCaprio will star.[40]
On August 22, 2006, Paramount Pictures announced it was ending its 14-year relationship with Cruise. In the Wall Street Journal, chairman of Viacom (Paramount's parent company) Sumner Redstone cited the economic damage to Cruise's value as an actor and producer from his controversial public behavior and views.[41][42] Cruise/Wagner Productions responded that Paramount's announcement was a face-saving move after the production company had successfully sought alternative financing from private equity firms.[43] Industry analysts such as Edward Jay Epstein commented that the real reason for the split was most likely Paramount's discontent over Cruise/Wagner's exceptionally large share of DVD sales from the Mission: Impossible franchise.[44][45]
In November 2006, Cruise and Paula Wagner announced that they had taken over United Artists film studio.[38] Cruise acts as a producer and star in films for United Artists, while Wagner serves as UA's chief executive. Production began in 2007 of Valkyrie, a thriller based on the July 20, 1944 assassination attempt against Adolf Hitler. The film was acquired in March 2007 by United Artists. On March 21, 2007 Cruise signed on to play Claus von Stauffenberg, the protagonist. This project marks the second production to be greenlighted since Cruise and Wagner took control of United Artists. The first was its inaugural film, Lions for Lambs, directed by Robert Redford and starring Redford, Meryl Streep and Cruise. Lambs was released on November 9, 2007,[46] opening to unimpressive box office revenue and critical reception. In August 2008, Wagner stepped down from her position at United Artists; she retains her stake in UA, which combined with Cruise's share amounts to 30 percent of the studio.[47]
Cruise had a relationship with Risky Business co-star Rebecca De Mornay from 1983 to 1985.[48][49] Singer and actress Cher says that she dated Cruise in 1985.[50]
Cruise married actress Mimi Rogers on May 9, 1987. The marriage lasted two years, and their divorce was finalized on February 4, 1990. Rogers introduced Cruise to Scientology.[51]
Cruise met his second wife, actress Nicole Kidman, on the set of their film Days of Thunder in 1989. The couple married on December 24, 1990. Cruise and Kidman adopted two children, Isabella Jane (born December 1992) and Connor Antony (born January 1995). In February 2001 Cruise filed for divorce from Kidman while she was unknowingly pregnant. The pregnancy ended with a miscarriage. In 2007 Kidman clarified rumours of a miscarriage early in her marriage to Cruise, saying in an interview, "It was wrongly reported," and explaining that she had actually had an ectopic pregnancy.[52] Before her next marriage, to Keith Urban, Kidman spoke of how much she still loved Cruise, saying in 2006: "He was huge; still is. To me, he was just Tom, but to everybody else, he is huge. But he was lovely to me. And I loved him. I still love him."[53]
Cruise was next romantically linked with Penélope Cruz, his co-star in Vanilla Sky. The relationship ended in 2004.[54] An article in the October 2012 issue of Vanity Fair states that several sources have said that after the breakup with Cruz, the Church of Scientology launched a secret project to find Cruise a new girlfriend. According to those sources, a series of "auditions" of Scientologist actresses resulted in a short-lived relationship with British-Iranian actress Nazanin Boniadi, who subsequently left Scientology.[55] The Church and Cruise's lawyers issued strongly worded denials and threatened to sue, accusing Vanity Fair of "shoddy journalism" and "religious bigotry."[56] Journalist Roger Friedman later reported that he received an email from director and ex-Scientologist Paul Haggis confirming the story.[57][58]
In April 2005, Cruise began dating actress Katie Holmes. On April 27 that year, Cruise and Holmes – dubbed "TomKat" by the media – made their first public appearance together in Rome.[59] A month later, Cruise declared his love for Holmes on The Oprah Winfrey Show, famously jumping up and down on Winfrey's couch during the show.[60] On October 6, 2005, Cruise and Holmes announced they were expecting a child,[61] and their daughter, Suri, was born in April 2006. On November 18, 2006, Holmes and Cruise were married at the 15th-century Odescalchi Castle in Bracciano, Italy, in a Scientology ceremony attended by many Hollywood stars.[62][63] The actors' publicist said the couple had "officialized" their marriage in Los Angeles the day before the Italian ceremony.[64] There has been widespread speculation that the marriage was arranged by the Church of Scientology.[65][66] David Miscavige, the head of the Church of Scientology, served as Cruise's best man.[67] On June 29, 2012, it was announced that Holmes had filed for divorce from Cruise after five and a half years of marriage.[68][69] On July 9, 2012, it was announced that the couple had signed a divorce settlement worked out by their lawyers.[70] Because New York law requires that all divorce documents remain sealed, the exact terms of the settlement are not publicly available.[71]
Cruise is also the first cousin of actor William Mapother (Cruise's given name is Thomas Cruise Mapother IV), who has appeared in five movies alongside him.
In 1990, 1991 and 1997, People magazine rated him among the 50 most beautiful people in the world. In 1995, Empire magazine ranked him among the 100 sexiest stars in film history. Two years later, it ranked him among the top 5 film stars of all time. In 2002 and 2003, he was rated by Premiere among the top 20 in its annual Power 100 list.
In 2006, Premiere ranked Cruise as Hollywood's most powerful actor,[72] as Cruise came in at number 13 on the magazine's 2006 Power List, being the highest ranked actor.[73] The same year, Forbes magazine ranked him as the world's most powerful celebrity.[74]
In August 2006, Paramount cited Cruise's "recent conduct" as the reason they did not renew their production contract with him.[75] In addition, Marketing Evaluations reported that Cruise's Q score (a measure of the popularity of celebrities), had fallen 40 percent.[76][77]
October 10, 2006 was declared "Tom Cruise Day" in Japan; the Japan Memorial Day Association said that he was awarded with a special day because he has made more trips to Japan than any other Hollywood star.[78]
During Cruise's marriage to Nicole Kidman, the couple endured public speculation about their sex life and rumors that Cruise was gay. In 1998, he successfully sued the Daily Express, a British tabloid which alleged that his marriage to Kidman was a sham designed to cover up his homosexuality.[79] In May 2001 he filed a lawsuit against gay porn actor Chad Slater. Slater had allegedly told the celebrity magazine Actustar that he had had an affair with Cruise. Cruise denied this,[80] and in August 2001, Slater was ordered to pay $10 million to Cruise in damages after Slater declared he could not afford to defend himself against the suit and would therefore default.[81] Cruise also sued Bold Magazine publisher Michael Davis, who alleged but never confirmed that he had video that would prove Cruise was gay. The suit was dropped in exchange for a public statement by Davis that the video was not of Cruise, and that Cruise was heterosexual.[82]
After The Beast's publication of their 50 Most Loathsome People of 2004, which included Cruise, Cruise's lawyer Bertram Fields threatened to sue. Seeing the opportunity for nationwide exposure, The Beast actively encouraged the lawsuit. No lawsuit was ever filed and Cruise was included more prominently in the 2005 list.[83] In 2006, Cruise sued cybersquatter Jeff Burgar to obtain control of the TomCruise.com domain name. When owned by Burgar, the domain redirected to information about Cruise on Celebrity1000.com. The decision to turn TomCruise.com over to Cruise was handed down by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) on July 5, 2006.[84]
Cruise is an outspoken advocate for the Church of Scientology and its associated social programs. He became involved with Scientology in 1990 through his first wife, Mimi Rogers.[86] He has said that Scientology, specifically the L. Ron Hubbard Study Tech, helped him overcome dyslexia.[87] In addition to promoting various programs that introduce people to Scientology, Cruise has campaigned for Scientology to be recognized as a religion in Europe. In 2005, the Paris city council revealed that Cruise had lobbied officials Nicolas Sarkozy and Jean-Claude Gaudin, described him as a spokesman and militant for Scientology, and barred any further dealings with him.[88][89] Cruise co-founded and raised donations for Downtown Medical to offer New York City 9/11 rescue workers detoxification therapy based on the works of L. Ron Hubbard. This drew criticism from the medical profession,[90] as well as firefighters.[91] For these activities and others, David Miscavige, the leader of Scientology, created the Scientology's Freedom Medal of Valor and awarded it to Cruise in late 2004.[92]
In January 2004, Tom Cruise said: "I think psychiatry should be outlawed."[93] A controversy erupted in 2005 after he openly criticized actress Brooke Shields for using the drug Paxil (paroxetine), an anti-depressant to which Shields attributes her recovery from postpartum depression after the birth of her first daughter in 2003. Cruise asserted that there is no such thing as a chemical imbalance, and that psychiatry is a form of pseudoscience. Shields responded that Cruise "should stick to saving the world from aliens and let women who are experiencing postpartum depression decide what treatment options are best for them."[94] This led to a heated argument between Matt Lauer and Cruise on NBC's Today on June 24, 2005.[95] Medical authorities view Cruise's comments as furthering the social stigma of mental illness.[96][97] Shields herself called Cruise's comments "a disservice to mothers everywhere."[98] In late August 2006, Cruise apologized in person to Shields for his comments.[99] Scientology is well known for its opposition to mainstream psychiatry and the drugs it uses.[92]
On January 15, 2008, a video produced by the Church of Scientology featuring an interview with Cruise was posted on YouTube, showing Cruise discussing what being a Scientologist means to him.[100][101] The Church of Scientology said the video had been "pirated and edited", and was taken from a three-hour video produced for members of Scientology.[101][102] YouTube removed the Cruise video from their site under threat of litigation.[103] After YouTube investigated this claim, they found that the video did not breach copyright law, as it is covered by the fair use clause. It was subsequently reinstated back on the site, and as of January 2014, the video has achieved 9 million views. YouTube has declined to remove it again, due to the popularity of the video, and subsequent changes to copyright policy of the website.[104]
In March 2004 his publicist of 14 years, Pat Kingsley, resigned. Cruise replaced her with his sister, fellow Scientologist Lee Anne DeVette, who served in that role until November 2005.[105] DeVette was replaced with Paul Bloch from the publicity firm Rogers and Cowan.[106] Such restructuring is seen as a move to curtail publicity of his views on Scientology, as well as the controversy surrounding his relationship with Katie Holmes.[107][108]
In 2013 Cruise admitted that ex-wife Katie Holmes divorced him in part to protect the couple's daughter Suri from Scientology. He also admitted that Suri is no longer a practicing member of the church.[109]
Categories: Tom Cruise1962 births20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsMale actors from New YorkMale actors from OttawaAmerican expatriates in CanadaAmerican male film actorsAmerican film producersAmerican people of English descentAmerican people of German descentAmerican people of Irish descentAmerican ScientologistsBest Actor Empire Award winnersBest Drama Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Musical or Comedy Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Supporting Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersLiving peoplePeople from Syracuse, New YorkHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from August 2012Articles with dead external links from October 2010Articles with inconsistent citation formatsUse mdy dates from June 2011Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesArticles with hCardsArticles with DMOZ linksWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          If you had told fourteen-year-old Franciscan seminary student Thomas Cruise Mapother IV that one day in the not-too-distant future he would be considered one of the top hundred movie stars of all time, he would have probably grinned and told you that his ambition was to become a priest. None the less, this sensitive, deeply religious youngster who was born in July 1962 in Syracuse, New York, was destined to become Tom Cruise, one of the highest paid and most sought-after actors in screen history. The only son (among four children) of nomadic parents, young Tom spent his boyhood eternally on the move, and by the time he was fourteen, had attended fifteen different schools in the U.S. and Canada. He finally settled in Glen Ridge, New Jersey, with his mother and her new husband. While in high school, he developed an interest in acting and abandoned his plans of becoming a priest, and at age 18 headed for New York and a possible acting career. The next fifteen years of his life are the stuff of legends. He made his film debut with a small part in Endless Love (1981) and from the outset exhibited an undeniable box office appeal to both male and female audiences. Within five years Tom Cruise was starring in some of the top grossing films of the decade including Top Gun (1986); The Color of Money (1986), Rain Man (1988) and Born on the Fourth of July (1989). By the 1990s and 2000s he was one of the highest paid actors in the world earning an average fifteen million dollars a picture in such blockbuster hits as Interview with the Vampire: The Vampire Chronicles (1994), Mission: Impossible (1996), Mission: Impossible II (2000), Mission: Impossible III (2006), Vanilla Sky (2001), Minority Report (2002), The Last Samurai (2003), Collateral (2004), War of the Worlds (2005), and Jerry Maguire (1996) - for which he received an Academy Award Nomination for best actor. In 1990 he renounced his devout Catholic beliefs and embraced The Church Of Scientology claiming that Scientology teachings had cured him of the dyslexia that had plagued him all of his life. A kind and thoughtful man well known for his compassion and generosity, Tom Cruise is one of the best liked members of the movie community. He was married to actress Nicole Kidman until 2001. Thomas Cruise Mapother IV has indeed come a long way from the lonely wanderings of his youth.
      Stopped to help a hit and run victim and paid her hospital bills. The victim was aspiring Brazilian actress Heloisa Vinhas (1996).
      Caused a stir in the medical community when he claimed, in an interview, that Scientology cured him of his dyslexia (1992).
      While he was working with Paul Newman in the The Color of Money (1986), he engaged in much conversation with the politically active actor. The resulting conscious raising changed him from an actor who ignored the jingoistic tone of Top Gun (1986) to a performer who chose a film with a strong anti-war tone, Born on the Fourth of July (1989) to counter his contribution to the former film.
      Has three sisters: Marian, Lee Anne De Vette and Cass. Lee Anne became his publicist in 2004 after he left Pat Kingsley and left in 2005 to concentrate on production matters for his production company.
      He has two adopted children with Nicole Kidman: Isabella Jane Cruise (born December 22, 1992) Connor Antony Cruise (Connor Cruise) (born January 17, 1995).
      Recently restored an older home in the township of Biltmore Forest, a town within the city limits of Asheville, North Carolina (2000).
      Cruise earned roughly $75 million for Mission: Impossible II (2000). He did this by turning down any upfront salary, for instead taking a back-end deal that landed him 30% of the film's gross for both his producing and acting duties.
      Filed a $100 million defamation lawsuit against Michael Davis, a man who allegedly offered to sell videotapes of himself having sex with the actor. The lawsuit accuses Davis of making the statements "in order to hurt the plaintiff and gain widespread publicity for himself." (May 2001).
      He didn't stay for the remainder of the 2002 Academy Awards after opening them because it was his turn to look after his and ex-wife Nicole Kidman's children. He reportedly left the Kodak Theatre by a back door after opening proceedings and dashed home to watch the rest of the event on TV with his kids Conor and Isabella.
      For 1988, he became the first actor to have the distinction of starring in both the year's Oscar winner for Best Picture, Rain Man (1988) and the year's Razzie "winner" for Worst Picture, Cocktail (1988).
      Born to Thomas Mapother III (15 October 1934 - January 1984), an electrical engineer, and his wife Mary Lee Pfeiffer, a special education teacher.
      First actor in history to star in five consecutive films that grossed $100 million in the USA: A Few Good Men (1992), The Firm (1993), Interview with the Vampire: The Vampire Chronicles (1994), Mission: Impossible (1996), Jerry Maguire (1996).
      Briefly attended St. Xavier High School in Louisville, Kentucky and was a paperboy for the Louisville Courier-Journal.
      Has appeared in films opposite four directors who have also directed his films. Sydney Pollack, who directed The Firm (1993), appeared in Eyes Wide Shut (1999). Paul Thomas Anderson, who directed Magnolia (1999), appeared as an extra in Minority Report (2002). Minority Report (2002) director Steven Spielberg appeared in Vanilla Sky (2001) and Austin Powers in Goldmember (2002). Cameron Crowe, who directed Jerry Maguire (1996) and Vanilla Sky (2001), appeared in Minority Report (2002).
      While filming Days of Thunder (1990) at Daytona International Speedway, he drove one of the Hendricks Motorsports R&D cars around the track. The best time recorded was a lap at 205 MPH.
Renée Zellweger thanked him in her Oscar acceptance speech when she won 'Best Actress in a Supporting Role' for Cold Mountain (2003).
      Channel 4's 'Ultimate Film' show states that, in terms of UK cinema audience rather than revenue, Cruise's most successful film in the UK was Austin Powers in Goldmember (2002).
      While a student at the Neighborhood Playhouse School of Theatre, he studied one of his courses under legendary acting teacher Sanford Meisner.
      Studied drama at the prestigious Neighborhood Playhouse, in conjunction with the Actors Studio, New School University, New York.
      Was named the #1 top money-making star at the box office in Quigley Publications annual poll of movie exhibitors a record seven times between 1986 and 2005. Being crowned the top box office champ in 2005 put Cruise one title ahead of Tom Hanks, who has been named #1 at the B.O. six times. Bing Crosby and Burt Reynolds both were named #1 for five consecutive years, and Clint Eastwood also has been #1 five times, but non-consecutively.
      He has been named to the Top 10 Poll of Money-Making Stars 18 times, as ranked by Quigley Publications' annual poll of movie exhibitors. With his 18th appearance on the B.O. list, he moved out of a tie for 4th place tie with Paul Newman (17 appearances on the list) into a tie for #3 with Gary Cooper. John Wayne is #1 on the all-time list, with 25 appearances in the Top 10, followed by Clint Eastwood with 21 appearances on the list. Gary Cooper rounds out the top three. Due to his young age and continued popularity, it is conceivable that within 10 years, he will exceed Wayne as the #1 box office champ ever.
      Has donated to charities such as The Ashley Flint Fund, The Tsunami Relief Fund, Themoms.biz Diabetes Fund, Hillary Rodham Clinton's Campaign and The Church of Scientology.
      Premiere Magazine ranked him as the #3 Greatest Movie Star of All Time in their Stars in Our Constellation feature (2005).
      Studied with renowned acting coach Phil Gushee at Neighborhood Playhouse School of the Theatre, New York.
      His character Lt. Daniel Kaffee in A Few Good Men (1992) was based on real life U.S. Navy JAG Corp Donald Marcari, who now works as an attorney with Marcari, Russotto, and Spencer P.C. in Chesapeake, Virginia.
      His May 2005 appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show (1986) was named the #1 "Celebrity Meltdown Ever" by TV Guide Magazine.
      He and ex-wife Nicole Kidman made 3 movies together: Days of Thunder (1990), Eyes Wide Shut (1999) and Far and Away (1992). They met on the set of Days of Thunder (1990)
      While attending the London premiere of War of the Worlds (2005), he was squirted in the face with water during a prank interview. His reaction on camera was stern but not livid. The culprit was charged with assault.
      He was in two different movies featuring the song "Iko Iko" on its soundtrack - Rain Man (1988) by The Belle Stars and Mission: Impossible II (2000) by Zap Mama.
      Has played a soldier in 8 different movies. Taps (1981), Top Gun (1986), Born on the Fourth of July (1989), A Few Good Men (1992), The Last Samurai (2003), Valkyrie (2008) Jack Reacher (2012) and Edge of Tomorrow (2014).
      Has worked with an impressive list of master filmmakers: Stanley Kubrick, Martin Scorsese, Brian De Palma, Francis Ford Coppola, Oliver Stone, Ridley Scott and Steven Spielberg.
      Tom and Katie Holmes became the parents of Suri Cruise, who was born on April 18, 2006 in Los Angeles. "Suri" weighed 7 lbs. 7 oz. and was 20 inches.
      In the past twenty years since his first hundred million dollar grosser (Top Gun (1986)), only six of his films have failed to reach that status.
      Was originally to star in Enemy of the State (1998), but scheduling conflicts with Eyes Wide Shut (1999) forced him to miss out on the film. His part went to Will Smith.
      Wears a mask on six different movies. In all of the three "Mission: Impossible" movies and in Eyes Wide Shut (1999), Vanilla Sky (2001) and Minority Report (2002), where the injection that makes his face disfigured can be considered as a futuristic mask.
      Topped Forbes magazine's "100 Top Celebrities" list in 2006 ahead of The Rolling Stones and Oprah Winfrey (June 2006).
      Ranked #14 on Premiere's 2006 "Power 50" list. Had ranked #14 in 2005 as well. He is the highest-ranked actor on the list.
      On August 22, 2006, Viacom Chairman Sumner Redstone announced through the "Wall Street Journal" that Viacom' Paramount subsidiary was terminating its development dealt with Cruise after 14 years. Redstone said the firm terminated its deal with Cruise due to the under-performance of Mission: Impossible III (2006) (which had been expected to gross $100-150 million more than it did), which he attributed to Cruise's "bad behavior". Movie pundits were somewhat surprised by the announcement, as Cruise remains the top B.O. draw in North America and was Paramount's cash cow. Cruise's films reportedly have accounted for 32% of Paramount Pictures' revenues in the last six years, and he was named the Top Box Office draw for a record 7th time by Quigley Publications for the year 2005. As part of its machinations before severing its connections with Cruise, Paramount leaked to the press the information that the deal was worth $10 million annually; however, the development deal actually was for $3 million per annum. At the time of the announcement, Cruise and his advisers were considering Paramount's new offer of $2 million per year in development money when Redstone dropped his bombshell. The news gave rise to speculation that Paramount has run out of cash as it reportedly has told other development partners with which it has deals to use their own cash for the rest of the year, with the proviso they will be reimbursed come 2007.
      In September of 2006, he visited actress Brooke Shields at her home and personally apologized to her for criticizing her in 2005 about her use of prescription medication to overcome her post partum depression. Touched by the gesture, Brooke accepted his apology.
      He once shared a record with Tom Hanks as the actor to star in the most consecutive $100 million-grossing movies (7). Both were surpassed by Will Smith who reached eight in 2008.
      Resurrected United Artists together with MGM executives to produce and star in some of the company's projects (November 2006).
      The years of birth of his wives are 11 years apart: Mimi Rogers was born in 1956, Nicole Kidman in 1967 and Katie Holmes in 1978.
      Although they officialized their marriage in Los Angeles prior, he and Katie Holmes celebrated their wedding in the Odescalchi castle in Bracciano, Italy. The ceremony was performed by a Scientology minister in front of more than 150 relatives and friends including Hollywood superstars such as Jim Carrey, John Travolta, Kelly Preston, Russell Crowe, Will Smith, Jada Pinkett Smith, Richard Gere, Brooke Shields, Jennifer Lopez, Marc Anthony and Kirstie Alley. Italian pop opera purveyor Andrea Bocelli serenaded the newlyweds (18 November 2006).
      Donated to Hillary Rodham Clinton's electoral campaign for the U.S. Senate together with his then wife Nicole Kidman (2000).
      According to Forbes, for each dollar he got paid, Cruise's movies averaged $11 of gross income (December 2007).
      Although the shooting of Valkyrie (2008) caused controversy in Germany due to his Scientology membership, he was awarded at the Bambi Awards for "Courage", a category, newly created by the organizers to honor him for "tackling a story that had never been covered by Hollywood before". The decision was also heavily criticized by journalists and politicians (2 December 2007).
      Due to his friendship to David Beckham, he became a supporter of Spanish soccer club Real Madrid.
      Tom's father was of one quarter Irish, one quarter English, and one half German, ancestry. Tom's mother was of three eighths German and five eighths Irish ancestry.
      Is the only actor to ever work with all of the following directors; Oliver Stone in Born on the Fourth of July (1989), Martin Scorsese in The Color of Money (1986), Stanley Kubrick in Eyes Wide Shut (1999), and Steven Spielberg in Minority Report (2002).
      Has married two actresses who played Batman's love interest. Nicole Kidman from Batman Forever (1995) and Katie Holmes from Batman Begins (2005).
      Is reportedly a huge fan of The Simpsons (1989). However, he has twice turned down guest roles; once for the part of "Tom", which was written specifically for him, in the episode "Brother From The Same Planet" (eventually voiced by regular Phil Hartman) and the other alongside his then-wife Nicole Kidman in the episode "When You Dish Upon A Star" (eventually voiced by then-couple Alec Baldwin and Kim Basinger).
      Was going to play as Tom Warshaw in House of D (2004) and opted to do War of the Worlds (2005) instead.
      Went to an audition for the part of Howard Keach in Harry & Son (1984). He didn't get the part, but the director, Paul Newman remembered him, and decided that he wanted Cruise for The Color of Money (1986).
      His acting idol is Paul Newman. Much to the delight of Cruise, they became good friends during work on The Color of Money (1986). Newman got him into racing, and Cruise ultimately raced on his team.
      Nine actors so far have got an Oscar nomination for their role in a movie co-starring Tom Cruise. Paul Newman, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Dustin Hoffman, Jack Nicholson, Holly Hunter, Cuba Gooding Jr., Ken Watanabe, Jamie Foxx and Robert Downey Jr..
      From late January to early February 2009, he along with wife, 'Katie Holmes' and daughter, Suri, spent several days in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil staying at the famous Copacabana Palace Hotel. They were in town for a vacation (which included a helicopter tour over Rio) as well as to promote his film Valkyrie (2008).
      (January 25, 2009) Visited Moscow, Russia for the first time. He told the press that since he was a boy he had always dreamed of visiting the city. He stayed at the prestigious Ritz-Carlton which offered sweeping views of the Red Square, Bolshoi Theatre and the History Museum.
      Still owns a P-51D Mustang, but changed the nose art from "Montana Miss" to "Kiss Me Kate". Airplane is very rarely spotted out of hanger.
      In both Rain Man (1988) and The Firm (1993), he portrays a man with an older brother named Raymond, who he helps free from a confined environment.
      Hired Amanda Lundberg as his new publicist, replacing the PR firm Rogers & Cowan [January 28, 2010].
      Even though the "Mission: Impossible" series is his signature action series, he never actually fires a gun in the original film.
      It was announced on June 29, 2012 that, after five years of marriage, Cruise and his wife, Katie Holmes, are divorcing for personal and private reasons.
      Versions of the song "Iko Iko" were played at the beginning of two of Cruise's films: "Rain Man (1988)" and "Mission:Impossible II (2000).".
      Insists on preforming many of his own stunts in his films, including climbing the exterior of the Burj Khalifa, the tallest building in the world, during the filming of Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol (2011), and driving during the car chases in Jack Reacher (2012).
      On April 3rd 2013, Tom was presented with a Certificate of Irish Heritage by the Irish government in Dublin, Ireland. Tom Cruise's Irish roots can be traced back 840 years to the arrival of the Norman lord Strongbow in Ireland. The knights in Tom's family were among the first wave of Anglo-Normans to invade Ireland between 1169 and 1176. Because the family held land directly of the King, they were royal tenants, and by the early 1200s the de Cruise family were Barons in Ireland. Sir Maurice Cruys, a knight who died in 1216, is the direct lineal ancestor of Tom Cruise's family. One of the lands they owned was called Hollywood in North County Dublin. They also had land in Meath; the civil parish of Cruicetown (in the parish of Nobber) was named after them.
      Was 'Guillermo Del Toro''s first choice for the role of Stacker Pentecost in Pacific Rim (2013), but Cruise declined due schedule conflicts with _Oblivion (2013)_. Idris Elba was cast instead.
      Rio de Janeiro, Brazil -- attended the Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol (2011) premiere held at the Cine Lagoon on December 14. [December 2011]
      Along with Cameron Diaz, he attended the Knight and Day (2010) premiere at Roppongi Hills on Tuesday (September 28) in Tokyo, Japan. [September 2010]
      Currently visiting Prague, Czech Republic to scout out possible filming locations for Mission: Impossible IV, which he is also producing. [September 2010]
      Attended the international premieres for Valkyrie (2008) in Rome, Italy (Jan. 28th); Madrid, Spain (Jan. 27th); Moscow, Russia (Jan. 26th); Amsterdam, Netherlands (Jan. 22nd); London, England (Jan. 21st); Berlin, Germany (Jan. 20th), and Seoul, South Korea (Jan. 18th). [January 2009]
      On July 6th, along with co-star Cameron Diaz, he visited Rio de Janeiro, Brazil briefly (less then 24 hrs) to promote their latest film, Knight and Day (2010). [July 2010]
      Attended the premiere of Knight and Day (2010) in Mexico City (July 7) at the Cinemex Santa Fe. [July 2010]
      As of 2014, has appeared in four films that were nominated for the Best Picture Oscar: Rain Man (1988), Born on the Fourth of July (1989), A Few Good Men (1992) and Jerry Maguire (1996). Rain Man (1988) won in the category.
      The thing about filmmaking is I give it everything, that's why I work so hard. I always tell young actors to take charge. It's not that hard. Sign your own checks, be responsible.
      [to Jay Leno regarding his topless Vanity Fair cover shoot] I don't drink but I had a beer that night and they only did one setup like that. I'm a cheap date. What can I say?
      [about Eyes Wide Shut (1999)] We knew from the beginning the level of commitment needed. We felt honored to work with Stanley Kubrick. We were going to do what it took to do this picture, whatever time, because I felt - and Nic [Nicole Kidman] did, too - that this was going to be a really special time for us. We knew it would be difficult. But I would have absolutely kicked myself if I hadn't done this.
      I was 18 when I saw Akira Kurosawa's Shichinin no samurai (1954). After about 30 seconds, I realized that this was not just a cultural thing, it was universal. Years later, I read Bushido. It talked about many things that I strive for in my own life: loyalty, compassion, responsibility, the idea of looking back on your life and taking responsibility for everything you've ever done. I'm fascinated by the samurai and the samurai code - it's one of the main reasons I wanted to make The Last Samurai (2003).
      Awards are wonderful. I've been nominated many times and I've won many awards. But my journey is not towards that. If it happens it will be a blast. If it doesn't, it's still been a blast.
      I believe in life. I know that life comes in at your heart and it doesn't matter if you're an actor, a filmmaker or a gentleman on the street, it comes at you. What Scientology gives me is the tools to deal with that, to better enjoy my life and to be able to contribute more.
      [on his role as the hit man in Collateral (2004)] I've never played a character like this before. Vincent interested me because he is such an anti-social personality, bringing destruction and chaos with him wherever he goes. He's a force of nature.
      I remember getting through high school and thinking, "Boy, I'm glad I got that behind me!" Then, when I was 19, I got Risky Business (1983), and I realized, "Ah, so this is life - it's a little bigger than I thought!"
      As a young actor, people were trying to define who I was before I really knew that for myself. But I still remember thinking, "This is what I love doing, and I hope I'm going to be able to do it forever."
      I've had a very interesting life. There are ways of handling the complexities. I'm willing to take on responsibilities as a father, as a producer, as an actor - and I enjoy that. I've always been changing and evolving and growing. There's no pinnacle of power where you can sit back and rest.
      Because I grew up in so many different places, I was used to rumors [about me]. You know, I didn't have the right shoes, I didn't have the right clothes. I even had the wrong accent.
      Nic [Nicole Kidman] and I don't talk publicly about custody but, definitely, both of us share the kids back and forth. They're amazing kids.
      I would live with all of my sisters if I could. We've always been very close, my sisters and me.
      The important thing with a child is that you love them, you protect them and you help them to grow and find out who they are. And as a parent, it's my responsibility to help them to become independent and get all the knowledge and a broad view of the world and life. I know that Nic [Nicole Kidman] absolutely agrees with that. And that's what's important: being there.
      I'd like to be with a woman who goes [he switches into a woman's voice], "I've reviewed your schedule, and I'm going to set up this motorcycle trip for you, because you've been working really hard. And I'm going to go with you. We're going to go riding together. And I've already been working on it for a couple days so it can be special."
      I don't really keep counsel with others. I'm the kind of person who will think about something, and if I know it's right I'm not going to ask anybody. I don't go, "Boy, what do you think about this?" I've made every decision for myself - in my career, in my life.
      SAT (exam) scores have gone right down the toilet. The parents are blaming the teachers, the teachers are blaming the parents and the psychs are putting everyone on drugs.
      [on the relationship with Katie Holmes, about other people thinking it's a publicity stunt] It's amusing at first. It's funny. But then you sit back and realize how sad it is that there are people who can't even imagine feeling like this. But my friends are happy for me. The people who know me are happy. My mom is happy. My family is happy.
      I've never agreed with psychiatry, ever. Before I was a Scientologist, I never agreed with psychiatry. Here's the problem. You don't know the history of psychiatry. I do.
      [on the invasion of Iraq] Personally, I don't have all the information President [George W. Bush] has. But I believe [Saddam Hussein] has committed many crimes against humanity and his own people.
      Every single time I start to do a picture, without fail, I feel as if I don't know what I'm doing.
      (On his father) He was a bully and a coward. He was the kind of person where, if something goes wrong, they kick you. It was a great lesson in my life - how he'd lull you in, make you feel safe and then, bang! For me, it was like, 'There's something wrong with this guy. Don't trust him. Be careful around him.' There's that anxiety.
      [on Born on the Fourth of July (1989)] When I made that film people said, 'This is going to ruin your career. Why are you doing this after you did Top Gun. Why not just do Top Gun 2?'. I wanted to challenge myself.
      (1992 quote) I'm very careful in choosing things. I'm not one of those people that's in, that's out. Once I make a decision, nothing will stop it. It's not something that takes me months to make a decision either, but I evaluate it very carefully, specifically, at the time, taking into account a lot of things.
      (1992 quote) I really enjoy talking to other actors and directors. Sometimes, if I see their movies, I'll call them up or write them a note saying, "I enjoyed it," or asking, "How did you do that? How did you make that work?" I just saw Billy Crystal's movie Mr. Saturday Night a couple of weeks ago-he did a phenomenal job directing this-and afterwards, I talked to him for a couple of hours. It's true, I can be very shy around famous people. I remember, Sean Penn and Emilio Estevez and I used to drive by Brando's house and Nicholson's house. We'd see a light go on inside and go, "There he is-let's go knock on the door," then go, "Nah, nah, they'll never let us in."
      (1992 quote on fame) In the beginning, when people were looking at me, it could be unnerving. People just start looking at you, staring at you. I used to get nervous. Sometimes I still get a little nervous when, all of a sudden, so much attention is directed at me just like - [snaps his fingers]
      (1992, on career choices) My choices are sometimes dictated by many considerations. I'm interested in making different kinds of movies. My path is very simple: I want to challenge myself, find something that lifts me up and makes me want to get out there and work out. Sometimes, you might look at something I've done and go, "Degree of difficulty: not so great." But, every time, man, it's a new ring with a hell of a lot of work to be accomplished in it.
      (1992, on A Few Good Men (1992) and working with Rob Reiner) I finished Far and Away (1992) and started immediately on it. So, the first time I met Rob Reiner - I'd been told, "You know, Tom, he's a pretty aggressive guy". He's a big guy. Big hands. Very bright, articulate. When he talks his points, he gets very loud because he gets very excited. He's just so fucking smart. He's very intense, but he's also like a teddy bear you want to hug. We read the script together - I'd already planned on doing it, but we were working on things like structure - and he would read it imagining the nine different characters. And he started imitating Jack Nicholson. That's how he found out that Jack Nicholson should play the role. The character I play, Kaffee, is a very tough, complex role to play. You're either going to hit or miss with this guy. All of the scenes, all the rhythms, come from character and even though Rob worked so hard on it himself, he trusts the actors to breathe life into their roles. You'll look over at him on the set and he's saying the lines along with the actors. You become really bonded with this guy because there's nothing more he wants for you than to be great. And you feel that.
      [on his character Jack Reacher in Jack Reacher (2012)] Reacher is such a great character. He doesn't have a cell phone, he doesn't have email. He's off the grid. He pays for things in cash. People look at things through the prism of the colours of their life, but Jack Reacher does things the way we want to sometimes. In that sense he's sort of a Dirty Harry, a James Bond, a Josey Wales.
      I'm not the Stanislavsky kind of actor. I just want to communicate with the people in the scene.
      [on Rock of Ages (2012)] Adam Shankman, the director, asked me if I could carry a tune. I said, "We'll see, won't we? This is either going to work or it's going to be dreadful."
      What do I want? I want a world without war. I want a world without insanity. I want to see people do well. And I don't even think that it's as much of what I want for myself. It's more what I want for the people around me.
      (2012) I have a standard of what winning is. How do you define winning and losing? If I get beaten in a basketball game, I don't care. How a movie does is based on so many things, including release dates and marketing. I understand the box office game. I was there in the beginning when they started fixating on the number one film and the competition in that. I really came up with promoting films around the world, and studios fought me, but I mainly did it because I wanted myself and my kids to see the world. But here's the game I'm playing. I want to make great films that entertain an audience and hold up. I can control only the effort I put into it and the experience we all have making it. After that, it is what it is.
      (2012) Whether it's making a film or raising my children, personally I'm striving to do the right things and to learn. I'm an all-or-nothing kind of person, and when I become interested in something, I give it my all. In life, I always wanted adventures and to learn different fields of endeavor. The great thing about being an actor is I've gotten to see what a fighter pilot's life is like and a race car driver's. I've gotten to fly airplanes, race cars, learn about motorcycles. In Rock of Ages I studied music, learned how to sing and see it from a singer's vantage point. I carry those interests and lessons through my own life. I guess I am always striving to be competent.
      (2012, on his favorite 'toy') Each one has its different level of freedom. A fast motorcycle is wonderful, but I'd have to say it would be the P-51 Warbird. I have a 1944 Tuskegee Airmen P-51 that was part of their training squadron. When I traveled around as a kid, I had a picture of a Spitfire and a picture of a P-51. P means "pursuit," and you can fly hard through the canyons. It's a beautiful airplane, unlike anything else.
      (2012, on learning to fly) I always wanted to fly, and that was one of the reasons I did Top Gun (1986). I just never had the time to learn. Then I met Sydney Pollack. I was 19 or 20. He was editing Tootsie (1982), and I'd just finished Risky Business (1983). I got a meeting with Sydney that was supposed to be 20 minutes and ended up being over two hours. Outside of my admiration for him as a filmmaker, we talked about a big mutual interest that we had in aviation because I knew he flew. Sydney became a lifelong friend, and when we finished The Firm (1993) together in 1993 or 1994, he gave me flying lessons as a gift. He said, "I know how much you love flying. Take the time, right now, and do it, because otherwise you'll never get to it". I had two kids by then, and I worked all the time. In a few months, I had my instrument rating and, a little while after that, I had my commercial rating. I trained mostly in aerobatics, because I wanted to fly the P-51. I was doing rolls, loops, all kinds of aerobatic maneuvers. My first airplane was called a Pitts, and then I flew a Marchetti. That's a third-world air force trainer they use in the Navy's TOPGUN schools for air-to-air combat. This was all in preparation to fly the Warbird, the P-51. I searched all over the world for my P-51 and found it in 2000. It's called "Kiss Me Kate", which covers two things I love most, my wife and movies.
      [on preparing for Rock of Ages (2012)] I spent months studying the history of rock 'n' roll for my role as Stacee Jaxx and 'Queen' and Freddie Mercury were a big part of that.
      [on this intense passion for his work] I love what I do. I take great pride in what I do. And I can't do something halfway, three-quarters, nine-tenths. If I'm going to do something, I go all the way.
      [on what he likes about London, England] I love the fish and chips, the crews are fantastic, it's such a beautiful city, and the people are so easy and cool. I like a good curry, I like it hot, and you have great Indian food here also. I like it very spicy. If I'm not sweating I don't feel like I have had good Indian food.
      [on Ireland and his Irish ancestry] I'm very proud to be Irish. There's a pride in America of being Irish. I can't wait to come back and I want to visit the land of my ancestors and the castle that they had.
      [on Edge of Tomorrow (2014)] The alien invasion is simmering in the background. It's kind of Back to the Future (1985). I love movies that ask, 'If you did have to live your life over again, what would happen?'
=======================================================
                On AirKiss Me QuickSunday 13 February at 10pmBorn Thomas Cruise Mapother IV to father Thomas Mapother III, an electrical engineer, and mother Mary Lee Pfeiffer. Cruise had a close relationship with his three sisters: Marian, Lee Ann (who later became his publicist until November 2005) and Cass. He was seven when he was diagnosed with dyslexia and his parents divorced when he was twelve.  His parents moved house frequently and by the time he was 14, Cruise had attended fifteen different schools in the US and Canada. Finding his father "a bully and a coward … a merchant of chaos", Cruise dropped the name Mapother when his father refused to pay child support. He then enrolled at a Franciscan seminary to become a priest (at age 14) but dropped out after a year.  Briefly attending St. Xavier High School in Louisville, Kentucky, he was a paperboy for the Louisville Courier-Journal and finally settled at Glen Ridge High School, New Jersey. It was here that Cruise developed an interest in acting, after injuring his knee and being unable to continue on the school's wrestling team. He played the lead role in the school's production of 'Guys and Dolls' with great success.  After graduating from Glen Ridge High School in June 1980, Cruise headed for New York to pursue an acting career. He attended the Neighbourhood Playhouse School of Theatre in New York City, studying drama with renowned acting coaches Phil Gushee and Sanford Meisner.  He also studied at the Actors Studio, New School University, New York. Cruise made his film debut with a small part in Franco Zeffirelli's 'Endless Love' (1981), starring Brooke Shields and Martin Hewitt. Having gained immediate notice, he was then cast as Cadet Captain David Shawn, with George C. Scott, Timothy Hutton and Sean Penn, in the military drama 'Taps' (1981). The film had a mediocre response but helped Cruise gain further acting exposure and ensured a full filmmaking schedule for the next two years.  He was in two teen movies, 'The Outsiders' (1983) and 'Losin' It' (1983). Then came 'Risky Business' (1983), a crime caper with Rebecca De Mornay and Cruise's first leading role in a blockbuster. It was this role that truly began his rise to stardom. The fourth Cruise film that year was 'All the Right Moves' (1983), a high school football drama. His father died in 1984 and his next film, Ridley Scott's 'Legend' (1985), received a lukewarm response.  These were merely 'teething problems' and Cruise went on to star in some of the highest grossing films of the 1980s, including: 'Top Gun' (1986), about macho US fighter pilots, with Kelly McGillis and Val Kilmer; Martin Scorsese's 'The Colour of Money' (1986) with Paul Newman; 'Rain Man' (1988) co-starring Dustin Hoffman, a film that was praised by critics and won four Academy Awards; and 'Born on the Fourth of July' (1989), for which Cruise received Oscar nominations.  Other 1980s movies were 'Cocktail' (1988), a light-hearted drama, which received mixed reviews and earned Cruise a Razzie award in 1989 and 'Young Guns' (1988). He was in an episode of '3rd Rock from the Sun' (Dick and the Other Guy) in 1988. In 1990, Cruise renounced his Catholic beliefs and turned instead to The Church of Scientology, claiming in an interview that Scientology had cured his dyslexia, which caused a furore in the medical community. Despite criticism aimed at Cruise for his beliefs, by the 1990s he was one of the highest paid actors in the world, earning an average of $15 million per film.  He played hotshot Cole Trickle in the stock car racing film 'Days of Thunder' (1990) where he met his future wife, Nicole Kidman, who starred as Dr Claire Lewicki. In the critically acclaimed 'Interview with the Vampire: The Vampire Chronicles' (1994), he starred as Lestat de Lioncourt with Brad Pitt. Cruise made his debut as Producer with Brian De Palma's 'Mission: Impossible' (1996), in which he also starred as Ethan Hunt with John Voight.  He joined with Paula Wagner to form Cruise/Wagner Productions, which has since co-produced several of his films, and they won a 1997 Nova Award for Most Promising Producer in Theatrical Motion Pictures for 'Mission: Impossible' (1996). He also played the title role in 'Jerry Maguire' (1996), with Cuba Gooding Jr. and Renee Zellweger, receiving an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor.  Other 1990s films were 'Far and Away' (1992) again starring with Kidman; 'A Few Good Men' (1992), a military thriller with Jack Nicholson and Demi Moore which was well received and earned Cruise MTV and Golden Globe nominations; 'The Firm' (1993), that won Favourite Dramatic Motion Picture at the People's Choice Awards; the dark drama that was the late Stanley Kubrick's last film, 'Eyes Wide Shut' (1999) with Nicole Kidman; and 'Magnolia' (1999) with Julianne Moore and William H. Macy, for which he received and Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor.  Cruise produced 'Without Limits' (1998) about the famous athlete Steve Prefontaine. Starting the New Millennium with a strong focus on working as both producer and actor, Cruise completed the blockbuster sequel 'Mission: Impossible II' (2000) and then 'Vanilla Sky' (2001) co-starring Penelope Cruz.  Films he produced but in which he did not act include: 'The Others' (2001), starring Nicole Kidman, 'Narc' (2002) and 'Hitting It Hard' (2002). To follow was the very successful 'Shattered Glass' (2003), 'Suspect Zero' (2004), 'Elizabethtown' (2005) with Orlando Bloom, Kirsten Dunst, Susan Sarandon and Alec Baldwin, and 'Ask the Dust' (2006) with Colin Farrell, Salma Hayek and Donald Sutherland.  Cruise played Chief John Anderton in the futuristic thriller 'Minority Report' (2002) and had a role in the hugely successful 'Austin Powers in Goldmember' (2002) with Mike Myers and Beyonce Knowles. In the war drama 'The Last Samurai' (2003), Cruise played Nathan Algren, performing some of his own stunts, and also produced the film.  In a departure from his usual 'good guy' roles, he played grey-haired contract killer Vincent in 'Collateral' (2004), a crime thriller with Jamie Foxx and Jada Pinkett Smith. Next was Steven Spielberg's 'War of the Worlds' (2005), a box office smash hit, followed by the third in the series, 'Mission: Impossible III' (2006) which Cruise once again produced. In terms of relationships, Cruise has not always had staying power. He married actress Mimi Rogers on 9 May 1987 but they were divorced on 4 February 1990. It is believed that Rogers introduced Cruise to Scientology. On 24 December 1990, he married Nicole Kidman, whom he had met on the set of 'Days of Thunder' (1990).  Together they adopted two children, Isabella Jane (b. 22 December 1992) and Connor Antony (b. 17 January 1995). Shortly before their 10th wedding anniversary and with Kidman three months pregnant with their first biological child, the couple separated. Kidman later miscarried and they were divorced on 8 August 2001. Cruise then dated his 'Vanilla Sky' (2001) co-star, Penelope Cruz, from 2001 to January 2004.  In April 2005, he started dating actress Katie Holmes and they were engaged on 17 June 2005, with Cruise proposing to her at the top of the Eiffel Tower in Paris. "Tom/Kat", as they are known, married in an elaborate ceremony in Italy in November, 2006, several months after Holmes gave birth to their daughter Suri in Los Angeles.  Cruise enjoys scuba diving, skydiving and piloting his Pitts Special S-2B stunt plane. He received his pilot's license in 1994 in Toronto, Canada. He makes regular donations to charities, including The Tsunami Relief Fund, The Ashley Flint Fund, Themoms.biz Diabetes Fund, Hillary Rodham Clinton’s campaign and The Church of Scientology.  He co-founded Downtown Medical, which offers Scientology-based detoxification therapy to New York 9/11 rescue workers. Together with Oprah Winfrey, he co-hosted the annual Nobel Peace Prize concert in Oslo, Norway in 2004.  Viewed by his friends as kind, thoughtful, compassionate and generous, Cruise has suffered rumours in the past about being gay and has more recently endured much negative media coverage concerning his Scientology beliefs and his relationship with Katie Holmes.  On 23 May 2005, the normally reserved Cruise stunned the world with "that couch-jumping incident" on 'The Oprah Winfrey Show' when he excitedly exclaimed his love for Holmes. The American TV Guide magazine named this the number one Celebrity Meltdown Ever. The term "jumping the couch", meaning to go off the deep end in public, quickly made its way into popular speech.  On 22 August 2006, the Wall Street Journal announced that Paramount Pictures was terminating its $3 million per annum development deal with Cruise, after fourteen years. The reason cited was the under-performance of 'Mission: Impossible III' (2006) which was attributed to Cruise's recent controversial behaviour and views.  In 2006 Cruise and long-term production partner Paula Wagner, in co-operation with MGM, resurrected the United Artists film studio, in which Cruise would take both acting and producer roles. Wagner left the studio in August of 2008.  United Artists has produced 'Lions for Lambs' (2007) and 'Valkyrie' (2009). While working for UA, Cruise made a surprise and unannounced cameo in Ben Stiller's 2008 comedy smash 'Tropic Thunder' as an irate actor's agent. This performance earned him a Golden Globe nomination.  Never having been one who cares much for what other people think of him and still being one of the highest paid and sought after actors in film history, Cruise has several production projects in the pipeline. These include the announced films: 'War Magician' (2007), 'The Eye' (2007), 'I Married a Witch' (2007), An untitled Sam Jones/Motocross project (2008) and 'Deathrace 3000' (2008).  As of 2009, Cruise's films have grossed over $6.5 billion worldwide. He took a break from acting in 2009 but returned to the big screen in 'Knight and Day' as a spy trying to clear his name in 2010. Cameron Diaz also appeared in the film.  In 2011, he produced and starred in the fourth installment of the Mission Impossible franchise. He returned as Ethan Hunt in 'Mission Impossible: Ghost Protocol', which will be released on 26 December 2011.  At the film's premiere, he said that: "I'm just going to keep going, as long as I can do it. I love making action films." He also revealed his intentions to celebrate his 50th birthday in 2012 with a big party.  In 2012, Cruise will play washed-up rockstar Stacee Jaxx in the film adaptation of the Broadway and West End play 'Rock of Ages'.  This will be followed by 'One Shot', 'We Mortals Are' and 'Horizons' in 2013.  Whilst the world eagerly awaits his next moves, on both a personal and a professional level, Cruise continues to pursue his dreams with an intensity and instinct for survival that he learned in his youth.
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
There's a popular Hollywood saying. Question: Who can guarantee you a box-office smash? Answers: 1) Tom Cruise 2) Tom Cruise 3) That's it. Just look at the figures. Mission: Impossible - $180 million, A Few Good Men - $141 million, Rain Man - $172 million, Top Gun - $176 million, Jerry Maguire - $158 million, The Firm - $158 million, Mission: Impossible 2 - $215 million. These are conservative estimates, the true money made worldwide from Cruise's movies is infinitely higher. But it's not just the money, there's critical respect too. Oscars and Oscar nominations have rained down on Cruise productions. Paul Newman, Dustin Hoffman, Cuba Gooding Jr, Jack Nicholson, Cameron Crowe, Holly Hunter, Oliver Stone, Barry Levinson, all of them have good reason to believe Tom Cruise is some kind of Oscar talisman. Do well next to Cruise and you've a fine chance of being short-listed. Cruise's early life was so tough it's a bona fide miracle that he's come so far. He was born Thomas Cruise Mapother IV in Syracuse, New Jersey on the 3rd of July, 1962, to nomadic parents. His mother, Mary Lee Pfeiffer from Louisiana, had married Thomas Cruise Mapother III, an electronics engineer from the University of Kentucky, whose job with General Electric took them all over. Daughter Lee Anne was born in Louisville, then Marian, Tom and Cass (a third daughter) were born in Syracuse. Then they moved to Ottawa, to Missouri, back to New Jersey, and back to Louisville, before finally divorcing when Tom was 11.Cruise would later have little good to say about his father. "He was a bully and a coward," he'd recall in an interview with Parade magazine. "He was the kind of person where, if something goes wrong, they kick you. He was an antisocial personality, inconsistent, unpredictable. It was a great lesson in my life - how he'd lull you in, make you feel safe and then BANG!" Cruise would not see his father for 10 years, when the older man was dying of cancer. Even then there would be no apology, no forgiveness, no closure, his father only seeing Tom at all if he swore not to mention the past.Mary Lee took the kids to live at Taylorsville Road, Kentucky, where life was one hell of a struggle, Tom living with an aunt for a year while his mum got house and home together. When he rejoined the family, young Tom was titular Man Of The House, but they all had to work, Tom putting his newspaper delivery earnings into the general coffers. The family received food stamps but not full Welfare as Mary Lee was always working. "My mother finally had the courage to stand up to my father and say 'No more, I'm not taking it, so long'," Cruise would say in that same Parade interview. "People can create their own lives. I saw how my mother created hers and made it possible for us to survive". At one point there was so little money that Tom took a scholarship at the St Francis Seminary in Cincinnati where, for a year, he studied for the priesthood and, more importantly, ate properly. Eventually, Mary Lee married again; to plastics salesman Jack South. There were more moves - indeed, by the age of 14, Tom had attended 15 different schools, being bullied at nearly all of them - but, eventually, they settled, Tom enrolling at Glen Ridge High School, New Jersey. From here, he went straight into acting.. Cruise had actually first thought of acting around the age of five. Mary Lee was a teacher with a keen interest in amateur theatrics (his cousin William Mapother was an actor) and Tom would be taken regularly to the cinema. He loved it, but the constant movement made settling into anything next to impossible. Later he would say "Nothing was quick enough in terms of life for me". Tom, a dreamy, lonely child living much of the time in his own interior world, was always the New Kid, forced to prove himself endlessly, and this was made yet more problematic by both shyness and dyslexia. It's thought the latter was brought on by teachers demanding he write with his right hand but, whatever the cause, Tom found learning demanded a terrific effort as pages turned to meaningless blocks of weird scribbles before his eyes. Constantly challenged by his parents, making him exceptionally competitive, he was desperate to fit in - more, to win. So he threw himself into sports - wrestling, raquetball, ice hockey, everything. He wasn't particularly gifted but his intensity and hyper-energy made him difficult to resist.What eventually drew him to acting was an accident. Suffering a knee injury while wrestling, it was suggested that he try his hand at school theatre productions. Being Cruise, he threw himself in at the deep end, with the musical Guys And Dolls (he'd soon also perform in Godspell), and immediately began to pursue excellence in the field. Typically, he gave himself a 10-year deadline to achieve success. At 18, he left Glen Ridge and moved to New York, supporting himself by working as a bus-boy, a porter in an apartment block and a table-cleaner at Mortimer's restaurant. In the evenings he took drama classes, auditioning for TV ads whenever possible. He looked good, he had that winning smile, but he was never hired. Casting directors always described him as 'too intense'. Other descriptions from those who knew him at the time included "long-haired", "angry", "muscular" and "obsessed with success". Feeding on hot dogs and rice, he lived, he now says 'like an animal in the jungle'.As yet, he had no connections, but he did have some advantages. Moving from state to state, he'd found his need to fit in had caused him to pick up the appropriate accent. He was always playing a role. Then there was his charm. As the only son in the family, he had grown up around women. Indeed, he remembers his sister Marian's friends coming round when he was just 6 or 7, sitting him up on the kitchen sink and using him for kissing practice. He says the first time he almost suffocated - but it was fun. So he was easy around women, capable of turning on the grace and charm (the very first example being his winning of Laurie Hobbs at the Sacred Heart School in Louisville), and this confidence served him well.. While in New York, Thomas Cruise Mapother IV shortened his name to the far snappier Tom Cruise. He went to Los Angeles to audition for TV roles (there's a famous clip of him trying out with a very young Heather Locklear - neither got the part), but got none. He did though sign with the Creative Artists Agency and got film work. First was Endless Love, directed by Franco Zeffirelli, renowned for Jesus Of Nazareth. Brooke Shields starred but Cruise, way down the bill (with James Spader, also making his debut), had a foot on the ladder. Or not, considering the film was so dismal. Returning to New Jersey, he was surprised to hear he had another audition, for a one-line part in Taps, the tale of military academy students so loyal the fight to prevent its closure. Where before Cruise's intensity had been a drawback, now it made him. Director Harold Becker (who'd earlier made The Onion Field, and would later helm Sea Of Love and Malice) was so impressed by his test he lifted Cruise to third on the bill, as belligerent cadet Dick Shawn.Holding his own alongside Timothy Hutton, Sean Penn and even George C. Scott, Cruise was now headline material. Next came Losin' It, about four kids trying to lose their virginity in Tijuana (smooth Cruise gets an older, married woman), then the big one, Risky Business. Here Cruise played a smart teenager who, his parents out of town, gets tied up with a high-class prostitute and a bunch of shady figures. Wisecracking, dancing in his undies and sporting those classic Ray-Bans, he was a sensation (and he would, for a while, date his co-star Rebecca DeMornay).He could have settled for this, used that killer smile to become the face of the go-getting, sharp-suited Eighties generation. Instead, he chose to work with another legendary director, Francis Ford Coppola, briefly joining the Brat Pack for The Outsiders. Then he starred in the slow, testing All The Right Moves, about a High School football star dreaming of scholarship and escape from his miserable Pennsylvania mill town. He was clearly attempting to widen his scope, next taking an even wilder shot with Ridley Scott's Legend, playing canny pixie Jack opposite Tim Curry's magnificent clomping demon.Now came the first huge hit, Top Gun, with Ridley Scott's brother Tony. Here Cruise was Pete 'Maverick' Mitchell, a slick and arrogant fighter-pilot, extremely casual with the millions of dollars-worth of hardware he's riding. Promoted with Berlin's Take My Breath Away, it was a silly, macho, flag-waving monster of a hit (particularly amongst the gay community, though that's seldom mentioned) but again Cruise was intent upon growing as an actor, not simply as a star. Now he played Vincent, the cocky pool-player who draws Paul Newman's Fast Eddie (first seen in The Hustler) out of retirement. As a willing foil, Cruise helped win Newman the Oscar, but Newman changed Cruise forever. A renowned worker for charity, Newman raised his consciousness and got him interested in car-racing (he drove for Newman's team and thus got the idea for his later vehicle, Days Of Thunder). And, inadvertently, he got him married, Cruise meeting actress Mimi Rogers (Someone To Watch Over Me, The Doors) at Newman's Road Racing Classic Show in Georgia. Having dated Cher and Melissa Gilbert, Cruise would be with Rogers (six years his senior) for three years. Together they would serve on the board of the environmentally concerned Earth Communications Office. Formerly married to Scientology counsellor Jim Rogers, she would also introduce Tom to the religious group which he'd join in 1990.. As a willing foil, Cruise helped win Newman the Oscar, but Newman changed Cruise forever. A renowned worker for charity, Newman raised his consciousness and got him interested in car-racing (he drove for Newman's team and thus got the idea for his later vehicle, Days Of Thunder). And, inadvertently, he got him married, Cruise meeting actress Mimi Rogers (Someone To Watch Over Me, The Doors) at Newman's Road Racing Classic Show in Georgia. Having dated Cher and Melissa Gilbert, Cruise would be with Rogers (six years his senior) for three years. Together they would serve on the board of the environmentally concerned Earth Communications Office.Having dared to play alongside Newman, now there was Dustin Hoffman, and Hoffman in a show-stealing Oscar role to boot. But it should be noted that Cruise, as Charlie Babbitt, a flash yuppie who discovers a less superficial life with his retarded brother, was the one who made that film. Hoffman needed someone onscreen to react to him, to lend him humanity, to connect with the audience - and Cruise, his performance ignored in the rush to praise Hoffman's, did it brilliantly. Then came Cocktail. Director Roger Donaldson had just done the superior Kevin Costner thriller No Way Out, the producers were expecting an update of The Graduate; it turned out to be an empty-headed jumble (though Cruise made an impressive tequila juggler).Yet Cruise's trajectory was upwards, and now came Oliver Stone's Born On The Fourth Of July (something of a cheat, that, as Cruise was actually born on the 3rd). Here Cruise played real-life Vietnam vet-turned-anti-war-activist Ron Kovic, a man physically destroyed yet spiritually raised by the paralysis of his lower body. He won his first Golden Globe and an Oscar nomination. He moved on to Days Of Thunder, again with Tony Scott. And his second wife. Cruise had come across Nicole Kidman at the premiere of her excellent Dead Calm. She amused him. Now, starring together, she won him completely, and he starred with her again in his next picture, Far And Away (directed by Ron Howard), about Irish lovers battling for a decent life on the American frontier. For Cruise, this tale was close to home as his great-great-grandfather, Dillon Henry Mapother, had moved from southern Ireland to Louisville back in 1850.. The movie was not a raging hit, but Cruise was by now super-bankable. His presence made the fairly average conspiracy flick The Firm into a smash. Still, he was trying to shake his pretty-boy image, be seen as the "actor-artist" he believed himself to be. He worked constantly at this. On Days Of Thunder he was so intense the crew dubbed him Laserhead. On Far And Away, Ron Howard noted that he actually ran to the toilet and back. He is NEVER late, and demands the same professionalism from his co-workers. So next he took on Interview With The Vampire, as the murderous Lestat, drunk on power and immortality. Fans of the book denounced this casting, as did its author Anne Rice though, having seen the picture, she made an abrupt u-turn, claiming Cruise's Lestat would be remembered like Olivier's Hamlet. His charm and intensity had coupled well again.Now it was massive hits all the way. Cruise - cool, smart and pumped - made an excellent Ethan Hunt in Brian De Palma's Mission: Impossible. Then came Cameron Crowe. Cruise knew him already - Crowe had written Cruise's first ever cover feature, for Interview Magazine. Now a director, Crowe was working on Jerry Maguire, about a sports agent discovering his humanity while teetering on the brink of financial ruin. Cruise was brilliant - harassed, arrogant, sweet and triumphant - and again happily played second fiddle where necessary, to Cuba Gooding Jr ("Show me the money!"), Renee Zellweger ("You complete me"), and even toddler Jonathan Lipnicki. Another mighty hit, another Golden Globe, another Oscarnomination.Now Cruise took the chance to work with another of the great directors. Along with Kidman, he spent three years on Stanley Kubrick's slow, ultra-considered Eyes Wide Shut. Sadly, the film was a little TOO considered for most and, oddly, Cruise gained more respect and attention for his far shorter role in Magnolia. As Frank TJ Mackey, a rabble-rousing male therapist, he was tremendous - posing, cajoling, demanding ("Respect the cock!"). And he was moving, particularly beside his father's (Jason Robards) death-bed. Deservedly, there was another Golden Globe, and another Oscar nomination - that Michael Caine pipped him was nothing short of outrageous.Mission: Impossible 2, with John Woo, was another mega-hit. Then it was back to Crowe with Vanilla Sky, a "rock'n'roll" remake of the Spanish weird-out Open Your Eyes - Cruise had bought the remake rights after seeing the movie with production partner Paula Wagner, then got Crowe involved. It's worth noting that Cruise was now such a massive star that the film's poster was simply a picture of his head and shoulders beside a list of words reading "Love, Hate, Dreams, Life, Work, Play, Friendship, Sex". Completely meaningless, that list, when it comes to explaining what the film was about, but it absolutely did not matter. Everyone was only going to see Cruise anyway.The movie featured Cruise as a New York playboy, the inheritor of a publishing empire, in a bizarre love triangle with Cameron Diaz and Penelope Cruz (herself the star of the original). Then there's a car accident and everything goes mad - Cruise is so horrifically scarred he spends the rest of the movie in a mask. It actually went mad for Cruise %u2018n' Cruz in real life too. After the movie wrapped, the media went into feeding-frenzy at the news that Cruise had split with Kidman after 10 years of marriage (they have two adopted children - Isabella and Connor) and begun seeing Cruz. Tom and Nicole tried to keep a lid on it, but it was impossible, what with Cruise having to attend the premiere of Kidman's The Others (directed by Amenabar, Cruise had produced the film - no doubt as part of the Open Your Eyes/ Vanilla Sky deal). Of course, everyone was interested in the splitting of Tom and Nicole's mighty fortune, and fascinated when Kidman revealed that in March, 2001, one month after Cruise filed for divorce, she had suffered a miscarriage.Next came Minority Report, a sci-fi thriller from the pen of Philip K. Dick (screenplay by Frank Darabont of Shawshank Redemption fame), about future-cops who, with the aid of Pre-Cogs (weird, bald types who float in big tanks and see the future) can arrest criminals before they commit their crimes. Cruise played the head of Washington's Pre-Crime unit, who's himself accused and pursued by rival Colin Farrell. Adding Steven Spielberg to Tom's incredible list of directors, it was hugely inventive stuff, action-packed but still teeming with intelligence, Spielberg having got together some of the deepest minds in America to help build his future-world. It cost over $100 million yet, with Cruise attached (unlike Spielberg's relative failure A:I), it still made money.For his next project, Cruise would step back in time with The Last Samurai. Here he was Nathan Algren, a US cavalryman and hero of the American civil war, who's invited to modernise the army of the Emperor of Japan, then under threat from the samurai warriors of a rebel leader. He agrees but, captured by the enemy, he learns and comes to respect their codes of honour (in return teaching their children baseball). It was an interesting premise, and expertly filmed by Edward Zwick - after Glory a veteran of major battle sequences - yet many found it a little too close to Kevin Costner's Dances With Wolves for comfort. As ever, Cruise drove the film to success (receiving a Golden Globe nomination for his efforts), promoting it with huge vigour. In the process, he became the first man ever to appear on Marie Claire's front cover, and publicly sang Elvis Presley's I Want You, I Need You, I Love You with Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi.. Cruise's next project would be on a far smaller scale, when he teamed up with Michael Mann for Collateral. Here cab driver Jamie Foxx played an LA cabbie who picks up a fare only to discover the guy's a hit-man. This is Cruise, probably the world's most charming assassin, who then forces Foxx to drive him around town as he carries out his bloody work. Can Foxx out-wit this deadly fellow and perhaps save himself and the final victim? The movie was yet another hit, proof that Cruise could get away with playing a villain and further proof (if any was needed) that he's a great guy to accompany onscreen, Foxx being nominated for a Best Supporting Actor Oscar.With script and director problems plaguing Mission Impossible 3, Cruise and Spielberg now brought forward their plans to remake War Of The Worlds. This time ancient aliens have buried three-legged machines in the ground and bring them to life by hitting them with lightning bolts containing alien drivers. Cue death rays, destruction, total chaos and some of the most amazing SFX in history (check out the burning train or Cruise walking through a downed aircraft) as an immature, divorced Cruise attempts to protect his children by running, hiding and seeking a means of fighting back. A hugely expensive production, budgeted at $132 million, it nevertheless rewarded its makers handsomely, Cruise yet again breaking the $200 million barrier with ease.Surely Cruise will soon direct himself. He did helm an episode of TV series Fallen Angels back in 1993 and is a producer too, having worked on both Mission: Impossibles, plus Without Limits (directed by Robert Towne, writer of Chinatown, and The Firm, Days Of Thunder and the Mission movies), Narc and The Others.Of course, being the biggest movie star in the world, Cruise receives attention of another kind. He's had to sue people for claiming he's gay, one being "erotic wrestler" Chad Slater (AKA Kyle Bradford) who went so far as to claim he'd had an affair with Cruise which had ended his marriage to Kidman. June 2001 saw Cruise launch another $100 million suit against one Michael Davis who approached various news services claiming he had a video of Cruise in a homosexual relationship. Cruise often sues when he feels lies are being told and his reputation damaged. He gives all proceeds to charity - now taking a big percentage of his film's grosses (he made $75 million from M:I2), he hardly needs the money. He also gets gyp for his membership of the Church of Scientology, which he joined in 1990, despite his stated opinion that it's aided him enormously, and even helped clear up his dyslexia. Always big news in the tabloids, Cruise would hit new heights in 2005 when it was announced that, having split from Penelope Cruz, he was dating actress Katie Holmes, 16 years his junior. Many publicly asserted that it was a publicity stunt designed to hype their oncoming blockbusters War Of The Worlds and Batman Begins. Many more would agree once Cruise had appeared on the Oprah Winfrey Show, bouncing up and down on the sofa and loudly declaring his love. But June would see Cruise propose to Holmes on the Eiffel Tower and October would bring an announcement that she was pregnant. Still, though, the unpleasant gossip would not stop, most of the stories characterising Holmes as a poor naive girl who, having worshipped Cruise as a little girl, was now being drawn into Scientology despite her Catholic beliefs. The arrival of daughter Suri in April, 2006, would bring another wave of rumours. Was Cruise really going to force Holmes to stay silent during the birth? The answer was - oddly enough - no.Cruise had occasionally involved himself in politics - in 2000 he backed Hillary Clinton's Senate campaign - but now he'd become far more outspoken. The press campaign for War Of The Worlds often became very heated, with Cruise defending his belief in Scientology, aggressively attacking the absurdly common diagnosis of ADD and willy-nilly prescription of the likes of Ritalin, then rubbishing psychology, psychiatry and the use of anti-depressants (statements that drew him into a very public war of words with, among others, the actress Brooke Shields). Though some of his points were good, particularly on the subject of Ritalin, he would be quite badly shown up when reporters began to research some of his more outrageous claims about the history of psychiatry and drugs.In TV interviews, Cruise was now coming across as defensive and sometimes angry, his famous ebullience and optimism seeming rather forced. Indeed, his image was taking over. Now he was a money-making monolith, an Operating Thetan on level 7 of Scientology's Bridge to Total Freedom, almost entirely removed from his audience. As if recognising this, he'd give some of his most revealing interviews yet, exploring his relationship with his father and mother, the lessons learned and the damage done. Behind the mystique of Scientology and Hollywood super-power, Cruise was still that bullied little boy, still seeking a better life for himself and his family. Of course, he was also still Ethan Hunt and, at last, 2006 would see the third installment of the Mission: Impossible series, with Cruise this time engaged in a battle of wills (and big guns) with sadistic international arms dealer Philip Seymour Hoffman, who threatens to kill Hunt in front of his girlfriend Michelle Monaghan. It was very different from the last time Cruise and Hoffman had starred together, beside Jason Robards' death-bed in Magnolia.. Though away from the industry Cruise does like to scuba-dive and sky-dive and also pilots aircraft, including a Pitts Special S-2B stunt plane, mostly it's about work. Cruise resents being thought of as a beefcake actor or a pretty-boy maker of pulp entertainment. He did, after all, turn down Top Gun 2, despite a promised 500% wage rise, made Born On The Fourth Of July for scale (plus percentage) and took no upfront fee for The Last Samurai. He's tested himself against the best for so long, he's been involved in so many award-winning projects, he feels he deserves better. And he does.Dominic Wills 
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Tom Cruise attends the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Tom Cruise attends the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19: Tom Cruise attends the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Tom Cruise attends the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Tom Cruise attends the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Tom Cruise attends the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Tom Cruise attends the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Tom Cruise attends the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Tom Cruise attends the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Tom Cruise attends the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Tom Cruise attends the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Tom Cruise attends the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Tom Cruise attends the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Katie Holmes and Tom Cruise attend the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes attend the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Katie Holmes and Tom Cruise attend the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Katie Holmes and Tom Cruise attend the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Katie Holmes and Tom Cruise attend the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Katie Holmes and Tom Cruise attend the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 19:  Katie Holmes and Tom Cruise attend the "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" U.S. premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 19, 2011 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images)
Eat, Pray, LoveThe Other GuysDinner For SchmucksScott Pilgrim vs The WorldSaltThe ExpendablesThe Last AirbenderKnight and DayThe Karate KidThe A-Team
adam sandler angelina jolie colin firth daniel craig george clooney jackie chan jennifer lopez johnny depp judi dench leonardo dicaprio liam neeson mel gibson meryl streep morgan freeman penelope cruz robert de niro steven spielberg tom cruise vin diesel will smith 
	This site uses cookies. If you continue without changing your settings, you're consenting to receive the cookies set by our website.  Find out more 
=======================================================
                  of play by the name of Godspell in Bloomfield, New Jersey. This is where the Italian 
=======================================================
										-moz-border-radius: 10px; -webkit-border-radius: 10px; -khtml-border-radius: 10px;  border-radius: 10px; -o-border-radius: 10px;
.vvqbox { display: block; max-width: 100%; visibility: visible !important; margin: 10px auto; } .vvqbox img { max-width: 100%; height: 100%; } .vvqbox object { max-width: 100%; } 
Disclaimer TomCruiseForever.com is a unofficial fansite created by Tom Cruise's fans. This site is a non-profit fan resource only and is in no way affiliated with Mr. Cruise. They are used for non-profit use in accordance with section 107 of the US Copyright Law. No ©copyright infringment intended.  The original content and graphics are ©copyrighted 2005-2014 of TomCruiseForever.com and can't be used without our permission. ~The Staff 
Family: Tom’s father, Thomas Cruise Mapother III was an electrical engineer employed by General Electric. His Mother is the former Mary Lee Pfeiffer, a retired teacher. Tom’s parents married in Louisville, Kentucky in 1957 after meeting at the University of Kentucky. The Mapother’s are a prominent family of Attorney’s in the Louisville area. They divorced in 1975, and Mary Lee moved the family from Ottawa, Canada, back to their home town of Louisville. She remarried Jack South in 1978, and together, the new family moved to Washington Street in Glen Ridge, New Jersey. Tom’s father passed away from cancer in Louisville on January 9, 1984, at the age of 49, never having seen any of Tom’s movies. Tom has 3 sisters: LeeAnne (1959), his publicist, Marian (1961), a teacher, and Cass (1963) a former restaurateur. He has many Nieces and Nephews. Tom also has 2 children, adopted during his marriage to Nicole Kidman. Isabella Jane Cruise was born on December 22, 1992, and Conor Antony Cruise was born on January 17, 1995. He has one daughter with his wife Katie Holmes, the beautiful little Suri, who was born on April 18, 2006. Tom is of Irish and Welsh descent.
In 1975, if you had told 13 year old Tommy Mapother who was living on Taylorville Road in Louisville, Kentucky and attending Sacred Heart School, that in the not too distant future he would be considered 3th of the top movie stars of all time, he would have thought you were crazy. Nonetheless, this young man born in Syracuse, New York in 1962 was destined to become Tom Cruise, one of the highest paid and most sought after actors in screen history. Because of his father’s job, Tom had a nomadic childhood and by the time he was 14, he had attended 15 different schools in the United States and Canada. He was diagnosed as dyslexic and was not particularly successful in school. In 1976, he spent one year (his Freshman year in High School) at St. Francis Seminary, a Franciscan school in Cincinnati at the behest of his Grandfather who offered to pay for his education. Contrary to rumors, Tom never considered becoming a priest ! He simply attended St. Francis because it provided him with the opportunity for a better education. Because his Grandfather refused to pay for his sisters to attend school as well, Tom left St. Francis after 1 year, and returned to Louisville where he spent his Sophomore year of High School at St. Xaviar High School. His Mom, Mary Lee remarried in 1978 and the new family moved to a big house on Washington Street in Glen Ridge, New Jersey where Tom attended Glen Ridge High School for his Junior and Senior years. He played soccer and was on the wrestling team, but because of a knee injury suffered when he slipped down a flight of stairs at home, he was unable to participate in sports later in his Senior year, and became interested in acting when a teacher suggested he try out for the school play. He did, and he got the part of Nathan Detroit in the school production of “Guys and Dolls”. In addition, in the spring and summer of 1980, he performed in a dinner theater production of “Godspell”. After graduation in June of 1980, Tom borrowed $800 from his stepdad Jack, loaded up his old Pinto and moved to New York to become an actor. He found an apartment, worked as a busboy at Mortimer’s restaurant, and acted as the Assistant Superintendent for a building on Amsterdam Avenue in order to make ends meet while attending acting classes at the Neighborhood Playhouse and auditioning for television and movie roles. He landed his first role, a small part in the 1981 film “Endless Love”. He found out he had the part, when he hitchhiked home to New Jersey after his car wouldn’t start, and found that the producers called his Mother’s house to tell him he had the role. He had given them her phone number because he couldn’t afford a phone ! The next years are the stuff of legends and from the very outset, he exhibited an undeniable box office appeal to both male and female audiences.
Though only 5’9” tall and not “movie star handsome” in the traditional sense, within 5 years Tom Cruise starred in some of the top grossing films of the 1980’s including “Top Gun” (1986), “The Color of Money” (1986), “Rainman” (1988), and “Born on the Fourth of July” (1989). By the 1990’s, he was one of the highest paid actors in the world, averaging close to 20 million dollars a film in such blockbuster hits “The Firm” (1993), “Interview with the Vampire” (1994), “Mission: Impossible” (1996), and “Jerry Maguire” (1996) for which he received his first Academy Award Nomination in the category of Best Actor. In 1999, Tom co-starred in the ensemble drama, “Magnolia”, and received his third Academy Award nomination in the Best Supporting Actor category. His next films, “Missin: Impossible 2″ (2000), “Vanilla Sky” (2001), “Minority Report” (2002), “The Last Samurai” (2003), and “Collateral” (2004), were also huge successes earning more than 100 million dollars in the US Box office alone. In 2005, Tom will star in the Steven Spielberg film, War of the Worlds, which is also being co-produced by his company C/W Productions.
In May of 1987, Tom married Mimi Rogers, and in the late 80’s he became a member of The Church of Scientology. He used their study technology to overcome his difficulty with reading and comprehension which had plagued him all his life, and came to realize that he had been misdiagnosed as dyslexic. He remains a devout Scientologist. He and Mimi went their separate ways in January of 1990 and Tom met and married Nicole Kidman in December of 1990. In 1993, he formed the extremely successful C/W Productions on the Paramount Lot with his former agent, Paula Wagner, and is now represented by Paula’s husband, Rick Nicita at CAA. A kind a thoughtful man, Tom is well known for his compassion and generosity and is also one of the most well liked actors in the movie industry. In addition to C/W Productions, Tom owns 2 other companies. He does not believe in allowing others to manage his affairs. He is responsible for the day to day operations of all 3 companies. Tom earned his Commercial pilots license in 1994 and is an instrument rated pilot. He owns 4 planes, including a Pitts S-2B Aerobatic Bi-Plane called “Sweet Bella”, a Vintage World War II Mustang P-51K called “Montana Miss” (it’s original WW II name), a Beech F90, and a Gulfstream 4SP. During the late 80’s, he raced for Newman/Haas SCCA racing team, although since the birth of his children, he’s given up racing on a regular basis. He enjoys scuba diving, sky diving, rock climbing, mountain biking, and many other sports, and is an avid sports fan as well. He supports the New York Yankee’s baseball team and the New York Giants football team. He also has a keen interest in Aviation History. Tom resides in Beverly Hills, California, but also owns an apartment in New York City and a mountain top home in Telluride, Colorado. The boy formerly known as Thomas Cruise Mapother IV has indeed come a long way from the lonely wanderings of his youth.
Nicole Kidman, actress, Married December 24, 1990 in Telluride, Colorado. Separated 2000. Divorced August, 2001;
Katie Holmes, actress, Married November 18, 2006 in Odescalchi castle in Bracciano, Italy. Divorced July 2012.
© 2011 TOM CRUISE FOREVER - Euphoria Squared theme by Double-Glamour.Org - Hosted at Fan-Sites.Org - Privacy Policy
=======================================================
1983August 05No Risky MoveCruise's first big movie, Risky Business, opens. Dancing in his underwear, Cruise, 21, lands at the top of Hollywood. EW calls it a "teen comedy that had the unexpected grace of a screwball farce." 1986May 12Top DollarCruise takes to the skies as jet jock Maverick in Top Gun, the year's biggest moneymaker. It earns $170 million by December.  1987May 09(Very Quiet) Wedding BellsIn a ceremony so secret even his publicist is left in the dark, Cruise marries girlfriend of a year and a half Mimi Rogers in a Unitarian ceremony in upstate New York. The actor's close friend Emilio Estevez is the best man. In January 1990, Cruise and Rogers call it quits. 1988December 12Dramatic TurnCruise shares the screen with acting heavyweight Dustin Hoffman in the Oscar-winning Rain Man. "His talent is young, his body is young, his spirit is young," Hoffman told PEOPLE in 1990. "He's a Christmas tree – he's lit from head to toe." 1989December 20Working with OliverOliver Stone's Born on the Fourth of July, in which Cruise plays Vietnam veteran Ron Kovic, opens. It earns Cruise his first Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor. Around this time, Cruise joins the Church of Scientology. He later credits Scientology with helping him overcome dyslexia.1990June 27Off to the RacesDays of Thunder premieres. During filming, the actor quickly warms to his costar: Aussie actress Nicole Kidman. Cruise developed the idea for the film after catching the racing bug from Color of Money costar Paul Newman. July 13Cover BoyCruise is named PEOPLE's Sexiest Man Alive. "His smile is a little off, nose a little off," Rain Man producer Mark Johnson tells PEOPLE. "But it's the sum total." Kidman, his new love interest, agrees, as they secretly wed on December 24 in Telluride, Colo. The union, witnessed by only a handful of guests, takes place in a $2 million rented home with views of the Rockies. 1992May 22Acting DuoCruise and Kidman hit the big screen together in Far and Away, but the movie is far from a blockbuster.  The flop cost more than $45 million, but grosses only $50 million. Still, the couple return onscreen as husband and wife in director Stanley Kubrick's final film Eyes Wide Shut. Reflecting on the relationship between the famous pair and Kubrick, who died in March prior to the film's July 16, 1999 release, producer Jan Harlan told PEOPLE, "They and Stanley absolutely got on like a house on fire."1993JanuaryA Growing FamilyThe couple adopt their first child, 2-month-old Isabella Jane. In February 1995, the couple will adopt a second baby, 2-week-old Connor Antony. Of her growing family, Mrs. Cruise gushes to PEOPLE, "It's your kids who bring you the most joy." 1996June 10The Questions Come OutTabloids circulate rumors that Cruise's marriage to Kidman is an arrangement, claiming she is a salaried wife and he is gay. The couple expressly deny the reports, and Cruise tells Premiere, "[That] is a hard-line cynicism. . . This is my relationship, and I'm being called a liar about it." The story surfaces again in 1998. Cruise sues the British tabloid and successfully wins $330,000 in damages, which he donates to charity. 
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): Everett; Everett; Eugene Adebari/REX USA; DMIPHOTO; Roland Neveu/UNIVERSAL; NEAL PETERS COLLECTION; Everett Collection; NEWSPIX AUSTRALIA 
Katie Holmes, ex-wife (2005 to 2012)Penélope Cruz, ex-girlfriend (2001 to 2004)Nicole Kidman, ex-wife (1990 to 2001)Mimi Rogers, ex-wife (1986 to 1990)Cher, ex-girlfriend (dated briefly in 1980s) 
									Isabella Jane Kidman Cruise, adopted daughter (12/22/1992)Connor Antony Kidman Cruise, adopted son (2/6/1995) Suri Cruise, daughter (4/18/2006) 
   Jun 25, 2013 DOUBLE VISION  Tom Cruise and Johnny Depp sport complementary smiles and sunglasses Monday while stepping out in support… See Photo   Jun 10, 2013 GOOD VALUE  Two for the price of one? Walmart shareholders get a thrill as Hollywood hunks Hugh Jackman and Tom Cruise… See Photo
=======================================================
BiographyTom Cruise (born 3.7.1962)Tom Cruise is an American actor, with three Academy Awards and three Golden Globes to his name.Tom Cruise: ChildhoodBorn Thomas Cruise Mapother IV in New York, Cruise is the son of Mary Lee and Thomas Cruise Mapother III. Cruise was raised and educated in Ontario, Canada as his father had taken a job as Defence Consultant with the Canadian Army.Mary left Tom's father when Tom was 12 and the family lived in a number of different cities. Whilst he was recovering from a wrestling injury, Cruise decided to audition for the lead in a school production of Guys and Dolls. It was this role that made him decide to become an actor.Tom Cruise: Acting CareerIn 1981, Tom Cruise gained his first film role: a small part in Endless Love, which starred Brooke Shields. He also had a larger part alongside Sean Penn in Taps, also released in 1981. Two years later, Cruise was cast in The Outsiders, a Francis Ford Coppola film that also starred Matt Dillon, Patrick Swayze and Rob Lowe. Also in 1983, Cruise appeared in Losin' It, with Shelly Long and Risky Business, which is widely credited as the film that brought Cruise to the public eye. His fourth film of the year was All the Right Moves.After featuring in Ridley Scott's fantasy picture, Legend, Cruise was cast by Jerry Bruckheimer and Don Simpson to appear in Top Gun. It has been reported that Cruise initially turned down the offer but helped to alter the script and eventually took the part. The film opened in 1986 and was the highest grossing film of the year, making over $350 million worldwide. The same year, Cruise starred in The Color of Money, for which co-star Paul Newman won an Oscar.Two years later, Cruise starred in another two highly successful films. The first was Cocktail, a light-hearted tale in which he played a bartender. The second was Rain Man, which also starred Dustin Hoffman. Rain Man won four of the eight Academy Awards for which it was nominated. This success was continued when Tom Cruise received more Academy Award nominations, this time for his role in Born on the Fourth of July.Tom then went on to star in Days of Thunder and Far and Away, two films in which he co-starred with his future wife, Nicole Kidman. These were followed with his role in A Few Good Men, with Demi Moore and Jack Nicholson. He then gained a role alongside Gene Hackman in The Firm, based on John Grisham's best-selling novel.In 1994, Cruise featured in Interview With The Vampire, based on Anne Rice's novel. Brad Pitt and Christian Slater also starred in the film, but Anne Rice was overtly critical of the decision to cast Cruise in the film.Two years later, Cruise produced and starred in Mission: Impossible, a remake of the 1960s TV series. The film was the third best-selling movie of the year, grossing over $456 million. He then earned another Academy Award for his role in Jerry Maguire, which featured his infamous line "Show Me the Money!"In 1999, Cruise starred alongside Nicole Kidman (to whom he was still married) in Eyes Wide Shut. The film was Stanley Kubrick's last venture before he died and took two years to complete. Magnolia was released in the same year and Cruise earned a Best Supporting Actor Academy Award Nomination for his role in the film. The next year, Cruise reprised his role in Mission: Impossible in the sequel, directed by John Woo. This was followed by Vanilla Sky, Steven Spielberg's Minority Report and the Last Samurai.2004 saw Cruise deviate from his usual good-guy role, in Michael Mann's Collateral, in which he played a hitman. He worked again with Spielberg, in War of the Worlds, the third highest-selling film of 2005. The next year, he starred in the third installment of the Mission: Impossible trilogy. In 2007, he starred in the drama, Lions for Lambs with Meryl Streep and Robert Redford.2008 saw him in the comedy 'Tropic Thunder' with Ben Stiller and Jack Black for which he earned a Golden Globe nomination. He also had the lead role in 'Valkyrie' alongside Kenneth Branagh and Bill Nighy that same year.In 2010, he teamed up with Cameron Diaz in 'Knight and Day' and announced 'Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol' which came out in 2011 to much box office success.In 2012, he played the titled role in 'Jack Reacher' opposite Rosamund Pike and Richard Jenkins and starred as Stacie Jaxx in 'Rock of Ages' with Julianne Hough and Russell Brand, though the movie performed poorly at the box office. 2013 saw him in the sci-fi action flick 'Oblivion' opposite Morgan Freeman and Olga Kurylenko.Tom Cruise: Personal LifeTom Cruise's first marriage was in 1987, to Mimi Rogers. They divorced in 1990. It is believed that it was Rogers who introduced Cruise to Scientology, the religious sect of which he is now a figurehead.In 1990, Cruise remarried, to his previous co-star, Nicole Kidman. The pair adopted two children, Isabella and Connor. Kidman later became pregnant with their first child, but the couple separated months before their 10th anniversary and Kidman suffered a miscarriage shortly after the split.In 2006, Cruise married the actress Katie Holmes. They have a daughter, Suri together. The couple divorced in 2012 though the exact terms have not been reported.
Fancy an action blockbuster this weekend? Doug Liman's hotly anticipated new sci-fi action epic Edge of Tomorrow finally sees its US release today and is set for a monster opening. Well, the critical winds are...
"I used to push Tom over just to see him fall down... He would be on his back... You need three people to get him up again!" British actress Emily Blunt loved to mess around...
British actress Emily Blunt "almost killed" Tom Cruise on the set of their new movie Edge Of Tomorrow when she accidentally slammed a car into a tree in the middle of a high-speed stunt.The Devil...
"It took a lot of (practise)... I mean I couldn't do it in the beginning, it took a lot of training to do it... I remember when I was holding it and we were kinda...
Tom Cruise watches a movie every day.The 51-year-old actor, who stars alongside Emily Blunt in new combat film 'Edge Of Tomorrow', is a huge movie buff and takes note of how scenes are shot and...
Emily Blunt ''almost killed'' Tom Cruise.The 31-year-old actress got behind the wheel for a scene in their new movie 'Edge of Tomorrow' but things went wrong on the second take - when she was advised...
We got pretty excited when the first reviews of Edge of Tomorrow started trickling in a couple of weeks back. Perhaps we were just surprised that what on the face of it appeared a formulaic...
Tom Cruise is forced to live out the same day on loop in the Edge of Tomorrow – a concept that would have been as unimaginative as the name, if it wasn’t for the sci-fi...
Tom Cruise credits himself with the concept of international premieres, revealing he didn't like spending months promoting films like Top Gun around the globe.The actor claims he came up with the idea of red carpets...
"I try to watch a film every day... I'll watch scenes of films the way some people will listen to, just like, tracks of music... I'll pull up scenes just to look at how they...
"By the time we got to New York... I am not responsible for what I said in that last premiere. I don't know what I said. My lips were numb." Tom Cruise was shattered after...
Emily Blunt stars alongside Tom Cruise in ‘Edge of Tomorrow’, which has been the surprise critical hit of the year so far. But there was a time when Blunt wasn’t exactly itching to work with...
Tom Cruise flashed the paparazzi a broad grin as he posed for photos at the New York premiere of his sci-fi flick 'Edge Of Tomorrow'.Cruise stars as Major William Cage in the thriller, which is...
Angelina Jolie’s Disney blockbuster ‘Maleficent’ has taken $69.4 million at the final U.S box office count for the weekend. That means it’s now pretty much recouped its $180 million budget in worldwide takings and is...
Actor Tom Cruise shocked fans at a Chicago, Illinois movie theatre on Friday (30May14) by showing up unannounced after a screening of his new action film Edge Of Tomorrow.The Mission: Impossible star made the journey...
Nicole Kidman admits her four children have an ''interesting dynamic.''The 'Grace of Monaco' star has daughters Sunday, five, and Faith, three, with husband Keith Urban, and 21-year-old daughter Isabella and 19-year-old son Connor with ex-husband...
A Week In Movies: Blockbusters Bombard Cinemas, Tom And Emily Have Three Premieres In One Day, And New Trailers Turn Up For Festival Favourites And Disney Animation
Three big films hit cinemas this weekend in the UK (one of them opens next week in America), with a fantasy blockbuster taking on a sci-fi action thriller and a Wild West comedy for box...
Nicole Kidman is happiest with her family.The 'Grace of Monaco' actress treasures all the time she spends with husband Keith Urban and their daughters Sunday, five, and Faith, three, because she knows time is ''previous''.She...
Very few actors have enjoyed the career trajectory of Tom Cruise. After rising to superstardom in Top Gun nearly 30 years ago, he barely seems to have aged at all. He turns 52 in July,...
Director Olivier Dahan says Nicole Kidman was perfect for 'Grace of Monaco' since they shared similar marital struggles.The filmmaker's latest project opened the Cannes Film Festival earlier this month and tells the story of...
A smarter-than-expected script turns this noisy sci-fi action movie into something remarkably entertaining. A-list stars, solid actors and whizzy effects aside, the dialogue is packed with clever observations that are both mind-bending and unexpectedly hilarious....
There was a five year period in the early 2000's when Tom Cruise could do no wrong and was undoubtedly the world's biggest movie star. He put together a fine run of quality movies, including...
Nicole Kidman is very proud of her ''hardworking'' children with ex-husband Tom Cruise.The 'Grace of Monaco' star, who also has daughters Sunday, five, and Faith, three, with husband Keith Urban, is delighted that her eldest...
"I'm working on the next mission soon and we're shooting it here in London. We haven't come up with a title yet. Hopefully I'll come up with a good one before the movie is finished."...
Actress Emily Blunt hid her pregnancy on the set of action movie Edge Of Tomorrow until her co-star Tom Cruise figured out the truth when she stopped taking part in hair-raising stunts.The two screen stars...
"I don't know. People have been talking about it but it's no closer to being true, but we have been talking about coming up with a story and a script - we'll see." Tom Cruise...
It was bound to be a flop. It had to be a flop. But Tom Cruise's Edge of Tomorrow is emerging as one of the best movies of 2014 and has put a small group...
Tom Cruise narrowly escaped a serious injury as a child when his attempt to emulate a stunt by daredevil Evel Knievel went horribly wrong.The Top Gun star was a big fan of the famed stuntman...
Nicole Kidman's husband leaves her secret love letters. The 'Grace of Monaco' actress finds the attention she receives from Keith Urban ''amazing'' and says he is very romantic.Asked if Keith is romantic, she told French...
Emily Blunt, the star of the upcoming sci-fi epic, Edge of Tomorrow starring Tom Cruise, has detailed how acting – being ‘someone else’ helped her overcome her stutter. It was a teacher who suggested it,...
The second season of the prison comedy-drama will premiere on Netflix this week. here are some preview clips!
Oscar-winning actor Kevin Spacey turned the air blue on respected Bbc current affairs show Newsnight.
50 Cent has defended Justin Bieber in light of his N-word shame, insisting the 20-year-old star is not racist and is ''still a baby''.
All you really need to do for the next 10 minutes is relax, grab a coffee, and flick through the gallery.
A documentary focussing on the brotherly relationship between renowned rock star Matt Berninger and his metal head brother Tom.
I'm happy you are spending xmas with all of your kids I wish you and your children a happy xmas. susan kuby stassi,
THIS IS WHAT TOM CRUISE ACTUALLY BELIEVES SINCE HE'S AN UPPER LEVEL $CIENTOLOGIST:This story is the core belief in the religion known as Scientology. If the people Scientology tries to recruit knew about this story, I don't think they would ever get involved. This story is told to Scientologists when they reach a higher leveI. If the people in Scientology at the lower levels knew about this story, I don't think they would would stay on the Scientology hamster wheel. It is a road to total something, but not freedom. 75 million years ago, there was an alien galactic ruler named Xenu who was in charge of 76 planets in our part of the galaxy, including our own planet Earth, whose name at that time was Teegeeack. All of the planets Xenu controlled were over-populated by, on average, 178 billion people. Social problems dictated that Xenu rid his sector of the galaxy of this overpopulation problem, so he developed a plan. Xenu sent out Tax Audit demands to all these billions of people. As each one entered the audit centers for the income tax inspections, the people were seized, held down and injected with a mixture of alcohol and glycol, and frozen. Then, all 1.4 trillion of these frozen people were put into spaceships that looked exactly like DC8 airplanes, except that the spaceships had rocket engines instead of propellers. Xenu's entire fleet of DC8-like spaceships then flew to planet Earth, where the frozen people were dumped in and around volcanoes in the Canary Islands and the Hawaiian Islands. When Xenu's Air Force had finished dumping the bodies into the volcanoes, hydrogen bombs were dropped into the volcanoes and the frozen space aliens were destroyed. However, Xenu's plan involved setting up electronic traps in Teegeack's atmosphere which were designed to trap the souls or spirits of the dead space aliens. When the 1.4 trillion spirits were being blown around on the nuclear winds, the electronic traps worked like a charm and captured all the souls in the electronic, sticky fly-paper like traps. The spirits of the aliens were then taken to huge multi-plex cinemas that Xenu had previously instructed his forces to build on Teegeack. In these movie theatres the spirits had to spend many days watching special 3D movies, the purpose of which was twofold: 1) to implant into these spirits a false reality, i.e. the reality that WOGS know on Earth today; and, 2) to control these spirits for all eternity so that they could never cause trouble for Xenu in this sector of the Galaxy. During these films, many false pictures were implanted into these spirits, which resulted in the spirits believing in all the things that control mankind on Earth today, including religion. The concept of religion, including God, Christ, Mohammed, Moses etc., were all an implanted false reality that to this very minute is used to control WOGS on earth. When the films ended and the souls left the cinema, they started to stick together in clusters of a few thousand and remained that way until mankind began to inhabit the earth. Today on earth all the spirits of these aliens have attached themselves to our bodies and are the root cause of the false reality that all but Scientology's OT 8's on earth experience. It is the job of all Scientologists to remove this false reality from the world by auditing each and every space alien spirit and human on earth to CLEAR not only this planet but the universe. For those who oppose Scientology and stand in their way like the LMT and all Scientology critics, Scientology promises to do away with them "quitely and without sorrow". I have calculated that on average, each person on planet earth has 2,314 of these Body Thetans (BT's for short), Hubbard's term for the alien spirits, causing you and all mankind to be constrained by Xenu's false reality. The average cost for Scientology to OT 8 is a mere USD 360,000, meaning that each BT only costs USD 155.57 to clear. Now that is a bargain if there ever was one. Hubbard never said the overall cost to the planet would be cheap, but let's examine it. The planetary cost equation is as follows: 1.4 trillion spirits times USD 155.57 equals a mere USD 2,104,550,960,000. Just think about it -- USD 2.2 quadrillion -- s**t, that's enough to keep Rear Admiral Miscavige and Marty in casino chips for a long time. As for Xenu, the Loyal Officers of the Marcab Confederation finally discovered how evil he was and overthrew him. He is now locked away in a mountain on one of the planets and kept in by a force-field powered by an eternal battery. Several of Xenu's relatives can often be found on ARS. In fact I know people who have sat in a room at the Sancastle building in Clearwater, Florida for 5-7 hours per day, holding two asparagus cans together, attached to a lie detector, talking all day to these dead space aliens. And guess what? You'll never ever finish talking to dead space aliens until you leave Scientology. I am repeating this story to you as a warning. If you become involved with Scientology then I want you to do so with your eyes open and fully aware of the sort of material it contains.
When Tom Cruise was married to Mimi Rogers years ago, he received new on the set of a movie that he was Sterile.  He later "adopted" two children with Nicole Kidman, then, later supposedly divorced her because she said she was pregnant with his child, which he deemed to be impossible due to his sterility.  Nicole supposedly later miscarried the baby, however, supposedly kept the evidence in the Scientology Lab. in order the refute Tom's claim that she had an affair and that the child could not be his as he was sterile.  The DNA evidence being held in the lab was to help her prove her case in court during the divorce.  Why had this never been addressed when Katie Holmes supposedly had Tom's baby?  Why doesn't anyone ask Tom about this?  Is the subject taboo?
hy...TOM....why you look so bad in this picture...anyway....you are....just....great....toZO....NEDERLANS ...PRATEN...DUI......HAVE A NICE CRISTMANS TIME......LADY CLAUDIA DUMITRESCU.....
THIS IS WHAT TOM CRUISE ACTUALLY BELIEVES SINCE HE'S AN UPPER LEVEL SCIENTOLOGIST: .This story is the core belief in the cult known as Scientology. If the people Scientology tries to recruit knew about this story, I don't think they would ever get involved. This story is told to Scientologists when they reach a higher leveI. If the people in Scientology at the lower levels knew about this story, I don't think they would would stay on the Scientology hamster wheel. It is a road to total something, but not freedom. 75 million years ago, there was an alien galactic ruler named Xenu who was in charge of 76 planets in our part of the galaxy, including our own planet Earth, whose name at that time was Teegeeack. All of the planets Xenu controlled were over-populated by, on average, 178 billion people. Social problems dictated that Xenu rid his sector of the galaxy of this overpopulation problem, so he developed a plan. Xenu sent out Tax Audit demands to all these billions of people. As each one entered the audit centers for the income tax inspections, the people were seized, held down and injected with a mixture of alcohol and glycol, and frozen. Then, all 1.4 trillion of these frozen people were put into spaceships that looked exactly like DC8 airplanes, except that the spaceships had rocket engines instead of propellers. Xenu's entire fleet of DC8-like spaceships then flew to planet Earth, where the frozen people were dumped in and around volcanoes in the Canary Islands and the Hawaiian Islands. When Xenu's Air Force had finished dumping the bodies into the volcanoes, hydrogen bombs were dropped into the volcanoes and the frozen space aliens were destroyed. However, Xenu's plan involved setting up electronic traps in Teegeack's atmosphere which were designed to trap the souls or spirits of the dead space aliens. When the 1.4 trillion spirits were being blown around on the nuclear winds, the electronic traps worked like a charm and captured all the souls in the electronic, sticky fly-paper like traps. The spirits of the aliens were then taken to huge multi-plex cinemas that Xenu had previously instructed his forces to build on Teegeack. In these movie theatres the spirits had to spend many days watching special 3D movies, the purpose of which was twofold: 1) to implant into these spirits a false reality, i.e. the reality that WOGS know on Earth today; and, 2) to control these spirits for all eternity so that they could never cause trouble for Xenu in this sector of the Galaxy. During these films, many false pictures were implanted into these spirits, which resulted in the spirits believing in all the things that control mankind on Earth today, including religion. The concept of religion, including God, Christ, Mohammed, Moses etc., were all an implanted false reality that to this very minute is used to control WOGS on earth. When the films ended and the souls left the cinema, they started to stick together in clusters of a few thousand and remained that way until mankind began to inhabit the earth. Today on earth all the spirits of these aliens have attached themselves to our bodies and are the root cause of the false reality that all but Scientology's OT 8's on earth experience. It is the job of all Scientologists to remove this false reality from the world by auditing each and every space alien spirit and human on earth to CLEAR not only this planet but the universe. For those who oppose Scientology and stand in their way like the LMT and all Scientology critics, Scientology promises to do away with them "quitely and without sorrow". I have calculated that on average, each person on planet earth has 2,314 of these Body Thetans (BT's for short), Hubbard's term for the alien spirits, causing you and all mankind to be constrained by Xenu's false reality. The average cost for Scientology to OT 8 is a mere USD 360,000, meaning that each BT only costs USD 155.57 to clear. Now that is a bargain if there ever was one. Hubbard never said the overall cost to the planet would be cheap, but let's examine it. The planetary cost equation is as follows: 1.4 trillion spirits times USD 155.57 equals a mere USD 2,104,550,960,000. Just think about it -- USD 2.2 quadrillion -- s**t, that's enough to keep Rear Admiral Miscavige and Marty in casino chips for a long time. As for Xenu, the Loyal Officers of the Marcab Confederation finally discovered how evil he was and overthrew him. He is now locked away in a mountain on one of the planets and kept in by a force-field powered by an eternal battery. Several of Xenu's relatives can often be found on ARS. In fact I know people who have sat in a room at the Sancastle building in Clearwater, Florida for 5-7 hours per day, holding two asparagus cans together, attached to a lie detector, talking all day to these dead space aliens. And guess what? You'll never ever finish talking to dead space aliens until you leave Scientology. I am repeating this story to you as a warning. If you become involved with Scientology then I want you to do so with your eyes open and fully aware of the sort of material it contains.
THIS IS WHAT TOM CRUISE ACTUALLY BELIEVES SINCE HE'S AN UPPER LEVEL $CIENTOLOGIST: .This story is the core belief in the religion known as Scientology. If the people Scientology tries to recruit knew about this story, I don't think they would ever get involved. This story is told to Scientologists when they reach a higher leveI. If the people in Scientology at the lower levels knew about this story, I don't think they would would stay on the Scientology hamster wheel. It is a road to total something, but not freedom. 75 million years ago, there was an alien galactic ruler named Xenu who was in charge of 76 planets in our part of the galaxy, including our own planet Earth, whose name at that time was Teegeeack. All of the planets Xenu controlled were over-populated by, on average, 178 billion people. Social problems dictated that Xenu rid his sector of the galaxy of this overpopulation problem, so he developed a plan. Xenu sent out Tax Audit demands to all these billions of people. As each one entered the audit centers for the income tax inspections, the people were seized, held down and injected with a mixture of alcohol and glycol, and frozen. Then, all 1.4 trillion of these frozen people were put into spaceships that looked exactly like DC8 airplanes, except that the spaceships had rocket engines instead of propellers. Xenu's entire fleet of DC8-like spaceships then flew to planet Earth, where the frozen people were dumped in and around volcanoes in the Canary Islands and the Hawaiian Islands. When Xenu's Air Force had finished dumping the bodies into the volcanoes, hydrogen bombs were dropped into the volcanoes and the frozen space aliens were destroyed. However, Xenu's plan involved setting up electronic traps in Teegeack's atmosphere which were designed to trap the souls or spirits of the dead space aliens. When the 1.4 trillion spirits were being blown around on the nuclear winds, the electronic traps worked like a charm and captured all the souls in the electronic, sticky fly-paper like traps. The spirits of the aliens were then taken to huge multi-plex cinemas that Xenu had previously instructed his forces to build on Teegeack. In these movie theatres the spirits had to spend many days watching special 3D movies, the purpose of which was twofold: 1) to implant into these spirits a false reality, i.e. the reality that WOGS know on Earth today; and, 2) to control these spirits for all eternity so that they could never cause trouble for Xenu in this sector of the Galaxy. During these films, many false pictures were implanted into these spirits, which resulted in the spirits believing in all the things that control mankind on Earth today, including religion. The concept of religion, including God, Christ, Mohammed, Moses etc., were all an implanted false reality that to this very minute is used to control WOGS on earth. When the films ended and the souls left the cinema, they started to stick together in clusters of a few thousand and remained that way until mankind began to inhabit the earth. Today on earth all the spirits of these aliens have attached themselves to our bodies and are the root cause of the false reality that all but Scientology's OT 8's on earth experience. It is the job of all Scientologists to remove this false reality from the world by auditing each and every space alien spirit and human on earth to CLEAR not only this planet but the universe. For those who oppose Scientology and stand in their way like the LMT and all Scientology critics, Scientology promises to do away with them "quitely and without sorrow". I have calculated that on average, each person on planet earth has 2,314 of these Body Thetans (BT's for short), Hubbard's term for the alien spirits, causing you and all mankind to be constrained by Xenu's false reality. The average cost for Scientology to OT 8 is a mere USD 360,000, meaning that each BT only costs USD 155.57 to clear. Now that is a bargain if there ever was one. Hubbard never said the overall cost to the planet would be cheap, but let's examine it. The planetary cost equation is as follows: 1.4 trillion spirits times USD 155.57 equals a mere USD 2,104,550,960,000. Just think about it -- USD 2.2 quadrillion -- s**t, that's enough to keep Rear Admiral Miscavige and Marty in casino chips for a long time. As for Xenu, the Loyal Officers of the Marcab Confederation finally discovered how evil he was and overthrew him. He is now locked away in a mountain on one of the planets and kept in by a force-field powered by an eternal battery. Several of Xenu's relatives can often be found on ARS. In fact I know people who have sat in a room at the Sancastle building in Clearwater, Florida for 5-7 hours per day, holding two asparagus cans together, attached to a lie detector, talking all day to these dead space aliens. And guess what? You'll never ever finish talking to dead space aliens until you leave Scientology. I am repeating this story to you as a warning. If you become involved with Scientology then I want you to do so with your eyes open and fully aware of the sort of material it contains.
WELL DONE TOM!!You're spot on with your comments regarding Psychiatry, how can drugging, electroshocking oranyother form of sleep inducing, painful therapy actually make someone more able to deal with their problems...it's unblievable to think it's acceptable to do these things in the name of mentalhealth UGHH!!Keep going!!
Well, I for one still adore Tom Cruise and enjoy and have enjoyed and continue to enjoy every film that he has been involved with since the beginning of his career.  The public is fickle and flawed in their appraisal of any public figure, masses loved Hitler, crucified Jesus, and made Mark Twain become a near hermit as he waited for the end of his life when Haley's Comet would return.  Cruise must read voraciously and he does give much to many charities, but unlike Angelina and Pitt, Tom Cruise does not seek goody goody fame for these gifts.  Paul Newman and many others know of Tom's efforts for altruism and helping children with learning and reading disabilities.  Cruise is such a fine actor that he effortlessly makes others in his films look good - he props them up as it were and is.  Dustin Hoffman in "Rainman" needed Cruise in those scenes, no one can deny that unarguable truth.  Even in his turn as that famous vampire, Anne Rice had to eat her critical words and agree that he (Cruise) became Lestat (possibly misspelled)!  Paul Newman said that Cruise was nothing like his megalomaniac hustler in "The Color of Money,"  that Cruise was truly "acting" to be that c**ky,and Jack Nicholson praised Cruise's passion for their court room scenes in "A Few Good Men."     I personally agree with much that Cruise says especially with regard to the novel BRAVE NEW WORLD by Aldous Huxley.  Cruise referred to this novel of warning during that now famous Matt Lauer interview and Cruise's comments were right-on.  Huxley's novel warns that in the future world there will be an easy and readily available "cure" for every imagined ill.  No one will be allowed to feel bad.  In fact, no one will be allowed to "feel" anything!  There will be drugs for every imagined problem to prevent us from feeling.  Huxley is exactly correct because from Elvis to Anna Nicole, famous and unfamous and infamous people are daily over-drugging.  Can't Sleep?  There's a drug.  Over-active child?  There's a drug.  Cruise said there was a tendency of many drug companies to hand out Ridalyn(possilby misspelled) for any child that might display an inability to listen and attend or to be potentially overactive. As a former teacher, I can tell you that statement is right on and correct!  Matt Lauer - to me - was the total "jerk" during that interview and I cannot stand him and could not even before he tried to entrap Cruise on the air.  Tom is willing and eager to talk to anyone.  He does often say too much, but he is charming and genuine and not conniving as Lauer is!Tom accused Lauer of being glib, but he should have used the word "flippant!" or cynical or overly fake and acting superior.Lauer is far more the total megalomaniac than Tom could ever be.  Tom has a right to jump for joy at finding love! He was miserable after the divorce with Nicole and obviously lonely.  It is the press and their disgusting hatred of a good guy that has innundated us with negativity regarding every issue involving Tom since his split from Nicole.  Look!  Tom had the gentlemanly grace to never smear or seek to smear Nicole in any way - he just shut up totally!  How awesome! While most in Hollywood never shut up - Tom did; but what did he reap for this quiet gentlemanliness?  Since the punk press could not fathom his silence, they sought to strike out at him and to refuse to let up.  They place druggies from countless rehab visits (Robert D. Jr.) on pedestals and forgive them  with limitless positive press, while Cruise's only crime is his passion for life.I, for one, am still a total fan of this good guy and it just makes me loathe the press and their manipulative smears of whomever they choose to smear!  They do shape our opinions - or try to - and that was even a warning from BRAVE NEW WORLD!We need to worry about how much we absorb from those tacky covers on those magazines! Most of them never say good things, but only the negative, negative, negative!  And, many of the public eat it up!Carry on, Tom!  Insulate yourself against the negativity and jealousy of others and keep entertaining us with your talent and sincerity!  I hope that Katie continues to have the maturity to "rise above" and to hate the press as well.  Her comments in the Vanity Fair article were awesome!  I pray for you and all your family, Tom and Katie!  Good Luck!D.
This story is the core belief in the religion known as Scientology. If the people Scientology tries to recruit knew about this story, I don't think they would ever get involved. This story is told to Scientologists when they reach a higher leveI. If the people in Scientology at the lower levels knew about this story, I don't think they would would stay on the Scientology hamster wheel. It is a road to total something, but not freedom. 75 million years ago, there was an alien galactic ruler named Xenu who was in charge of 76 planets in our part of the galaxy, including our own planet Earth, whose name at that time was Teegeeack. All of the planets Xenu controlled were over-populated by, on average, 178 billion people. Social problems dictated that Xenu rid his sector of the galaxy of this overpopulation problem, so he developed a plan. Xenu sent out Tax Audit demands to all these billions of people. As each one entered the audit centers for the income tax inspections, the people were seized, held down and injected with a mixture of alcohol and glycol, and frozen. Then, all 1.4 trillion of these frozen people were put into spaceships that looked exactly like DC8 airplanes, except that the spaceships had rocket engines instead of propellers. Xenu's entire fleet of DC8-like spaceships then flew to planet Earth, where the frozen people were dumped in and around volcanoes in the Canary Islands and the Hawaiian Islands. When Xenu's Air Force had finished dumping the bodies into the volcanoes, hydrogen bombs were dropped into the volcanoes and the frozen space aliens were destroyed. However, Xenu's plan involved setting up electronic traps in Teegeack's atmosphere which were designed to trap the souls or spirits of the dead space aliens. When the 1.4 trillion spirits were being blown around on the nuclear winds, the electronic traps worked like a charm and captured all the souls in the electronic, sticky fly-paper like traps. The spirits of the aliens were then taken to huge multi-plex cinemas that Xenu had previously instructed his forces to build on Teegeack. In these movie theatres the spirits had to spend many days watching special 3D movies, the purpose of which was twofold: 1) to implant into these spirits a false reality, i.e. the reality that WOGS know on Earth today; and, 2) to control these spirits for all eternity so that they could never cause trouble for Xenu in this sector of the Galaxy. During these films, many false pictures were implanted into these spirits, which resulted in the spirits believing in all the things that control mankind on Earth today, including religion. The concept of religion, including God, Christ, Mohammed, Moses etc., were all an implanted false reality that to this very minute is used to control WOGS on earth. When the films ended and the souls left the cinema, they started to stick together in clusters of a few thousand and remained that way until mankind began to inhabit the earth. Today on earth all the spirits of these aliens have attached themselves to our bodies and are the root cause of the false reality that all but Scientology's OT 8's on earth experience. It is the job of all Scientologists to remove this false reality from the world by auditing each and every space alien spirit and human on earth to CLEAR not only this planet but the universe. For those who oppose Scientology and stand in their way like the LMT and all Scientology critics, Scientology promises to do away with them "quitely and without sorrow". I have calculated that on average, each person on planet earth has 2,314 of these Body Thetans (BT's for short), Hubbard's term for the alien spirits, causing you and all mankind to be constrained by Xenu's false reality. The average cost for Scientology to OT 8 is a mere USD 360,000, meaning that each BT only costs USD 155.57 to clear. Now that is a bargain if there ever was one. Hubbard never said the overall cost to the planet would be cheap, but let's examine it. The planetary cost equation is as follows: 1.4 trillion spirits times USD 155.57 equals a mere USD 2,104,550,960,000. Just think about it -- USD 2.2 quadrillion -- s**t, that's enough to keep Rear Admiral Miscavige and Marty in casino chips for a long time. As for Xenu, the Loyal Officers of the Marcab Confederation finally discovered how evil he was and overthrew him. He is now locked away in a mountain on one of the planets and kept in by a force-field powered by an eternal battery. Several of Xenu's relatives can often be found on ARS. In fact I know people who have sat in a room at the Sancastle building in Clearwater, Florida for 5-7 hours per day, holding two asparagus cans together, attached to a lie detector, talking all day to these dead space aliens. And guess what? You'll never ever finish talking to dead space aliens until you leave Scientology. I am repeating this story to you as a warning. If you become involved with Scientology then I want you to do so with your eyes open and fully aware of the sort of material it contains.
Why are so many people attacking Tom.Is it because they are not as successful as him.Are they jealous that he is handsome, sexy and successful?He is human just like everyone else.He has feelings too.They why are you people saying such hurtful things about him.I think that he is a great actor.As for his relationship with Katie.That's his business who he gets married to.Why are you all so worked up about his life.Is Tom saying anything negative about your life.Then why are you being negative about his life.Is it because he is a famous actor?The point remains that he is a human being just like me and you.I love Tom's acting.I think that he is very talented.I wish him a successful marriage with Katie.As for his daughter Suri, she is so beautiful.She resembles both of them.I hope that they good care of her.May god bless this family so that they could live a Happy, Healthy and Successful life.P.S. I am from Trinidad and I wish that I could meet Tom and his family in real.All the best.
 Is ‘The Book Of Life’ The Next Big Animated Movie? [Trailer + Pictures]Kendall And Kylie Jenner Have Written A Book. Critics Say They Shouldn't Have BotheredThird Time Lucky? Will Bradley Cooper Finally Land Elusive Best Actor Oscar For 'American Sniper'?Alexa Chung 'Teasing' World With Fashion LineFord Models Launch Model Contest With Karl LagerfeldTransformers Stars Wish Chinese Students Luck In ExamsGeorge Clooney Househunting In FranceEddie Izzard To Perform Show In Russian As Thanks For War EffortEva Green Baffled By Film Poster BanStars Read Bbc's D-day News Bulletins To Mark 70th Anniversary
Jennifer Lopez and Casper Smart splitKim Kardashian West uses married name for autograph Evan Rachel Wood's Representative Slams 'Preposterous' LawsuitGot A Spare $20,000? Then You Could Die in 'Game of Thrones'"Why Is Hugh Bouncing?": Hugh Jackman Jumps For Joy Ahead Of Tony Awards'The Fault in Our Stars' Is (Probably) The Best Movie Out This Week 
Pharrell Williams - Full Show - #AmexUNSTAGED VideoJack White - Lazaretto VideoSharlto Copley - Maleficent Video Interview Sam Riley - Maleficent Video Interview Elle Fanning - Maleficent Video Interview  
Studio Killers - InterviewSharlto Copley - Maleficent Video InterviewSam Riley - Maleficent Video InterviewElle Fanning - Maleficent Video InterviewAngelina Jolie - Maleficent Video Interview 
Christopher Hall - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, United Kingdom -Jerry Lewis and Larry King - Jerry Lewis attends the Friars Club celebration ofWanda Sykes and Alex Sykes - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life AchievementMatthew Davies and Emma Willis - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood,Tim McGraw - 2014 CMA Music Festival Nightly Concert held at LP Field - 
