=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Bernard Montgomery or 'Monty', as he was affectionately known by his troops, was one of Britain's greatest generals, delivering the Allies one of their first significant victories in the Second World War, defeating the Germans at El Alamein. He went on to lead Allied troops in the invasion of Italy and later France.
"Leadership is the capacity and will to rally men and women to a common purpose and the character which inspires confidence. " - Montgomery
Montgomery was a complex character. He was undoubtedly a great military thinker and leader who could see the essence of situations and simplify the most complex problems in an easy to understand way. His simplicity and directness, combined with a strong sense of self-belief made him an effective military leader, but, it also created conflict with those around him - especially other generals and politicians back in Westminster. Yet, to his troops, Monty was a living legend - a general they had great faith in. This faith in Monty was well justified as  he took meticulous care to look after the troops in his command. When  Montgomery was asked which three generals he admired most. He answered with his customary precision - "the other two would be Alexander the Great and Napoleon." Monty was never one to be criticised of false modesty.
Montgomery was born in Kennington, London. His father was a deeply religious man and his mother very strict. His upbringing could be described as disciplined and strict - in the classic Victorian style of his social class. Undoubtedly, this upbringing contributed to his aloofness in later life. Montgomery threw himself into sports and was a natural sportsman and was always seeking to be a leader of men.
After school, he went to Sandhurst to train in the army. He graduated and was sent to the North West frontier of India. Slowly, he became more thoughtful about the way to get on with fellow officers, but he never lost his ability to be argumentative with others.
On the outbreak of war in 1914, Montgomery found himself in the first battle of Ypres. He conducted himself with great bravery - nearly dying after leading a bayonet charge on enemy lines. By the end of the war, he had been promoted to  lieutenant-colonel - an impressive achievement for the age of 30. He was critical of the first world war generals, such as Douglas-Haig, for their seeming indifference to casualty figures. He later commented:
"The frightful casualties appalled me. The so-called "good fighting generals" of the war appeared to me to be those who had a complete disregard for human life. There were of course exceptions and I suppose one was Plumer; I had only once seen him and I had never spoken to him.
At the end of the war, Montgomery continued his career in the military. In 1927, he also married a widow - Betty Carver, with whom they had one son. The marriage was happy for Monty given a rare period of emotional closeness. Tragically, his wife died in 1937, after an insect bite turned septic.
In the Second World War, Montgomery was elevated to Commander of the Eighth army in Egypt. In 1942, Britain had always been on the back foot in the war. About the best the Allies could claim were successful tactical retreats like Dunkirk, or holding the enemy as in the Battle of Britain; but, on the land, the army had few real victories to shout about. In the African theatre, Monty's adversary Rommel was gaining near mythical status (amongst both German and British soldiers) about his seeming invincibility.
"I want to impose on everyone that the bad times are over, they are finished! Our mandate from the Prime Minister is to destroy the Axis forces in North Africa...It can be done, and it will be done!  " - Montgomery spoken to his troops
After beating off a German attack in August, Monty was able to deliver a successful counter attack in November. It was a decisive victory for the allies and was celebrated back home. It was said, that before, El-Alamein - we never had a victory, but, after El-Alamein we never had defeat. It was not quite as simple as that, but it was a crucial turning point in the balance of power in the Second World War.
This famous victory elevated the status of Monty. He already had a certain 'cult' status amongst the mass of army recruits. They admired his somewhat unorthodox and eccentric habits. - For example, the way he dressed and his disdain for tiresome military procedures. After El-Alamein, e he became a major celebrity, in Britain, and crowds would often flock to great him.
In 1943, he took part in the Allied landings in Italy, and after hard battles, the Allies succeeded in pushing the Axis powers back.
In 1944, after much preparation, the Allies finally launched their long awaited invasion of Western Europe landing on the Normandy beeches. During the long drive East towards Germany, Monty often clashed with the American, General Eisenhower. Monty was keen for  a decisive single blow on one part of the front. Eisenhower wanted a broader general advance. Politics dictated Eisenhower would be the supreme commander (American troops outnumbered British 2:1) and with good grace, Eisenhower would argue with Monty until he got his own way. Eisenhower was generous towards Monty, certainly more so than General Patton.
"General Montgomery is a very able, dynamic type of army commander. I personally think that the only thing he needs is a strong immediate commander. He loves the limelight but in seeking it, it is possible that he does so only because of the effect upon his own soldiers, who are certainly devoted to him. I have great confidence in him as a combat commander. He is intelligent, a good talker, and has a flare for showmanship. Like all other senior British officers, he has been most loyal - personally and officially - and has shown no disposition whatsoever to overstep the bounds imposed by allied unity of command.
To some extent, Monty did have his opportunity with operation Market Garden - a daring paratroop drop deep into enemy territory. It was hoped this would enable an early capture of important Rhine bridgeheads and speed up the war. Unfortunately, the plan was overly optimistic and the ambitious targets were not achieved. He later blamed a combination of factors such as lack of support, bad weather and unexpected resistance. However, Monty, redeemed his reputation in the way he saw off the German winter counter-offensive of 1944-45.
After the war, Montgomery remained active in the military planning. In 1951, he became deputy Supreme Commander to General Eisenhower in NATO. He toured many countries sharing his blunt opinions, in a way few others could.
Citation : Pettinger, Tejvan. "Biography of Bernard Montgomery", Oxford, www.biographyonline.net,  1st Feb 2010
=======================================================
=======================================================
British HistoryBritainAmerican HistoryUSAThe First World WarFirst World WarThe Second World WarSecond World WarFranceGermanyRussiaFootball
Bernard Montgomery, the son of a bishop, was born in London on 17th November 1887. He was educated at St Paul's School and Sandhurst Military Academy. He later recalled: "In 1907 entrance to the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, was by competitive examination. There was first a qualifying examination in which it was necessary to show a certain minimum standard of mental ability; the competitive examination followed a year or so later. These two hurdles were negotiated without difficulty, and in the competitive examination my place was 72 out of some 170 vacancies." After graduating in 1908 joined the Royal Warwickshire Regiment.
Montgomery served in India before being sent to France at the beginning of the First World War. He was seriously wounded when he was shot in the chest in October 1914: "My life was saved that day by a soldier of my platoon. I had fallen in the open and lay still hoping to avoid further attention from the Germans. But a soldier ran to me and began to put a field dressing on my wound; he was shot through the head by a sniper and collapsed on top of me. The sniper continued to fire at us and I got a second wound in the knee; the soldier received many bullets intended for me. No further attempt was made by my platoon to rescue us; indeed, it was presumed we were both dead. When it was dark the stretcher-bearers came to carry us in; the soldier was dead and I was in a bad way."
After a long spell in a military hospital, Montgomery returned to the Western Front in 1916 and by 1918 was chief of staff of the 47th London Division. In his autobiography Montgomery argued that: " The higher staffs were out of touch with the regimental officers and with the troops. The former lived in comfort, which became greater as the distance of their headquarters behind the lines increased. There was no harm in this provided there was touch and sympathy between the staff and the troops. This was often lacking. The frightful casualties appalled me."
Montgomery remained in the British Army and in 1926 became an instructor at Camberley. Promoted to the rank of major general he was sent to command British forces Palestine in October, 1938. On the outbreak of the Second World War Montgomery was sent to France with the British Expeditionary Force. He led the 2nd Corps but was forced to retreat to Dunkirk during Germany's Western Offensive and arrived back in England on 1st June, 1940. Montgomery was placed in command of the 5th Corps (July 1940-April 1941), the 12th Corps (April 1941-December 1941) and the South-Eastern Army (December 1941-August 1942).
In July 1942 Erwin Rommel and the Deutsches Afrika Korps were only 113km (70 miles) from Alexandria. The situation was so serious that Winston Churchill made the long journey to Egypt to discover for himself what needed to be done. Churchill decided to make changes to the command structure. General Harold Alexander was placed in charge of British land forces in the Middle East and Montgomery was chosen to become commander of the Eighth Army.
On 30th August, 1942, Erwin Rommel attacked at Alam el Halfa but was repulsed by the Eighth Army. Montgomery responded to this attack by ordering his troops to reinforce the defensive line from the coast to the impassable Qattara Depression. Montgomery was now able to make sure that Rommel and the German Army was unable to make any further advances into Egypt. Rommel reported that he was ill and was evacuated. Doctors reported that he was "suffering from chronic stomach and intestinal catarrh, nasal diphtheria and considerable circulation trouble." 
Over the next six weeks Montgomery began to stockpile vast quantities of weapons and ammunition to make sure that by the time he attacked he possessed overwhelming firepower. By the middle of October the Eighth Army totalled 195,000 men, 1,351 tanks and 1,900 pieces of artillery. This included large numbers of recently delivered Sherman M4  and Grant M3 tanks.
On 23rd October, 1942, Montgomery launched Operation Lightfoot with the largest artillery bombardment since the First World War. The attack came at the worst time for the Deutsches Afrika Korps as Erwin Rommel was on sick leave in Austria. His replacement, General George Stumme, died of a heart-attack the day after the 900 gun bombardment of the German lines. Stume was replaced by General Ritter von Thoma and Adolf Hitler phoned Rommel on 24th October: "Rommel, there is bad news from Africa. The situation looks very black. No one seems to know what has happened to Stumme. Do you feel well enough to go back and would you be willing to go?" 
When Erwin Rommel returned he launched a counterattack at Kidney Depression (27th October). Montgomery now returned to the offensive and the 9th Australian Division created a salient in the enemy positions. Winston Churchill was disappointed by the Eighth Army's lack of success and accused Montgomery of fighting a "half-hearted" battle. Montgomery ignored these criticisms and instead made plans for a new offensive, Operation Supercharge.
On 1st November 1942, Montgomery launched an attack on the Deutsches Afrika Korps at Kidney Ridge. After initially resisting the attack, Rommel decided he no longer had the resources to hold his line and on the 3rd November he ordered his troops to withdraw. However, Adolf Hitler overruled his commander and the Germans were told to stand and fight.
The next day Montgomery ordered his men forward. The Eighth Army broke through the German lines and Erwin Rommel, in danger of being surrounded, was forced to retreat. Those soldiers on foot, including large numbers of Italian soldiers, were unable to move fast enough and were taken prisoner. For a while it looked like the the British would cut off Rommel's army but a sudden rain storm on 6th November turned the desert into a quagmire and the chasing army was slowed down. Rommel, now with only twenty tanks left, managed to get to Sollum on the Egypt-Libya border. On 8th November Rommel learned of the Allied invasion of Morocco and Algeria that was under the command of General Dwight D. Eisenhower. His depleted army now faced a war on two front.
The British Army recaptured Tobruk on 12th November, 1942. During the El Alamein campaign half of Rommel's 100,000 man army was killed, wounded or taken prisoner. He also lost over 450 tanks and 1,000 guns. The British and Commonwealth forces suffered 13,500 casualties and 500 of their tanks were damaged. However, of these, 350 were repaired and were able to take part in future battles. Winston Churchill was convinced that the battle of El Alamein marked the turning point in the war and ordered the ringing of church bells all over Britain. As he said later: "Before Alamein we never had a victory, after Alamein we never had a defeat."
Montgomery and the Eighth Army continued to move forward and captured Tripoli on 23rd January, 1943. Rommel was unable to mount a successful counterattack and on 9th March he was replaced by Jurgen von Arnium as commander in chief of Axis forces in Africa. This change failed to halt the Allied advance in Africa and on 11th May, 1943, the Axis forces surrendered Tunisia.
At the Casablanca Conference held in January 1943, Winston Churchill and Franklin D. Roosevelt decided to launch an invasion of Sicily. It was hoped that if the island was taken Italy might withdraw from the war. It was also argued that a successful invasion would force Adolf Hitler to send troops from the Eastern Front and help to relieve pressure on the Red Army in the Soviet Union.
The operation was placed under the supreme command of General Dwight D. Eisenhower. General Harold Alexander was commander of ground operations and his 15th Army Group included Montgomery (8th Army) and General George Patton (US 7th Army). Admiral Andrew Cunningham was in charge of naval operations and Air Marshal Arthur Tedder was air commander.
On 10th July 1943, the 8th Army landed at five points on the south-eastern tip of the island and the US 7th Army at three beaches to the west of the British forces. The Allied troops met little opposition and Patton and his troops quickly took Gela, Licata and Vittoria. The British landings were also unopposed and Syracuse was taken on the the same day. This was followed by Palazzolo (11th July), Augusta (13th July) and Vizzini (14th July), whereas the US troops took the Biscani airfield and Niscemi (14th July).
General George Patton now moved to the west of the island and General Omar Bradley headed north and the German Army was forced to retreat to behind the Simeto River. Patton took Palermo on 22nd July cutting off 50,000 Italian troops in the west of the island. Patton now turned east along the northern coast of the island towards the port of Messina.
Meanwhile Montgomery and the 8th Army were being held up by German forces under Field Marshal Albrecht Kesselring. The Allies carried out several amphibious assaults attempted to cut off the Germans but they were unable to stop the evacuation across the Messina Straits to the Italian mainland. This included 40,000 German and 60,000 Italian troops, as well as 10,000 German vehicles and 47 tanks.
On 17th August 1943, General George Patton and his troops marched into Messina. The capture of Sicily made it possible to clear the way for Allied shipping in the Mediterranean. It also helped to undermine the power of Benito Mussolini and Victor Emmanuel III forced him to resign.
Montgomery, as commander of the 8th Army, led the invasion of Italy on 3rd September, 1943. When he landed at Reggio he experienced little resistance and later that day British warships landed the 1st Parachute Division at Taranto. Six days later the US 6th Corps arrived at Salerno. These troops faced a heavy bombardment from German troops and the beachhead was not secured until 20th September.
The German Army fought ferociously in southern Italy and the Allied armies made only slow progress as the moved north towards Rome. The 5th Army took Naples on 1st October and later that day the 8th Army captured the Foggia airfields.
In December 1943, Montgomery was appointed head of the 2nd Army and commander of all ground forces in the proposed invasion of Europe. Montgomery believed he was better qualified than General Dwight Eisenhower to have been given overall control of Operation Overlord. However, as the United States provided most of the men, material and logistical support, Winston Churchill was unable to get the decision changed.
Soon after the D-Day invasion Montgomery ptoposed Operation Market-Garden. The combined ground and airborne attack was designed to gain crossings over the large Dutch rivers, the Mass, Waal and Neder Rijn, to aid the armoured advance of the British 2nd Army. On 17th September 1944, three divisions of the 1st Allied Airbourne Corps landed in Holland. At the same time the British 30th Corps advanced from the Meuse-Escaut Canal. The bridges at Nijmegen and Eindhoven were taken but a German counter-attack created problems at Arnhem. Of the 9,000 Allied troops at Arnhem, only 2,000 were left when they were ordered to withdraw across the Rhine on 25th September.
After the failure of Operation Market-Garden Montgomery began to question the strategy developed by Eisenhower and as a result of comments made at a press conference he gave on 7th January, 1945, he was severely rebuked by Winston Churchill and General Alan Brooke, the head of the British Army.
Although he came close to being sacked Montgomery was allowed to remain in Europe and the end of the war was appointed Commander in Chief of the British Army of Occupation.
In 1946 Montgomery was granted a peerage and he took the title Viscount Montgomery of Alamein. He also served under General Dwight Eisenhower as deputy supreme commander of the Allied forces in Europe.
Montgomery wrote several books on his war experiences includingEl Alamein to the River Sangro(1948), The Memoirs of Field Marshal Montgomery (1958), An Approach to Sanity (1959), The Path to Leadership (1961), Normandy to the Baltic (1968) and A Consise History of Warfare (1972) .
In 1907 entrance to the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, was by competitive examination. There was first a qualifying examination in which it was necessary to show a certain minimum standard of mental ability; the competitive examination followed a year or so later. These two hurdles were negotiated without difficulty, and in the competitive examination my place was 72 out of some 170 vacancies. I was astonished to find later that a large number of my fellow cadets had found it necessary to leave school early and go to a crammer in order to ensure success in the competitive entrance examination.
In those days the Army did not attract the best brains in the country. Army life was expensive and it was not possible to live on one's pay. It was generally considered that a private income or allowance of at
least £100 a year was necessary, even in one of the so-called less fashionable County regiments. In the cavalry, and in the more fashionable infantry regiments, an income of up to £300 or £400 was demanded before one was accepted. These financial matters were not known to me when I decided on the Army as my career; nobody had explained them to me or to my parents. I learned them at Sandhurst when it became necessary to consider the regiment of one's choice, and this was not until about halfway through the course at the college.
The fees at Sandhurst were £150 a year for the son of a civilian and this included board and lodging, and all necessary expenses. But additional pocket money was essential and after some discussion my parents agreed to allow me £2 a month; tills was also to continue in the holidays, making my personal income £24 a year.
(2) On 13th October 1916, Lieutenant Bernard Montgomery was shot in the chest at Meteren. He wrote about what happened in his autobiography, The Memoirs of Field Marshal Montgomery
My life was saved that day by a soldier of my platoon. I had fallen in the open and lay still hoping to avoid further attention from the Germans. But a soldier ran to me and began to put a field dressing on my wound; he was shot through the head by a sniper and collapsed on top of me. The sniper continued to fire at us and I got a second wound in the knee; the soldier received many bullets intended for me. No further attempt was made by my platoon to rescue us; indeed, it was presumed we were both dead. When it was dark the stretcher-bearers came to carry us in; the soldier was dead and I was in a bad way. I was taken back to the Advanced dressing Station; the doctors reckoned I could not live and, as the station was shortly to move, a grave was dug for me. But when the time came to move I was still alive; so I was put in a motor ambulance and sent back to a hospital.
(3) Lieutenant Bernard Montgomery was highly critical of his senior officers on the Western Front during the First World War.
The higher staffs were out of touch with the regimental officers and with the troops. The former lived in comfort, which became greater as the distance of their headquarters behind the lines increased. There was no harm in this provided there was touch and sympathy between the staff and the troops. This was often lacking.
The frightful casualties appalled me. The so-called "good fighting generals" of the war appeared to me to be those who had a complete disregard for human life. There were of course exceptions and I suppose one was Plumer; I had only once seen him and I had never spoken to him.
There is a story of Sir Douglas Haig's Chief of Staff who was to return to England after the heavy fighting during the winter of 1917-18 on the Passchendaele front. Before leaving he said he would like to visit the Passchendaele Ridge and see the country. When he saw the mud and the ghastly conditions under which the soldiers had fought and died, he was horrified and said: "Do you mean to tell me that the soldiers had to fight under such conditions?" And when he was told that it was so, he said: "Why was I never told about this before?"
(4) Arthur Harris met Bernard Montgomery while he was at the Army Staff College in 1927. He wrote about him in his memoirs, Bomber Offensive (1947)
I had the greatest admiration for his precision of statement and lucidity as a lecturer and also for what I, as an airman, considered his ability and breadth of view as a soldier. But he appeared to me to be regarded with grave suspicion for holding what I understood were heretical, though they seemed to me very reasonable, views about the conduct of future war. As a stranger in a strange land I kept my own counsel, but I left the course with a very definite impression that in Monty we certainly had a soldier who knew his onions, no matter what the "high-ups" in the army might officially think of the smell.
I always pride-myself that Monty, who is only too willing to learn anything new and learns at speed, got his first real understanding of air co-operation from me, during his very short term of office in Palestine in 1939. It was short, because he was taken desperately ill not long after his arrival in the country and left for home on a stretcher. Knowing that more serious war was close upon us, I thought with dismay that we
were to lose a man whom I considered to be one of our best generals. But whatever bug it was that bit Monty on that occasion - and it bit him so hard that we never expected him to reach home - he got the better of it.
(5) As commander of a machine-gun battalion, Brian Horrocks met Bernard Montgomery for the first time while serving in France in 1940. He later wrote about the meeting in his autobiography A Full Life (1960)
I hadn't been there two hours when I was told that the divisional commander. General Montgomery, was in his car on the road and wanted to see me. Monty had obviously come up at once to cast an eye over his new divisional machine-gun commander. This was my first meeting with him. I saw a small, alert figure with piercing eyes sitting in the back of his car - the man under whom I was to fight all my battles during the war, and who was to have more influence on my life than anyone before or since.
I knew him well by reputation. He was probably the most discussed general in the British Army before the war, and-except with those who had served under him - not a popular figure. Regular armies in all countries tend to produce a standard type of officer, but Monty, somehow or other, didn't fit into the British
pattern. His methods of training and command were unorthodox, always a deadly crime in military circles. He was known to be ruthlessly efficient, but somewhat of a showman. I had been told sympathetically that I wouldn't last long under his command, and, to be honest, I would rather have served under any other divisional commander.
(6) Bernard Montgomery met Claude Auchinleck just before he was replaced by Harold Alexander in August 1942.
Auchinleck took me into his map-room and shut the door; we were alone. He asked me if I knew he was to go. I said that I did. He then explained to me his plan of operations; this was based on the fact that at all costs the Eighth Army was to be preserved "in being" and must not be destroyed in battle. If Rommel attacked in strength, as was expected soon, the Eighth Army would fall back on the Delta; if Cairo and the Delta could not be held, the army would retreat southwards up the Nile, and another possibility was a withdrawal to Palestine.
I listened in amazement to his exposition of his plans. I asked one or two questions, but I quickly saw that he resented any question directed to immediate changes of policy about which he had already made up his mind. So I remained silent.
General Montgomery is a very able, dynamic type of army commander. I personally think that the only thing he needs is a strong immediate commander. He loves the limelight but in seeking it, it is possible that he does so only because of the effect upon his own soldiers, who are certainly devoted to him. I have great confidence in him as a combat commander. He is intelligent, a good talker, and has a flare for showmanship. Like all other senior British officers, he has been most loyal - personally and officially - and has shown no disposition whatsoever to overstep the bounds imposed by allied unity of command.
(8) In Italy in 1943 Bernard Montgomery commented on the importance of air support during modern battles.
I believe that the first and great principle of war is that you must first win your air battle before you fight your land and sea battle. If you examine the conduct of the campaign from Alamein through Tunisia, Sicily and Italy you will find I have never fought a land battle until the air battle has been won. We never had to bother about the enemy air, because we won the air battle first.
The second great principle is that Army plus Air has to be so knitted that the two together from one entity. If you do that, the resultant military effort will be so great that nothing will be able to stand against it.
The third principle is that the Air Force command. I hold that it is quite wrong for the soldier to want to exercise command over the air striking forces. The handling of an Air Force is a life-study, and therefore the air part must be kept under Air Force command.
The Desert Air Force and the Eighth Army are one. We do not understand the meaning of "army cooperation". When you are one entity you cannot cooperate. If you knit together the power of the Army on the land and the power of the Air in the sky, then nothing will stand against you and you will never lose a battle.
(9) Brian Horrocks fought in the British Army during the Desert War. In his autobiography he compared the merits of Bernard Montgomery and Erwin Rommel.
One of the most fascinating studies of the last war was the contrast between these two great commanders, Montgomery and Rommel, each in his own way an outstanding general, yet utterly and absolutely different in almost every respect. Rommel was probably the best armoured corps commander produced by either side. Utterly fearless, full of drive and initiative, he was always up in front where the battle was fiercest. If his opponent made a mistake, Rommel was on to it like a flash, and he never hesitated to take personal command of a regiment or battalion if he thought fit. On one occasion he was found lifting mines with his own hands. His popularity with the soldiers was immense, but a great many officers resented his interference with their commands.
All this reads like the copybook general but, in point of fact, this is not the best way to control a swift-moving, modern battle. Very often at a critical moment no one could find Rommel, because he was conducting personally some battalion attack. He tended to become so involved in some minor action that he failed to appreciate the general picture of the battlefield.
Monty was not such a dashing, romantic figure as his opponent; nor would you find him leading a forlorn hope in person, for the simple reason that if he was in command forlorn hopes did not occur. He had an extraordinary capacity for putting his finger straight on the essentials of any problem, and of being able to explain them simply and clearly. He planned all his battles most carefully - and then put them out of his mind every night. I believe he was awakened in the night only half a dozen times during the whole war.
Their handling of the battle of Alam Haifa makes the contrast clear. Having made the best possible plan to win the battle, yet at the same time to husband his resources, Monty dismissed Alam Haifa entirely from his mind and concentrated on the next one.
While Rommel was leading his troops in person against strongly-held defensive positions on the Alam Halfa ridge, Montgomery was planning the battle of Alamein. That was the difference between the two.
The Eighth Army viewed the arrival of a new commander with some scepticism. We did not have much faith in generals in the summer of 1942. Montgomery was on trial, and he knew it. He was a brilliant exponent of the art of leadership, and understood soldiers' psychology. So, his showmanship was a means to an end. Hitherto, the army commander had been a remote figure; some might not even know his name, but all had heard of Rommel! Montgomery intended not only to win the battle, but to win over his army. Nothing succeeds like success.
Much has been written about the remarkable effect Montgomery had on the troops, his appearance in peculiar hats, and so on. This was superficial. We judged him on results and his manner of achievement. Many of the troops never saw him: our first encounter was months later at Tripoli. Yet the signs of a new grip on affairs was palpable, as Churchill noticed. There was the first of those special messages to the troops. These were printed on sheets, some 11 inches by 8 inches, and were widely circulated. The first gave the gist of the famous address to the staff. We were going to fight where we stood. There would be no withdrawal, no surrender. We had to do our duty so long as we had breath in our bodies.
Eisenhower complained that Dempsey was leaving all the fighting to the Americans. His attention was drawn to my basic strategy, i.e. to fight hard on my left and draw Germans on to that flank whilst I pushed with my right. It was pointed out that he had approved this strategy and that it was being carried out; the bulk of the German armour had continuously been kept on the British front. Eisenhower could not refute these arguments. He then asked why it was we could not launch major offensives on each army front simultaneously - as the Russians did. It was pointed out to him that the German density in Normandy was about 2.5 times that of the Russian front, and our superiority in strength was only in the nature of some 25 per cent as compared to the 300 per cent Russian superiority on the eastern front. We clearly were not in a position to launch an all-out offensive along the whole front; such a procedure would be exactly what the Germans would like and would not be in accord with our agreed strategy. We had already (on the 25th July) launched the break-out operation on the right flank. It was an all-out offensive; it was gathering momentum rapidly. The British Second Army was fighting to keep the Germans occupied on the left flank. Our strategy was at last about to reap its full reward. What was the trouble?
(12) Wilhelm von Thoma fought against Bernard Montgomery in the Desert War. After the war he was interviewed by Basil Liddell Hart for his book The Other Side of the Hill  (1948)
I thought he (Montgomery) was very cautious, considering his immensely superior strength, but he is the only Field-Marshal in this war who won all his battles. In modem mobile warfare the tactics are not the main thing. The decisive factor is the organization of one's resources to maintain the momentum.
(13) Bernard Montgomery wrote about Dwight Eisenhower in his autobiography, The Memoirs of Field Marshal Montgomery (1958)
I would not class Ike as a great soldier in the true sense of the word. He might have become one if he had ever the experience of exercising direct command of a division, corps, and army - which unfortunately for him did not come his way. But he was a great Supreme Commander - a military statesman. I know of no other person who could have welded the allied forces into such a fine fighting machine in the way he did, and kept a balance among the many conflicting and disturbing elements which threatened at times to wreck the ship.
Where does his strength lie? He has a good brain and is very intelligent. But his real strength lies in his human qualities; he is a very great human being. He has the power of drawing the hearts of men towards him as a magnet attracts the bits of metal. He merely has to smile at you, and you trust him at once. He is the very incarnation of sincerity. He has great common sense. People and nations gave him their confidence.
(14) Bernard Montgomery wrote about Operation Market Garden in his autobiography, The Memoirs of Field Marshal Montgomery (1958)
Operation Market Garden was duly launched on the 17th September 1944. It has been described by many writers. I will not go over it all again. We did not, as everyone knows, capture that final bridgehead north of Arnhem. As a result we could not position the Second Army north of the Neder Rijn at Arnem, and thus place it in a suitable position to be able to develop operations against the north face of the Ruhr. But the possession of the crossings over the Meuse at Grave, and over the Lower Rhine (or Waal as it is called in Holland) at Nijmegen, were to prove of immense value later on; we had liberated a large part of Holland; we had the stepping stone we needed for the successful battles of the Rhineland that were to follow. Without these successes we would not have been able to cross the Rhine in strength in March 1945 - but we did not get our final bridgehead, and that must be admitted.
There were many reasons why we did not gain complete success at Arnhem. The following in my view were the main ones.
First. The operation was not regarded at Supreme Headquarters as the spearhead of a major Allied movement on the northern flank designed to isolate, and finally to occupy, the Ruhr - the one objective in the West which the Germans could not afford to lose. There is no doubt in my mind that Elsenhower always wanted to give priority to the northern thrust and to scale down the southern one. He ordered this to be done, and he thought that it was being done. It was not being done.
Second. The airborne forces at Arnhem were dropped too far away from the vital objective - the bridge. It was some hours before they reached it. I take the blame for this mistake. I should have ordered Second Army and 1st Airborne Corps to arrange that at least one complete Parachute Brigade was dropped quite close to the bridge, so that it could have been captured in a matter of minutes and its defence soundly organised with time to spare. I did not do so.
Third. The weather. This turned against us after the first day and we could not carry out much of the later airborne programme. But weather is always an uncertain factor, in war and in peace. This uncertainty we all accepted. It could only have been offset, and the operation made a certainty, by allotting additional resources to the project, so that it became an Allied and not merely a British project.
Fourth. The and S.S. Panzer Corps was refitting in the Arnhem. area, having limped up there after its mauling in Normandy. We knew it was there. But we were wrong in supposing that it could not fight effectively; its battle state was far beyond our expectation. It was quickly brought into action against the 1st Airborne Division.
(15) In his autobiography, Memoirs: 1940-1945, General Harold Alexander, wrote about the abilities of General Bernard Montgomery.
Montgomery is a first-class trainer and leader of troops on the battlefield, with a fine tactical sense. He knows how to win the loyalty of his men and has a great flair for raising morale. He rightly boasted that, after the battle of Alamein, he never suffered a defeat; and the truth is that he never intended to run the risk of a defeat; that is one reason why he was cautious and reluctant to take chances. There is, however, much to be said for his attitude when we consider that, up to October 1942, we had not won a single major battle since the start of the war - except Archie Wavell's operations against the Italians and some local victories against the Axis forces in the Western Desert.
Yet I can't disguise that he was not an easy man to deal with; for example, administrative orders issued by my staff were sometimes objected to - in other words Monty wanted to have complete independence of command and to do what he liked. Still, no serious difficulties arose over these very minor disturbances, he was always reasonable when tackled.
On the afternoon of May 9, 1967, the field marshal, having just completed an exhausting tour of his front via helicopter, army vehicles and at least two hours on foot, invited us all to a quiet cup of tea on the beach. I think it was meant as a gesture to make up for the strain of the day, as well as for a momentary flash of dismay. He had spotted the steel rigging of a recently discovered oil well standing precisely on the spot of his command post and remarked acerbically that no one had the right to change the terrain of his battle as he recalled it and as it went down in history. I had tried to tell him that oil discoveries were vital to the Egyptian people, but I do not believe he was convinced.
On the beach, in front of the villa where he was staying, Montgomery appeared to make a conscious effort to show us another side of his personality, and started to hold forth. We were an audience of six - the four generals, Hamilton and myself - and he was now in top form. He spoke at length on his German adversary, saying: "Poor Rommel. He was starving for fuel for his tanks, and little did he know that entire fields of oil were sleeping beneath the layers of earth over which they were rolling." He recalled that Winston Churchill, in his zeal for a victory in the desert war, nearly, "drove his commanders around the bend with his pressures on them".
Eventually, the conversation turned to the idea of war. Montgomery outlined, very explicitly, his four essential prerequisites for going to war. In light of their bearing on the situation today, I would like to focus attention on them. He said that there must exist:
I was struck to have heard these four points from a professional soldier, and replied that 50 per cent of the factors he mentioned could be said to concern strategy and 50 per cent ethics.
That, Monty answered, was because, "Victory in war requires, even more than arms, that the people who are making war believe in what they are doing to the degree that they will be prepared to sacrifice themselves and that others accept its legal and moral legitimacy to the extent that will guarantee their support."
=======================================================
After Italy declares war, the Allies fight the Axis powers in North Africa for control of the Mediterranean.
Contenders for the title are few, but “Monty” was indisputably Britain’s greatest soldier since Wellington. He was better known for his outstanding professionalism and sense of “balance” than for his talents in getting on with his contemporaries–notably the American ones.
British Field Marshall Bernard Law Montgomery (1887-1976) was among the most decorated military leaders of World War II. Tapped to take command of the Eighth Army, he earned renown for his part in the first major Allied land victory at El Alamein, Egypt, in 1942. Montgomery became ground commander of the Anglo-American forces under Dwight D. Eisenhower, and his insistence that invasion forces be increased from three to eight divisions was essential to the Allies’ success on D-Day in 1944. After the war, Montgomery served as chief of the Imperial General Staff, and later as deputy to Eisenhower at NATO.
 Contenders for the title are few, but “Monty” was indisputably Britain’s greatest soldier since Wellington. He was better known for his outstanding professionalism and sense of “balance” than for his talents in getting on with his contemporaries–notably the American ones.   
Fourth of nine children in a clerical Irish family of modest means, his early life suffered from a domineering mother. In October 1914, at the First Battle of Ypres, Montgomery, a young lieutenant, was shot through the lung and nearly died. He received the Distinguished Service Order (an unusually high distinction for a junior officer). His wound led to an aversion for smoking–one of the first causes of friction with the chain-smoking Allied supreme commander in World War II, General “Ike” Eisenhower; he was also a strict teetotaler. The horrendous British casualties in 1914-1918 help explain Montgomery’s caution as a commander twenty-five years later. (This once caused George S. Patton, who hated him, to damn Monty as a “tired little fart.”)
In the interwar period, Monty stood out for his dedication to professionalism. His uncompromising standards, and abrasiveness, were to affect his promotion. In 1927, at age thirty-nine, he married a war widow, Betty Carver, who tragically died of a rare blood infection in 1938. Monty never recovered, throwing himself even more fiercely into preparing for the new war with Germany.
In 1940, he led the Third Division, one of Britain’s few elite formations, intact from Dunkirk. The next two years he spent retraining the British army, with utmost rigor, in southern England. When appointed to command the defeated Eighth Army in Egypt in August 1942, he was only Winston Churchill’s second choice. El Alamein, in October, the first major land victory the Allies won against Adolf Hitler, made him a hero both in Britain and the United States; it also went to his head. Nevertheless–sporting the famed black beret with its unorthodox twin cap badges–he exploited popularity to inspire his men as did perhaps no other commander of World War II.
His insistence that the initial invasion forces be increased from three to eight divisions, of which three were airborne, was a historic contribution. It was essential to success on D-Day in 1944–as was his role as ground commander of the Anglo-American forces under Eisenhower as supreme Allied commander. But failure to capture Caen in the first days marred his reputation in U.S. eyes. Rashly he insisted that everything was going “according to plan”; yet it was his basic strategy of wearing down the Germans on the left (British) of the line while Bradley’s U.S. forces broke out in the west that led to victory in Normandy.
Relations with Ike, remarkably good up to D-Day, deteriorated beginning in September 1944, following Eisenhower’s assumption of overall command over strategies to end the war. The bold but disastrous airborne coup at Arnhem, the only battle Monty ever lost, further dented his reputation. In turn, he was tactlessly critical of the American reverse in the Ardennes of December 1944.
After 1945, Montgomery became chief of the Imperial General Staff–Britain’s top military post–and later deputy to Eisenhower at NATO. The gulf between the two widened irretrievably in later years as both indulged in mutual recriminations on wartime strategy in their bitter “Battle of the Memoirs.”
The Reader’s Companion to Military History. Edited by Robert Cowley and Geoffrey Parker. Copyright © 1996 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Fact Check We strive for accuracy and fairness. But if you see something that doesn't look right, contact us!
=======================================================
 » People » MontgomeryBernard MontgomeryBorn17 Nov 1887Died24 Mar 1976CountryUnited KingdomCategoryGroundContributor: C. Peter ChenBernard Law Montgomery was born in Kennington, London, England, United Kingdom to Anglo-Irish Anglican priest Reverend Henry Montgomery and Maud Montgomery, née Farrar.  Montgomery's father inherited his father Sir Robert Montgomery's estate of New Park at Moville in County Donegal, Ireland, United Kingdom soon after Montgomery's birth, along with a £13,000 mortgage on the property, which drove them to the edge of financial trouble.  In 1889, Montgomery's father was made the Bishop of Tasmania, taking him away from home regularly as he traveled across the globe; meanwhile, his mother ignored her children much of the time.  This developed him into a rebellious child.  "I was a dreadful little boy", he recalled, "I don't suppose anybody would put up with my sort of behaviour these days."  In 1901, the family returned to London as his father became secretary of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel.  Montgomery attended St. Paul's School, and then went on to the Royal Military College at Sandhurst, England.  At the latter, he was nearly expelled for setting fire to a fellow cadet during a fight with pokers.  He completed his studies in 1908 and joined the 1st Battalion of the Royal Warwickshire Regiment, and with that unit he served in India until 1913.During WW1, Montgomery was deployed to France with his comrades of the Royal Warwickshire Regiment.  On 13 Oct 1914, during the First Battle of Ypres, he was shot by a sniper at the village of Méteren in France.  With the bullet passing through his right lung, the wound was so critical that a grave was dug in preparation for his death, but he recovered.  After recovery, he was promoted to the rank of brigade major in 1915 to lead training efforts.  In early 1916, he returned to the front as an operations staff officer during the battles of the Somme, Arras, and Passchendaele.  As a general staff officer, he participated in the battles of the Lys and Chemin-des-Dames before the war ended.
Immediately following WW1, Montgomery commanded a battalion of the British Army of the Rhine in Germany.  Upon his return to the United Kingdom, his rank was reverted to his regular rank of captain.  In early 1920, he attended courses at the Staff College at Camberley, England.  Later that year, he was promoted to the rank of brigade major to command the 17th Infantry Brigade at County Cork, Ireland, United Kingdom.  He advocated fighting the war against the Irish rebels ruthlessly.  "[I]t never bothered me a bit how many houses were burnt....  My own view is that to win a war of this sort, you must be ruthless", he wrote fellow officer Arthur Percival in a personal correspondence during this time.  However, in light of modern conduct of war, he conceded that allowing the formation of a sovereign Irish nation was the only possible conclusion to the war.
In 1923, Montgomery was posted to the Territorial 49th Division.  In 1925, he returned to the 1st Royal Warwickshire Regiment as a company commander.  Shortly after, he became an instructor at the Staff College at the rank of major.  In 1931, he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel and was posted to Palestine, Egypt, and India.  While in India, he was an instructor at the Indian Army Staff College in Quetta, India at the rank of colonel. He was promoted to the rank of major general while serving in Palestine.  He became the commanding officer of the 9th Infantry Brigade in 1937 at the rank of brigadier.
In 1937, Montgomery's wife Elizabeth received an inspect bite in the arm which became seriously infected and required amputation; she contracted septicemia following the amputation and passed away in his arms.  He dealt with his sorrow by occupying himself with work.  They had been married since 1927, and had a son, David, who was born in Aug 1928.  Elizabeth was the sister of a fellow officer Percy Hobart.
In 1938, Montgomery organized an amphibious landing exercise that impressed the new commander-in-chief of Southern Command General Archibald Wavell.  He was promoted to the rank of major general and was given command of the 8th Infantry Division in Palestine.  At that position, he was credited in quashing the Arab revolt.  In Jul 1939, he was sent back to England to command the 3rd Infantry Division.
The United Kingdom entered WW2 on 3 Sep 1939 when it declared war on Germany.  The 3rd Infantry Division was deployed to Belgium as part of the British Expeditionary Force.  Realizing that the British and the French had little intention to invade Germany, Montgomery predicted a defeat should Germany decide to invade France, and trained his troops for tactical retreat, which paid off when the men of the 3rd Infantry Division effectively fell back toward the French coast.  During Operation Dynamo, the evacuation of British and French troops to the United Kingdom, he assumed command of the II Corps as Alan Brooke, the previous commanding officer, became the acting commander of the British Expeditionary Force.  Upon his return to the United Kingdom in Jun 1940, he openly criticized the British Expeditionary Force leadership for the defeat, and was briefly relegated to divisional command, but was made a Companion of the Order of the Bath.  In Jul 1940, he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant general and was placed in command of V Corps.  In Apr 1941, he became the commanding officer of XII Corps.  In 1942, he was a member of the team that planned out the Dieppe Raid which suffered disastrous results.  He never took direct blame of the failure as Louis Mountbatten took on the role as the scapegoat.
In 1942, William Gott was selected as a field commander in North Africa, but he was killed during a crash.  Alan Brooke persuaded Prime Minister Winston Churchill to select Montgomery as the replacement.  He took command on 13 Aug, and immediately instituted a series of changes, including the creation of a mobile British armored corps and a set of new procedures for improved combined operations with the Royal Air Force.  Also among the first things he performed was the destruction of all plans for falling back in the case of a strong Axis offensive.  "I have cancelled the plan for withdrawal," he told his officers at his first staff meeting. "If we are attacked, then there will be no retreat.  If we cannot stay here alive, then we will stay here dead."  On 31 Aug 1942, he successfully repelled Rommel's attack against Alam el Halfa by successfully predicting the high ground as a likely target and prepared its defenses before the attack commenced.  Some officers criticized for Montgomery's lack of aggressiveness for not counter-attacking when the Axis forces backed off in defeat, but the victory nevertheless began to build his reputation as an able commander.  Montgomery later argued that his troops were not ready to go on an offensive at that time.  He would only launch his men on an offensive when he was sure that victory was certain, and that victory would have to be decisive.
In the next month, Montgomery started to receive great quantities of supplies from the United States, including large numbers of tanks.  In Oct 1942, Montgomery decided that he was ready to launch Operation Lightfoot.  On 23 Oct, the two forces engaged at the Battle of El Alamein, and 12 days later Montgomery achieved his decisive victory, capturing 30,000 Axis prisoners.  For this victory, he was knighted and promoted to the rank of general.  He continued to use his superior firepower to put pressure against the Axis forces, pushing the Axis lines back time after time, leading to the end of the Desert War.  In North Africa, Montgomery showed his capabilities in leadership, careful planning, and willingness to cooperate with the Royal Air Force.  He was awarded the Legion of Merit by the United States for his Desert War victory.  "Before Alamein we never had a victory," said Winston Churchill later, "after Alamein we never had a defeat."
To the men, Montgomery became the officer who defeated the dreaded Erwin Rommel.  His popularity was gained not only through victories, but also his efforts to win the hearts of his men.  He made sure that he was visible to the front line soldiers, speaking to them as much as possible.  On one of the visits, he visited an armor unit, and spoke with the crew of a tank; one of the tankers gave him a black beret of the Royal Tank Regiment, which he wore for the remainder of the war, becoming part of his signature look.  Some of his methods for troop support were unorthodox, however, such as setting up a brothel in Tripoli, Libya to satisfy the men's sexual needs.  It received approval from the men who needed this type of service, but it also added distance between Montgomery and the other officers who found brothels immoral and unacceptable.
Montgomery was next placed in command of the Eighth Army for the invasion of Sicily, Italy.  From the onset, his leadership style and battlefield tactics conflicted with those of his American counterpart George Patton.  The conflict grew into a personal rivalry between Patton and Montgomery in which Patton moved his troops into territory originally assigned to Montgomery, complaining that Montgomery's troops were advancing too slowly while boasting victories for engagements that should had been fought by the British.  After the completion of the Sicily invasion, Montgomery and the Eighth Army were deployed to southern Italy, moving north along the eastern side of the Allied front along the Adriatic coast.  He fought a series of tough battles against well-entrenched German forces, and he was once again criticized for moving too slowly.  He blamed the lack of coordination between ground and air forces in Italy, as well as political opportunism exhibited by some Allied commanders.  He was transferred out of Italy on 23 Dec 1943 for the upcoming cross-Channel invasion.
Upon his return to England, Montgomery was given the 21st Army Group which encompassed all Allied ground forces that would take part in Operation Overlord, the invasion of Normandy, France.  He had wished for the responsibility of overall Allied command, but was unable to secure the position due to politics since the United States contributed greatly to the campaign in both men and materiel.  While commanding the British elements closely near the French city of Caen, his troops were bogged down, and were not able to take the city until Jul 1944; he originally set the goal for the British and Canadian troops to conquer Caen within days of the landing.  This delay gave his political opponents such as Omar Bradley and George Patton opportunities to further criticize him.  Nevertheless, once Caen was captured, he was able to use it as a pivot point that eventually led to the major German defeat at the Falaise Pocket.  Once the Allied forces secured their footing in France, Montgomery found himself still unable to obtain the position of the Supreme Allied Commander, again for political reasons, as the overwhelming majority of Allied personnel in Europe were American.  To appease him, Churchill offered him the title of field marshal.
Montgomery offered Eisenhower his suggestion for an aggressive assault against Germany.  He proposed to Dwight Eisenhower a thrust into the Netherlands to control several key bridges in preparation for a subsequent armor assault across Germany's flat northern plains.  Accepted by Eisenhower, Operation Market Garden was launched, but it met a complete failure with heavy loss of lives.  Eisenhower, disappointed with the defeat, transferred Montgomery from the front lines to become the commander-in-chief of British occupation forces, but he stressed that Montgomery's skills were not to be doubted.  "Those critics of Montgomery who assert that he sometimes failed to attain the maximum must at least admit that he never once sustained a major defeat", said Dwight Eisenhower.  Addressing the criticism that Montgomery lacked aggressiveness, Eisenhower responded that "caution and timidity are not synonymous, just as boldness and rashness are not!"  These words of Eisenhower's were rather generous considering Montgomery's attitude toward Eisenhower bordered on insubordination.  During a one-on-one planning session for Market Garden between Montgomery and Eisenhower, Montgomery lectured Eisenhower as if Eisenhower was a child.  Eisenhower waited until Montgomery paused for breath, and interrupted; "Steady Monty," Eisenhower said.  "You cannot talk to me like this.  I am your boss."  Montgomery, his ego suddenly deflated, mumbled his apologies; "Sorry, Ike".
When the Germans embarked on the Ardennes offensive on 16 Dec 1944, known as the Battle of the Bulge to the Western Allies, the US 1st Army was split in two groups by the Germans.  While Bradley maintained communications with the southern group, he lost touch with the northern group.  Montgomery was the nearest Allied officer to the northern units of the US 1st Army, so he absorbed the American units into his command.  German General Hasso von Manteuffel of the 5th Panzer Army praised his opponent's quick decision, noting that
Montgomery's contribution to restoring the situation was that he turned a series of isolated actions into a coherent battle fought according to a clear and definite plan. It was his refusal to engage in premature and piecemeal counter-attacks which enabled the Americans to gather their reserves and frustrate the German attempts to extend their breakthrough.
As the Germans began to lose their initiative, Eisenhower ordered Montgomery to go on an offensive on 1 Jan 1945 in an attempt to envelope the German forces.  On the grounds that his men were not prepared to march through a snowstorm, he delayed his attack for two days, by which point the bulk of the German forces escaped what could had been a pocket.
During the Allied advance to the Rhine River, Montgomery's careful planning directly led to the low casualty rates among his units.  His 21st Army Group was ordered to swing north to take Hamburg, Germany and to seal the base of the Danish peninsula to block a potential Russian westward advance beyond Berlin.  On 4 May 1945, in a tent in the region of Lüneburg Heath in Lower Saxony, Germany, he accepted the surrender of German forces in northern Germany, Denmark, and the Netherlands.
After WW2, Montgomery served as Eisenhower's Deputy Supreme Commander of Allied Forces in Europe.  In 1946, he was made 1st Viscount Montgomery of Alamein.  Between 1946 and 1948, he was Chief of the Imperial General Staff.  In 1949, his mother passed away; he did not attend her funeral, claiming that his work schedule would not allow his attendance.  As the Chairman of the Western European Union's commanders-in-chief committee, he achieved little as he could not agree with his French land forces chief.  In 1951, Montgomery once again became Eisenhower's deputy, this time at the North Atlantic Treaty Organization; his NATO tenure were generally well-regarded in terms of his achievements, but characteristic of his career, he continued to make political opponents.  After Eisenhower's departure from NATO, Montgomery continued to serve under successors Matthew Ridgway and Al Gruenther until he retired in 1958 at the age of 71.  He wrote and published several books based on his memoirs; El Alamein was published in 1948, The Memoirs of Field Marshal Montgomery in 1958, and Normandy to the Baltic in 1968.  He harshly accused Eisenhower and other Allied officers of poor leadership during WW2, which ended some friendships and created some enemies.  Perhaps it was because of his lack of political tactfulness that he was among the few in his peers who were never raised to an earldom.
Montgomery passed away in 1976 at his home in Alton, Hampshire, England.  After a funeral ceremony at St. George's Chapel in Windsor, England, he was interred in the Holy Cross Churchyard in Binsted, England.
Sources: the Crusade in Europe, the Fall of Berlin, Jewish Virtual Library, Spartacus Educational, Wikipedia.Bernard Montgomery Timeline17 Nov 1887 Bernard Montgomery was born in Kennington, London, England, United Kingdom.10 May 1940 General Bernard Montgomery's forward units arrived, just after dark, to take up their designated positions on the eastern approaches to Brussels.  They were were fired upon by Belgian soldiers who took them for German infiltrators.11 Jul 1940 Bernard Montgomery was made a Companion of the Order of the Bath.12 Aug 1942 Lieutenant-General Bernard Montgomery arrived in Cairo, Egypt.13 Aug 1942 Bernard Law Montgomery officially took command of the British Eighth Army in North Africa after the original choice commander, William Gott, was killed.11 Nov 1942 Bernard Montgomery was made a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath.10 Aug 1943 Bernard Montgomery was awarded the title of Chief Commander of the Legion of Merit of the United States.31 Dec 1943 General Montgomery left his beloved British 8th Army in Italy to take up his role in the planning of the summer invasion of Europe in which he would command all land forces.3 Jan 1944 General Montgomery was ordered home to take command of British troops in the Allied Expeditionary Force.7 Apr 1944 Bernard Montgomery briefed his generals regarding the invasion of France, predicting the city of Caen would be captured on the first day of the invasion.20 Jun 1944 Bernard Montgomery was awarded the title of Grand Commander of the Order of King George I of Greece.1 Sep 1944 Montgomery was promoted to the rank of field marshal.10 Sep 1944 Bernard Montgomery received a visit from Dwight Eisenhower at Brussels, Belgium during which Montgomery criticized Eisenhower's broad front strategy and demanded his army group to be the sole offensive force as current strategy placed the other two army groups in poor positions to launch attacks into Germany.  Eisenhower responded "[s]teady Monty, you can't talk to me like that.  I'm your boss."31 Oct 1944 Bernard Montgomery was awarded the Virtuti Militari V Class of Poland.25 Mar 1945 British General Montgomery issued a non-fraternization order as British troops entered Germany.3 May 1945 A German delegation met with British Field Marshal Montgomery on Luneberg Heath, outside Hamburg, Germany, offering the surrender of all their forces in northwestern Germany - A total of more than one million men.22 May 1945 Field Marshall Montgomery was designated as commander of British occupation troops, as well as a British member of the Allied Control Commission in Germany.5 Jun 1945 Field Marshal Montgomery and General Eisenhower were awarded the Order of Victory, the Soviet Union's highest award.2 Aug 1945 Bernard Montgomery was awarded the Order of the Elephant of Denmark.16 Jan 1947 Bernard Montgomery was awarded the Order of Suvorov 1st Class of the Soviet Union and the Grand Cross of the Order of the Dutch Lion of the Netherlands.24 Mar 1976 Bernard Montgomery passed away in Alton, Hampshire, England, United Kingdom.PhotographsSee all 30 photographs of Bernard Montgomery
Visitor Submitted CommentsVinod Moonesinghe says:10 Dec 2006 12:18:51 AMThe article contains several inaccuracies and is rather one-sided. Montgomery brought the British 3rd Division back to Dunkirk intact.
Montgomery was not demoted after Normandy. He continued to command 22nd Army Group, but the US Armies were detached because of political considerations. Vide Chester Wilmot The Struggle for Europe.
The tardiness of the advance in Normandy was not due to a failure on Montgomerys part, but a failure by the US troops in the face of the far better german Army. Ultimately, the US breakthrough based on the Anglo-Canadian hinge at Caen was only managed by using overwhelming force against an enemy whose best troops were stuck on the British sector.
The subsequent halt of the allies had much to do with logistical factors. Market Garden failed mainly because of the German troops having recuperated faster than had been expected.
This article detracts from Eisenhowers essential genius as a manager, which complemented Montgomerys superior battlefield experience.
The article fails to mention how Eisenhower had to turn to Montgomery to extricate the US troops when they were falling victim to the Nazi Ardennes offensive.
btom says:15 Aug 2007 01:50:25 PMLook no further than the statement that El Alamien was won only after the American landings in Torch for a summary of the contributors accuracy and partiality. Torch occured after the Axis were defeated 12 days after the start of the battle as Montgomery predicted. Iona Anderson says:28 Aug 2007 10:51:15 AMthis is a good website to research on feild and it makes it interesting to!Anonymous says:27 Oct 2007 04:00:37 AMDuring the operations in the lodgement area (Normandy), Montgomery bossed First U.S Army as part of the Twenty-first Army Group and exercised his allied authority with wisdom, forbearance and restraint. I could not have wanted a more tolerant and judicious Commander, (General Omar Bradley)Alan Chanter says:27 Oct 2007 04:09:47 AMIn fact General Sir Brian Horrocks related that Montgomerys biggest critic was the Deputy Supreme Commander, Air Marshall Tedder. Tedder and Montgomery had not seen eye to eye since El Alamein, and the former was constantly badgering Ike to have Monty replaced. Fortunately Eisenhower and Churchill had better judgement.dj the cool guy says:8 Nov 2007 06:54:39 PMhyuk hyuk hyuk, blaaa blaaa, hes coool!Anonymous says:14 Mar 2008 07:13:18 AMGood web to find infoAnonymous says:31 Mar 2008 07:21:17 PMVERY GOOD WEB TO FIND INFO!!!!!!!!!Anonymous says:25 Feb 2009 09:23:15 AMyour too coolparsifal says:8 Mar 2009 03:00:41 AMThis article has so many untruths and inaccuracies. It is the equivalent of  what MacDonalds is to fine cuisine.  If the rest of the site is of the same intellectual standard, it is not worth viewing.  The site admin should remove and replace it, even the Wikipedia article of Monty is more balanced.Anonymous says:23 May 2009 01:48:27 PMa very interesting and detailed account of Field Marshall Montgomery's contribution to both World War I and II.ritika says:8 Dec 2009 06:14:19 PMit is a very nice and sensetive story.
Anonymous says:11 Dec 2009 11:44:40 AMnice comments yea it involves alot of wrold war I and II but it was nothing i wantedAnonymous bitccchh(: says:20 Feb 2010 12:06:30 PMi had to do a project on him. ITS SOO  **** ING HARDD >.Anonymously Anonymous says:27 Apr 2010 05:48:44 PMthanks for his page it really helped on my projectAnonymous says:19 May 2010 12:59:57 PMnice web pageAnonymous says:25 May 2010 10:14:45 AMthis is a great website, thanks for the help!steve Montgomery says:31 May 2010 11:52:48 AMhe was a good soldierEric MacDonald says:25 Jun 2010 04:54:36 AMThis is an incredibly biased article which does not seem to understand the basic history of the period, and the main characters involved.
The truth is that General Montgomery was in fact the overall land forces commander for the Battle of Normandy, and the battle was fought, from the beginning, according to his plan. All land forces during the battle came under Monty's command, and Eisenhower did not take command of the ground forces until 1st September 1944, a decision was to have incredible repercussions on further development of the war on the Western Front. Arguably, the war lasted several more months than necessary, and cost many thousands of Allied lives, because Eisenhower had never commanded troops in battle, and even as land forces commanders, still did not do so. His decisions were always late, based on inadequate information, and usually disastrous for the cause of ending the war quickly. Montgomery's plans, however, were a detailed way to exploit is greatest victory, in Normandy, and would have taken full advantage of the general collapse of German forces after that great battle. Eisenhower, however, did not understand how battles worked, and therefore let victory slip through the Allied grasp, and extended the war as a consequence. Though arguably a great Allied Supreme Commander, Eisenhower as a failure a field command, and his name should not go down as a great general, being the direct cause of as many Allied casualties as were the Wehrmacht. Montgomery certainly had a way of rubbing the Americans the wrong way, but had his lead been followed, the complete disaster of Allied strategy in the last four months of 1944 could have been avoided, and we would now regard Montgomery as one of the greatest generals in history, which is no less than the truth. This essay gets low makes for failing to understand some of the stresses and strains which forced Mongomery out of overall land forces command, and therefore stole from him a victory that should rightfully have been his.Anonymous says:25 Aug 2010 11:46:09 AMi was interested in learning more about clifton james who posed as monty in the days prior to d-day but theres no mention of him here his story was told in the film "i was monty's double"Anonymous says:28 Sep 2010 12:42:50 PMhelped me with homework Martyn says:28 Oct 2010 06:30:02 AMMonty may have had a part in the planning of the Dieppe Raid but once it became clear to him that the Royal Navy and RAF wouldn't support it he called for it to be scrapped. When he went to Africa to take command of the 8th Army the plan had been scrapped and he had no knowledge of its resurrection when Mountbatten put it into effect. To place any blame on Montgomery for that operation is unfair because he not only called for it to be canceled indefinately but believe to have been scrapped and no knowledge of it being launched until after the event.
The Patton/Montgomery rivalry was entirely onesided on Patton's side. Montgomery was genuinly impressed with Patton's use of mobile armoured warfare and was the only man in the allied camp to censer reports of Patton's slapping incident. Montgomery did criticize Patton for ignoring military targets in favor of attempting to take a position that would give him personal glory even if it was militarilly unimportant but he did praise him as the best thruster/attacker in the Allied forces.
Montgomery strongly opposed Operation Baytown - the invasion of the boot of Italy - because it was based on the assumtion that the Germans would fight there where as Montgomery was convinced they only use the region for delaying purposes and thus it would be a waste of effort. He was proved correct.
Montgomery never wanted to be Supreme Commander because that position had too much to do with Politics, he only wanted to be Ground Forces Commander. 
Throughout the planning and execution of Operation Overlord - a plan he was respsonsible for improving and finalizing - he was Ground Forces Commander in charge of both British/Commonwealth and American forces. Overall responsibility for success and failure for both British and American forces throughout that campaign is Montgomery's - direct responsbility for the tactical successes and failures are Bradley's and Dempsey's.
Bradley was a big Monty-Basher in his own right but he never criticized Monty for the delay in capturing Caen. He said that the British role - as per the plan - was to draw the German's onto them to ease the American breakout and that it only appeared to be a failure at Caen because people generally rated success in terms of territory taken not in term of enemy drawn to a position and held down.
Montgomery's promotion to Field Masrhal was decided before Overlord finished and was given to him as a reward for overseeing the two biggest Allied victories to date - El Alamein and Overlord - in addition to soothing the British public who would otherwise have just seen their most successful field commander ousted from command of the allies just to sooth America's ego. 
Monty was under illutions about his promotion to Field Marshal. It was just a title and offered him no further power, in fact, in effect, he had been demoted from the Allied Ground Forces Commander to commander of the least powerful Allied Army Group employed in Western Europe.
Eisenhower required no coersion to support Market Garden, once the plan was presented to him he insisted it go forward. Montgomery was not re-assigned after Market Garden and remained in command of 21st Army Group until the end of the war.
At the Battle of the Bulge Montgomery placed Horrock's Corps on the Muese River crossings and sent his Liason Officers into the American lines to find out what was happening before the order came for him to take over command of 1st and 9th US Armies from Bradley. Monty was the only Allied Commander to have a completely clear picture of the situation in the north and when it became clear Bradley had to be replaced it was for more than just administrative purposes that Montgomery was chosen.Anonymous says:7 Nov 2010 01:53:52 PMI have been reading a number of articles regarding World War 2, and I my self have not found a single piece of information about "Robert William Atkinson" who fought along side Montgomery in second command if anyone would like this piece of information for any homework please do so. He was a Cumbrian man who lived and died in Cumbria, as he worked and owned for "RW Atkinson" he was commonly known as Bob. he had two children, and after he passed away building a home for his family his son who also was a builder who carried on the business until he retired however still running "Thacka Lea Caravan Park" which his mother and father started due to their passion for caravanning.why do you care says:2 Feb 2011 11:46:22 AMhorribleAnonymous says:4 Mar 2011 07:38:19 AMI LIKE THIS WEBSITE!!!
It helped me for homeworkAnonymous says:28 Apr 2011 11:37:08 AMmy granddad knew montgomery, and he says monty is known for saying "gather round chaps".Anonymous says:13 Jul 2011 04:34:02 PMgreatest generals of world history
5. bombing of snow spikes on ping tung us army 2009, us marines of current day took gold and surrounded it in nebraska to stop
mullenAnonymous says:27 Aug 2011 11:43:51 PMWhat was his impact, significance, imporance and contribution to the war?GRATE OR WHAT ?????? says:9 Oct 2011 02:58:46 AMThis was very halpful and helped me with my homework and made it all easier to understand
thanyou amillion I bet I am going to get the best grade ever on this I'll tell you If i do thoughI know I am!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Anonymous says:14 Nov 2011 10:05:50 AMcooolll
+Anonymous says:12 Jan 2012 02:19:09 PMit is well known that once out of africa as a commander montgomery was little more than comic relief for the german general staff who feared patton greatlyJohn Cornell says:10 Feb 2012 04:52:55 AM""it is well known that once out of africa as a commander montgomery was little more than comic relief for the german general staff who feared patton greatly""
Stop getting your information from silly movies and crap Ameruican 'documentaries'. The Germans in general never feared Patton. They never sent their best units into the areas Patton was advancing through.
In fact the Germans chose the AMERICAN sectors in which to attack (Mortain, Ardennes, Saarland) because they considered them weaker than the British sector under Montgomery.
Martyn says:22 Feb 2012 04:18:27 PMAnonymous said: "it is well known that once out of africa as a commander montgomery was little more than comic relief for the german general staff who feared patton greatly"
I am reminded of the quote about Monty attributed to Erwin Rommel: "The war in the desert ceased to be a game when Montgomery took over."lazarus says:2 Jul 2012 10:09:54 PMOne of the best Monty stories. During a stop at a Canadian HQ group during some of the heavy fighting aroun Caen, Monty was growing increasingly agitated at the vociforous and profanity laced Canadian R/T. Finaly, in exasperation; he turned to Brigadier Harry Foster and crossly remarked "If the words ' **** ' and 'left flank' were eradicated from the English language, the Canadian Army would be left speechless and immobile!"claudia says:4 Aug 2012 02:36:45 PMis a ****  son of a bitch Anonymous says:26 Sep 2012 01:28:59 AMThanks for the sentence:-  
"He would only launch his men on an offensive when he was sure that victory was certain, and that victory would have to be decisive."
A pity he didn't live up to his reputation in Market Garden. Thanks also for  "Montgomery's careful planning directly led to the low casualty rates among his units." To win battles with a low casualty rate is a wonderful virtue in a general.
I do recommend the sympathetic 3 volume biography of Monty by Nigel Hamilton to any young man who wants to be successful in his career. Monty was extremely successful.    Anonymous says:26 Sep 2012 05:47:56 AMMonty was an airbag just like OB.  He gets credit for leadership but was an egomaniac.  Market Garden was a failure because of him.
Alam el Halfa was planned before he got to Africa and he had ULTRA!!!!!!!!!!!!!!JL says:26 Sep 2012 06:45:17 AMHe was shot at Meteren France, not in Holland.Arm Chair Field Marshal says:27 Sep 2012 01:16:15 PMI enjoy the arguments that "Had Ike listened to Monty" or "Had Ike listened to Patton" the war would have been over by Xmas. I don't think the politics of the day would have allowed Ike to favor one commander over the other.  
I disagree with the conclusion that Monty's lack of tact cost him an earldom.  I believe only Harold Alexander was made an earl.  Monty was made a viscount, as were Slim of Burma and Alan Brooke, the Chief of the Imperial General Staff.
Indeed, it is clear from Brooke's diary that Monty reached the heights he did because Brooke believed in his ability and promoted him accordingly.  But even Brooke found him difficult, commenting at one point that "Monty is doing what he does best - training troops and making enemies."Melbourne says:12 Nov 2013 08:28:29 AMIt is now known that Rommels early African success's came about largely by information obtained on British Army movements via U.S. Army observers transmitting information which was then picked up by the Italian fascist Spy networks and passed onto Rommel. Operation Torch cannot be credited with the reversal of British success in North Africa.Anonymous says:3 Jan 2014 11:10:50 AMWhile there is a Meteren in the Netherlands,you may to refer to Meteren in France as the Netherlands were not even involved in Worl War IKKarin says:14 May 2014 10:13:15 PMA well written and reasonable accurate biography.  The author obviously spent many hours if not days getting information and confirming fact, which he built this bio around.  Monty was a horrible military man.  He was ignorant of proper etiquette, manners, respect for your seniors and a man that was impotent as well as a man whom was limp when a hard choice had to be made.  He was just not a manly man.  He was also immoral and with such character that offends all decent people, I mean he set up whore houses for adulterous sexual relations, which is unacceptable and shows that he is truly of little and poor character.  NO OTHER LEADER OF MEN HAS EVER DONE THAT IN RECENT TIMES!!!  That aside I don't know what proof or evidence there is AT ALL confirming your unfounded claims that if Eke listened to him the war would have been shorter and cost less lives, money, and material.  Had Monty obeyed orders and taken the estuary and allowing tens of kilotons of supplies to be infused into the ETO each day  the supply needs of the war machine would have  been eased significantly, there would not have been a forced halt for 2 month of the 3rd Army as well as others.  Patton could have gone into Germany as the Siegfried line was empty prior to the halt.  The enemy was in shambles and being routed with little hope or possibility to be able to refit, re-soldier, reequip, retrain, rest and produce or move weapons from other area to be entrenched with the other units and defenses.  The Russians alone would have not lost millions of men as well as saving so many German civilians who were raped and killed by the brutal on slaughter of the russian (Soviet) horde, and of course saved US, British, French, Canadian, Austrialian and many others.  Monty had no respect for his superiors including Churchill who ordered him to take action multiple times and each time he said "my men are not ready".  Well any idiot knows that it is HIS JOB to make sure they are ready.  When Patton arrived at Africa he was told that in 10 days he was to attack.  Did he say "Oh I just got here, I don't even know where my men are heck I don't even know where my panties and bra are." as monty would have said?  OH Course NOT.  He was a soldier, responsible for Turing men into warriors and honing a once disorganized force of men into a well disciplined, trained, self respectable harden killers, who where born to fight, trained to kill, and prepared to die.  And in ten days that is what he did, not by using sluts and soft kind words while  talking to the men under you and sip tea, but by demanding that they act like the Warriors their were trained to be, and to take pride in who they are, how they look and how they act so as to develop pride, honor, strength of character and not to think they are the best bad **** around, rather they know they are the Biggest Baddest **** around and that all those that stand before them will die or yield.  This is what self worth is and think how morale was boosted by this mans charisma and actions.  Before D-day every German and other leaders not privy to the actual D-day plan, KNEW PATTON was the leader.  He was without a doubt the only General whom would lead such a massive force.  The whole slap thing was thought to be misdirection/misinformation to confuse the Jerry's.   Monty was almost one of Germanys greatest allies, b/c of his disrespect, egocentric mind set, and his superiority complex(as result from his own inferiority and needing to constantly build himself up by making rude and nasty disrespecting comment to and about other...I actually pity the little man, I really do feel sorry for him, yet I must continue speaking the truth and educating those whom have only listen to Marxist/leftist people) he nearly cause the dissolution of the allied collation as result of his actions and lack of actions.  He was bad mouthing many of the US, French, Indian, Dutch and other leaders. HE belittled the most powerful man in the world at the time, Eisenhower(who said shut the F**k up I am YOU BOSS! BOY!). During the Ardennes offensive which he was unable to do anything when it was really needed and even after the Jerry's offensive was halted and he was ordered to attack, he refused saying his men were not ready.  2 week prior was when Eke ask anyone to send 3-6 div. to relieve Bastogne, the only one who had the foresight to prepare for such a situation was of course old blood and guts Patton, who said he could have 3 div there in 48hr.  Monty who was not at the meeting his aid was said it is impossible, and of course as usual he was wrong, showing how short sighted he is, b/c unless he has at least 15 to 1 advantage attacking is not possible.(there is a drink named after him b/c cause he always wanted such an unreasonable and overwhelming ratio, the drink is 15 parts gin 1 part vermouth[Hemingway came up with this, no joke. google it]). Yet even with 2 weeks he still could not ready his men and did not provide aid. However, during a January press meeting he had the arrogance to claim the victory his, not mentioning the thousands of US men who gave their lives to halt the surprise offensive. He should have be dismissed right then and there just like Harry S. Truman did to that asshole MacArthur(Korea not WW2).  Yet the Brits needed a hero and Eke new that, as well as the fact that they deserved a hero for all the hardship they had endured(Why could it have been a real hero though, like Audie Murphy...well that a little to big of a hero..anyway) Even before all that happen monty failed to accomplish the goals he set out for himself from the start of D+1. (I'll take Caen in 24hr after D-day start..) Even before the start of D-day he was ready to send men 140 mile for an open beach landing in the WORST CHANNEL Storm in decades.  Can you imagine the loses if they listened to that maroon.  NO DD tanks would have landed on ANY beach, many landing craft would have floundered, the men would have been unable to fight due to sea sickness that would have been many times worse then what it was.  The Ranger units almost definitely would have failed to take out point do hoc(Spelling) b/c none of the climbing equipment would have work if they would have found the landing point at all(recently they discover that the long exposure to salt water caused many of the rocket grapplers to fail, if things were worse all would have failed).  Plus the paratroopers would have  been totally useless as there is no way to hang onto gear in that kind of storm, everything is ripped off(I've done accelerated free fall in many different weather events and I know that no mater how tight you tie it on, its either going to be ripped off you or its going to snap your neck and disable or kill you)  Also, the Gliders would have all died.  No way landing in those conditions.  Plus most the German generals who had gone away (including Rommel) would have been on site!  The naval support would have been useless b/c of the storm or would have killed allied soldiers b/c of inaccurate short falling fire support b/c the seas would be so rough. Well enough is enough(not going to even go to op. market garden, I am sure that you all have had your blinders removed and you can see the light of truth in what that sorry little man was really like. Someone said that Rommel complemented him, well them me retort one complement for with many complements for a truly great leader.  This info comes from multiple sources: 
General Henri Giraud was incredulous when he heard of Patton's dismissal and invited him to a banquet with  President de Gaulle gave a speech placing Patton's achievements alongside those of Napoleon. Soviet leader Joseph Stalin stating that the Red Army could neither have planned nor executed Patton's rapid armored advance across France. 
The German High Command was noted to have more respect for him than for any Allied commander after 1943.[128] Many German field commanders were generous in their praise of Patton's leadership. Erwin Rommel credited Patton with executing "the most astonishing achievement in mobile warfare." Generaloberst Alfred Jodl, chief of staff of the German Army, stated that Patton "was the American Guderian. He was very bold and preferred large movements. He took big risks and won big successes."Generalfeldmarschall Albert Kesselring noted that "Patton had developed tank warfare into an art, and understood how to handle tanks brilliantly in the field. I feel compelled, therefore, to compare him with Generalfeldmarschall Rommel, who likewise had mastered the art of tank warfare. Both of them had a kind of second sight in regard to this type of warfare." Referring to the escape of the Afrika Korps after the Battle of El Alamein, Fritz Bayerlein opined that "I do not think that General Patton would let us get away so easily." In an interview conducted for Stars and Stripes just after his capture, Field Marshal Gerd von Rundstedt stated simply of Patton, "He is your best.All visitor submitted comments are opinions of those making the submissions and do not reflect views of WW2DB. 
Note: Please refrain from using strong language.  HTML tags are not allowed.  Your IP address will be tracked even if you remain anonymous.  WW2DB site administrators reserve the right to moderate, censor, and/or remove any comment.
More on Bernard MontgomeryEvent(s) Participated:» Invasion of France and the Low Countries» Battle of Alam el Halfa» Second Battle of El Alamein» Operations Pugilist and Supercharge II» Conclusion of the Desert War» Invasion of Sicily and Italy's Surrender» Operation Avalanche» Advance to the Gustav Line» Normandy Campaign, Phase 1» Operation Market Garden» Battle of the Bulge» Crossing the RhineDocument(s):» Declaration Regarding the Defeat of Germany and the Assumption of Supreme Authority by Allied PowersRelated Books:» Alamein: War Without Hate» Patton, Montgomery, Rommel: Masters of War
 » 780 biographies » 309 events » 29,974 timeline entries » 699 ships » 307 aircraft models » 164 vehicle models » 263 weapon models » 80 historical documents » 58 facilities » 332 book reviews » 220 maps » 18,679 photos, 1,603 in color
Famous WW2 Quote"Since peace is now beyond hope, we can but fight to the end."Chiang Kaishek, 31 Jul 1937 
 » Combined Fleet » IJN Signals and Doctrine » Tully's Port Forum » World War II Zone » WW2 File Blog 
=======================================================
Bernard Law MontgomeryThe English field marshal Bernard Law Montgomery, 1st Viscount Montgomery of Alamein (1887-1976), was an outstanding commander and hero of the British people during World War II. Bernard Montgomery was born on Nov. 17, 1887. He went to St. Paul's School in London and entered the army in 1908. He fought in France during World War I and was mentioned in dispatches for gallantry in action.After the usual staff and command assignments, Montgomery was a major general in command of the 3d Division in 1939. The division moved to France with the British Expeditionary Force in that year for the so-called Phony War. Montgomery participated in the withdrawal to Dunkirk in the spring of 1940. In England he became head of the 5th Corps in 1940, of the 12th Corps in 1941, and of the South East Command in 1942. In July 1942 he was appointed commander of the British 8th Army in Egypt, a position that marked the beginning of his rise to fame.Northern Africa and ItalyNow a lieutenant general, Montgomery reorganized the 8th Army, gave the officers and men confidence in themselves and in eventual victory, and set about to defeat his opponent, German Field Marshal Erwin Rommel. When
Rommel attacked at Alam Halfa on August 31, Montgomery won a defensive battle. On October 23 at the Battle of El Alamein, Montgomery gained an offensive victory. His defeat of the Italo-German army prompted an Axis retreat out of Egypt to the Mareth Line positions in southern Tunisia, 1,500 miles away. Although Montgomery pursued Rommel, he was unable to trap him.Montgomery was a full general before the end of 1942 and was knighted on November 10 of that year. In February 1943 his 8th Army came under Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower's Supreme Allied Command and directly under Gen. Sir Harold Alexander, the Allied ground force commander. In March, Montgomery took part in the final Anglo-American offensive in Tunisia, which swept the Axis forces entirely out of North Africa by May.It was largely Montgomery's plan, one of concentrated rather than dispersed landings, that dictated the invasion of Sicily on July 10, 1943. While Gen. George Patton's U.S. 7th Army landed on the southern coast of Sicily, Montgomery put his 8th Army ashore on the eastern face. Montgomery then tried to drive up the eastern coast to Messina, but his army was blocked at Catania, and American forces reached Messina first.Montgomery led his army across the Strait of Messina on Sept. 3, 1943, to the Italian mainland. He moved to the Taranto and Bari areas of the eastern coast, where his forces captured the Foggia airfields by October 1.The 8th Army moved across the Biferno River and captured Termoli after a complicated and brilliant operation that utilized an amphibious landing together with a direct pressure force. But bad weather and difficult terrain, plus obstinate German resistance, prevented rapid progress, and by the end of 1943 Montgomery's army was immobile at the Sangro River.Invasion of NormandyAt that time Montgomery was assigned to the United Kingdom, where he took command of the British and Canadian forces scheduled to participate in the cross-Channel attack. In addition to being 21st Army Group commander, he was named the Allied ground forces commander for the invasion of Normandy. On June 6, 1944, D-day, he directed the British 2d Army and the U.S. 1st Army, which crossed the Channel.Montgomery's generalship came under criticism during the first 2 months of the European campaign because of his alleged caution and slowness. He was to have captured Caen on D-day, but he took it only on the forty-second day of the campaign. His Goodwood attack also became the subject of much controversy. Yet Montgomery virtually destroyed two German field armies in the Argentan-Falaise pocket, closed on August 19, and he propelled the four Allied armies across the Seine River in a pursuit that came to an end only at the Siegfried Line.Montgomery relinquished his command of the Allied ground forces to Eisenhower on Sept. 1, 1944, a change contemplated long before the invasion. He was promoted to field marshal on the same day. He started the discussion
now known as the broad-front versus narrow-front strategy. Finally, Eisenhower gave Montgomery permission to launch Operation Market-Garden, a combined air-ground attack planned to get British forces across the lower Rhine River in Holland. The airborne drop was successful, but the ground attack failed, and the hope of driving directly to Berlin and bringing the war to a quick end vanished.The winter fighting was bitter. It came to a climax on Dec. 16, 1944, when the Germans launched their Ardennes counteroffensive and created the Battle of the Bulge. Eisenhower put Montgomery in command of all the troops on the northern shoulder of the Bulge.Montgomery crossed the Rhine River late in March 1945, helped encircle and reduce the industrial Ruhr, and swept across the northern German plain to the Elbe River. He commanded the British occupation forces and the Army of the Rhine (1945-1946), then was chief of the imperial general staff (1946-1948). He was chairman of the Western Europe Commanders in Chief Committee (1948-1951) and deputy supreme Allied commander, Europe (1951-1958). He retired in 1958 and wrote his memoirs. He died on March 24, 1976, in Alton, Hampshire.Further ReadingMontgomery's own books include El Alamein to the River Sangro (1948), Normandy to the Baltic (1948), Memoirs (1958), The Path to Leadership (1961), and A History of Warfare (1968). A life study of Montgomery is Alan Moorehead, Montgomery: A Biography (1967). The best histories of Montgomery's campaigns are in Sir Francis de Guingand, Operation Victory (1947); Winston Churchill, Closing the Ring (1951); Chester Wilmot, The Struggle for Europe (1952); Sir Arthur Bryant, The Turn of the Tide (1957); and Alan Moorehead, The March to Tunis: The North African War, 1940-1943 (1967). A view of Montgomery less favorable than the popular one is offered by Reginald William Thompson in Churchill and the Montgomery Myth (1968) and Montgomery, the Field Marshal: The Campaign in Northwest Europe, 1944/45 (1970). See also Martin Blumenson, Breakout and Pursuit (1961) and Salerno to Cassino (1969). âĄ
    | © The Oxford Companion to American Military History 2000, originally published by Oxford University Press 2000.            (Hide copyright information)
Montgomery, Bernard Law (1887–1976).British field marshal. One of the best‐known and controversial commanders of World War II, Montgomery—or Monty as he was better known—commanded Allied armies in two of the decisive battles of the war, El Alamein and Normandy. A Sandhurst graduate, he entered the British army in 1908, and served with distinction in World War I. Between the wars Montgomery was among the few army officers who grasped the need for new ideas, new equipment and new techniques. He was an unorthodox individualist.In August 1942, with the legendary  Gen. Erwin Rommel almost at the gates of Cairo and the oil fields of the Middle East, the almost unknown Montgomery took command of the British Eighth Army and defeated the Axis forces at the Battle of El Alamein, the foundation of Monty's fame, October 23–November 4, 1942.A small, wiry man with hawk‐like features, a neatly‐trimmed moustache, and a jaunty black beret, he was boastful and blunt. Critics have called him an egomaniac, overrated, and worse. His “finest hour” came both before and during the invasion of Normandy in which he commanded all Allied ground forces from June to August 1944. He became the lightning rod for criticism when temporary stalemate followed D‐Day. Relations with Supreme Allied Commander  Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower soured; exuding infallibility, Montgomery was his own worst enemy, and the myth took root that he had failed in Normandy. In practice, his generalship displayed far greater flexibility than he ever acknowledged. Original intention or not, Montgomery succeeded in keeping German armored divisions tied down on the British and Canadian front, thus assisting the American breakout on the right flank in July.Differences continued to mar Monty's relationship with Ike following the Allied victory in Normandy, with the newly created field marshal advocating a single, con centrated blow to end the war in 1944, and the Supreme Commander's decision to adopt a broad‐broad strategy. In September 1944, Montgomery launched Operation Market‐Garden, the largest airborne and glider operation in history. The attempt to seize a bridgehead over the Rhine at Arnhem failed.In the Battle of the Bulge, Eisenhower placed all American troops north of the German thrust under Montgomery's command, a courageous decision that was contrary to the advice of  Gen. Omar N. Bradley. Fighting desperately to stop the German counteroffensive, subordinate American commanders welcomed Montgomery's arrival. At a press conference after the battle, Monty praised the fighting qualities of the American soldier, but left the impression he had saved the American high command from disaster. He noted in his Memoirs, “I should have held my tongue.” Britain hailed Montgomery as another Wellington and he was made viscount of Alamein in 1946. He served as deputy commander of NATO forces, 1951–58.[See also France, Liberation of; Germany, Battle for; Italy, Invasion and Conquest of; Sicily, Invasion of; World War II: Military and Diplomatic Course.]Bibliography Nigel  Hamilton , Monty, 3 vols., 1981–86. Carlo  D’Este , Decision in Normandy, 1983. Richard  Overy , Why The Allies Won, 1996. Colin  F.  Baxter
                                <a href="http://www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1O126-MontgomeryBernardLaw.html"
    | © The Oxford Companion to British History 2002, originally published by Oxford University Press 2002.            (Hide copyright information)
Montgomery, Bernard (1887–1976). General and then field marshal (August 1944),  Montgomery was the most controversial general of the Second World War. Arrogant, confident, and self-centred, he did not endear himself to equals or superiors, but ‘Monty’ won the confidence of subordinates and ordinary soldiers. After capable service in France and Belgium in 1939–40 and in southern England, he rose to fame as commander-in-chief, 8th Army, in north Africa in 1942. With stronger forces and unequalled knowledge of his enemy's weaknesses, he directed the victory of El Alamein, forcing Italian and German withdrawal back to Tunisia. He was criticized for failure to cut off the retreating enemy. In Sicily and the south of Italy, he was alleged to show indifference to the needs of formations not under his command. The climax of his career was the command of ground forces in the attack on Normandy in 1944 until September. He aroused controversy after D-Day when his progress in capturing Caen was thought perilously slow. Montgomery undermined his reputation, then and since, by insisting that in battle everything followed his ‘master plan’, including the enemy. He showed high qualities in making cautious, ‘balanced’ provision for the unexpected: he claimed, however, that for him nothing was unexpected. After  Eisenhower took over command, Montgomery continued to insist that he should control active operations. He delayed the clearance of the approaches to Antwerp for his unsuccessful Arnhem gamble. His boastfulness after the battle of the Bulge, when he was given temporary command, helped to reduce his influence in 1945. He became a viscount. R.  A.  C.  Parker
                                <a href="http://www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1O110-MontgomeryBernard.html"
    | © World Encyclopedia 2005, originally published by Oxford University Press 2005.            (Hide copyright information)
Montgomery, Bernard Law, 1st Viscount Montgomery of Alamein  (1887–1976) British general. As commander of the British 8th Army in World War II, he defeated Rommel and the Afrika Korps at El Alamein (1942). He led the invasion of Sicily and Italy. ‘Monty’ helped to plan the Normandy landings (1944), and, under the overall command of  General Eisenhower, led the Allies in the initial stages. He was Deputy Supreme Allied Commander, Europe (1951–58).
                                <a href="http://www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1O142-MntgmryBrnrdLw1stVscntMnt.html"
                                Montgomery, Bernard Law, 1st Viscount Montgomery of Alamein">Montgomery, Bernard Law, 1st Viscount Montgomery of Alamein</a>
Encyclopedia.com provides students and teachers facts, information, and biographies from verified, citable sources, including:
Encyclopedia.com provides students and teachers facts, information, and biographies from verified, citable sources, including:
Encyclopedia.com provides students and teachers facts, information, and biographies from verified, citable sources, including:
