=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Uma Karuna Thurman, daughter of Robert Thurman and Nena Thurman, was born in Boston, Massachusetts, on April 29, 1970. Uma grew up in Amherst, Massachusetts, where her father worked at Amherst College. She left boarding school at just 15, already determined to become an actress. She moved to New York to follow her dream.A breakthrough role for the tall, blonde actress came when she played Cecile de Volanges in Dangerous Liaisons (1988). More attention came with the NC-17 rated Henry & June (1990), but it was Thurman's role in the Quentin Tarantino classic Pulp Fiction (1994) that earned her an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress. Donning a short black wig to play femme fatale Mia Wallace opposite John Travolta's hit man Vincent Vega, Thurman earned a place in film history.After roles in The Truth About Cats & Dogs (1996) and the Ted Demme film Beautiful Girls (1996), Thurman met her future husband Ethan Hawke on the set of Gattaca (1997).Thurman returned to smaller films after playing the villainess Poison Ivy in the reviled Joel Schumacher effort Batman & Robin (1997) and Emma Peel in a remake of The Avengers (1998). She worked with Woody Allen and Sean Penn on Sweet and Lowdown (1999), and starred in Richard Linklater's drama Tape (2001) opposite Hawke. Thurman also won a Golden Globe award for her turn in the made-for-television film Hysterical Blindness (2002), directed by Mira Nair.A return to the mainstream spotlight came when Thurman redeemed with Quentin Tarantino for Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003), a revenge flick the two had dreamed up on the set of Pulp Fiction (1994). She also turned up in the John Woo cautioner Paycheck (2003) that same year. The renewed attention was not altogether welcome because Thurman was dealing with the break-up of her marriage with Hawke at about this time. Thurman handled the situation with grace, however, and took her surging popularity in stride. She garnered critical acclaim for her work in Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004) and was hailed as Tarantino's muse. Thurman reunited with Pulp Fiction (1994) dance partner John Travolta for the Get Shorty (1995) sequel Be Cool (2005) and played Ulla in The Producers (2005).
          Uma Thurman was born in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1970 into a highly unorthodox and Eurocentric family -- her mother is a European socialite and former model, her father one of the nation's foremost Buddhist scholars. As a result, hers was a household in which the The Dalai Lama was an occasional guest; she and her siblings all have names deriving from Buddhist mythology; and Middle American behavior was little understood, much less pursued.And so it was that the young Thurman confronted childhood with an odd name and eccentric home life -- and nature seemingly conspired against her as well. Currently six feet tall, from an early age she towered over everyone else in class. Her famously large feet would soon sprout to size 11 -- and even beyond that -- and although they would eventually be lovingly filmed by director Quentin Tarantino, as a child she generally wore the biggest shoes in class, which only provided another subject of ridicule. Even her long nose moved one of her mother's friends to helpfully suggest rhinoplasty -- to the ten-year-old Thurman. To make matters worse yet, the family constantly relocated, making the gangly, socially inept Thurman perpetually the new kid in class. The result was an exceptionally awkward, self-conscious, lonely and alienated childhood.Unsurprisingly, the young Thurman enjoyed making believe she was someone other than herself, and so thrived at acting in school plays -- her sole successful extracurricular activity. This interest, and her lanky frame, perfect for modeling, led the 15-year-old Thurman to New York City for high school and modeling work (including a layout in Glamour Magazine) as she sought acting roles. The roles soon came, starting with a few formulaic and forgettable Hollywood products, but immediately followed by Terry Gilliam's The Adventures of Baron Munchausen (1988) and Stephen Frears' Dangerous Liaisons (1988), both of which brought much attention to her unorthodox sensuality and performances that intriguingly combined innocence and worldliness. The weird, gangly girl became a sex symbol virtually overnight.Thurman continued to be offered good roles in Hollywood pictures into the early '90s, the least commercially successful but probably best-known of which was her smoldering, astonishingly-adult performance as June, Henry Miller's wife, in Henry & June (1990), the first movie to actually receive the dreaded NC-17 rating in the USA.After a celebrated start, Thurman's career stalled in the early '90s with movies such as the mediocre Mad Dog and Glory (1993). Worse, her first starring role was in Even Cowgirls Get the Blues (1993), which had endured a tortured journey from cult-favorite book to big-budget movie, and was a critical and financial debacle. Fortunately, Uma bounced back with a brilliant performance as Mia Wallace, that most unorthodox of all gangster's molls, in Tarantino's lauded, hugely successful Pulp Fiction (1994), a role for which Thurman received an Academy Award nomination.Since then, Thurman has had periods of flirting with roles in arty independents such as A Month by the Lake (1995), supporting roles in which she has lent some glamorous presence to a mixed batch of movies such as Batman & Robin (1997), and the occasional starring role now and then, such as her role as a martial arts assassin in Tarantino's controversial Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003) and Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004), a grueling stretch for Thurman which proved her game for virtually any acting challenge.Thurman had been briefly married to Gary Oldman, from 1990 to 1992. In 1998, she married Ethan Hawke, her co-star in the offbeat futuristic thriller Gattaca (1997). The couple had two children, Levon and Maya. Hawke and Thurman filed for divorce in 2004.
      French cosmetics firm Lancome have employed her as a spokesmodel for their company. [June 2000]
      Ranked #99 in Empire (UK) magazine's "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time" list. [October 1997]
      Her father, Robert Thurman, is a professor of Indo-Tibetan Buddhist Studies at Columbia University School of Religion. He was the first westerner to become a Tibetan Buddhist monk. Uma was named for a Hindu goddess. Robert's family has been in the Unites States for many generations, and he has English, Northern Irish (Scots-Irish), Scottish, and German ancestry.
      Uma's mother, Nena Thurman, who was born in Mexico City, Mexico, is a model-turned-psychotherapist, who was a young teenager when she was discovered in Stockholm by photographer Norman Parkinson. Uma's maternal grandfather, Friedrich Karl Johannes von Schlebrügge, was a Prussian nobleman. Uma's maternal grandmother, Brigit Holmquist, was born in Sweden, to a father of Swedish descent and a mother of German and Danish ancestry. Brigit's father was a famous local industrialist, and Brigit was herself a famous beauty. A nude statue, called 'Famntaget' (The Embrace), of Brigit, stands in the port town of Trelleborg. Uma's maternal grandparents moved to Mexico, where Nena was born. Artist Salvador Dalí introduced Nena to her first husband, Timothy Leary.
      Uma's middle name, Karuna, is one of the four sublime abodes in Buddhism. It means "compassion." The other 3 sublime abodes are Metta (Loving kindness), Mudita (Sympathetic joy), and Upekkha (Equanimity).
      Attended Northfield Mount Hermon boarding school in Northfield, Massachusetts, during her freshman and sophomore years, approximately twenty five miles from her home town at the time, Amherst, Massachusetts.
      Uma and Ethan Hawke's daughter's name is Maya; which is also the name of the character that Uma played in Duke of Groove (1996).
      Her mother, Nena Thurman, was once married to LSD proponent Timothy Leary. The marriage lasted less than a year (1964-1965). Their marriage, which took place in Nepal, was the subject of a 15-minute documentary entitled "You're Nobody Till Somebody Loves You". Nena married Uma's father, Robert Thurman, two years later in 1967.
      Has three brothers with equally unusual, exotic names: Ganden, Dechen (who is an actor and director) and Mipam.
      Sister of Dechen Thurman and Ganden Thurman and the daughter of Nena Thurman and Robert Thurman
      She is on the Board of Directors of Room to Grow, a non-profit organization founded by Rob Reiner, dedicated to enriching the lives of babies born into poverty throughout their critical first 3 years of development.
      Her uncle, John Thurman, is a professional concert cellist who performs with the Detroit Symphony Orchestra.
      Supported the Junior Senator (John Kerry) from her native state (Massachusetts) for President of the United States.
      She attended Amherst Regional Middle School, Massachusetts, for grade 7 and 8 and had Ester Haskell as an English teacher. She later visited that school to contribute to the Women's History assembly. The children were thrilled
      She and her first husband, Gary Oldman, have both appeared in separate Batman films. Uma appeared in Batman & Robin (1997) as Poison Ivy. Gary Oldman has appeared in Batman Begins (2005) & The Dark Knight (2008) as James Gordon.
      Was made a Commander of the Order of Arts and Letters (Commandeur Dans Ordre Des Arts Et Des Lettres) by France in February 2006. Presenting the prize on behalf of the French Ministry of Culture, Cannes Film Festival President Gilles Jacob told Thurman she was "admired throughout the world" and that her career would "make her the favorite actress of an entire generation." The Order of Arts and Letters is given out twice annually to a few hundred people worldwide.
      Uma and her hotelier boyfriend, André Balazs, have ended their three-year romance. They started dating in 2003 [March 20, 2007].
      Has appeared in two films quoting the proverb "revenge is a dish best served cold", Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003) and Batman & Robin (1997) as well as Dangerous Liaisons (1988), an adaptation of the novel often credited with originating that expression.
      Returned to work 5 months after giving birth to her son Levon in order to begin filming Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003).
      Was the second choice for the role of Eleanor Arroway in Contact (1997) after Jodie Foster initially turned it down in 1995. She lost the role when Foster agreed to do the film after seeing a new revision of the script.
      Was Brian De Palma's first choice for the role of Maria in The Bonfire of the Vanities (1990). Actor Tom Hanks, who had casting approval, dismissed Thurman's acting as "high school," and the role went to Melanie Griffith.
      Auditioned for the role of Buttercup in The Princess Bride (1987). The role went to Robin Wright.
      Auditioned for the role of Cathy in Wuthering Heights (1992). The role went to Juliette Binoche.
      Played a role in Savages (2012) as Paqu (Blake Lively's character mother) but all her scenes were deleted from the film.
      Despite the potential for complications with child birth because of problems with her blood vessels, she gave birth to 3 children.
      Was 3 months pregnant with her daughter Luna when she filmed her guest appearance on Smash (2012).
      Returned to work 3 months after giving birth to her daughter Luna in order to begin filming Nymphomaniac: Vol. I (2013).
      Gave birth to her 1st child at age 28, a daughter Maya Ray Thurman-Hawke (aka Maya Thurman-Hawke) on July 8, 1998. Child's father is her now ex-2nd husband, Ethan Hawke.
      Gave birth to her 2nd child at age 31, a son Levon Roan Thurman-Hawke (aka Roan Thurman-Hawke) on January 15, 2002. Child's father is her now ex-2nd husband, Ethan Hawke.
      Gave birth to her 3rd child at age 42, a daughter Rosalind Arusha Arkadina Altalune Florence Thurman-Busson on July 15, 2012. Child's father is her boyfriend, Arpad Busson.
      Was set to portray Marlene Dietrich in a biopic directed by Louis Malle, but after the death of Malle the project was canceled.
      In 2010, Thurman's £6,000,000 ($10,000,000) lawsuit against London-based Handmade Films, the production company behind Eloise in Paris, was settled. Thurman had hired Bert Fields to represent her, claiming that not only had Handmade not paid her an agreed £2,800,000 pay-or-play fee for the film, but that she had also lost earnings waiting for it to begin production.
      Next to Quentin Tarantino, she presented the Palme D'or to Kis uykusu (2014) at the 67th Cannes Film Festival. She attended the stage bare-feet.
      Tall, sandy blonde, with sort of blue eyes, skinny in places, fat in others. An average gal. - Uma Thurman, self description.
      I'm very happy at home. I love to just hang out with my daughter, I love to work in my garden. I'm not a gaping hole of need.
      It is better to have a relationship with someone who cheats on you than with someone who does not flush the toilet.
      I was not particularly bright, I wasn't very athletic, I was a little too tall, odd, funny looking, I was just really weird as a kid.
      Desperation is the perfume of the young actor. It's so satisfying to have gotten rid of it. If you keep smelling it, it can drive you crazy. In this business a lot of people go nuts, go eccentric, even end up dead from it. Not my plan.
      "Everyone looked the same, everyone had it down to such a perfect T. You get bored. That's when you have to say, 'I will be worst-dressed.'", on her questionable choice of Oscar attire this year (2004)
      I had to go to a mirror and look at it. I couldn't picture myself in my own head. I had no image beyond a stick figure. I wasn't a mean person as a kid, or dumb, and something has to be said to justify excluding you.
      Before I had my child, I thought I knew all the boundaries of myself, that I understood the limits of my heart. It's extraordinary to have all those limits thrown out, to realize your love is inexhaustible.
      I think we all exude essential truths about ourselves, and then, as an actress, there's what you do with it. There's your wit and your imagination, and what you can cook up from your experience and understanding of what makes a human being tick.
      In show business, to pry open doors in new areas is really tough. Until you have a successful comedy, people don't think you could be funny, which is what makes a director like Quentin Tarantino so special. He sees beyond the things on the resume that you've done to date and opens up wonderful cans of worms for you to crawl into. That's a cool thing.
      Having children flips the game from being about you to being about what you can create in a home and what your responsibilities are. I've thought about quitting, but I love what I do so much - it's the big conundrum of my life.... So I'm fighting to keep my foot in the business, be creative and stimulated, and still take care of my children.
      I've known some great rock chicks, and it seems to me they're allowed to have a lot more edge than movie people, where everybody's got the latest youth serums going, the newest exercise and, if that won't cover it, they'll do something else. There's this sort of improve-yourself aspect, whereas the music business seems to have this much more funky attitude, with, like, a slight respect for damage.
      By the time I was 27, when I had my daughter, I felt I had danced on every tabletop - which I hadn't. Now I know that I hadn't. At all. There are plenty of tabletops left, should I wish to dance on them. (In Style - February 2006 - "Uma In Full Swing" by Joanne Kaufman)
      Growing up in a small town in New England was one of the most aesthetically pleasant experiences that you can have. (In Style - February 2006 - "Uma In Full Swing" by Joanne Kaufman)
      It's a shakedown. But I feel grateful that the hard things have been survivable - I've been able to learn from them and grow - and that the things that have been like a gift, I've had the wherewithal to realize are a gift. (In Style - February 2006 - "Uma In Full Swing" by Joanne Kaufman)
      As they say in gambling, I've gotten to stay at the table. I've hung in! They pull the plug on people all the time. The sky hook comes out, and it's all over. But there are much bigger sky hooks - as well we know. (In Style - February 2006 - "Uma In Full Swing" by Joanne Kaufman)
      I think a lot of our lives we spend moving forward, leaping from rock to rock, trying to figure it out. But it's wonderful to feel in the prime of your life. I feel like I'm in the right place and in the right time with myself. (In Style - February 2006 - "Uma In Full Swing" by Joanne Kaufman)
      You learn that the first failure isn't the end. I thought I'd seen the end of my career 10 times over. I've experienced them as death blows. What's nice - after numerous efforts, successes, failures, losses, professional and personal - is to actually accept you're not going to ace your life. You suffer, then you get on with it. You may spend three months in bed, but, eventually, you're going to have to get up.
      When I was a teenager people often referred to me as jaded or knowing. It's a classic teen illusion to think you know it all, but I've certainly learned I don't.
=======================================================
Thurman arriving for the press conference of the film "Nymphomaniac" at the 2014 Berlin Film Festival.
Uma Karuna Thurman (born April 29, 1970)[1] is an American actress and model. She has performed in leading roles in a variety of films, ranging from romantic comedies and dramas to science fiction and action movies. Following early roles in films such as Dangerous Liaisons (1988), she rose to international prominence in 1994 following her role in Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction for which she was nominated for an Academy Award, a BAFTA Award and a Golden Globe Award. She starred in several more films throughout the 1990s such as The Truth About Cats & Dogs, Batman & Robin, Gattaca and Les Misérables.
She won a Golden Globe Award for the miniseries Hysterical Blindness (2002). Her career was revitalized when she reunited with director Quentin Tarantino to play the main role in both Kill Bill films (2003/2004) which brought her an additional two Golden Globe Award nominations and a BAFTA Award nomination.
Thurman was born in Boston, Massachusetts. Her father, Robert Alexander Farrar Thurman, a New York-born professor, is a Buddhist writer and academic. Her mother, Nena von Schlebrügge, is a model who was born in Mexico City, Mexico, of German, Swedish and Danish descent. Thurman and her siblings spent time in the Himalayan town of Almora, Uttarakhand, India, during childhood, and the Dalai Lama, to whom Robert Thurman has long been close, once visited their home.[2] She grew up mostly in Amherst, Massachusetts, where she went to Amherst Regional Middle School, then moved to Woodstock, New York. While her father gave his children a Buddhist upbringing, she has one of the Hindu goddess Parvati's alternative names, "Uma", which means "Light" in Sanskrit.[3][4] Regarding religion, she now calls herself agnostic.[5] She has three brothers, Ganden (b. 1968), Dechen (b. 1973), and Mipam (b. 1978), and a half-sister named Taya (b. 1960), from her father's previous marriage. She is described as having been an awkward and introverted girl who was teased for her tall frame, angular bone structure, enormous feet and unusual name (sometimes using the name “Uma Karen” instead of her birth name).[citation needed] When Thurman was 10 years old, a friend's mother suggested a nose job.[2] As a child, she suffered bouts of body dysmorphic disorder, which she discussed in an interview with Talk magazine in 2001.[6] She attended Amherst Public Schools. In the eighth grade she discovered her love for acting. Talent scouts noticed her performance as Abigail in a production of The Crucible[7] and offered her the chance to act professionally. Thurman attended Northfield Mount Hermon School, a preparatory school in Massachusetts, before dropping out to pursue a career in acting.[2][8]
Thurman began her career as a fashion model at age 15,[9] and signed with the agency Click Models. Her early modeling credits included Glamour and the December 1985 and May 1986 covers of British Vogue.[10] She made her movie debut in 1988, appearing in four films that year. Her first two were the high school comedy Johnny Be Good and teen thriller Kiss Daddy Goodnight. She had a small role in The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, playing the goddess Venus alongside Oliver Reed's Vulcan; during her entrance she briefly appears nude, in an homage to Botticelli's The Birth of Venus. The most acclaimed of these first four films was Oscar-winning drama Dangerous Liaisons, in which Thurman's character of Cecile de Volanges is seduced by the manipulative Vicomte de Valmont (John Malkovich). At the time, insecure about her appearance, she spent roughly a year in London, during which she often wore loose, baggy clothing.[10] Malkovich said of her "there is nothing twitchy teenager-ish about her, I haven’t met anyone like her at that age. Her intelligence and poise stand out. But there's something else. She's more than a little haunted."[11]
In 1990, Thurman appeared with Fred Ward and Maria de Medeiros in the sexually provocative drama Henry & June, the first film to receive an NC-17 rating. Partly because many American newspapers refused to advertise films with the new rating, it did not get wide release in the United States, but the film won her some good notices. The New York Times wrote: "Thurman, as the Brooklyn-accented June, takes a larger-than-life character and makes her even bigger, though the performance is often as curious as it is commanding".[12]
In 1993, she was for the first time the main star in Gus Van Sant's 1993 adaptation of Tom Robbins' novel Even Cowgirls Get the Blues. It was a critical and financial disappointment; Thurman was nominated for a Worst Actress Razzie. The Washington Post described her acting as shallow, writing that, "Thurman's strangely passive characterization doesn't go much deeper than drawling and flexing her prosthetic thumbs".[13] She also starred opposite Robert De Niro in the drama Mad Dog and Glory, another box office disappointment. Later that year, Thurman auditioned for Stanley Kubrick while he was casting for the unmade film Wartime Lies. Her agent said she described working with Kubrick as a "really bad experience."[14]
After Mad Dog and Glory, Thurman auditioned for the Quentin Tarantino movie Pulp Fiction, which grossed over $107 million on a budget of only $8 million.[15] The Washington Post wrote that Thurman was "serenely unrecognizable in a black wig, [and] is marvelous as a zoned-out gangster's girlfriend."[16] Thurman was nominated for the Best Supporting Actress Oscar the following year. She became one of Tarantino's favorite actresses to cast; he told Time magazine in 2003 that she was "up there with Garbo and Dietrich in goddess territory."[17]
1996 would see Thurman in two moderately successful films, the first of which was Beautiful Girls, where she played the female lead and love interest of Timothy Hutton and was supported with a high-profile cast (for that time) of Mira Sorvino, Martha Plimpton, and Natalie Portman. The film was well received by the critics for the script and acting, particularly that of Hutton and Portman. It performed moderately well at the box office. Thurman also starred opposite Janeane Garofalo in the moderately successful 1996 romantic comedy The Truth About Cats & Dogs as a ditzy blonde model. In 1997, she starred opposite her future husband Ethan Hawke in the science fiction film Gattaca. Although Gattaca was not a success at the box office, it drew many positive reviews and became successful on the home video market.[18] Some critics were not as impressed with Thurman, such as The Los Angeles Times, which wrote that she was "as emotionally uninvolved as ever."[19]
Her next role was Poison Ivy in Batman & Robin, the fourth of the series. Her performance received mixed reviews, and critics compared her to Mae West. The New York Times wrote, "like Mae West, she mixes true femininity with the winking womanliness of a drag queen."[20] A similar comparison was made by the Houston Chronicle: "Thurman, to arrive at a '40s femme fatale, sometimes seems to be doing Mae West by way of Jessica Rabbit."[21] The next year brought The Avengers, another major financial and critical flop. CNN described her as "so distanced you feel like you’re watching her through the wrong end of a telescope."[22] She received Razzie Award nominations for both films. She closed out 1998 with Les Misérables, a film version of Victor Hugo's novel of the same name, directed by Bille August, in which she played Fantine. On his review of the film, Roger Ebert said that "Thurman's performance is the best element of the movie."
After the birth of her first child in 1998, Thurman took a break from acting to concentrate on motherhood. Her next roles were in low-budget and television films, including Vatel, Tape, in which she appeared with then husband Ethan Hawke and for which she was nominated for the Independent Spirit Award for Best Supporting Female, and Chelsea Walls, directed by Hawke.
She would win a Golden Globe award for her acting in HBO cable movie Hysterical Blindness; she was also one of the executive producers. Thurman played a New Jersey woman in the 1980s searching for romance. The San Francisco Chronicle review said, "Thurman so commits herself to the role, eyes blazing and body akimbo, that you start to believe that such a creature could exist—an exquisite-looking woman so spastic and needy that she repulses regular Joes. Thurman has bent the role to her will."[23]
In 2000, she narrated the John Moran opera Book of the Dead (2nd Avenue) at New York's Public Theater.
In 2003 Thurman co-starred in John Woo's Paycheck, which was only moderately successful with critics and at the box office.
It would be Quentin Tarantino's Kill Bill which relaunched her career. She played assassin Beatrix Kiddo, out for revenge against her former lover. Tarantino wrote the part specifically for her. He cited Thurman as his muse while writing the film, and gave her joint credit for the character, whom the two conceived on the set of Pulp Fiction from the sole image of a bride covered in blood. Production was delayed for several months after Thurman became pregnant, as Tarantino refused to recast the part.[24] The film took nine months to shoot, and was filmed in five different countries. The role was also her most demanding, and she spent three months training in martial arts, swordsmanship, and Japanese.[25] Originally designed to be one film, Kill Bill was ultimately released in two parts and would become a cult classic[26] and scored highly with critics. Thurman was nominated for a Golden Globe for both entries, plus three MTV Movie Awards for Best Female Performance and two for Best Fight. Rolling Stone likened her to "an avenging angel out of a 1940s Hollywood melodrama".[27]
The inspirations for The Bride were several B-movie action heroines. Thurman's main inspiration for the role was the title character of Coffy (played by Pam Grier) and the character of Gloria Swenson from Gloria (played by Gena Rowlands). She said that the two characters are "two of the only women I've ever seen be truly women [while] holding a weapon".[28] Coffy was screened for Thurman by Tarantino prior to beginning production on the film, to help her model the character.[24]
By 2005, Thurman was commanding a salary of $12.5 million per film. Her first film of the year was Be Cool, the sequel to 1995's Get Shorty, which reunited her with her Pulp Fiction castmate John Travolta. In the film, she played the widow of a deceased music business executive. The film received poor reviews, and came in below expectations at the box office. In 2005, she starred in Prime with Meryl Streep, playing a woman in her late thirties romancing a man in his early twenties. Thurman's last film of the year was a remake of The Producers in which she played Ulla, a Swedish stage actress hoping to win a part in a new Broadway musical. Originally, the producers of the film planned to have another singer dub in Thurman's musical numbers, but she was eager to do her own vocals.[29] She is credited for her songs in the credits. The film was considered a bomb at the box office, but many praised Thurman's efforts, including A. O. Scott of The New York Times who said: "Uma Thurman as a would-be actress is the one bit of genuine radiance in this aggressively and pointlessly shiny, noisy spectacle."[30]
Thurman with Quentin Tarantino attending Pulp Fiction's 20th anniversary tribute at the 2014 Cannes Film Festival.
With a successful film career, Thurman once again became a desired model. Cosmetics company Lancôme selected her as its spokeswoman. It also named several shades of lipstick after her, though they were sold only in Asia. In 2005, Thurman became a spokeswoman for the French fashion house Louis Vuitton. On February 7, 2006, she was also named a knight of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres of France for outstanding achievement in the field of art and literature.
In May 2006, Thurman bought the film rights to the Frank Schätzing novel The Swarm, which is in development and due for release in 2015.[31] When the film remake The Women was in pre-production in 2006, Thurman was cast as Crystal Allen, alongside Annette Bening, Julia Roberts, Meg Ryan, Sandra Bullock, Ashley Judd, Lisa Kudrow and Anne Hathaway, being directed by James L. Brooks, but the director was changed and Thurman was no longer part of the cast.[citation needed] In July 2006, she starred opposite Luke Wilson in My Super Ex-Girlfriend. Thurman portrayed a super-heroine named "G-Girl" who is dumped by her boyfriend and then takes her revenge upon him. She received a reported $14 million for the role, but the film flopped. Once again she was well-received, but the film was not.
In February 2008, she starred opposite Colin Firth and Jeffrey Dean Morgan in The Accidental Husband, a romantic comedy about a woman who finds herself married while engaged to another man. It seems like archetypal Hollywood contrivance, but according to Thurman, a similar situation happened in New York.[32] Also in 2008, she starred as Elsa in the British film My Zinc Bed, in which she plays a cocaine addict, starring opposite Paddy Considine and Jonathan Pryce. In 2010, her movie Motherhood garnering just £88 on 11 tickets on its opening weekend.[33] In the United States it earned $93,388 in three weeks of release.[34]
In 2011, Thurman was a member of the jury for the main competition at the Cannes Film Festival.[35] In December 2011, James Hibberd of Entertainment Weekly reported Thurman had joined the cast of NBC's Smash as Rebecca Duvall.[36] Thurman appeared in five episodes of the drama series.[36] Her performance as Duvall received mostly positive reviews and she was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Drama Series.
Thurman met actor Gary Oldman on the set of State of Grace; they married in 1990 and divorced two years later.[37]
On May 1, 1998, she married actor Ethan Hawke, whom she met on the set of their 1997 film Gattaca. Hawke's novel Ash Wednesday is dedicated to "Karuna", Thurman's middle name.[38] She acknowledged that they had married because she was pregnant – seven months at their wedding.[39] The marriage produced two children: daughter Maya Ray, born in 1998, and son Levon, born in 2002. The couple separated in 2003,[40] and the divorce was finalized in August 2005.[41] When asked on The Oprah Winfrey Show whether the break-up involved betrayal, she said, "There was some stuff like that at the end. We were having a difficult time, and you know how the axe comes down and how people behave and how people express their unhappiness."[41] In a 2004 Rolling Stone cover story, Thurman and director Quentin Tarantino denied having had a romantic relationship, despite Tarantino once having told a reporter, "I'm not saying that we haven’t, and I'm not saying that we have."[14]
Thurman began dating London-based French financier Arpad Busson in 2007, and they announced their engagement in June 2008.[42] In late 2009, they called off their engagement,[43] but reconciled soon after.[44] Thurman and Busson have a daughter together, Rosalind Arusha Arkadina Altalune Florence Thurman-Busson (nickname Luna), born in 2012.[45] The couple reportedly called off the engagement for the second time in April 2014.[46]
Thurman has been involved in various philanthropic and activist causes. She supports the United States Democratic Party, and has given money to the campaigns of John Kerry, Hillary Clinton, and Joseph R. Driscoll.[47] She supports gun control laws, and in 2000, she participated in Marie Claire’s “End Gun Violence Now” campaign.[48] She is a member of the board of Room to Grow, a charitable organization providing aid to families and children born into poverty.[49] She serves on the board of the Tibet House.[50] In 2007, she hosted the Nobel Peace Prize Concert in Oslo, Norway with actor Kevin Spacey.[51]
In 2011, Thurman was one of a few celebrities attached to USAID and Ad Council's FWD campaign, an awareness initiative tied to that year's East Africa drought. She joined Geena Davis, Chanel Iman and Josh Hartnett in TV and internet ads to "forward the facts" about the crisis.[52]
Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Miniseries or Television Movie
This audio file was created from a revision of the "Uma Thurman" article dated 2006-06-24, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help)
Bina, Roxanna. "Interview with Uma Thurman." Independent Film Quarterly. December 8, 2003, accessed January 5, 2006.
Fischer, Paul. "For Ms. Thurman, Life is More than Just a Paycheck." Film Monthly. September 22, 2003, accessed January 5, 2006.
Hedegaard, Erik. "A Magnificent Obsession.[dead link]" Rolling Stone. April 29, 2004, accessed January 6, 2005.
Robert Downey, Jr., Chris Evans, Mark Ruffalo, Chris Hemsworth, Scarlett Johansson and Jeremy Renner vs. Tom Hiddleston – The Avengers (2013)
Categories: 1970 birthsActresses from Boston, MassachusettsAmerican film actressesAmerican female modelsAmerican agnosticsAmerican people of German descentAmerican people of Swedish descentAmerican people of Danish descentBest Actress Empire Award winnersBest Miniseries or Television Movie Actress Golden Globe winnersLee Strasberg Theatre Institute alumniLiving peopleMassachusetts DemocratsNorthfield Mount Hermon School alumniPeople from Amherst, MassachusettsChevaliers of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres20th-century American actresses21st-century American actressesHidden categories: Articles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2013Articles with unsourced statements from February 2009Spoken articlesArticles with hAudio microformatsAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2011Commons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
                The glacial beauty went from wide-eyed ingenue in Dangerous Liaisons to revenge-driven assassin in Kill Bill. Did her career renaissance as Tarantino's muse doom her marriage?Uma Karuna Thurman was born into a highly unconventional family. Her mother, Nena, was the daughter of the renowned Swedish beauty, Brigit Holmquist, who'd married a German nobleman Baron Karl von Schlebruge in the 1930s.  Uma's mother, Nena, grew up to be just as stunning as Brigit; she was talent-spotted in Stockholm by top British photographer Norman Parkinson when she was only 16, who brought her over to London where she began modelling for Vogue magazine.  As one of the top supermodels of her day, she soon began mixing with the high-flyers of swinging 60s London, and in 1964 she married the controversial psychedelic guru Dr Timothy Leary, one of the trendiest intellectuals of his day. Leary was much older than Nena, so he was considered to be something of a father figure. Nena's first marriage didn't last, and soon afterwards she met and fell in love with Uma's future father, Robert Thurman.  Robert Thurman's background was just as unusual as Nena's, though in an entirely different way. He was the son of New York stage actress Elizabeth Farrar, and had studied classics at Harvard. At 19, he'd married an oil heiress, but soon divorced and went off to ride a motorbike across India with his friends. In India, he met the exiled Tibetan leader, the Dalai Lama, converted to Buddhism, and became the first American to be ordained as a Tibetan monk! He adopted a Tibetan name - Tenzin - and even his own children still call him that to this day.  Uma's parents met and married in 1966, and soon began a family. Most of her childhood was spent in Amherst, Massachussetts, or Woodstock, New York, where her father held various posts as a professor of religion. Uma is the second oldest child, and has three brothers: Ganden, who is now a computer expert; Dechen, who is an actor and director, and finally, Mipam, the baby of the family. All four children are named after Tibetan gods.  Growing up in such an unusual family, Uma felt herself to be something of an outsider, even from an early age. Uma's parents disapproved of popular American culture, and discouraged her from joining in with normal high school pursuits and hobbies - Uma wasn't exactly praised to the hilt when she joined the cheerleading squad. She attended several schools in quick succession and was frequently teased on account of her oddball name, and her even more oddball parents.  To overcome this problem, Uma even took to calling herself Kelly or Linda, instead of Uma. Unsurprisingly she grew up into an angry and difficult teenager: it was then that she first got involved in acting, however, and she was instantly hooked. Right from her first school play, she fell in love with theatre, and soon asked for acting lessons. Aged 14, she was sent to Northfield Mount Hermon School, but she'd already decided that she was done with school and wanted to become an actress.  Uma dropped out of Northfield a year later and transferred to the Professional Children's High School. With the help of her mother's contacts, she signed up with various modelling agencies: she was taken on by Click, and soon began modelling for Glamour magazine, where she worked with many of the country's top fashion photographers. But Uma's big dream was to act in the movies.  She was soon spotted by talent scouts while at drama school and landed a part in her first film, 'Kiss Daddy Goodnight', where she played the role of a young temptress who picks up older men.  The offers soon began to flood in, leading Uma to drop out of school before she graduated. Her next film was 'Johnny be Good', a satirical film about the US education system: Uma played Anthony Michael Hall's girlfriend, but the film wasn't wildly successful. Uma's next two films, however, really helped to establish her as a top Hollywood actress.  First came Terry Gilliam's fantastically over-the-top movie, 'The Adventures of Baron Munchausen', which told the story of a legendary baron who went time-travelling and had all sorts of adventures along the way. Uma played the role of the 'God of War's' wife (the God was played by Oliver Reed), and posed naked as Venus on a giant sea-shell, where she's being dressed by cherubs. The film was a huge box-office hit, as was 'Dangerous Liaisons', Uma's next movie, where she acted alongside Glenn Close, Michelle Pfeiffer and John Malkovich.  The movie was an historical feature set against the background of the decadent 18th-century French aristocracy, and Uma played the role of a "sweet young thing" who is seduced by the wicked Vicomte, played by John Malkovich. The film was a huge success, and was nominated for an Oscar for Best Film, as well as winning other nominations for Michelle Pfeiffer and Glenn Close.  Perhaps because so many of her first movie roles involved removing her clothes, Uma was dismayed to discover that she was rapidly acquiring a reputation as a sex symbol. Horrified, she withdrew from public life for a while, fled to London, and even took to wearing baggy clothes. A short time later, however, she met actor Gary Oldman, and the couple were instantly attracted to each other.  Despite the fact that Oldman was twelve years her senior, they enjoyed a whirlwind romance, which ended in marriage in October 1990. The same year, Uma appeared in two more quality movies, which she'd specially chosen in order to help dismantle her unwanted image as a sex goddess: the first was John Boorman's 'Where The Heart Is', a comedy where Uma acted the role of daughter of a demolition tycoon. The second was 'Henry and June', a film based on the triangular relationship between the writer Henry Miller, his wife June (played by Uma) and the sexually voracious diarist Anais Nin.  Offstage, however, Uma's private life was in turmoil. Her marriage to Gary Oldman was ending, amid rumours of heavy drinking, and the couple divorced in 1992. At the time, Uma was quoted as saying, "Teenage weddings are among the things that don't count."  Around this time, Uma's career hit something of a plateau, but she was gaining valuable acting experience nevertheless, and improving her craft. She acted in 'Final Analysis', alongside Richard Gere, a classy thriller where Gere played the role of a psychiatrist who is treating a disturbed patient, played by Uma. In 'Jennifer 8', she played the role of a blind woman, Helen Robertson. Sadly, it was not a hit. Next, she acted in 'Mad Dog and Glory', alongside Robert de Niro, who, it's rumoured, screamed at her off camera in order to get her in the right frame of mind for shooting a particular scene!  Then came 'Even Cowgirls Get The Blues', where Uma played her first real leading role. Sadly, the movie was panned, and some critics believed that this would be the end of Uma's career. But they hadn't reckoned with the visionary skills of Quentin Tarantino, who cast her in the role of Mia Wallace, wife of the thug Marcellus in 'Pulp Fiction', a complex blockbusting crime drama. Thurman beat off competition from Holly Hunter and Meg Ryan to win the role, and she was Oscar-nominated for her performance. Far from her career being over, overnight Uma became one of the leading actresses in Hollywood.  Having firmly established her reputation as a leading lady, Uma took a break from making big-budget movies. Her next films included 'A Month By The Lake', 'Beautiful Girls', and 'The Truth About Cats and Dogs'. Next, however, she chose a role in the new Batman movie, and thus returned to the big time. She played the part of Poison Ivy, a former botanist who's now intent of killing all humans and leaving planet earth free for plant life! But the new film, 'Batman and Robin', wasn't particularly successful, although Uma was praised for her performance.  It was during production for the sci-fi thriller Gattaca that she fell in love with co-star Ethan Hawke. The couple had actually already met before, at the premiere of 'Pulp Fiction', but Uma had thought that Ethan was too young for her! By now, however, she'd changed her mind, and fell for Ethan's sensitive charms. She was soon pregnant; a daughter, Maya Ray, was born to the couple in 1998, and two months later, Uma and Ethan were married in New York, and were blessed by the Dalai Lama.  Maya was soon joined by another baby, this time a boy called Levon, who was born in 2002. Uma and Ethan acted together in Richard Linklater's film, 'Tape', and Uma went on to win a Golden Globe for her performance in her next movie, 'Hysterical Blindness', where she co-starred with Gina Rowlands and Ben Gazarra. Soon afterwards, she returned to working with Quentin Tarantino, who allegedly now thought of Uma as his muse! Tarantino cast her for the female lead in 'Kill Bill'. Uma stars as The Bride, an assassin whose ex-boss ruins her wedding and thus initiates an orgy of murder and revenge.  While her career was going from strength to strength, her private life began to flounder. Whilst she was away in Vancouver filming 'Paycheck', Hawke was snapped enjoying the company of Canadian model Jen Perzow in Montreal, where he was filming 'Taking Lives'. Tabloid rumours abounded that Hawke was feeling insecure about Uma's relationship with Quentin Tarantino and was deeply worried that she was actually more than just a muse to the famous director. But whatever the cause of the split, Uma and Ethan's marriage was over.  Uma filed for divorce and soon began seeing hotel tycoon Andre Balazs. After appearing in the sequel to 'Kill Bill', Thurman starred in 'Be Cool', alongside John Travolta. She then decided to change pace by turning her hand to comedy. Uma starred in the stylish comedy 'Prime' (2005), and also took a fun minor role in the re-make of 'The Producers' (2005). She went on to star in 'My Super Ex-Girlfriend' (2006) and 'The Life Before Her Eyes' (2007). She met financier Arpad Busson the same year.  Most recently, Uma has acted for laughs in the long-delayed movie, 'Accidental Husband' (2008), thus proving that she can do funny.  She has gone on to play the lead in comedy drama 'Motherhood' (2009) before starring as evil Greek goddess Medusa in 'Percy Jackson & The Lightening Thief' the same year. After getting engaged to Busson, the couple split in 2009.  Uma then starred in another romantic comedy called 'Ceremony' in 2010 before taking a break. She made up with Busson in 2011 and they soon announced that she was expecting their first child together. Their daughter, who has yet to be named, was born on 15 July 2012.  In 2012, Uma acted in drama 'Bel Ami' with Robert Pattinson and in several episodes of musical TV show 'Smash'. She is also set to appear in 'Playing the Field' later this year and is rumoured to be acting alongside Clive Owen in 'Blind'.  Next year, she is set to appear in a new comedy by 'Dumb and Dumber' writers - the Farrelly brothers - as well as 'Eloise in Paris' and 'Girl Soldier'.  Despite the ups and downs of her private life, Uma's stunning looks, fabulous grace, undoubted acting ability and sheer hard work have all served to secure her place as one of Hollywood's leading ladies - a position she's certain to enjoy for many years to come.
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
                BUY TICKETS, GET MUSIC. Buy any ticket on Fandango this month and get a free Amazon Music code for two songs!
            Within 48 hours of your ticket purchase, you’ll receive an email from Fandango with your Amazon Music promotional code. You’ll receive one promotional code per ticket transaction, limit one per Amazon account. Offer is valid through 9:00 AM PDT 6/30/2014, while supplies last. Amazon.com account required. Amazon Music promotional code expires 11:59pm PDT, 7/30/14. This is a promotional code and is not to be shared, is not for resale, has no cash value, and will not be replaced if lost or stolen. Terms and conditions apply. See www.amazon.com/fandangoMP3 for details.
                                                        News Bites: Disney is making a live-action 'Beauty and the Beast'
                                                        Watch how Emily Blunt almost killed Tom Cruise on the set of 'Edge of Tomorrow'
                                                        J.J. Abrams tweets 'Star Wars' photo from onboard the Millennium Falcon
An actress noted as much for her exotic, almost otherworldly beauty as she is for her considerable talent, Uma Thurman is one of the most renowned actors of her generation. The daughter of celebrated professor of Buddhist studies Robert A.F. Thurman and Nena von Schlebrugge, a model and psychotherapist who was once married to Timothy Leary, Uma was born in Boston on April 29, 1970. Raised with three brothers in Amherst, where her father taught at Amherst College, she enjoyed a fairly bohemian upbringing, one that was marked by visits from Eastern holy men and Tibetan refugees. Encouraged to think for herself and be independent, Thurman, who had been interested in acting from an early age, left her Massachusetts boarding school at the age of 15 to pursue an acting career. Moving to New York, she earned a living by washing dishes and modeling, though the latter means of support never agreed with her. The fledgling actress made her debut in Kiss Daddy Goodnight (1987), a forgettable film that cast her as a teen vamp who seduces and robs unsuspecting men. She had a starring role in the teen comedy Johnny Be Good (1988) and also made an eye-catching appearance in Terry Gilliam's underseen fantasy adventure film The Adventures of Baron Munchausen (1988). But it wasn't until her casting in Stephen Frears' Dangerous Liaisons (1988) as Cécile de Volanges, the impressionable convent girl deflowered by John Malkovich's slimy Vicomte de Valmont, that Thurman first gained recognition. Her scenes with Malkovich, particularly the one in which he offers to teach her a few bedroom terms in Latin, proved to be some of the most memorable of the year, resulting in a sizable helping of fame for the young actress. Further recognition followed with Thurman's portrayal of Henry Miller's wife -- and the object of both his and Anaïs Nin's affections -- in Philip Kaufman's Henry & June (1990). Unfortunately, the actress' role in the NC-17 film -- which required her to take part in explicit love scenes with Maria de Medeiros -- inspired a great deal of unwelcome, stalker-like attention from any number of "fans," causing Thurman to shy away from doing a subsequent number of films. The projects she did take part in all proved to be forgettable affairs: Robin Hood (1991), Final Analysis (1992), Jennifer 8 (1992), Mad Dog and Glory (1993), and Gus Van Sant's Even Cowgirls Get the Blues (1994).  By the time Thurman received the script for Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction, her career was in great need of resuscitation. Fortunately, Pulp Fiction provided just that. A huge, unanticipated success, it was the most talked-about film of the year, eventually becoming recognized as one of the most influential films of the decade. For her part, Thurman gave a sly, smoldering performance as Mia Wallace, the coke-snorting wife of gangster Marsellus Wallace (Ving Rhames), and soon found herself enjoying both a Best Supporting Actress Oscar nomination and an accompanying resurgence in Hollywood popularity. She followed the success of Pulp Fiction with three relatively modest romantic comedies: A Month by the Lake (1995), The Truth About Cats & Dogs (1996), and Beautiful Girls (1996). The 1997 future dystopia Gattaca did little for Thurman but introduce her to co-star and future husband Ethan Hawke. (The two married in May of 1998 and had a daughter later that year; Thurman had been married once before, to Gary Oldman). Batman & Robin, that same year, was less than a high point in Thurman's career. 1998 proved to be similarly disappointing, with both The Avengers, which cast the actress as the cat-suited Emma Peel opposite Ralph Fiennes' John Steed, and Bille August's Les Miserables experiencing swift deaths at the box office.  Thurman resurfaced in 1999 in Woody Allen's widely acclaimed Sweet and Lowdown. The story of a famed jazz guitarist (Sean Penn) whose talent is inversely proportional to his merits as a human being, the film cast Thurman as his worldly, unfaithful wife. The following year, she had starring roles in two lavish period dramas, Merchant-Ivory's The Golden Bowl and Roland Joffé's Vatel. The former, a Henry James adaptation that premiered to great acclaim at the 2000 Cannes Festival, featured Thurman as a commoner caught up in a forbidden love affair with an impoverished prince (Jeremy Northam); the latter, which also premiered at Cannes, cast Thurman as a French noblewoman during the reign of King Louis XIV. Supporting performances in Richard Linklater's Tape and husband Hawke's Chelsea Walls (both 2001) were soon to follow, and though Thurman's performances were solid as ever, the limited release of both films found her gaining minimal exposure. Though Thurman was virtually unrecognizable in her role as a lovelorn Jersey girl in the HBO feature Hysterical Blindness (2002), her bravado performance earned her a Best Actress Golden Globe and the downbeat drama found audiences once again compelled by her marked versatility. Little did audiences know that her next role couldn't be more different.  Thurman may had done action before in such efforts as Batman & Robin and The Avengers, but her role as the vengeful Bride in Quentin Tarantino's eagerly anticipated Kill Bill nevertheless found viewers' jaws planted firmly on the popcorn-littered multiplex floors. With the production initially delayed due to Thurman's pregnancy, the two-time mother quickly shed her excess weight shortly after giving birth to son Roan; after a vigorous training program, the violent revenge epic was back on track. Even though Thurman made no secret of the fact that balancing the difficult tasks of motherhood and superstardom often took their toll on her during the production of Kill Bill, the dedicated actress pulled off the physically demanding role without a hitch. Debuting in October 2003 to overwhelmingly positive reviews, Kill Bill Vol. 1 (the film was split into two halves after being deemed too long by studio Miramax) still managed to split audiences due to its virtually nonstop, extremely graphic violence. With Kill Bill Vol. 2 scheduled to roll into theaters four months later, fans wasted no time in speculating on The Bride's carnage-laden quest to even the score with the titular Bill (David Carradine) after the ruthless killer gunned her down on her wedding day. In the wake of the Kill Bill extravaganza, it seemed that Thurman was having an especially difficult time finding her footing at the box office when the Get Shorty sequel Be Cool, the romantic comedy Prime, and the musical comedy remake The Producers failed to make any real impact with viewers. Her career in serious need of a pick-me-up after three notable misfires, Thurman would make yet another grab for laughs when, in the summer of 2006, she starred as needy superhero who uses her powers to seek revenge against an ex-boyfriend attempting to move on in My Super Ex-Girlfriend.     In 2010, Thurman joined the cast of Percy Jackson and the Lightning Thief in the role of Medusa, the snake-haired gorgon who could turn a man to stone with no more than a look. The actress played a decidedly different type of character in Ceremony (2010), a critically acclaimed independent comedy that featured Thurman as a woman in her late thirties with a tendency to date the wrong type of guy. In 2012, Thurman co-starred in the period drama Bel Ami and had a recurring role on the musical TV series Smash. She had a supporting role in Lars von Trier's Nymphomaniac in 2013. ~ Rebecca Flint Marx, Rovi
						and authorize Fandango and its service providers to deliver FanTexts and other promotional texts to your mobile phone. 
                    You can unsubscribe at any time by texting "STOP" or seek help by texting "HELP" to "FNDGO" (36346).
=======================================================
BiographyUma Thurman (born 29.4.1970)Uma Thurman is an American actress, perhaps best known for her work under the direction of Quentin Tarantino.Uma Thurman: ChildhoodUma Thurman was born to Nena Birgitte Caroline von Schlebrugge and Robert Alexander Farrar Thurman. Her mother was married to the LSD guru Timothy Leary (to whom she was introduced by Salvador Dali) before marrying Thurman. Uma's father was the first westerner to be ordained as a Tibetan Buddhist monk. During her childhood, the Thurmans spent time in Almora, in India and the Dalai Lama would often visit them.Uma's childhood saw her growing up mainly in Amherst, Massachusetts and Woodstock, New York. Her acting talents were noticed when she played Abigail in a performance of the Crucible. She moved to New York, attending the Professional Children's School, but dropped out before completing the course.Uma Thurman: Acting CareerUma Thurman's film debut came in 1988, when she appeared in Johnny Be Good and Kiss Daddy Goodnight. She then went on to appear in The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, playing Venus, opposite Oliver Reed's Vulcan.Thurman's breakthrough performance came with 1988's Dangerous Liasons. The film also starred Glenn Close and Michelle Pfeiffer, who were both nominated for Oscars for their work in the film. John Malkovich, also in the film, was vocal in his praise of her talents.1990 saw Uma Thurman star in Henry & June, a sexually controversial film, which also starred Fred Ward. Her first starring role came three years later when she took the lead in Gus Van Sant's adaptation of Tom Robbins' Even Cowgirls Get the Blues. Unfortunately, the film was a commercial and critical let-down. She also appeared in Mad Dog and Glory, opposite Robert De Niro, which also failed to do well at the box office.Thurman's career soon got back on track when she auditioned for a part in Pulp Fiction, directed by Quentin Tarantino. The film also starred John Travolta, Samuel L Jackson, Harvey Keitel and Tim Roth. Uma Thurman was nominated for the Best Supporting Actress Academy Award.In 1996, Thurman starred in the romantic comedy The Truth About Cats and Dogs, opposite Janeane Garofolo. She then played Ethan Hawke's love interest in Gattaca, which was not a huge success at the cinema but became popular as a rental choice. She then went on to play Poison Ivy in Batman & Robin, opposite George Clooney and Arnold Schwarzenegger.Uma Thurman's next role was in The Avengers, which turned out to be another low point in her career. She ended 1998 with a performance in Les Miserables, the film version of the Victor Hugo novel. She played the role of Fantine, opposite Geoffrey Rush and Liam Neeson.After a five-year break from major film roles, Uma Thurman made a return in Paycheck, directed by John Woo. The film was only a moderate success but she soon followed this with a performance in Kill Bill, another Tarantino film in which she took a starring role. Other actors in the film include Lucy Liu, Daryl Hannah and David Carradine.In 2005, Thurman starred in Be Cool with John Travolta and Prime with Meryl Streep. Her last film of that year was The Producers, a remake of a 1968 film starring Gene Wilder and Zer Mostel. The modern version starred Matthew Broderick and Will Ferrell.Thurman then starred in My Super Ex-Girlfriend, along with Luke Wilson. Uma Thurman was reportedly paid $14 million for her role in the film, but it did not perform as well as expected at the box office. She then starred in The Accidental Husband in February 2008. This was followed by a role portraying a cocaine addict in My Zinc Bed, opposite Jonathan Pryce and Paddy Considine.Uma Thurman: Personal LifeUma Thurman married Gary Oldman in 1990 but they were only married for two years.Thurman was also previously married to Ethan Hawke, with whom she has two children, Maya Ray Thurman-Hawke (b. 1998) and Levon Roan Thurman-Hawke (b. 2002). Thurman and Hawke divorced in 2004.Uma is now engaged to a Franco-Swiss financier, Arpad Busson.
Uma Thurman and Quentin Tarantino are reportedly dating.The actress and Tarantino have worked together for the past 20 years on several films including Pulp Fiction and the Kill Bill films and now sources tell editors...
Quentin Tarantino is reportedly dating Uma Thurman.The 'Pulp Fiction' director, 51, has ''loved'' the newly-single actress - who he previously called his ''muse'' - for years and they are said to have taken their relationship...
Since winning the Palm D’Or 20 years ago at Cannes, Quentin Tarantino’s brand of filmmaking has become synonymous with cult cinema. Controversy and brilliance has followed him from Pulp Fiction to Reservoir Dogs, from The...
'Winter Sleep' has won the prestigious Palme d'Or at the Cannes International Film Festival.The drama, which runs for more than three hours and tells the story of a family that run a hotel in the...
Quentin Tarantino has spoken out again about the changes and development in cinema since his youth. Digital Vs. traditional technology continues to be a hot topic amongst film makers with numerous high profile names arguing...
It seems like when you reach the top of your selected field, it’s only right for you to declare that field dead. Nas did it with hip hop and now Quentin Tarantino has said it...
Pulp Fiction stars Uma Thurman and John Travolta joined director Quentin Tarantino for a special screening of the movie at the Cannes Film Festival in France on Friday night (23May14) to mark 20 years since...
Quentin Tarantino wants to shoot a film in London.The 51-year-old filmmaker ''loves'' England's capital and would be keen to work on a project in the city. He told the Daily Telegraph newspaper: ''I love London...
Quentin Tarantino and Uma Thurman will attend an event to celebrate 'Pulp Fiction' in Cannes tomorrow (23.05.14).The famed filmmaker and the 44-year-old actress - who was cast as Mia Wallace in the picture - are...
Quentin Tarantino and Uma Thurman are joining forces again to host a special Pulp Fiction screening at the Cannes International Film Festival, 20 years after the movie picked up the Palme d'Or at the event....
Alicia Keys has become the new face of Parfums Givenchy.The 'Girl On Fire' singer has scored her first ever beauty contract with the French fashion house's perfume division and will front the campaign for their...
Zac Posen thinks this year's Met Ball will provide us with some ''iconic moments''.The designer can't wait to attend the high-profile fashion event on May 5, which celebrates the new 'Charles James: Beyond Fashion' exhibition...
Uma Thurman and Arpad Busson have split up again.The 'Nymphomaniac' star got engaged to French billionaire 'Arki,' with whom she has 21-month-old daughter Luna, for the second time in 2011 after calling off their first...
Actress Uma Thurman has called off her engagement to multi-millionaire Arpad Busson, according to a U.K. report.The Kill Bill star began dating the French financier in 2007 and the couple announced its engagement in 2008,...
Uma Thurman no longer feels guilty about being a working mother.The 'Nymphomaniac' star, who has a daughter, Mia, 15, and son, Levon, 12, with her ex-husband, Ethan Hawke, and 21-month-old daughter, Luna, with her fiancé...
New Face Of Lancome, Lupita Nyong'o, Hopes To Cultivate "Symbiotic Relationship" With Cosmetics Company
Lupita Nyong'o is the face of new Lancôme, the French cosmetic company confirmed on Friday (4th April). Campaigns featuring the 31-year-old actress will be released in September.Lupita Nyong'o won an Oscar for her role in...
Toby Kebbell is in talks to play the villain in the 'Fantastic Four' reboot.The 'Dawn of the Planet of the Apes' actor is negotiating the role of Doctor Doom, which American Hustle's Jack Huston and...
"Don Johnson hit on me, but I turned him down. I was really young. If I was more mature, I'm sure I would've said yes. I'm sure he didn't know how young I was. I...
Joe is a fiercely determined 50-year-old woman whose sexual drive has taken over her entire life. Her story of how she ended up injured in an alleyway and subsequently being nursed back to health by...
Actress Uma Thurman became best friends with Quentin Tarantino during an awkward meeting about Pulp Fiction.An eye infection forced the movie star to cancel two planned meetings with the director and when they eventually met...
"I wasn't invited to take my clothes off. Not even my jacket... and I had my eyes closed the whole time." Uma Thurman wasn't required to get naked in Lars Von Trier's new movie Nymphomaniac.
Joe has always known she's been completely obsessed with sex ever since she was a young girl. Her excessive desires would see her meet man after man after man, eventually with little ability to remember...
Uma Thurman is in talks for 'American Ultra'.The 43-year-old actress is in negotiations to join 'Adventureland' co-stars Jesse Eisenberg and Kristen Stewart in the action comedy which will be helmed by 'Project X' director Nima...
Uma Thurman thinks having a baby in your forties is ''stunning''.The 43-year-old actress - who has 19-month-old daughter Rosalind, Maya, 15, and Levon, 11 - feels more ''volatile'' having a child in the fourth decade...
At four hours long, this drama is as confrontational as anything we've seen by Lars von Trier (Melancholia), but it's also perhaps his most humane and hopeful film yet. This is a challenging, complex exploration...
Last night, Buckingham Palace hosted a star-studded reception for some of the world's most talented stars of stage and screen. The Royal Reception for Dramatic Arts celebrated the Queen's 60 years as patron of the...
Charlotte Gainsbourg doesn't think 'Nymphomaniac' is sexist.The 42-year-old actress plays self-diagnosed nymphomaniac, Joe in Volume 1 of the film which sees her recount her erotic past to the man who saves her from a beating,...
Stars including Keira Knightley, Uma Thurman, Naomie Harris, Steve Mcqueen and Steve Coogan turned out for movie mogul Harvey Weinstein's special dinner for British Academy of Film and Television Arts (Bafta) nominees in London on...
Actress Uma Thurman is full of admiration for Shia Labeouf's bizarre paper bag stunt, insisting he could be starting a brand new fashion trend among camera-shy stars.The Transformers actor has sparked fears for his health...
Lars Von Trier's controversial new movie Nymphomaniac has gone down a storm with critics after having premiered at the Berlin Film Festival. However, cast member Shia LaBeouf, who has been doing a lot of bizarre...
Three actors have been added to next season's 'Homeland,' but who are they and what will they bring to the series?
				Third Time Lucky? Will Bradley Cooper Finally Land Elusive Best Actor Oscar For 'American Sniper'?			
 Channing Tatum's Throws Daughter Fairy PartyMan V. Food Star Adam Richman Loses 70lbsEvan Rachel Wood Sued For $30 MillionSimon Cowell: One Direction Have A Tough JobJames Righton Crowd Surfed At Wedding To Keira KnightleyLupita Nyong'o To Star As Lover Separated By Immigration In 'Americanah'Fifa 15 On Pc Will Be Playing Catchup No More - Ignite Engine And System Requirements'Orange Is The New Black' Is Taylor Schilling's "Golden Ticket" Politically, CreativelyJennifer Lopez And Casper Smart Have Split After 2 Years TogetherMelanie Griffith Files For Divorce
Jennifer Lopez and Casper Smart splitKim Kardashian West uses married name for autograph Evan Rachel Wood's Representative Slams 'Preposterous' LawsuitGot A Spare $20,000? Then You Could Die in 'Game of Thrones'"Why Is Hugh Bouncing?": Hugh Jackman Jumps For Joy Ahead Of Tony Awards'The Fault in Our Stars' Is (Probably) The Best Movie Out This Week 
Pharrell Williams - Full Show - #AmexUNSTAGED VideoJack White - Lazaretto VideoSharlto Copley - Maleficent Video Interview Sam Riley - Maleficent Video Interview Elle Fanning - Maleficent Video Interview  
Studio Killers - InterviewSharlto Copley - Maleficent Video InterviewSam Riley - Maleficent Video InterviewElle Fanning - Maleficent Video InterviewAngelina Jolie - Maleficent Video Interview 
Christopher Hall - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, United Kingdom -Jerry Lewis and Larry King - Jerry Lewis attends the Friars Club celebration ofWanda Sykes and Alex Sykes - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life AchievementMatthew Davies and Emma Willis - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood,Tim McGraw - 2014 CMA Music Festival Nightly Concert held at LP Field - 
=======================================================
Biography:Born on Apr. 29, 1970 in Boston, MA, Thurman was raised in an atypical home with a storied family history. Her maternal grandfather, Baron Karl von Schlebrugge, was a Swedish nobleman who was jailed by the Nazis during World War II for refusing to betray his Jewish business partners, and her maternal grandmother, Brigit Holmquist, was a famous mode... Continue Bio >>Photo Gallery:
