=======================================================
Arthur Mellen Wellington (December 20, 1847 – May 17, 1895) was an American civil engineer remembered for his 1887 book The Economic Theory of the Location of Railways. The saying that An engineer can do for a dollar what any fool can do for two is attributed to him. He was involved in the design and construction of new railways in Mexico. He was chief engineer of the Toledo and Canada Southern Railroad.[1]
He was born on December 25, 1847 in Waltham, Massachusetts to Oliver Hastings Wellington and Charlotte Augusta Kent.
His book The economic theory of the location of railways was first published in 1887 by the Railroad Gazette and John Wiley New York. The subtitle was An analysis of the conditions which govern the judicious adjustment of gradients, curvature and length of line to each other, and to the character and volume of traffic. The 5th edition had the subtitle An analysis of the conditions controlling the laying out of railways to effect the most judicious expenditure of capital. He indicated the importance of the ruling gradient, and its effect on train loads and running costs. By 1906 (1914??) it was in its 6th edition and had also been printed in London.
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Arthur_M._Wellington&oldid=582817007"					
Categories: American civil engineersAmerican people in rail transportation1847 births1895 deathsHidden categories: Pages using citations with accessdate and no URLArticles with hCardsWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Arthur Wellington Ross (25 March 1846 – 25 March 1901) was a Canadian politician, educator and lawyer.
Born in Nairn, Upper Canada, the son of Donald Ross, he studied at the Toronto Normal School and taught school in Cornwall, becoming headmaster for the local high school and then inspector of schools for Glengarry County. He continued his studies at the University of Toronto and then articled as an attorney and solicitor. In 1873, Ross married Jessie Flora Cattanach. He moved to Winnipeg in 1877, was admitted to the Manitoba bar in 1878 and set up practice with his brother in Winnipeg.
From 1878 to 1882, he was the Manitoba Liberal member of the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba for the electoral district of Springfield. From 1882 to 1896, he was the Liberal-Conservative member of the Canadian House of Commons for Lisgar.
Ross invested heavily in land and suffered heavy financial losses when land values crashed in 1882. In 1888, he entered the real estate business in Vancouver but returned to Winnipeg in 1891. After he retired from politics, he moved to Toronto, where he became involved in mining. Around 1899, he moved to Columbia Gardens in British Columbia near the gold mining area of Rossland. Ross suffered a stroke in 1901 and died from a second stroke after returning to Toronto for treatment.
"Arthur Wellington Ross". Dictionary of Canadian Biography (online ed.). University of Toronto Press. 1979–2005. 
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Arthur_Wellington_Ross&oldid=524015279"					
Categories: 1846 births1901 deathsConservative Party of Canada (1867–1942) MPsManitoba Liberal Party MLAsMembers of the House of Commons of Canada from ManitobaManitoba politician stubsHidden categories: Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Arthur Wellington Clah (1831 – 1916) was a Canadian First Nations employee of the Hudson's Bay Company at Lax Kw'alaams (Port Simpson), B.C., who was also a hereditary chief in the Tsimshian nation, an anthropological informant, a Methodist missionary, and an extensive diarist.
Arthur Wellington was his English name. "Clah" is a spelling of one of his hereditary Tsimshian names, Ła'ax. He also held the name T'amks, which carries with it leadership of a matrilineal house-group of the same name in the Gispaxlo'ots, one of the "Nine Tribes" of Lax Kw'alaams.
Clah was born in 1831 at a settlement called "Laghco," near where the Hudson's Bay Company established Fort Simpson at Lax Kw'alaams in 1834. He married Catherine (a.k.a. Dorcas) Datacks, of the Laxgibuu (Wolf clan) of the Nisga'a nation. Catherine was niece of the wife of W. H. McNeill, the HBC's chief trader at Fort Simpson. Clah began working as McNeill's house servant but gradually came to be a trader in his own right.
When the Anglican lay minister William Duncan arrived in Port Simpson in 1857, Clah taught him the Tsimshian language in exchange for instruction in English, a mutual education which began through the medium of Chinook Jargon. Clah also became a mediary between Duncan and the Tsimshian. Clah converted to Christianity but never entirely abandoned potlatching. In a famous incident, Clah intervened and saved Duncan's life when Clah's own tribal chief, Ligeex, ordered Duncan at gunpoint (some versions say knifepoint) to cease tolling churchbells on the day of his (Ligeex's) daughter's initiation into a Tsimshian secret society. Ligeex later became a key convert of Duncan's. This incident is described both by Clah himself and by an eyewitness, his nephew the Rev. William Henry Pierce, the Methodist missionary.
For nearly fifty years, from the late 1850s until his death, Clah kept a remarkably detailed diary, which is now housed by the Wellcome Library in London. The diary affords an unmatched insight into daily life in a nineteenth-century Tsimshian community.
In 1903 the anthropologist Franz Boas wrote to Clah, having been referred to him by his Tlingit-Kwakwaka'wakw informant and collaborator George Hunt, expressing an interest in recording Tsimshian culture. Eventually, Clah turned the correspondence over to Henry W. Tate—who, indications are, was his own son—which led to the first detailed descriptions of Tsimshian culture. In 1915 Clah, near death, served as informant to the anthropologist Marius Barbeau, who was collecting information on Tsimshian social organization. Clah's grandson, William Beynon, served as interpreter and facilitator and went on to become a renowned ethnographic fieldworker in his own right. Clah died in Lax Kw'alaams the following year.
Arctander, John W. (1909) The Apostle of Alaska: The Story of William Duncan of Metlakahtla. New York: Fleming H. Revell Company.
Brock, Peggy (2000) "Building Bridges: Politics and Religion in a First Nation Community." Canadian Historical Review, vol. 81, no. 1, pp. 67–96.
Brock, Peggy (2003) "Two Indigenous Evangelists: Moses Tjalkabota and Arthur Wellington Clah." Journal of Religious History, vol. 27, no. 3, pp. 348–356.
Galois, R. M. (1997/1998) "Colonial Encounters: The Worlds of Arthur Wellington Clah, 1855-1881." B.C. Studies, no. 115/116, pp. 105–147.
Maud, Ralph (2000) Transmission Difficulties: Franz Boas and Tsimshian Mythology. Burnaby, B.C.: Talonbooks.
Neylan, Susan (2003) The Heavens Are Changing: Nineteenth-Century Protestant Missions and Tsimshian Christianity. Montreal: McGill-Queen’s University Press.
Pierce, William Henry (1933) From Potlatch to Pulpit, Being the Autobiography of the Rev. William Henry Pierce. Ed. by J. P. Hicks. Vancouver, B.C.: Vancouver Bindery.
Roth, Christopher F. (2001) Review of Transmission Difficulties. Anthropologica, vol. 43, no. 1, pp. 123–124.
Wellington Clah, Arthur (1997) "How Tamks Saved William Duncan's Life." Recorded by William Beynon, 1950. In Tsimshian Narratives 2: Trade and Warfare, ed. by George F. MacDonald and John J. Cove, pp. 210–212. Ottawa: Directorate, Canadian Museum of Civilization.
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Arthur_Wellington_Clah&oldid=565929100"					
Categories: Aboriginal leaders in British ColumbiaConverts to ChristianityTsimshian people1831 births1916 deathsHidden categories: Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Biography – ROSS, ARTHUR WELLINGTON – Volume XIII (1901-1910) – Dictionary of Canadian Biography
Biography – ROSS, ARTHUR WELLINGTON – Volume XIII (1901-1910) – Dictionary of Canadian Biography
 ▲DCB/DBC News  New Biographies  Updated Biographies  Biography of the Day SHAWNADITHIT – Volume VI (1821-1835)
ROSS, ARTHUR WELLINGTON, teacher, office holder, lawyer, businessman, and politician; b. 25 March 1846 in Nairn, Upper Canada, eldest son of Donald Ross and Margaret —; m. 30 July 1873 Jessie Flora Cattanach, daughter of Donald Cattanach of Laggan, Ont., and they had two sons; d. 25 March 1901 in Toronto.
Arthur Wellington Ross claimed later in life that he had known firsthand the hardships suffered by those Scottish crofters who left “the smoldering ruins of the cottages in which their forefathers were born” to seek a new home in Upper Canada, only to end up “digging their grave by so doing.” His Scottish Presbyterian father, who worked a marginal farm in East Williams Township, conveyed few advantages to his son beyond a sound education. After attending the local common school, Ross left the farm for Wardsville Grammar School. A teaching career attracted him as a way out of a rural life that had brought little material success to his family. Therefore he enrolled in the Toronto Normal School, and he qualified for a first-class certificate probably about 1865 or 1866. He taught in Cornwall and so impressed trustees there that in 1868 they hired him as headmaster of the high school. In September 1871 he was made inspector of public schools for Glengarry County, a position newly created by the School Act of that year.
Rapid as his advancement was, Ross considered teaching only a stepping-stone to a more lucrative and respected profession. He continued his studies and in 1874 received a ba from the University of Toronto. He then resigned his inspectorship to be articled to an attorney and solicitor. His impatience for advancement manifested itself when he moved to Winnipeg with his younger brother William Henry Ross in early June 1877, just five months before completing his law studies. He was articled to his brother, who was already a lawyer, but because his training had been interrupted by the move, he had to obtain a special act from the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba to be admitted to the bar, in 1878. The Ross brothers practised in partnership, acting briefly as solicitors in Winnipeg for the government of Prime Minister Alexander Mackenzie*. Albert Clements Killam joined the practice in 1879 and, following William Henry’s death that year, Alexander Haggart was admitted as a junior partner in the firm, which became Ross, Killam, and Haggart.
Real estate speculation quickly became Ross’s major business interest. By 1882 he was among the wealthiest one per cent of landowners residing in Winnipeg: his real estate assessment that year totalled approximately $210,000 and was the eighth highest individual assessment in the city. In addition to his city property, he owned nearly the whole of the suburban area later known as Fort Rouge (Winnipeg), where he built one of the most impressive residences of the boom era. As well, he speculated in Métis scrip, lands owned by the Hudson’s Bay Company, town lots in Brandon and Edmonton, and various rural properties. In one transaction alone in 1880 he sold 25,000 acres. The Department of the Interior later believed, but could not prove conclusively, that Ross and his firm had benefited from information supplied by an employee in the office of its dominion lands branch in Winnipeg. Alexander Mackinnon Burgess*, deputy minister of the interior, reported in 1885 to his minister, Thomas White*, that “having the inside track in this way, they were able, on every occasion of receipt of a list of Half Breed allotments to be on the spot at the right time, to their own great advantage, and the disadvantage of all other speculators in the same class of claims.”
The collapse of western land values in 1882 ruined Ross. His practice, like that of other speculators, had been to purchase land with a minimum down payment and sell his holdings quickly before subsequent instalments fell due. His buyers, smaller-scale speculators themselves, engaged in a similar strategy, so that Ross had to depend on remittances from them to meet his own commitments or find buyers for the promissory notes which he accepted as security for his sales. When values dropped, he was trapped between his creditors, most notably the HBC, which relentlessly demanded payment, and his own customers, many of whom were prepared to walk away from their investments and obligations. In 1884 the HBC initiated a case in the Court of Chancery to recover properties sold on credit to Ross. The fate of the insolvent Ross became a topic of debate in the local press. The Commercial denounced him as a swindler who had engaged “in the wildest schemes of speculation with funds altogether inadequate for a tithe of his undertakings.” More sympathetic was the Daily Times, which judged Ross no more guilty than the other hapless speculators caught by an adverse turn of events. His creditors should accept a compromise. “It is unjust . . . to strike a man when he is down,” it noted. “It is not in keeping with the free air of the Northwest. It savours of the east, where usurious Shylocks are heady to grind the last dollar out of a man.”
Ross was not one to accept failure easily and he would concentrate on politics as an avenue for recovery. In the provincial general election of December 1878, he had narrowly won in the riding of Springfield as a Liberal and opponent to the government of John Norquay*. He was re-elected in the general election of 1879. In the assembly, railways in particular attracted his attention. Although he doubted whether Norquay’s policy of limited subsidies would significantly aid rail construction, he became associated with the promotion of the Manitoba and North Western Railway at some point during its history and served as its vice-president. When terms of the contract for the Pacific railway were announced by the federal government in 1880, he introduced a motion in the Manitoba assembly calling on the dominion government to cancel the agreement. Ross objected to the monopoly granted to the syndicate headed by George Stephen* and asserted that “the people of Canada were willing to pay taxes to build the road, but they did not want it run for the benefit of capitalists.” His vocal opposition, not to mention his Liberal credentials, made him attractive as a representative of western interests in the syndicate Sir William Pearce Howland assembled to tender a counter-offer for the transcontinental railway contract in January 1881. Although the bid of the Howland syndicate declared that Ross, the only westerner in the group, intended to take shares in the company should it be awarded the contract, it did not name him as a future director, nor did he deposit security for the tender.
Ross’s criticism of the Canadian Pacific Railway stood him in good stead when in 1882 he resigned from the provincial legislature to contest the riding of Lisgar for the Liberals in the federal election. Initially, he was reluctant to run since the constituency had been gerrymandered to secure it for the Conservative incumbent, John Christian Schultz*. Local opinion had been grossly offended, however, by Schultz’s failure to support the town of Selkirk as the location for the bridging of the Red River by the CPR. So determined were the Liberal organizers in Lisgar to unseat Schultz, Ross’s campaign manager later explained, that when the polls closed they “had a couple of Deputy Returning Officers with their Ballot Boxes corralled at Selkirk ready for any emergency, but thank goodness it was not necessary, [Ross] was elected fair.” In Ottawa Ross looked after the interests of his constituents as best he could, lobbying for facilities for Selkirk and enquiring about land titles as well as timber and mining locations for speculators.
But as his own affairs deteriorated, he needed to do more than provide good representation for his constituency. An opportunity presented itself in February 1884 when the CPR sought additional financial assistance from the dominion government. In a surprising turnaround Ross spoke eloquently in defence of the company, and even its monopoly, as crucial to the prosperity of the northwest and Canada, and to the growth of national sentiment in general. Ross repeated his role as a defender of the CPR the next year when the company sought parliamentary approval for another loan. Whether Ross had discussed with its officials the services he might render before making his speech in the House of Commons is not clear. But by the late summer of 1884 he was in Vancouver acting on the CPR’s behalf to assemble land for its western terminus at Granville (Vancouver). Ross also was ideally placed to speculate himself and he purchased town-site lots from the CPR. In 1886 he opened a real estate business, which was run for a short time by his brother-in-law, Malcolm Alexander MacLean*. Two years later Ross, who had divided his time between the west coast, Winnipeg, and Ottawa, moved to Vancouver, where he went into the real estate and insurance business with Henry Tracy Ceperley. The partnership lasted only two or three years, and Ross was back in the real estate business at Winnipeg in 1891.
Ross feared that his association with the CPR might jeopardize his political career, and he entered the campaign of 1887, now a Conservative, with trepidation. Consequently he pressed CPR vice-president William Cornelius Van Horne* to help get out the vote on his behalf. Van Horne instructed William Whyte*, general superintendent of the western division of the railway, to schedule special trains to carry voters to the polls and to make out spurious bills indicating that Ross had paid for the train service. Should any of the railway’s managers question these exceptional measures, Whyte was to explain that Ross had to be rewarded for helping the company “at a time [when] it was a question of the salvation or destruction of the whole enterprise.” Finally, Van Horne ordered that any man who revealed details of the arrangement “should be bounced without much ceremony.” Ross did not need to draw upon the railway’s assistance; he was re-elected by acclamation.
The eloquence of his defence of the CPR contrasted with the relative silence which attended his remaining ten years in the House of Commons. Although he spoke occasionally and briefly on issues relating to dominion lands and land grants to railways, he said nothing on such major issues as the Manitoba school question [see Thomas Greenway]. Perhaps he could see little personal gain from debate. In fairness, he had received no encouragement from the Conservative party to speak out. Possibly anticipating the decease of Schultz with an unseemly eagerness, in 1891 he pressed John Joseph Caldwell Abbott*, a senator and lawyer for the CPR, for appointment as lieutenant governor of Manitoba. He was, he reminded Abbott, the senior western mp and he had spent more money to win his seat in the last election than all other Conservative candidates in Manitoba. “So far I have never got anything from the party and I think it is time I should be recognized.” He was not.
Little wonder Ross did not contest the election of 1896. Instead he devoted himself to new speculations. He left Winnipeg in 1896 for Toronto, where he became a broker of mining securities and general manager of the North Star Mining, Trading, and Transportation Company. His interests in the goldfields of Rossland, B.C., led him to move to nearby Columbia Gardens about 1899. It was there in January 1901 that he suffered a paralysing stroke. He returned to Toronto for medical treatment, but died of a second stroke.
In reviewing the party affiliations of the members of parliament from Manitoba in 1882, Joseph Royal, himself one of the group, maintained that “Ross was elected for Ross.” He was probably correct. Arthur Wellington Ross was one of those ambitious young men from Ontario who headed west in the 1870s to seek their fortunes. With that single purpose in mind and little concern for public opprobrium, he sought to seize opportunities, whether in business speculations or in politics.
  City of Winnipeg Arch., Assessment rolls, 1882. NA, MG 26, C: 690–92; MG 28, III 20, Van Horne letter-books, 3: 571–73; 7: 628–32; 9: 208–9, 321–22, 601; 11: 414; 13: 539–40; 15: 698; 16: 538; 19: 548; 20: 280–81, 285; MG 29, E114, letter-book: 359; RG 31, C1, 1851, East Williams, dist.2: 31, 63; 1861, East Williams: 1; agricultural census: 102. PAM, MG 14, B57, letter-book 3: 111–18, 204–6, 214, 224–25; letter-book 4: 119–20, 130, 150–51, 232–33, 294–95, 302. Commercial (Winnipeg), 30 June, 14 July 1885. Daily Times (Winnipeg), 24 Dec. 1880, 9 July 1885. Manitoba Morning Free Press, 22 Jan., 12, 19, 28 Dec. 1878; 5 Feb. 1879; 25 March 1901. Winnipeg Tribune, 28 March 1901.
C. J. Brydges, The letters of Charles John Brydges, 1879–1882, Hudson’s Bay Company land commissioner, ed. Hartwell Bowsfield, intro. Alan Wilson (Winnipeg, 1977); The letters of Charles John Brydges, 1883–1889, Hudson’s Bay Company land commissioner, ed. Hartwell Bowsfield, intro. J. E. Rea (Winnipeg, 1981). Can., House of Commons, Debates, 1883–85, 1887, 1890; Parl., Sessional papers, 1880–81, nos.23m–n. Canadian directory of parl. (Johnson). Canadian men and women of the time (Morgan; 1898). Directory, Man., 1888–89, 1891, 1895–96. Man., Statutes, 1878, c.38.
Related BiographiesMACKENZIE, ALEXANDERWHITE, THOMAS (1830-88)NORQUAY, JOHNSTEPHEN, GEORGE, 1st Baron MOUNT STEPHENHOWLAND, Sir WILLIAM PEARCEMacLEAN, MALCOLM ALEXANDERVAN HORNE, Sir WILLIAM CORNELIUSWHYTE, Sir WILLIAMGREENWAY, THOMASABBOTT, Sir JOHN JOSEPH CALDWELLROYAL, JOSEPH
Document HistoryPublished 1994Occupations and Other IdentifiersBusiness – Real estateBusiness – Energy and resourcesEducation – EducatorsEducation – Office holdersLegal Professions – LawyersPoliticians – Federal government (dupe) – ElectedPoliticians – Provincial and territorial governments – ElectedRegion of BirthNorth America – Canada – Ontario – SouthwestRegion of ActivitiesNorth America – Canada – ManitobaNorth America – Canada – Ontario – CentreNorth America – Canada – Ontario – EastNorth America – Canada – British Columbia – Mainland
Related BiographiesMacLEAN, MALCOLM ALEXANDER (Vol. 12)ABBOTT, Sir JOHN JOSEPH CALDWELL (Vol. 12)BURGESS, ALEXANDER MACKINNON (Vol. 12)GREENWAY, THOMAS (Vol. 13)HOWLAND, Sir WILLIAM PEARCE (Vol. 13)MACKENZIE, ALEXANDER (Vol. 12)NORQUAY, JOHN (Vol. 11)ROYAL, JOSEPH (Vol. 13)MoreSCHULTZ, Sir JOHN CHRISTIAN (Vol. 12)STEPHEN, GEORGE, 1st Baron MOUNT STEPHEN (Vol. 15)VAN HORNE, Sir WILLIAM CORNELIUS (Vol. 14)WHITE, THOMAS (1830-88) (Vol. 11)WHYTE, Sir WILLIAM (Vol. 14)COLCLEUGH, JAMES (Vol. 14)
David G. Burley, “ROSS, ARTHUR WELLINGTON,” in Dictionary of Canadian Biography, vol. 13, University of Toronto/Université Laval, 2003–, accessed June 6, 2014, http://www.biographi.ca/en/bio/ross_arthur_wellington_13E.html.
	The citation above shows the format for footnotes and endnotes according to the Chicago manual of style (16th edition). Information to be used in other citation formats:
© 2003-2014 University of Toronto/Université Laval Suggest corrections or additionsImportant NoticesWebsites of Interest
Nous reconnaissons l’appui du gouvernement du Canada par l’entremise du ministère du Patrimoine canadien.
=======================================================
Biography – CLAH, ARTHUR WELLINGTON – Volume XIV (1911-1920) – Dictionary of Canadian Biography
Biography – CLAH, ARTHUR WELLINGTON – Volume XIV (1911-1920) – Dictionary of Canadian Biography
 ▲DCB/DBC News  New Biographies  Updated Biographies  Biography of the Day SHAWNADITHIT – Volume VI (1821-1835)
CLAH (Hlax), ARTHUR WELLINGTON (Temks, T’amks), Tsimshian chief, diarist, transporter, prospector, and fishery worker; b. 1831 at Laghco (Big Bay, B.C.); d. 1916 in Port Simpson, B.C.
Arthur Wellington Clah was born in the year that Peter Skene Ogden* of the Hudson’s Bay Company established a post at the mouth of the Nass River (B.C.). Eventually named Fort Simpson, it was later moved to the site of present-day Port Simpson. Although Clah’s birthplace was only a few miles from his final resting spot, his life expanded well beyond this area.
Clah is an anglicization of Hlax, only one of the Tsimshian names he held. He was of the killer whale clan and a member of the Gispaxlo’ots tribe; he was raised not by his father, who was from Kitselas, but by Guyagain, a member of the tribe’s eagle clan. Guyagain was killed when Clah was eight, and he was adopted by Txalaxath, also of the eagle clan. At Clah’s birth, the Gispaxlo’ots and the nine other coast Tsimshian tribes had villages in the vicinity of Metlakatla, south of Fort Simpson. These tribes were unique among the peoples of the northwest coast in that each possessed a village chief – the head of the highest-ranking house group – who, significantly, controlled trading prerogatives with neighbouring peoples.
In the 1850s Clah worked at Fort Simpson, where trade with the HBC was controlled by the Legaics [see Paul Legaic*]. With their consent and frequent involvement, Clah became an intermediary: using his trading prerogatives from house, clan, and tribe, he procured furs from Gitksan and Wet’suwet’en hunters in the interior and sold them to the HBC or private traders in Victoria. As well, he was often employed by the HBC to transport personnel and goods.
By 1858 Clah had taken as his principal wife a Niska, variously identified as Dorcas and Catherine Datacks, from Kitladamax on the upper Nass. She was the niece of Neshaki (Martha McNeill), a leading Niska woman and wife of William Henry McNeill*, who ran Fort Simpson for periods in the 1850s and 1860s. It was a propitious union for Clah since it provided or consolidated links with both the Niska and the HBC. The couple would have five sons and four daughters, but only two daughters would survive Clah.
As the native population declined as a result of Old World diseases, Clah moved from an economy rooted in the fur trade to a world of Indian reserves and wage labour. For instance, he worked at various jobs in Victoria and New Westminster for an 18-month period in 1859–60. What is unusual about Clah is that between 1861 and 1909 he kept an account of his transition, in the form of 40 daily diaries. In 1857 Anglican missionary William Duncan had arrived at Fort Simpson; in return for assistance with the Tsimshian language, he taught Clah, who became a Christian about 1861, to read and write. Although Clah’s diaries constitute a unique record among the native peoples of British Columbia, two problems complicate their use for historical reconstruction. His idiosyncratic use of the English language, grammar, and punctuation frequently make interpretation uncertain. It is usually possible to follow his activities, but motives and the complexities of social relationships are elusive. Secondly, some of the diaries were rewritten, and their content modified. Although the extent of this change is impossible to determine, other documentary sources can sometimes provide a check for Clah’s extraordinary record.
After Duncan had moved his mission to Metlakatla in 1862, Clah remained at Fort Simpson and other homes at the mouth of the Nass. His adherence to Christianity fluctuated but it revived in the early 1870s with the arrival at Fort Simpson of Methodist missionaries, notably Thomas CROSBY. Although Clah’s family were baptized and he and Dorcas remarried in a Christian ceremony on 1 April 1875, they were never subservient to the missionaries. For a while in the 1890s Dorcas became a follower of the Salvation Army.
When the fur trade declined in the late 1860s, Clah had turned to new resource industries in northern British Columbia and Alaska. Gold discoveries took him to Omineca, Cassiar, and Juneau, as well as the Skeena and Nass valleys. Much of his time was spent transporting miners and supplies, but he engaged in some mining and prospecting activity, which he would continue into his sixties. During one visit to Juneau he produced and sold a series of stone carvings. In addition, Clah and his family became involved in salmon fishing and canning, work that was not always steady. In 1880s Clah complained to Duncan, with some exaggeration it seems, of being “very short in Grub and in clothing. . . . Sometimes works one day & sometimes paid me in tickets nothing paid But paper mony.”
By the 1870s Clah had assumed the chief’s name or title of Temks and was on his way to becoming a respected elder. The wealth he had accumulated through the fur trade and other ventures no doubt helped him ascend to this chieftainship. The process evidently meant giving potlatches, which Duncan opposed. On 24 Feb. 1868 Clah marked the end of his most elaborate feast – possibly given to celebrate his assumption of the name Temks – with an entry in his diary: “In this day at home I was spented all My Property. I gave away 6 or 7 hundred in goods give away all they stranger.” His role also involved participation in village councils and the land questions that engulfed the Tsimshian and their Niska neighbours, beginning in the 1880s.
Clah became an important repository of knowledge about Tsimshian society. In 1903 anthropologist Franz Boas* made an unsuccessful approach for his collaboration in researching Tsimshian mythology [see Henry Wellington Tate]. Clah planned to use his diaries to write his own history of the Tsimshian. The project did not proceed far, however, and the diaries were later purchased by philanthropist Henry Solomon Wellcome. Clah’s grandson William Beynon* (Kuskin), whom Clah had helped educate, became the principal ethnographer of his people. Together their records provide an invaluable source on the history of northern British Columbia before and after the arrival of whites.
  With the exception of the volume for 1906, Clah’s diaries were purchased by Henry Solomon Wellcome in 1910, and are preserved in the collections of the Wellcome Institute for the Hist. of Medicine, London. Microfilm copies are available at NA, MG 40, F11. The 1906 diary is at BCARS, H/D/R13/C52, along with an undated notebook. Further documentation is provided in the author’s paper “The worlds of Arthur Wellington Clah, 1855–1881; an outline” (prepared for the British Columbia Hist. Geog. Research Project, 1993), a copy of which is in the DCB’s files.
Document HistoryPublished 1998Occupations and Other IdentifiersAboriginal people – TsimshianAuthors – Diaries, memoirs, and correspondenceBusiness – TransportationBusiness – Energy and resourcesRegion of BirthNorth America – Canada – British Columbia – MainlandRegion of ActivitiesNorth America – United States of AmericaNorth America – Canada – British Columbia – MainlandNorth America – Canada – British Columbia – Vancouver Island
Related BiographiesTATE, HENRY WELLINGTON (Vol. 14)CROSBY, THOMAS (Vol. 14)DUNCAN, WILLIAM (Vol. 14)LEGAIC, PAUL (Vol. 12)McNEILL, WILLIAM HENRY (Vol. 10)OGDEN, PETER SKENE (Vol. 8)
Robert Galois, “CLAH, ARTHUR WELLINGTON,” in Dictionary of Canadian Biography, vol. 14, University of Toronto/Université Laval, 2003–, accessed June 6, 2014, http://www.biographi.ca/en/bio/clah_arthur_wellington_14E.html.
	The citation above shows the format for footnotes and endnotes according to the Chicago manual of style (16th edition). Information to be used in other citation formats:
© 2003-2014 University of Toronto/Université Laval Suggest corrections or additionsImportant NoticesWebsites of Interest
Nous reconnaissons l’appui du gouvernement du Canada par l’entremise du ministère du Patrimoine canadien.
=======================================================
Search Amazon for books, videos, music CDs, toys, electronics. Just select the category, type in your keyword(s) and click search. Or if you feel like bidding on something, click Amazon Auctions 
=======================================================
        British Broadcasting CorporationHome   Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help   
Wellesley was an Anglo-Irish general and statesman, victor of the Battle of Waterloo and twice British prime minister.
Arthur Wesley was born in Dublin in early May 1769. In 1798, his aristocratic Anglo-Irish family changed their name to Wellesley.
He was an unremarkable student at Eton, but seems to have found his calling when he joined the army in 1787. He fought against the French in Flanders and in 1796 went to India. His brother Richard was appointed governor general there in 1797. Wellesley achieved considerable military success, taking part in the Mysore War against Tipu Sultan. During the subjugation of the Mahrattas he achieved a remarkable victory at Assaye (1803).
Back in England he was knighted and became a member of parliament. In 1807, he was appointed chief secretary for Ireland. But his political career came to an abrupt end in the same year, when he returned to active service against the French. In 1808, he assumed control of the British, Portuguese and Spanish forces in the Peninsular War (1808 - 1814), eventually forcing the occupying French to withdraw from Spain and Portugal. When Napoleon abdicated in 1814, Wellesley returned home a hero and was created duke of Wellington.
He attended the Congress of Vienna and served for a briefly as ambassador to France, but in 1815 Napoleon returned. Wellington became commander of the allied armies. With the help of Prussian forces under Gebhard von Blucher he defeated Napoleon at the Battle of Waterloo in June 1815. The threat of Napoleon was at an end. 
In 1818, Wellington was given a post in Lord Liverpool's Tory government. In 1827, he became commander in chief of the British army, but in 1828 reluctantly accepted the post of prime minister. He believed in strong, authoritative government and an isolationist policy, although he antagonised sections of his party by forcing through the Catholic Emancipation Act (1829). His opposition to parliamentary reform made him unpopular, and he earned the nickname of the 'Iron Duke' when he erected iron shutters on the windows of his London home, Apsley House, to prevent them being smashed by angry crowds.
Wellington's government fell in 1830. When they returned to power in 1834, Wellington declined the office of prime minister, which went instead to Robert Peel. From 1834-1835 Wellington served as foreign minister. He retired in 1846. He died on 14 September 1852 and was given a state funeral.
        Search term:     BBC navigation  News Sport Weather  Capital  TV Radio More…       CBBC CBeebies Comedy Food History   Learning Music Science Nature Local   Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Full A-Z of BBC sites        BBC links    Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC     Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help     Ad Choices Cookies Contact the BBC     Parental Guidance      BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  
=======================================================
(born May 1, 1769, Dublin, Ire.died Sept. 14, 1852, Walmer Castle, Kent, Eng.) British general. Son of the Irish earl of Mornington, he entered the army in 1787 and served in the Irish Parliament (179097). Sent to India in 1796, he commanded troops to victories in the Maratha War (1803). Back in England, he served in the British House of Commons and as chief secretary in Ireland (180709). Commanding British troops in the Peninsular War, he won battles against the French in Portugal and Spain and invaded France to win the war in 1814, for which he was promoted to field marshal and created a duke. After Napoleon renewed the war against the European powers, the Iron Duke commanded the Allied armies to victory at the Battle of Waterloo (1815). Richly rewarded by English and foreign sovereigns, he became one of the most honoured men in Europe. After commanding the army of occupation in France (181518) and serving in the Tory cabinet as master general of ordnance (181827), he served as prime minister (182830), but he was forced to resign after opposing any parliamentary reform. He was honoured on his death by a monumental funeral and burial in St. Paul's Cathedral alongside Horatio Nelson.
Wellington, Arthur Wellesley, Duke of (1769-1851). Born Arthur Wesley (the family later changed the spelling), second son of the Earl of Mornington, Wellington was commissioned at the age of 17. Influence gained him appointment as ADC to the viceroy of Ireland, and he was promoted lieutenant in 1787. He was elected to the family seat of Trim in 1790, and promoted captain the following year. Loans from his elder brother, now Lord Mornington (later Marquess Wellesley), purchased a majority and lieutenant colonelcy in the 33rd Regiment in 1793. He resigned his seat and took the 33rd to Flanders in 1794. He complained that ‘no one knew anything of the management of an army’ and admitted that the episode taught him much. ‘The real reason why I succeeded in my campaigns’, he wrote, ‘is because I was always on the spot—I saw everything; and did everything for myself.’He regained his seat on his return, tried to obtain a government post, and, now a colonel, sailed for India. His brother was governor general, and he fought at Seringapatam, was then given command in Mysore and later promoted major general. In 1803 he beat the Marathas at Assaye. Years later, when asked what was ‘the best thing’ he did in the way of fighting he unhesitatingly replied ‘Assaye’. He lost 1, 500 of his 7, 000 men, one of his horses was shot and its replacement piked. He went on to win another battle at Argaum and take the fortress of Gawlighur (Gwalior).He was knighted, returned home in 1805, took a brigade on a brief expedition to the Elbe, and then married Kitty Pakenham, who had rejected him over ten years before. On their wedding day he muttered, ‘She has grown ugly, by Jove’, privately admitted that it was a mistake, and was to have a series of characteristically discreet affairs. He sat unhappily on the backbenches until appointed Chief Secretary for Ireland in April 1807. Shortly afterwards he commanded a division in an expedition to Denmark, returning to Dublin after the capture of Copenhagen.In the spring of 1808 he was promoted lieutenant general and sent to Portugal with a small force. On arrival he heard that the French were stronger than expected and the force would be increased: he would be superseded by Sir Hew Dalrymple, with Sir Harry Burrard as his second-in-command. In the meantime he faced Junot at Vimeiro. He checked the attack with skirmishers at the foot of a ridge and kept the bulk of his force concealed behind it to take on French columns at close range. The French had begun to break when Burrard arrived, but Wellington could not persuade him to pursue. Dalrymple and Burrard agreed the Convention of Cintra, which allowed the French passage home in British ships. A court of enquiry whitewashed all three generals, but neither Dalrymple nor Burrard held active command again.Without military employment during the Corunna campaign, he returned to Portugal in 1809. He quickly secured Oporto, and within a month Portugal was cleared of French. He complained that ‘The army behave terribly ill. They are a rabble who cannot bear success any more than Sir John Moore's army could bear failure. I am endeavouring to tame them’. In uneasy collaboration with the Spanish, he pursued the French into Spain, only to have them turn on him at Talavera. On 28 July the French launched attacks on his line and came close to breaking it, but in the nick of time he plugged what he called an ‘ugly hole’. He lost a quarter of his force and was in no state to pursue. Talavera brought him a peerage, and he chose the title Viscount Wellington of Talavera and (for the family originated in the West Country) Wellington.Hearing that Austria had made peace, Wellington knew that the French would be free to deal with him, and fell back into Portugal while French reinforcements flooded in, taking Ciudad Rodrigo and Almeida. On 27 September 1810 Masséna lost heavily attacking him on the long ridge at Busaco, but Wellington, outnumbered, retreated to the Lines of Torres Vedras, impervious to French attack. After a cold and hungry winter Masséna withdrew from Portugal in March 1811.Wellington hoped to take Badajoz and Almeida, and left Beresford besieging Badajoz while he moved on Almeida, defeating Masséna at Fuentes de Oũoro in May, though the escape of the Almeida garrison took the gilt from the victory. Beresford, meanwhile, beat a relieving force under Soult in a bloody action at Albuera, and Wellington abandoned the siege of Badajoz shortly afterwards.In January 1812 Wellington took Ciudad Rodrigo by storm, which brought him an earldom, and went on to assault Badajoz in April. The attempt nearly failed, and when the attackers at last fought their way in, discipline collapsed completely. Wellington lost 5, 000 men, and wrote to London: ‘The capture of Badajoz affords as strong an instance of the gallantry of our troops as has ever been displayed. But I greatly hope that I shall never again be the instrument of putting them to such a test’. In July he beat Masséna's successor Marmont at Salamanca, in a brilliantly timed attack, rightly regarded as his masterpiece. He followed up the victory by entering Madrid, rising another notch in the peerage by doing so, but failed to take Burgos. Slipping back into Portugal with Soult close behind him, he congratulated himself on getting out of ‘the worst scrape I was ever in’, but launched a merciless attack on indiscipline, gripping his army with what he called ‘a hand of iron’.In May 1813 he again advanced into Spain, meeting Napoleon's brother Joseph, its puppet king, at Vitoria in June. With almost 80, 000 men Wellington outnumbered the French, and tried to pin Joseph to his position by a frontal attack while turning his flank. Although the attack did not go according to plan Joseph narrowly escaped capture and all his baggage and 151 guns were taken. Victory brought Wellington a field marshal's baton, sensitively designed by the Prince Regent himself. Wellington stormed San Sebastian and crossed the Bidossa into France in October. He beat the French at Orthez, but a subordinate's error marred the pursuit. Wellington reprimanded the officer so stiffly that he rode into a skirmish and was shot. Some thought that Wellington blamed himself, but as Sir William Napier said, ‘He has always kept to that system of never acknowledging he was wrong’. The war's last battle, at Toulouse on 10 April 1814, was what Wellington called ‘a very severe affair’. Although he drove Soult from the town, he lost more men than the French, and both sides claimed victory. Wellington was dressing for dinner in Toulouse when he heard that Napoleon had abdicated.Created a duke, Wellington visited Paris before returning home to a tumultuous welcome, not much to his taste. Dispatched to Paris as ambassador, he was then sent to be senior British representative at the Congress of Vienna. On 7 March 1815 he heard that Napoleon had escaped from Elba, and a fortnight later he was appointed C-in-C of British and Dutch-Belgian forces in the Low Countries. He arrived in Brussels on 1 April to undertake the sternest test of his career, the campaign of the Hundred Days.Wellington recognized that this was not the old Peninsular army, but ‘an infamous army, very weak and ill equipped’. He knew that the campaign would hinge on collaboration with his Prussian allies, assuring the diarist Creevy that ‘Blücher and myself can do the thing’. On 15 June he heard that Napoleon had crossed the frontier, but did not identify his main thrust correctly. He was at the Duchess of Richmond's ball in Brussels—giving the impression of normality, but with his senior officers to hand—when he heard that Napoleon was moving up from Charleroi. Admitting that ‘Napoleon has humbugged me’ he decided to concentrate at Quatre Bras, but planned to fight further back, on the ridge at Mont St Jean.He reached Quatre Bras on the morning of 16 June, thought that the young Prince of Orange had things in hand, and then rode eastwards to confer with Blücher near Ligny. He confirmed that he would join Blücher, ‘provided I am not attacked myself’, and rode back to Quatre Bras. Although Wellington checked Ney at Quatre Bras, Blücher was beaten at Ligny by Napoleon, and Allied fortunes hinged on the old Prussian's gallant decision to march north-westwards to join Wellington rather than fall back, as Gneisenau suggested, on his lines of communication.Wellington laid out his position near Waterloo on 17 June, making the most of slopes which allowed him to conceal much of his infantry. When Napoleon attacked on the 18th the duke was everywhere, plainly dressed in blue coat and white breeches, slipping on a blue cape with each of the many showers. He sent precise orders to the garrison of Hougoumont, congratulated Capt Mercer on the handling of his troop of artillery, and, when the Imperial Guard came up the trampled slope, was on hand to give Maitland's Guards Brigade the order to fire. It was a long and dreadful day, and at 18.30 he muttered: ‘Night or the Prussians must come.’ He had repulsed Napoleon's last attack when he saw that Blücher's men had bitten deep into the French right flank, and waved his hat to signal a general advance. That night he gave his bed to a mortally wounded staff officer, and tears furrowed his cheeks when he heard of the losses. ‘Well, thank God, ’ he said, ‘I do not know what it is to lose a battle, but certainly nothing can be more painful than to win one with the loss of so many of one's friends.’Wellington commanded the Allied armies of occupation, and returned home in 1818 to become Master General of the Ordnance with a seat in Lord Liverpool's cabinet. Appointed C-in-C in 1827, he resigned when Canning became PM, but was persuaded to become PM himself in 1828. He spent two unhappy years in office, bravely introducing Catholic Emancipation but losing ground over parliamentary reform, to which he was steadfastly opposed. He was reappointed C-in-C in 1842, casting a long conservative shadow over the army for the last decade of his life.Wellington was a brilliant tactician, with a sharp eye for ground and clear understanding of the men who held it. His campaigning in India and Spain shows him as a skilled logistician and manager of armies, with a flair for manoeuvre in attack, prepared to risk but never to gamble. He was no manoeuvrist in the modern sense. Orders were orders, and officers deviated from them at their peril. He was personally rather chilly, and many felt him stingy with praise, but his quiet ‘gentleman-like’ demeanour inspired regard often denied the more flamboyant. ‘We would rather see his long nose in a fight than a reinforcement of ten thousand men any day’, wrote an officer, while a private of the 7th Fusiliers asked, in Tyneside vernacular, ‘Whore's ar Arthur? Aw wish he wor here.’
BibliographyLongford, Elizabeth, Wellington, vol. 1. The Years of the Sword (London, 1969); vol. 2. Pillar of the State (London, 1972)
The British soldier and statesman Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington (1769-1852), was one of the pacifiers of British India, an important architect of the downfall of Napoleon I, and a major political figure.The third son of the Earl of Mornington, Arthur Wellesley was born in Dublin, Ireland, on or about May 1, 1769. He was educated at Eton, in Brussels, and at Angers Military Academy. In 1787 he became a lieutenant of foot and aide-de-camp to the lord lieutenant of Ireland. From 1790 he was for five years a member of the Irish Parliament. In 1793, at the age of 24, he purchased a lieutenant colonelcy in the 33d Foot, whose colonel he became in 1806. In 1794 Wellesley participated in the Netherlands campaign, during which he was so struck by the inefficiency of British officers that the next year he began the serious study of warfare.From 1797 to 1804 Wellesley was the commanding officer of the 33d Foot in India, where from 1797 to 1805 his brother Richard, Marquess Wellesley, was governor general. In India, Wellesley came into his own as a soldier, aiding in the capture of Mysore in 1799 and leading the two campaigns in 1799-1802 that crushed Dhundia Wagh, the robber chieftain. In 1802 Wellesley was promoted to major general, and from 1803 to 1805 he was chief administrator as well as military commander of the Deccan, where on Sept. 23, 1803, at Assaye he defeated the vaunted Marathas. Wellesley resigned when his brother was recalled in 1805.The next year Wellesley became commander of a brigade at Hastings and was elected a member of Parliament. He married Kitty Pakenham on April 10, 1806, but she was never his equal and eventually became almost a recluse. In 1807 he moved to Ireland as chief secretary for 2 years; but in the same year he was sent on an expedition against the Danes. In 1808 he was posted to Portugal, beginning what was to be his major campaign.Portugal and SpainWellesley had conceived the idea of thwarting Napoleon on the Iberian Peninsula, and in 1808 he led an expedition to assist the Portuguese in their revolt against the French. He defeated the French at Rolica and Vimeiro, but Sir Harry Burrard prevented his pursuit of the routed French. Both Wellesley and Burrard returned to England to stand courts-martial, but both were acquitted. In 1809 Wellesley resumed command in Portugal. He captured Oporto, advanced into Spain on the strength of Spanish promises of support, won at Talavera, and then retreated when the Spanish promises fell flat to carefully prepared lines at Torres Vedras. He did not reach Torres Vedras, however, until after he had been created Viscount Wellington and had bloodied André Massena's nose at Bussaco. The French commander made no progress at Torres Vedras in spite of the fact that Wellington was ill-supported from England both in the quality of his officers and in the number of reinforcements.In 1811 Massena pulled back and Wellington pursued, but he soon found himself facing larger forces. In 1812 he incurred heavy casualties storming Ciudad Rodrigo and in the capture of Badajoz; he entered Madrid on August 12. His efforts to take Burgos were bloodily repulsed, and he then beat a hasty retreat to Ciudad Rodrigo. He was created Marquess of Wellington.Late in May 1813, after mending political fences in Spain and Portugal, Wellington began his final advance into France, beating Joseph Bonaparte at Vitoria and crossing into France over the Pyrenees. After much hard fighting, he penned the French into Bayonne and defeated them at Orthez. Following this victory he went to Paris to negotiate a peace. On entering France he had been created field marshal, to which title was now added Duke of Wellington.Waterloo and AfterWellington remained as ambassador in Paris only through late 1814, for he then joined other European leaders at the Congress of Vienna. He was participating in these negotiations when Napoleon returned from Elba. Wellington was at once sent to command the Allied armies in the Netherlands, where he cooperated with the Prussian general Gebhard von Blücher. Wellington was surprised by Marshal Ney at Quatre Bras and fell back on Waterloo, where on June 18 he held on until Blücher could fulfill his promise to come to his aid after the Prussian defeat at Ligny. Together they routed the French. At the age of 46 Wellington had fought one of the most decisive battles in history and won. After advancing on Paris, effecting Napoleon's abdication, and restraining Blücher from taking reprisals or territory, Wellington was variously engaged in France until the Allied army of occupation was withdrawn in 1818.As a general, Wellington was respected by his troops, who admired his sangfroid and his imperturbability under fire. "Nosey" was a known battlefield figure who had the loyalty of his varied forces, and he carried this over into his later career as a political leader. His successes were due to his study of war, to careful planning including that of supply, and to his realism, which led him to rely heavily on his British infantry and to choose so often defensive positions in which he had to be attacked, usually uphill, because he flanked the enemy's line of advance.Man on HorsebackIn the years after his great victory, Wellington reverted more and more to the aristocratic mold from which he had been cast. Not only was he an 18th-century nobleman, but also he was a man whose career had been spent leading officers and men not noted for their intellectual brilliance. Thus he was used to speaking bluntly and to the point. At the same time he was accustomed to giving orders and to being obeyed. That was his public image. Yet privately he displayed a great sense of humor and was much beloved by the ladies.In the second half of his life, Wellington had to spend a good deal of time dealing with politics and civilians, for neither of which he had much tolerance. Yet these were the difficult times of the Peterloo Massacre, the Great Reform Bill, the Chartists, and the repeal of the Corn Laws. Moreover, in these years he was exposed to examination by journalists and liberals who became unsympathetic to his outlook and actions since he was no longer leading victorious armies in popular wars. Yet he had emerged from the Napoleonic Wars as the one great man in England, the man on horseback.Political Leader and Prime MinisterOn his return from France, Wellington divided his time between occasional attendance at international peace conferences and military and political appointments at home. From 1818 to 1827 he was master general of the ordnance with a seat in the Cabinet. In 1827 he became commander in chief. George Canning asked him to join the government when he succeeded Lord Liverpool, but Wellington professed himself happy as commander in chief. Moreover, he was staunchly Tory and Irish anti Catholic, while Canning leaned the other way. The upshot, when coupled to personal dislike, was that Wellington resigned both as master general of the ordnance and as commander in chief, and for the first time since he had joined the army in 1787 he was unemployed. Canning died within three months, and by September 1827 the duke was back as commander in chief.But when Goderich's caretaker government faded early in 1828, the King sent for Wellington and asked him, as leader of the Tories, to form a new government. So at the age of 58, with doubts about the rising tide for Catholic emancipation, Wellington became prime minister. Suddenly he was back in public favor as he had not been since Waterloo.Once in office, the duke, resigning again as commander in chief, discovered that he had to move to unite the Tories, especially after the Canningites left him. He therefore favored Catholic emancipation in an attempt both to unite his Party and to provide a sound government for Ireland. In this he was successful. The government survived until late 1830, when a combination of factors caused by the accession of William IV and the Revolution of 1830 in France made Wellington's position weak, even without his announced opposition to reform. The government resigned. The Tories were out of office for the first time in decades. Wellington refused to lead the opposition for he had been a royal servant too long.Later YearsUnpopular for a while, Wellington beat a gradual retreat on reform in the House of Lords and was willing in 1832 to be prime minister again if the King desired, but he could not form a Cabinet. He then withdrew his opposition to the Reform Bill to prevent the Whigs from packing the House of Lords. When the Whigs went out of office in 1834, the duke acted as prime minister and all three secretaries of state until Sir Robert Peel could return from Italy; then Wellington briefly retained the Foreign Office until the elections went against the Tories.Nevertheless, Wellington's personal popularity was high once again, and he decided that the country would survive reform. In 1841 Peel formed a new government with Wellington as leader of the House of Lords. The next year the incumbent commander in chief died, and the "Iron Duke" resumed the post that he held until his death a decade later. He constantly worried about national defense. During the Chartist troubles in 1848 he organized the defense of London. He died on Sept. 14, 1852.Deaf in his last years, Wellington was the elder states man of Great Britain, honored and consulted by many. A gradualist and a realist, he was one of the best-informed persons in the kingdom, especially on foreign affairs. He carried on a voluminous correspondence, and he was always careful of his dignity and honor. Plain of speech, sometimes tart, he generally cut to the heart of the matter. At the same time, his distinctive features made him one of the few personalities well known to the people in the days before photography. His reputation was enhanced by the publication of his dispatches (1834-1880) and his parliamentary speeches (1854).Further ReadingThe most useful biography of Wellington is Elizabeth Longford, Wellington: The Years of the Sword (1969), which carries his career through 1815 and whose bibliography provides the best starting point for research on him; a second volume is under way. The older standard work is Philip Guedalla, Wellington (1931). An excellent illustrated work on the duke is Victor Percival, The Duke of Wellington: A Pictorial Survey of His Life (1969), composed for the Victoria and Albert Museum. E. L. Woodward, The Age of Reform, 1815-1870 (1938; 2d ed. 1962), provides an adequate introduction to the later period of Wellington's life. Dealing with Wellington and the army are Godfrey Davies, Wellington and His Army (1954); Jac Weller, Wellington in the Peninsula, 1808-1814 (1963), narrating the 6-year war against Napoleon's forces in Spain, and Wellington at Waterloo (1967); and Albert Tucker's chapter in Robin Higham, ed., A Guide to the Sources of British Military History (1971).Additional SourcesBarthorp, Michael, Wellington's generals, London: Osprey, 1978.James, Lawrence, The Iron Duke: a military biography of Wellington, London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 1992.Thompson, Neville., Wellington after Waterloo, London; New York: Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1986.Wellington Commander: the iron duke's generalship, Boston: Faber and Faber, 1986. 
Wellington, Arthur Wellesley, 1st duke of (1769-1852). Soldier and prime minister. Arthur Wellesley was the third surviving son of the earl of Mornington, an impoverished Irish peer. After a year at a French military academy at Angers, he entered the army by purchasing a commission. Early experience in the campaigns in the Low Countries during the first years of the Revolutionary War showed how things should not be done. His great chance came in India, where his elder brother was governor-general. Arthur established his military reputation by winning the spectacular victories of Assaye and Argaum over the Mahrattas in 1803. In 1808 he was sent as commander of the first detachment of British troops to Portugal. Winning the battle of Vimeiro he was recalled to face a court of inquiry after the armistice of Cintra, which was seen in England as craven. Wellesley had signed the agreement under orders, but was bitterly attacked by opposition politicians. Cleared by the inquiry he resumed command of the British army in Portugal after the death of Moore. Shrewdly exploiting natural features and the engineering skills of the British army to construct the lines of Torres Vedras he ensured that the British army would not be pushed into the sea. But he was more than a defensive general. He was bold when necessary, as the assaults on the fortresses of Badajoz and Ciudad Rodrigo showed, and in the battles of Salamanca, Vitoria, and the Pyrenees he was as resourceful in attack as he had been in defence. The end of the Peninsular War saw him as the most famous British general since the duke of Marlborough. The battle of Waterloo in 1815 confirmed his stature and his fame. He cared for his men and husbanded their lives, scorned extravagant gestures, and despised popularity.After 1815 Wellington was prominent as a diplomat and politician. He had owed much to Castlereagh; now he became one of his trusted lieutenants in the complex diplomacy of the post-war era. He also became a member of Liverpool's government, believing that it was his duty to serve the state in whatever capacity might be required of him. After the death of Canning and the failure of the Goderich ministry, Wellington became prime minister in January 1828. When in 1828 a crisis erupted in Ireland he chose to grant catholic emancipation rather than risk civil war. This earned him the hatred of the ultra-Tories and he fought a duel with Lord Winchilsea. In 1830 Wellington attempted to rally conservative opinion by affirming his resolute opposition to parliamentary reform. The tactic failed to restore confidence in his administration. In November 1830 he was defeated on the civil list in the Commons and resigned. Although Wellington opposed the Reform Bill he realized that opposition had to be attuned to the realities of politics. He therefore led 100 Tory peers from their seats in the Lords to allow the Reform Bill to pass in June 1832, preferring reform to the prospect of the Upper House being swamped by newly created peers. In 1834, during the crisis provoked by Melbourne's resignation, Wellington became a caretaker prime minister for some three weeks and after 1835 he played an important role as an elder statesman.
Wellington, 1st Duke of, (Arthur Wellesley) (1769-1852), soldier and statesman; born in Ireland, educated at Eton and a military academy in Angers, France. He was commander of British armies in India, 1797, and in Spain, 1809-14, Secretary of State for Ireland. 1807-9, victor at Waterloo, 1815, and British Prime Minister, 1828-30, 1834, and 1841-6. As an Irish MP he supported the extension of the franchise to Catholics (barring their entry into Parliament), but resisted electoral reform and Catholic Emancipation.
Wellington, Arthur Wellesley, 1st duke of, 1769-1852, British soldier and statesman.Military AchievementsWellesley entered the army in 1787 and, aided by his brother Richard (later Marquess Wellesley), rose rapidly in rank. He held a command in Flanders (1794-95) and in 1796 went with his regiment to India. After his brother's appointment (1797) as governor-general of India, he received command of a division in the invasion of Mysore and became (1799) governor of Seringapatam. In 1800 he defeated the robber chieftain, Dhundia Wagh, and in 1802 he was made major general. In 1803 he moved against the Marathas, breaking their force of about 40,000 with an army of about 10,000 in a surprise attack. A valuable civil and military adviser to his brother, he returned with him to England in 1805 and was knighted. His election (1806) to Parliament and appointment (1807) as Irish secretary did not prevent him from leading (1807) an expedition against the Danes.In 1808 he led an expedition to assist Portugal in its revolt against the French. He defeated the French at Roliça and Vimeiro, but was superseded in command. In 1809 he returned to the Iberian Peninsula, where he ultimately assumed command of the British, Portuguese, and Spanish forces in the Peninsular War. Taking advantage of the irregular terrain, Portuguese and Spanish nationalism, and Napoleon's preoccupation with other campaigns and projects, he drove the French beyond the Pyrenees by 1813, though his campaigns were rendered difficult by poor support from the British government. Late in 1813 he invaded S France, and he was at Toulouse when news of Napoleon's abdication (Apr., 1814) arrived.Returning to England, he received many honors and was created duke of Wellington. He served for a short time as ambassador to Paris, then succeeded Viscount Castlereagh at the peace conference in Vienna; but when Napoleon returned from Elba, he took command of the allied armies. There followed his most famous victory, that in the Waterloo campaign, won in conjunction with the Prussian general, Gebhard Leberecht von Blücher. Wellington, again lavishly honored, took charge of the army of occupation in France, exerting his influence to restrain harsh treatment of the defeated French.Political CareerWellington, "the iron duke," with the soldier's taste for discipline and order and the aristocrat's distrust of democratic institutions, lent his great prestige to the Tory policy of repression at home and took a cabinet post as master general of the ordnance (1819). He represented England at the Congress of Verona (1822), where he opposed intervention in the Spanish revolt, and at the conference at St. Petersburg (1826) that concerned itself with the revolt in Greece, but he was not in sympathy with the liberal foreign policy of George Canning and resigned (1827) when Canning became prime minister.In 1828 Wellington himself reluctantly became prime minister. He bowed to public clamor and allowed the repeal of the Test Act and Corporation Act and the passage of the Catholic Emancipation bill (reforms he had previously opposed), but he lost the support of much of the Tory party as a consequence. When he declared against parliamentary reform, the ministry fell (1830), and his unpopularity subjected him to an assault by a mob. He refused to form a government in 1834, but served under Sir Robert Peel as foreign secretary (1834-35) and again (1841-46) as minister without portfolio. On the repeal of the corn laws he supported Peel, while not wholly approving his policy. In 1842 he was made commander in chief for life. He is buried in St. Paul's Cathedral.BibliographySee his dispatches and other papers (pub. in 3 series, 1834-39, 1858-72, 1867-80); biographies by J. W. Fortescue (1925, 3d ed. 1960), P. Guedalla (1931), C. Petrie (1956), E. Longford (2 vol., 1969-72), A. Bryant (1971), and C. Hibbert (1997); studies by G. Davies (1954) and N. Thompson (1986).
Arthur Wellesley, a British general of the nineteenth century, revered in his country as the victor over the emperor Napoleon Bonaparte at the Battle of Waterloo.
Wellington is known for allegedly saying “the Battle of Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Eton.” Eton is a famous English boarding school for boys. Wellington's statement emphasizes the effect of people's moral training and breeding on their later life.
"Duke of Wellington" and "The Iron Duke" redirect here. For subsequent dukes, see Duke of Wellington (title). For the film, see The Iron Duke (film).
The Duke of Wellington, painted in 1814, several months before the Battle of Waterloo, by the artist Sir Thomas Lawrence
Field Marshal Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, KG, GCB, GCH, PC, FRS (1 May 1769[1] – 14 September 1852), was a British soldier and statesman, a native of Ireland from the Anglo-Irish Ascendancy,[3] and one of the leading military and political figures of the 19th century. He is often referred to as the "Duke of Wellington", even after his death, even though there have been subsequent Dukes of Wellington.
Wellesley was commissioned as an ensign in the British Army in 1787. Serving in Ireland as aide-de-camp to two successive Lords Lieutenant of Ireland he was also elected as a Member of Parliament in the Irish House of Commons. A colonel by 1796, Wellesley saw action in the Netherlands and later in India, where he fought in the Fourth Anglo-Mysore War at the Battle of Seringapatam. He was appointed governor of Seringapatam and Mysore in 1799, and as a newly appointed major-general won a decisive victory over the Maratha Confederacy at the Battle of Assaye in 1803.
Wellesley rose to prominence as a general during the Peninsular campaign of the Napoleonic Wars, and was promoted to the rank of field marshal after leading the allied forces to victory against the French at the Battle of Vitoria in 1813. Following Napoleon's exile in 1814, he served as the ambassador to France and was granted a dukedom. During the Hundred Days in 1815, he commanded the allied army which, together with a Prussian army under Blücher, defeated Napoleon at the Battle of Waterloo. Wellesley's battle record is exemplary, ultimately participating in some 60 battles throughout his military career.[4]
He was twice prime minister under the Tory party and oversaw the passage of the Catholic Relief Act 1829. He was prime minister from 1828–30 and served briefly in 1834. He was unable to prevent the passage of the Reform Act 1832 and continued as one of the leading figures in the House of Lords until his retirement. He remained Commander-in-Chief of the British Army until his death.
Wellington was born in Ireland as "The Honourable Arthur Wesley", the fourth son—third of five surviving sons—to Garret Wesley, 1st Earl of Mornington, and Anne, the eldest daughter of Arthur Hill-Trevor, 1st Viscount Dungannon. He was most likely born at their townhouse, 24 Upper Merrion Street, Dublin, now the "Merrion Hotel".[5] His biographers mostly follow the contemporary newspaper evidence in saying he was born 1 May 1769,[6] the day he was baptised.[7] His mother, Anne, Countess of Mornington, recalled in 1815 that he had been born at 6 Merrion Street, Dublin.[8] Other places which have been put forward as the location of his birth include Mornington House (the house which used to be next door) - as his father had asserted, the Dublin packet boat[9] and the family estate of Athy (which perished in the fires of 1916) - as the Duke apparently put on his 1851 census return.[10]
He spent most of his childhood at his family's two homes, the first a large house in Dublin and the second, Dangan Castle, 3.1 miles (5 km) north of Summerhill on the Trim road in County Meath, part of the Province of Leinster.[11] In 1781 Arthur's father died and his eldest brother Richard inherited his father's earldom.[12]
He went to the diocesan school in Trim when at Dangan, Mr. Whyte's Academy when in Dublin, and at Brown's School in Chelsea when in London. He then enrolled at Eton, where he studied from 1781 to 1784.[12] His loneliness there caused him to hate it, and makes it highly unlikely that he actually said, "The Battle of Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Eton". Moreover, Eton had no playing fields at the time. In 1785, a lack of success at Eton, combined with a shortage of family funds due to his father's death, forced the young Wellesley and his mother to move to Brussels.[13] Until his early twenties, Arthur continued to show little sign of distinction and his mother grew increasingly concerned at his idleness, stating, "I don't know what I shall do with my awkward son Arthur".[13]
A year later, Arthur enrolled in the French Royal Academy of Equitation in Angers, where he progressed significantly, becoming a good horseman and learning French, which was later to prove very useful.[14] Upon returning to England in late 1786, he astonished his mother with his improvement.[15]
Beginning in 1787, Wellesley worked at Dublin Castle (pictured) as aide-de-camp to two successive Lords Lieutenant of Ireland.
Despite his new promise he had yet to find a job and his family was still short of money, so upon the advice of his mother, his brother Richard asked his friend the Duke of Rutland (then Lord Lieutenant of Ireland) to consider Arthur for a commission in the army.[15] Soon after, on 7 March 1787 he was gazetted ensign in the 73rd Regiment of Foot.[16][17] In October, with the assistance of his brother, he was assigned as aide-de-camp, on ten shillings a day (twice his pay as an ensign), to the new Lord Lieutenant of Ireland Lord Buckingham.[16] He was also transferred to the new 76th Regiment forming in Ireland and on Christmas Day, 1787, was promoted to lieutenant.[16][18] During his time in Dublin his duties were mainly social; attending balls, entertaining guests and providing advice to Buckingham. While in Ireland, he over extended himself in borrowing due to his occasional gambling, but in his defence stated that "I have often known what it was to be in want of money, but I have never got helplessly into debt".[19]
On 23 January 1788 he transferred into the 41st Regiment of Foot, then again on 25 June 1789, still a lieutenant, he transferred to the 12th (Prince of Wales's) Regiment of (Light) Dragoons[20] and, according to military historian Richard Holmes, he also dipped a reluctant toe into politics.[19] Shortly before the general election of 1789, he went to the "rotten borough" of Trim to speak against the granting of the title "Freeman" of Dublin to the parliamentary leader of the Irish Patriot Party, Henry Grattan.[21] Succeeding, he was later nominated and duly elected as a Member of Parliament for Trim in the Irish House of Commons.[22] Because of the limited suffrage at the time, he sat in a parliament where at least two-thirds of the members owed their election to the landowners of fewer than a hundred boroughs.[22] Wellesley continued to serve at Dublin Castle, voting with the government in the Irish parliament over the next two years. On 30 January 1791 he became a captain and was transferred to the 58th Regiment of Foot.[22][23][24]
On 31 October he transferred to the 18th Light Dragoons[25] and it was during this period that he grew increasingly attracted to Kitty Pakenham, the daughter of Edward Pakenham, 2nd Baron Longford.[26] She was described as being full of 'gaiety and charm'.[27] In 1793 he sought her hand, but was turned down by her brother Thomas, Earl of Longford, who considered Wellesley to be a young man, in debt, with very poor prospects.[28] An aspiring amateur musician, Wellesley, devastated by the rejection, burnt his violins in anger, and resolved to pursue a military career in earnest.[29] Gaining further promotion (largely by purchasing his rank, which was common in the British Army at the time), he became a major in the 33rd Regiment in 1793.[26][30] A few months later, in September, his brother lent him more money and with it he purchased a lieutenant-colonelcy in the 33rd.[31]
In 1793, the Duke of York was sent to Flanders in command of the British contingent of an allied force destined for the invasion of France. In 1794, the 33rd regiment was sent to join the force and Wellesley, having just purchased his majority on 30 April 1793, set sail from Cork for Flanders in June, destined for his first real battle experience. Three months later on 30 September 1793 he purchased the lieutenant colonelcy of his regiment.[31][32] During the campaign he rose to command a brigade and in September Wellesley's unit came under fire just east of Breda, just before the Battle of Boxtel.[33] For the latter part of the campaign, during the winter, his unit defended the line of the Waal River, during which time he became ill for a while, owing to the damp environment.[34] Though the campaign was to prove unsuccessful, with the Duke of York's force returning in 1795, Wellesley was to learn several valuable lessons, including the use of steady fire lines against advancing columns and of the merits of supporting sea-power.[33] He concluded that many of the campaign's blunders were due to the faults of the leaders and the poor organisation at headquarters.[35] He remarked later of his time in the Netherlands that "At least I learned what not to do, and that is always a valuable lesson".[35]
Returning to England in March 1795, he was returned as a Member of Parliament for Trim for a second time.[36] He hoped to be given the position of secretary of war in the new Irish government but the new lord-lieutenant, Lord Camden, was only able to offer him the post of Surveyor-General of the Ordnance.[36] Declining the post, he returned to his regiment, now at Southampton preparing to set sail for the West Indies. After seven weeks at sea, a storm forced the fleet back to Poole, England.[36] The 33rd was given time to convalesce and a few months later, Whitehall decided to send the regiment to India. Wellesley was promoted full colonel by seniority on 3 May 1796[37] and a few weeks later set sail for Calcutta with his regiment.[38]
Arriving in Calcutta in February 1797 he spent several months there, before being sent on a brief expedition to the Philippines, where he established a list of new hygiene precautions for his men to deal with the unfamiliar climate.[39] Returning in November to India, he learnt that his elder brother Richard, now known as Lord Mornington, had been appointed as the new Governor-General of India.[40]
In 1798 he changed the spelling of his surname to "Wellesley", up to this time he was still known as Wesley, which his oldest brother considered the ancient and proper spelling.[40][41]
As part of the campaign to extend the rule of the British East India Company, the Fourth Anglo-Mysore War broke out in 1798 against the Sultan of Mysore, Tipu Sultan.[42] Arthur's brother Richard ordered that an armed force be sent to capture Seringapatam and defeat Tipu. Under the command of General Harris, some 24,000 troops were dispatched to Madras (to join an equal force being sent from Bombay in the west).[43] Arthur and the 33rd sailed to join them in August.[44]
After extensive and careful logistic preparation (which would become one of Wellesley's main attributes)[45] the 33rd left with the main force in December and travelled across 250 miles (402 km) of jungle from Madras to Mysore.[45] On account of his brother, during the journey, Wellesley was given an additional command, that of chief advisor to the Nizam of Hyderabad's army (sent to accompany the British force).[43] This position was to cause friction amongst many of the senior officers (some of whom were senior to Wellesley).[46] Much of this friction was put to rest after the Battle of Mallavelly, some 20 miles (32 km) from Seringapatam, in which Harris's army attacked a large part of the sultan's army. During the battle, Wellesley led his men, in a line of battle of two ranks, against the enemy to a gentle ridge and gave the order to fire.[47] After an extensive repetition of volleys, followed by a bayonet charge, the 33rd, in conjunction with the rest of Harris's force, forced Tipu's infantry to retreat.[47]
Immediately after their arrival at Seringapatam on 5 April 1799, the Battle of Seringapatam began and Wellesley was ordered to lead a night attack on the village of Sultanpettah, adjacent to the fortress to clear the way for the artillery.[48] Because of the enemy's strong defensive preparations, and the darkness, with the resulting confusion, the attack failed with 25 casualties. Wellesley suffered a minor injury to his knee from a spent musket-ball.[49][50] Although they would re-attack successfully the next day, after time to scout ahead the enemy's positions, the affair had an impact on Wellesley. He resolved "never to attack an enemy who is preparing and strongly posted, and whose posts have not been reconnoitered by daylight".[51]
One of these groves, called the Sultanpet Tope, was intersected by deep ditches, watered from a channel running in an easterly direction about a mile from the fort. General Baird was directed to scour this grove and dislodge the enemy, but on his advancing with this object on the night of the 5th, he found the tope unoccupied. The next day, however, the Mysore troops again took possession of the ground, and as it was absolutely necessary to expel them, two columns were detached at sunset for the purpose. The first of these, under Colonel Shawe, got possession of a ruined village, which it successfully held. The second column, under Colonel Wellesley, on advancing into the tope, was at once attacked in the darkness of night by a tremendous fire of musketry and rockets. The men, floundering about amidst the trees and the water-courses, at last broke, and fell back in disorder, some being killed and a few taken prisoners. In the confusion Colonel Wellesley was himself struck on the knee by a spent ball, and narrowly escaped falling into the hands of the enemy.[52]
A few weeks later, after extensive artillery bombardment, a breach was opened in the main walls of the fortress of Seringapatam.[51] An attack led by Major-General Baird secured the fortress. Wellesley secured the rear of the advance, posting guards at the breach and then stationed his regiment at the main palace.[53] After hearing news of the death of the Tipu Sultan, Wellesley was the first at the scene to confirm his death, checking his pulse.[54] Over the coming day, Wellesley grew increasingly concerned over the lack of discipline amongst his men, who drank and pillaged the fortress and city. To restore order, several soldiers were flogged and four hanged.[55]
After battle and the resulting end of the war, the main force under General Harris left Seringapatam and Wellesley, aged 30, stayed behind to command the area as the new Governor of Seringapatam and Mysore. He was promoted to brigadier-general on 17 July 1801. He took residence within the Sultan's summer palace and reformed the tax and justice systems in his province to maintain order and prevent bribery.[56] He also hunted down the mercenary 'King' Dhoondiah Waugh, who had escaped from prison in Seringapatam during the battle.[57] Wellesley, with command of four regiments, defeated Dhoondiah's larger rebel force, along with Dhoondiah himself who was killed in the battle. He paid for the future upkeep of Dhoondiah's orphaned son.[58]
Whilst in India, Wellesley was ill for a considerable time, first with severe diarrhoea from the water and then with fever, followed by a serious skin infection caused by trichophyton.[59] He received good news when in September 1802 he learnt that he had been promoted to the rank of major-general.[60] Wellesley had been gazetted on 29 April 1802, but the news took several months to reach him by sea. He remained at Mysore until November when he was sent to command an army in the Second Anglo-Maratha War.[60]
Wellesley decided that he must act boldly to defeat the numerically larger force of the Maratha Empire (as he concluded a long defensive war would ruin his army).[61] With the logistic assembly of his army complete (24,000 men in total) he gave the order to break camp and attack the nearest Maratha fort on 8 August 1803.[60][61] The fort surrendered on 12 August after an infantry attack had exploited an artillery-made breach in the wall. With the fort now in British control Wellesley was able to extend control southwards to the river Godavari.[62]
Arthur Wellesley (mounted) at the Battle of Assaye (engraving after W.Heath). Wellesley later remarked that it was his greatest victory.[63]
Splitting his army into two forces, to pursue and locate the main Marathas army, (the second force, commanded by Colonel Stevenson was far smaller) Wellesley was preparing to rejoin his forces on 24 September. His intelligence, however, reported the location of the Marathas' main army, between two rivers near Assaye.[64] If he waited for the arrival of his second force, the Marathas would be able to mount a retreat, so Wellesley decided to launch an attack immediately.[64]
On 23 September, Wellesley led his forces over a ford in the river Kaitna and the Battle of Assaye commenced.[65] After crossing the ford the infantry was reorganised into several lines and advanced against the Maratha infantry. Wellesley ordered his cavalry to exploit the flank of the Maratha army just near the village.[65] During the battle Wellesley himself came under fire; two of his horses were shot from under him and he had to mount a third.[66] At a crucial moment, Wellesley regrouped his forces and ordered Colonel Maxwell (later killed in the attack) to attack the eastern end of the Maratha position while Wellesley himself directed a renewed infantry attack against the centre.[66]
An officer in the attack wrote of the importance of Wellesley's personal leadership: "The General was in the thick of the action the whole time... I never saw a man so cool and collected as he was... though I can assure you, 'til our troops got the order to advance the fate of the day seemed doubtful..."[67] With some 6,000 Marathas killed or wounded, the enemy was routed (though Wellesley's force was in no condition to pursue). British casualties were heavy: the British losses were counted as 409 soldiers being killed out of which 164 were Europeans and the remaining 245 were Indian; a further 1,622 British soldiers were wounded and 26 soldiers were reported missing (the British casualty figures were taken from Wellington's own despatch).[68] Wellesley was troubled by the loss of men and remarked that he hoped "I should not like to see again such loss as I sustained on 23 September, even if attended by such gain".[63] Years later, however, he remarked that Assaye was the best battle he ever fought.[63]
Despite the damage done to the Maratha army, the battle did not end the war.[69] A few months later in November, Wellesley attacked a larger force near Argaum, leading his army to victory again, with an astonishing 5,000 enemy dead at the cost of only 361 British casualties.[69] A further successful attack at the fortress at Gawilghur, combined with the victory of General Lake at Delhi forced the Maratha to sign a peace settlement at Anjangaon (not concluded until a year later) called as the Treaty of Surji-Anjangaon.[70]
Military historian, Richard Holmes, remarked that his experiences in India had an important influence on his personality and military tactics, teaching him much about military matters that would prove vital to his success in the Peninsular War.[71] These included a strong sense of discipline through drill and order,[72] the use of diplomacy to gain allies, and the vital necessity for a secure supply line. He also established a high regard for the acquisition of intelligence through scouts and spies.[72] His personal tastes also developed, including dressing himself in white trousers, a dark tunic, with Hessian boots and black cocked hat (that later became synonymous as his style).[73]
Wellesley had grown tired of his time in India, remarking "I have served as long in India as any man ought who can serve anywhere else".[74] In June 1804 he applied for permission to return home and as a reward for his service in India he was made a Knight of the Bath in September.[74] Whilst in India, Wellesley had amassed a fortune of £42,000 (considerable at the time), consisting mainly of prize money from his campaign.[74] When his brother's term as Governor-General of India ended in March 1805, the brothers returned together to England on HMS Howe. Arthur, coincidentally, stopped on his voyage at the little island of Saint Helena and stayed in the same building to which Napoleon I would later be exiled.[75]
Wellesley then served in the abortive Anglo-Russian expedition to north Germany in 1805, taking a brigade to Elbe.[76] Upon this return from the campaign, Wellesley received good news; owing to his new title and status, Kitty Pakenham's family had consented to his marrying her. Wellesley and Kitty were married in Dublin on 10 April 1806.[77] The marriage would later prove to be unsatisfactory and the two would spend years apart while Wellesley was campaigning.[78] He then took a period of extended leave from the army and was elected Tory member of Parliament for Rye in January 1806.[78][79] A year later, he was elected MP for Newport on the Isle of Wight and was then appointed to serve as Chief Secretary for Ireland, under the Duke of Richmond. At the same time, he was made a privy counsellor.[78]
Wellesley was in Ireland in May 1807 when he heard of the British expedition to Denmark. He decided to go, stepping down from his political appointments and was appointed to command an infantry brigade in the Second Battle of Copenhagen which took place in August. He fought at the Køge, during which the men under his command took 1,500 prisoners, with Wellesley later present during the surrender.[78]
By 30 September he had returned to England and was raised to the rank of lieutenant general on 25 April 1808.[78] In June 1808 he accepted the command of an expedition of 9,000 men. Preparing to sail for an attack on the Spanish colonies in South America (to assist the Latin American patriot Francisco de Miranda) his force was instead ordered to sail for Portugal, to take part in the Peninsular Campaign and rendezvous with 5,000 troops from Gibraltar.[80][81]
Ready for battle, he left Cork on 12 July 1808 to participate in the war against French forces in the Iberian Peninsula, with his skills as a commander tested and developed.[80] According to the historian Robin Neillands, "Wellesley had by now acquired the experience on which his later successes were founded. He knew about command from the ground up, about the importance of logistics, about campaigning in a hostile environment. He enjoyed political influence and realised the need to maintain support at home. Above all, he had gained a clear idea of how, by setting attainable objectives and relying on his own force and abilities, a campaign could be fought and won."[80]
Reenactors of the 33rd Regiment of Foot Wellington's Redcoats who fought in the Napoleonic Wars, 1812–1815, here showing the standard line 8th Company.
Wellesley defeated the French at the Battle of Roliça and the Battle of Vimeiro in 1808[82] but was superseded in command immediately after the latter battle. General Dalrymple then signed the controversial Convention of Sintra, which stipulated that the British Royal Navy transport the French army out of Lisbon with all their loot, and insisted on the association of the only available government minister, Wellesley.[83] Dalrymple and Wellesley were recalled to Britain to face a Court of Enquiry. Wellesley had agreed to sign the preliminary armistice, but had not signed the convention, and was cleared.[84]
Meanwhile, Napoleon himself entered Spain with his veteran troops to put down the revolt; the new commander of the British forces in the Peninsula, Sir John Moore, died during the Battle of Corunna in January 1809.[85]
Although overall the land war with France was not going well from a British perspective, the Peninsula was the one theatre where they, with the Portuguese, had provided strong resistance against France and her allies. This contrasted with the disastrous Walcheren expedition, which was typical of the mismanaged British operations of the time. Wellesley submitted a memorandum to Lord Castlereagh on the defence of Portugal. He stressed its mountainous frontiers and advocated Lisbon as the main base because the Royal Navy could help to defend it. Castlereagh and the cabinet approved the memo, appointed him head of all British forces in Portugal.[86]
Wellesley arrived in Lisbon on 22 April 1809 onboard HMS Surveillante,[87] after narrowly escaping shipwreck.[88] Reinforced, he took to the offensive. In the Second Battle of Porto he crossed the Douro river in a daylight coup de main, and routed Marshal Soult's French troops in Porto.[89]
With Portugal secured, Wellesley advanced into Spain to unite with General Cuesta's forces. The combined allied force prepared for an assault on Victor's I Corps at Talavera, 23 July. Cuesta, however, was reluctant to agree, and was only persuaded to advance on the following day.[90] The delay allowed the French to withdraw, but Cuesta sent his army headlong after Victor, and found himself faced by almost the entire French army in New Castile—Victor had been reinforced by the Toledo and Madrid garrisons. The Spanish retreated precipitously, necessitating two British divisions advancing to cover their retreat.[91]
The next day, 27 July, at the Battle of Talavera the French advanced in three columns and were repulsed several times throughout the day by Wellesley, but at a heavy cost to the British force. In the aftermath Marshal Soult's army was discovered to be advancing south, threatening to cut Wellesley off from Portugal. Wellesley moved east on 3 August to block it, leaving 1,500 wounded in the care of the Spanish,[92] intending to confront Soult before finding out that the French were in fact 30,000 strong. The British commander sent the Light Brigade on a dash to hold the bridge over the Tagus River at Almaraz. With communications and supply from Lisbon secured for now, Wellesley considered joining with Cuesta again but found out that his Spanish ally had abandoned the British wounded to the French and was thoroughly uncooperative, promising and then refusing to supply the British forces, aggravating Wellesley and causing considerable friction between the British and their Spanish allies. The lack of supplies, coupled with the threat of French reinforcement (including the possible inclusion of Napoleon himself) in the spring, led to the British deciding to retreat into Portugal.[93]
In 1810, a newly-enlarged French army under Marshal André Masséna invaded Portugal. British opinion both at home and in the army was negative and there were suggestions that they must evacuate Portugal. Instead, Wellington first slowed the French down at Buçaco;[94] he then prevented them from taking the Lisbon Peninsula by the construction of his massive earthworks, the Lines of Torres Vedras, which had been assembled in complete secrecy and had flanks guarded by the Royal Navy.[95] The baffled and starving French invasion forces retreated after six months. Wellington's pursuit was frustrated by a series of reverses inflicted by Marshal Ney in a much-lauded rear guard campaign.[96]
In 1811 Masséna returned toward Portugal to relieve Almeida; Wellington narrowly checked the French at the Battle of Fuentes de Onoro.[97] Simultaneously, his subordinate, Viscount Beresford, fought Soult's 'Army of the South' to a mutual bloody standstill at the Battle of Albuera in May.[98] Wellington was promoted to full General on 31 July for his services. The French abandoned Almeida, slipping away from British pursuit,[99] but retained the twin Spanish fortresses of Ciudad Rodrigo and Badajoz, the 'Keys' guarding the roads through the mountain passes into Portugal.[100] For his actions for the Portuguese cause, Wellesley was conferred the title of Count of Vimeiro, in the Peerage of Portugal.
In 1812 Wellington finally captured Ciudad Rodrigo by a rapid movement as the French went into winter quarters, storming it before they could react. He then moved south quickly, besieged the fortress of Badajoz for a month and captured it during one bloody night. On viewing the aftermath of the Storming of Badajoz, Wellington lost his composure and cried at the sight of the bloody carnage in the breaches.[101]
His army now was a veteran British force reinforced by units of the retrained Portuguese army. Campaigning in Spain, he routed the French at the Battle of Salamanca, taking advantage of a minor French mispositioning.[102] The victory liberated the Spanish capital of Madrid. As reward, he was created "Earl" and then "Marquess of Wellington" and given command of all Allied armies in Spain.[103] Wellington attempted to take the vital fortress of Burgos, which linked Madrid to France. But failure, due in part to a lack of siege guns, forced him into a headlong retreat with the loss of over 2,000 casualties.[104]
The French abandoned Andalusia, and combined the troops of Soult and Marmont outnumbering the British, to put the British forces into a precarious position. Wellington withdrew his army and, joined with the smaller corps commanded by Rowland Hill, began to retreat to Portugal. Marshal Soult declined to attack.[105]
In 1812, Wellesley was granted the titles of Marquis of Torres Vedras and Duke of Vitória, both in Portuguese nobility, by decree of Queen Maria I of Portugal, for his actions in the name of the Portuguese nation.
In 1813, Wellington led a new offensive, this time against the French line of communications. He struck through the hills north of Burgos, the Tras os Montes, and switched his supply line from Portugal to Santander on Spain's north coast; this led to the French abandoning Madrid and Burgos. Continuing to outflank the French lines, Wellington caught up with and smashed the army of King Joseph Bonaparte in the Battle of Vitoria, for which he was promoted to field marshal on 21 June.[106] He personally led a column against the French centre, while other columns were commanded by Sir Thomas Graham and Rowland Hill and looped around the French right and left (this battle became the subject of Beethoven's opus 114, Wellington's Victory). The British troops broke ranks to loot the abandoned French wagons instead of pursuing the beaten foe. This gross abandonment of discipline caused an enraged Wellington to write in a famous dispatch to Earl Bathurst, "We have in the service the scum of the earth as common soldiers".[107]
Although later, when his temper had cooled, he extended his comment to praise the men under his command saying that though many of the men were, "the scum of the earth; it is really wonderful that we should have made them to the fine fellows they are".[108]
After taking the small fortresses of Pamplona, Wellington invested San Sebastián but was frustrated by the obstinate French garrison, losing 693 dead and 316 captured in a failed assault and suspending the siege at the end of July. Soult's relief attempt was blocked by the Spanish Army of Galicia at San Marcial, allowing the Allies to consolidate their position and tighten the ring around the city, which fell in September after a second spirited defence.[109] Wellington then forced Soult's demoralised and battered army into a fighting retreat into France, punctuated by battles at the Pyrenees,[110] Bidassoa and Nivelle.[111][112] Wellington invaded southern France, winning at the Nive and Orthez.[113] Wellington's final battle against his rival Soult occurred at Toulouse, where the Allied divisions were badly mauled storming the French redoubts, losing some 4,600 men. Despite this momentary victory, news arrived of Napoleon's defeat and abdication[114] and Soult, seeing no reason to continue the fighting, agreed on a ceasefire with Wellington, allowing Soult to evacuate the city.[115]
Hailed as the conquering hero by the British, Wellington was created "Duke of Wellington", a title still held by his descendants (as he did not return to England until the Peninsular War was over, he was awarded all his patents of nobility in a unique ceremony lasting a full day).[116] Although Wellesley spent nearly six years driving the French Army from Spain and removing Joseph Bonaparte from the Spanish throne, he has received little recognition in Spain: history, as taught in Spanish schools, minimises his contribution and those of the British and Portuguese soldiers that fought with him. He received some recognition during his lifetime (the title of "Duque de Ciudad Rodrigo") and the Spanish King Ferdinand VII allowed him to keep part of the works of art from the Royal Collection which he had recovered from the French. His equestrian portrait features prominently in the Monument to the Battle of Vitoria, in present-day Vitoria-Gasteiz.[117]
He was appointed ambassador to France,[118] then took Lord Castlereagh's place as first plenipotentiary to the Congress of Vienna, where he strongly advocated allowing France to keep its place in the European balance of power. On 2 January 1815 the title of his Knighthood of the Bath was converted to Knight Grand Cross upon the expansion of that order.[119]
On 26 February 1815, Napoleon escaped from Elba and returned to France. He regained control of the country by May and faced a renewed alliance against him.[120] Wellington left Vienna for what became known as the Waterloo Campaign. He arrived in Belgium to take command of the British-German army and their allied Dutch-Belgians, all stationed alongside the Prussian forces of Gebhard Leberecht von Blücher.[121]
Napoleon's strategy was to isolate the Allied and Prussian armies, and annihilate each one separately before the Austrians and Russians arrived. In doing so the vast superiority in numbers of the Coalition would be greatly diminished. He would then seek the possibility of a peace with Austria and Russia.[122]
The French invaded Belgium, defeated the Prussians at Ligny, and fought an indecisive battle with Wellington at the Battle of Quatre Bras.[123] These events compelled the Anglo-Allied army to retreat to a ridge on the Brussels road, just south of the small town of Waterloo. On 17 June, a torrential rain soaked in, hampering movement.[124] The next day, on 18 June, the Battle of Waterloo was fought. This was the first time Wellington had encountered Napoleon, and he commanded an Anglo-Dutch-German army that consisted of approximately 73,000 troops, 26,000 (36 percent) of whom were British.[125]
The Battle of Waterloo commenced with a diversionary attack on Hougoumont by a division of French soldiers. After a barrage of 80 cannons the first French infantry attack was commenced by Comte D'Erlon's I Corps. D'Erlon's troops advanced through the Allied centre, resulting in Allied troops in front of the ridge, retreating in disorder through the main position. D'Erlon's corps failed to storm La Haye Sainte however, which was the most fortified Allied position. An Allied division under Thomas Picton met the remainder of D'Erlon's corps head to head, engaging them in an infantry duel in which Picton fell. It was during this struggle that Lord Uxbridge launched two of his cavalry brigades on the enemy; catching the French infantry off guard and preceded to drive them to the bottom of the slope with the loss of two French Imperial Eagles. The charge, however, over-reached itself, and the British cavalry, crushed by fresh French horsemen hurled on them by Napoleon, were driven suffering tremendous losses.[126]
A little before 16:00, Marshal Ney noted an apparent exodus from Wellington's centre. He mistook the movement of casualties to the rear for the beginnings of a retreat, and sought to exploit it. Ney at this time had few infantry reserves left, as most of the infantry been committed either to the futile Hougoumont attack or to the defence of the French right. Ney therefore tried to break Wellington's centre with a cavalry charge alone.[127]
At about 16:30 the first Prussian corps arrived. Commanded by Freiherr von Bülow, IV Corps arrived as the French cavalry attack was in full spate. Bülow sent the 15th Brigade to link up with Wellington's left flank in the Frichermont-La Haie area while the brigade's horse artillery battery and additional brigade artillery deployed to its left in support.[129] Napoleon sent Lobau's corps to intercept the rest of Bülow's IV Corps proceeding to Plancenoit. The 15th Brigade sent Lobau's corps into retreat to the Plancenoit area. Von Hiller's 16th Brigade also pushed forward with six battalions against Plancenoit. Napoleon had dispatched all eight battalions of the Young Guard to reinforce Lobau, who was now seriously pressed by the enemy. Napoleon's Young Guard counter-attacked and, after very hard fighting, secured Plancenoit, but were themselves counter-attacked and driven out.[130] Napoleon then resorted to sending two battalions of the Middle/Old Guard into Plancenoit and after ferocious fighting they recaptured the village.[130]
The French cavalry attacked the British squares many times, each at heavy cost to the French but with few British casualties. Ney himself was displaced from his horse four times.[131] Eventually it became obvious, even to Ney, that cavalry alone were achieving little. Belatedly, he organised a combined-arms attack, using Bachelu's division and Tissot's regiment of Foy's division from Reille's II Corps plus those French cavalry that remained in a fit state to fight. This assault was directed along much the same route as the previous heavy cavalry attacks.[132]
Meanwhile at approximately the same time as Ney's combined-arms assault on the centre-right of Wellington's line, Napoleon ordered Ney to capture La Haye Sainte at whatever the cost. Ney accomplished this with what was left of D'Erlon's corps soon after 18:00. Ney then moved horse artillery up towards Wellington's centre and began to destroy the infantry squares at short-range with canister.[127] This all but destroyed the 27th (Inniskilling) Regiment, and the 30th and 73rd Regiments suffered such heavy losses that they had to combine to form a viable square. Wellington's centre was now on the verge of collapse and wide open to an attack from the French, luckily for Wellington, Pirch I's and Zieten's corps of the Prussian Army were now at hand. Zieten's corps permitted the two fresh cavalry brigades of Vivian and Vandeleur on Wellington's extreme left to be moved and posted behind the depleted centre. Pirch I then preceded to support Billow, together they regained possession of Plancenoit, and once more the Charleroi road was swept by Prussian round shot. The value of this reinforcement at this particular moment can hardly be overestimated.[126]
The French army now fiercely attacked the Coalition all along the line with the culminating point being reached when Napoleon sent forward the Imperial Guard at 19:30. It was mounted by five battalions of the Middle Guard, and not by the Grenadiers or Chasseurs of the Old Guard. Marching through a hail of canister and skirmisher fire and severely outnumbered, the 3,000 or so Middle Guardsmen advanced to the west of La Haye Sainte and preceded to separate into three distinct attack forces. One, consisting of two battalions of Grenadiers, defeated the Coalition's first line and marched on. Chassé's relatively fresh Dutch division was sent against them and Allied artillery fired into the victorious Grenadiers' flank. This still could not stop the Guard's advance, so Chassé ordered his first brigade to charge the outnumbered French, who faltered and broke.[133]
British 10th Hussars of Vivian's Brigade (red shakos - blue uniforms) attacking mixed French troops, including a square of Guard grenadiers (left, middle distance) in the final stages of the battle.
Further to the west, 1,500 British Foot Guards under Maitland were lying down to protect themselves from the French artillery. As two battalions of Chasseurs approached, the second prong of the Imperial Guard's attack, Maitland's guardsmen rose and devastated them with point-blank volleys. The Chasseurs deployed to counterattack, but began to waver. A bayonet charge by the Foot Guards then broke them. The third prong, a fresh Chasseur battalion, now came up in support. The British guardsmen retreated with these Chasseurs in pursuit, but the latter were halted as the 52nd Light Infantry wheeled in line onto their flank and poured a devastating fire into them and then charged.[133][134] Under this onslaught they too broke.[134]
The last of the Guard retreated headlong. A ripple of panic passed through the French lines as the astounding news spread: "La Garde recule. Sauve qui peut!" ("The Guard retreats. Save yourself if you can!"). Wellington then stood up in Copenhagen's stirrups, and waved his hat in the air to signal an advance of the Allied line just as the Prussians were overrunning the French positions to the east. What remained of the French army then abandoned the field in disorder. Wellington and Blücher met at the inn of La Belle Alliance, on the north-south road which bisected the battlefield, and it was agreed that the Prussians should pursue the retreating French army back to France.[133] The Treaty of Paris was signed on 20 November 1815.[135]
Much historical discussion has been made about Napoleon's decision to send 33,000 troops under Marshal Grouchy to intercept the Prussians, but—having defeated Blücher at Ligny on 16 June and forced the Allies to retreat in divergent directions—Napoleon may have been strategically astute in a judgement that he would have been unable to beat the combined Allied forces on one battlefield. Wellington's comparable strategic gamble was to leave 17,000 troops and artillery, mostly Dutch and Belgian, 8.1 mi (13.0 km) away at Halle, north-west of Mont-Saint-Jean, in case of a French advance up the Mons-Hal-Brussels road.[136]
Wellington entered politics again, when he was appointed Master-General of the Ordnance in the Tory government of Lord Liverpool on 26 December 1818.[137] He also became Governor of Plymouth on 9 October 1819.[138] He was appointed Commander-in-Chief of the British Army on 22 January 1827[139][140] and Constable of the Tower of London on 5 February 1827.[141]
Along with Robert Peel, Wellington became an increasingly influential member of the Tory party, and in 1828 he resigned as Commander-in-Chief and became Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.[142]
During his first seven months as prime minister he chose not to live in the official residence at 10 Downing Street, finding it too small. He moved in only because his own home, Apsley House, required extensive renovations. During this time he was largely instrumental in the foundation of King's College London. On 20 January 1829 Wellington was appointed Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports.[143] As prime minister, Wellington was conservative, fearing the anarchy of the French Revolution would spread to England.
The highlight of his term was Catholic Emancipation; the granting of almost full civil rights to Catholics in the United Kingdom. The change was forced by the landslide by-election win of Daniel O'Connell, an Irish Catholic proponent of emancipation, who was elected despite not being legally allowed to sit in Parliament. The Earl of Winchilsea accused the Duke of, "an insidious design for the infringement of our liberties and the introduction of Popery into every department of the State".[144] Wellington responded by immediately challenging Winchilsea to a duel. On 21 March 1829, Wellington and Winchilsea met on Battersea fields. When it came time to fire, the Duke took aim and Winchilsea kept his arm down. The Duke fired wide to the right. Accounts differ as to whether he missed on purpose; Wellington, noted for his poor aim, claimed he did, other reports more sympathetic to Winchilsea claimed he had aimed to kill. Winchilsea did not fire, a plan he and his second almost certainly decided upon before the duel.[145] Honour was saved and Winchilsea wrote Wellington an apology.[144]
In the House of Lords, facing stiff opposition, Wellington spoke for Catholic Emancipation, giving one of the best speeches of his career.[146] He was Irish, and later governed the country, so had some understanding of the grievances of the Catholic communities there. The Catholic Relief Act 1829 was passed with a majority of 105. Many Tories voted against the Act, and it passed only with the help of the Whigs.[147] Wellington had threatened to resign as Prime Minister if the King (George IV) did not give his Royal Assent.[148]
The nickname "Iron Duke" originates from this period, when he experienced a high degree of personal and political unpopularity. Its repeated use in Freeman's Journal throughout June 1830 appears to bear reference to his resolute political will, with taints of disapproval from its Irish editors.[149][150][151] His residence at Apsley House was targeted by a mob of demonstrators on 27 April 1831 and again on 12 October, leaving his windows smashed.[152] Iron shutters were installed in June 1832 to prevent further damage by crowds angry over rejection of the Reform Bill, which he strongly opposed.[153]
Wellington's government fell in 1830. In the summer and autumn of that year, a wave of riots swept the country.[154] The Whigs had been out of power for most years since the 1770s, and saw political reform in response to the unrest as the key to their return. Wellington stuck to the Tory policy of no reform and no expansion of suffrage, and as a result lost a vote of no confidence on 15 November 1830.[155]
The Whigs introduced the first Reform Bill whilst Wellington and the Tories worked to prevent its passage. The bill passed in the British House of Commons, but was defeated in the House of Lords. An election followed in direct response, and the Whigs were returned with an even larger majority. A second Reform Act was introduced, and defeated in the same way, and another wave of near insurrection swept the country. During this time, Wellington was greeted by a hostile reaction from the crowds at the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway. The Whig Government fell in 1832 and Wellington was unable to form a Tory Government partly because of a run on the Bank of England. This left King William IV no choice but to restore Earl Grey to the premiership. Eventually the bill passed the House of Lords after the King threatened to fill that House with newly created Whig peers if it were not. Wellington was never reconciled to the change; when Parliament first met after the first election under the widened franchise, Wellington is reported to have said "I never saw so many shocking bad hats in my life".[156]
During debate on the Jewish Civil Disabilities Repeal Bill, Wellington, who opposed the Bill, stated in Parliament on 1 August 1833: "... this is a Christian country and a Christian legislature, and that the effect of this measure would be to remove that peculiar character." And "I see no ground whatever for passing the Bill; and shall, therefore, vote against it." The Bill was defeated, 104 votes against, and 54 for.[157]
Wellington was gradually superseded as leader of the Tories by Robert Peel, whilst the party evolved into the Conservatives. When the Tories were returned to power in 1834, Wellington declined to become Prime Minister and Peel was selected instead.[158] However, Peel was in Italy at that time and for three weeks in November and December 1834, Wellington acted as interim leader, taking the responsibilities of Prime Minister and most of the other ministries.[158] In Peel's first cabinet (1834–1835), Wellington became Foreign Secretary, while in the second (1841–1846) he was a Minister without Portfolio and Leader of the House of Lords.[159] Wellington was also re-appointed Commander-in-Chief of the British Army on 15 August 1842 following the resignation of Lord Hill.[160]
Wellington retired from political life in 1846, although he remained Commander-in-Chief, and returned briefly to the spotlight in 1848 when he helped organise a military force to protect London during that year of European revolution.[161]
The Conservative Party had split over the Repeal of the Corn Laws in 1846, with Wellington and most of the former Cabinet still supporting Robert Peel, but most of the MPs led by Lord Derby supporting a protectionist stance. Early in 1852 Wellington, by then very deaf, gave Derby's first government its nickname by shouting "Who? Who?" as the list of inexperienced Cabinet Ministers was read out in the House of Lords.[162]
He became Chief Ranger and Keeper of Hyde Park and St. James's Park on 31 August 1850.[163] He was also colonel of the 33rd Regiment of Foot from 1 February 1806[164] and colonel of the Grenadier Guards from 22 January 1827.[165]
Wellington died on 14 September 1852, aged 83, of the after effects of a stroke culminating in a series of epileptic seizures.[166][167]
Although in life he hated travelling by rail (after witnessing the death of William Huskisson, one of the first railway accident casualties), his body was then taken by train to London, where he was given a state funeral—one of only a handful of British subjects to be honoured in that way (other examples are Lord Nelson and Winston Churchill)—and the last heraldic state funeral to be held in Britain. The funeral took place on 18 November 1852.[168][169] At his funeral there was hardly any space to stand because of the number of people attending, and the effusive praise given him in Tennyson's "Ode on the Death of the Duke of Wellington" attests to his stature at the time of his death. He was buried in a sarcophagus of luxulyanite in St Paul's Cathedral next to Lord Nelson.[170]
Wellington's casket was decorated with banners which were made for his funeral procession. Originally, there was one for Prussia, which was removed during World War I and never reinstated.[171]
Most of the book 'A Biographical Sketch of the Military and Political Career of the Late Duke of Wellington' by Weymouth newspaper proprietor Joseph Drew is a detailed contemporary account of his death, lying in state and funeral.[172]
After his death Irish and English newspapers disputed whether Wellington had been born an Irishman or Englishman.[173] During his life he had openly disliked being referred to as an "Irishman".[174]
Owing to its links with Wellington, as the former commanding officer and colonel of the regiment, the title "33rd (The Duke of Wellington's) Regiment" was granted to the 33rd Regiment of Foot, on 18 June 1853 (the 38th Anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo) by Queen Victoria.[175]
Wellington always rose early, he "couldn't bear to lie awake in bed" once awake, even if the army was not on the march.[176] Even when he returned to civilian life after 1815, he slept in a camp bed, reflecting his lack of regard for creature comforts—it remains on display in Walmer Castle.[177] General Miguel de Álava complained that Wellington said so often that the army would march "at daybreak" and dine on "cold meat", that he began to dread those two phrases.[178] While on campaign, he seldom ate anything between breakfast and dinner. During the retreat to Portugal in 1811, he subsisted, to the despair of his staff who dined with him, on "cold meat and bread".[179] He was, however, renowned for the quality of the wine he drank and served, often drinking a bottle with his dinner—not a great quantity by the standards of his day.[180]
He rarely showed emotion in public, and often appeared condescending to those less competent or less well-born than himself (which was nearly everyone). However, Álava was a witness to an incident just before the Battle of Salamanca. Wellington was eating a chicken leg while observing the manoeuvres of the French army though a spyglass. He spotted an overextension in the French left flank, and realised he could launch a successful attack there. He threw the drumstick in the air and shouted "Les français sont perdus!" ("The French are lost!").[181] Another time, after the Battle of Toulouse, when an aide brought him the news of Napoleon's abdication, he broke into an impromptu flamenco dance, spinning around on his heels and clicking his fingers.[182]
Despite his famous stern countenance and iron-handed discipline (he was said to disapprove of soldiers cheering as "too nearly an expression of opinion"),[183] Wellesley cared for his men; he refused to pursue the French after the battles of Porto and Salamanca, because of the inevitable cost to his army in pursuing a broken enemy through rough terrain. The only time he ever showed grief in public was after the storming of Badajoz; he cried at the sight of the British dead in the breaches.[101] In this context, his famous dispatch after the Battle of Vitoria calling them the "scum of the earth" can be seen to be fuelled as much by disappointment at their breaking ranks as by anger. He expressed his grief openly the night after Waterloo before his personal physician, and later with his family; unwilling to be congratulated for his victory he broke down in tears, his fighting spirit diminished by the high cost of the battle and great personal loss.[184]
Viva Montgomerie, niece to the third Duke of Wellington, relates an anecdote that Holman, valet to the duke, often recalled how his master never spoke to servants unless he was obliged to, preferring instead to write his orders on a note pad on his dressing-table. Holman, incidentally, was said to greatly resemble Napoleon.[185]
In 1822 he had had an operation to improve the hearing of the left ear. The result, however, was that he became permanently deaf on that side. It is claimed that he was "...never quite well afterwards".[167]
In 1824 Wellington received a letter from a publisher offering to refrain from issuing an edition of the rather racy memoirs of one of his mistresses, Harriette Wilson, in exchange for financial consideration. It is said that the Duke promptly returned the missive, after scrawling across it, "Publish and be damned".[186] However, Hibbert notes in his biography that the letter can be found amongst the Duke's papers, with nothing written on it.[187]
He was also a remarkably practical man, who spoke concisely. In 1851, when it was discovered that there were a great many sparrows flying about in the Crystal Palace just before the Great Exhibition was to open, his advice to Queen Victoria was "Sparrowhawks, ma'am".[188]
Wellington has often been portrayed as a defensive general, even though many, perhaps most, of his battles were offensive (Argaum, Assaye, Oporto, Salamanca, Vitoria, Toulouse). But for most of the Peninsular War, where he earned his fame, his troops lacked the numbers for an attack.[189]
In September 1805, the then Major-General Wellesley, newly returned from his campaigns in India and not yet particularly well-known to the public, reported to the office of the Secretary for War to request a new assignment. In the waiting room, he met Vice-Admiral Horatio Nelson, already a legendary figure after his victories at the Nile and Copenhagen, and who was briefly in England after months chasing the French Toulon fleet to the West Indies and back. Some 30 years later, Wellington recalled a conversation that Nelson began with him which Wellesley found "almost all on his side in a style so vain and silly as to surprise and almost disgust me".[190] Nelson left the room to inquire who the young general was and on his return switched to a very different tone, discussing the war, the state of the colonies and the geopolitical situation as between equals.[191] On this second discussion Wellington recalled, "I don't know that I ever had a conversation that interested me more".[192] This was the only time that the two men met; Nelson was killed at his great victory at Trafalgar just seven weeks later.[190]
The earliest mention of the "Welles-lieghs" dates from 1180, around a settlement still known as Wellesley Farm. The family had been granted lands to the south of Wells, Somerset for their 'Passive acceptance of the Norman conquest of England of 1066.[193] An early member of the family relocated to Ireland during 1171, in the role of a Standard Bearer to King Henry II.[194] The surname "Wesley" was adopted from a childless wealthy cousin, Garret Wesley. In 1728, Wellington's paternal grandfather Richard Colley, a landlord who lived at Rahin near Carbury, County Kildare, changed his surname to Wesley.[195]
The Colley or Cowley family had lived in that part of Kildare since the time of Wellington's ancestor, Sir Henry Colley or Cowley, who died before 2 October 1584.[196] Sir Henry in his lifetime possessed Carbury Castle, in north-west Kildare, starting with a 21-year lease in 1554.[197][198]
Colley is a surname of English origin.[199] However, Colley or Cowley is also an Anglicised form of Mac Amhalghaidh, a family who were lords of Cálraighe in Chalaid in what is now County Westmeath.[200] This family were claimed descent from the 5th-century Irish king, Niall of the Nine Hostages, and had the following genealogy ("m" indicates "son of"):
Amlaibh m Amlaibh m Muircertaigh m Aedha Finn m Maghnusa m Muircertaigh m Domnaill m Floinn m Aedha m Amhlaibh m Fergail m Con Coiccriche m Forannain m Suibhne m Domnaill m Ruairc m Cathusaigh m Aedha m Cuinn m Maoil Fhothaid m Criomthainn m Brenainn m Briain m Maine m Nell Noigiallaigh.[201]
Wellington received numerous awards and honours during and after his lifetime, including statues and monuments raised in his honour. He held a wide range of titles, and had various buildings and places named after him around the world which still stand today.
This commonly used nickname originally related to his consistent political resolve rather than to any particular incident. In various cases its editorial use appears to be disparaging.[149][150][151][202] It is likely that its use became more widespread after an incident in 1832 in which he installed metal shutters to prevent rioters breaking windows at Apsley House.[153][203] The term may have been made increasingly popular by Punch cartoons published in 1844–45.[204][205]
Officers under his command called him "The Beau", as he was a fine dresser,[206] or "The Peer" after he was made a Viscount.
Spanish troops called him "The Eagle", whilst Portuguese troops called him "Douro Douro" after his river crossing at Oporto in 1809.[207]
"Beau Douro"; Wellington found this amusing when hearing it used by a Colonel of the Coldstream Guards.[206]
"Sepoy General"; Napoleon used this term as an insult to Wellington's military service in India, publicly considering him an unworthy opponent.[208] The name was used in the French newspaper Le Moniteur Universel, as a means of propaganda.[209]
"The Beef"; It is a theory that the Beef Wellington dish is a reference to Wellington, although some chefs dispute this.[210]
His name was given to Wellington boots, after the custom-made boots he wore instead of traditional Hessian boots.[211]
Adkin, Mark (2001). The Waterloo Companion: The Complete Guide to History's Most Famous Land Battle. Aurum Press. ISBN 978-1-85410-764-0.
Barbero, Alessandro (2005). The Battle: A New History Of Waterloo. Walker & Company. ISBN 978-0802714534.
Bowring, Lewin B. (1974 edition [First published 1893]). Haidar Ali and Tipu Sultan, And The Struggle With The Musalman Powers Of The South. Delli: Idarah-I Adabiyat-I. ISBN 978-81-206-1299-0. http://www.greatest-battles.webs.com/MysoreWars/MysoreWars.htm.
Chesney, Charles C. (1907). Waterloo Lectures: A Study Of The Campaign Of 1815. Longmans, Green, and Co.. ISBN 1-4286-4988-3.
Corrigan, Gordon (2006 [First published 2001]). Wellington: A Military Life. London: Hambledon Continuum. ISBN 978-1-85285-515-4.
Gates, David (2002 [First published 1986]). The Spanish Ulcer: A History of the Peninsular War. Pimlico. ISBN 978-0-7126-9730-9.
Gere, J.A. (1981). Sparrow, John. ed. Geoffrey Madan's Notebooks. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-215870-3.
Gifford, C.A. (1817 [First published 1974]). The Life of the Most Noble Arthur, Duke of Wellington. London: W.Lewis.
Glover, Michael (2001). The Peninsular War 1807–1814: A Concise Military History. London: Penguin Books.. ISBN 978-0-14-139041-3.
Griffiths, Major Arthur (1897). The Wellington Memorial: Wellington, His Comrades and Contemporaries, chapters IV and 211. Ballantyne, Hanson & Co. http://www.archive.org/stream/wellingtonmemor00grifgoog/wellingtonmemor00grifgoog_djvu.txt.
Guedalla, Phillip (1997 [First published 1931]). The Duke. Wordsworth Editions. ISBN 978-1-85326-679-9.
Haythornthwaite, Philip J (1998). Weapons & Equipment of the Napoleonic Wars. London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson. ISBN 978-1-85409-495-7.
Hofschröer, Peter (1999). 1815: The Waterloo Campaign: The German Victory. Greenhill Books. ISBN 978-1-85367-368-9.
Holmes, Professor Richard (2002). Wellington: The Iron Duke. London: Harper Collins Publishers. ISBN 978-0-00-713750-3.
Lambert, Andrew (2005). Nelson: Britannia's God of War. London: Faber and Faber. ISBN 978-0-571-21227-9.
Longford, Elizabeth (1971 [First published 1969]). Wellington: The Years of The Sword. HarperCollins Publishers. ISBN 978-0-586-03548-1.
Longford, Elizabeth (2012 [First published 1992]). Wellington. London: Weidenfeld & Nicholson. ISBN 978-0-349-12350-9.
Morgan, Matthew (2004). Wellington's Victories: A Guide to Sharpe's Army. London: Andrews McMeel Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84317-093-8.
Neillands, Robin (2003). Wellington & Napoleon: Clash of Arms. Pen & Sword Books. ISBN 978-0-85052-926-5.
Parry, D.H. (1900). Battle of the nineteenth century. 1. London: Cassell and Company. http://gaslight.mtroyal.ab.ca/waterloo.htm.
Roberts, Andrew (2003 [First published 2001]). Napoleon and Wellington: The Long Duel. Phoenix. ISBN 978-0-7538-1390-4.
Rothenberg, Gunther E. (1999). Keegan, John. ed. The Napoleonic Wars. London: Cassell & Co. ISBN 978-0-304-35267-8.
Severn, John (2007). Architects of Empire: The Duke of Wellington and His Brothers. University of Oklahoma Press. ISBN 978-0-8061-3810-7.
Siborne, William (1990 [First published 1844]). The Waterloo Campaign. London: Greenhill Books. ISBN 1-85367-069-3.
Sinnema, Prof. Peter W. (2006). The Wake of Wellington: Englishness in 1852. Ohio University Press. ISBN 978-0-8214-1679-2.
Summerville, Christopher J (2007). Who was who at Waterloo: a biography of the battle. Pearson Education. ISBN 978-0-582-78405-5.
Wellesley, Jane (2008). Wellington: A Journey Through My Family. London: Orion Publishing Group. ISBN 978-0-297-85231-5.
Beatson, Alexander (1800). A collection of the Duke’s letters. A View of the Origin and Conduct of the War with Tippoo Sultaun. Bulmer and Co.
Coates, Berwick (2003). Wellington's Charge: A Portrait of the Duke's England. London: Robson Books. ISBN 978-1-86105-653-5.
Davies, Huw (2012). Wellington's War: The Making of a Military Genius. Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0300164176.
Drew, Joseph (1852). A Biographical Sketch of the Military and Political Career of the late Duke of Wellington: including the most interesting particulars of his death, Lying in State and Public Funeral, illus. with engravings. Weymouth.
Ellis, Peter Berresford (2000 [First published 1985]). The Celtic Revolution: A Study in Anti-Imperialism. Talybont, Wales: Y LotraCyf. ISBN 978-0-86243-096-2.
Harrington, Jack (2011). Sir John Malcolm and the Creation of British India. New York: Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 978-0-230-10885-1.
Hilbert, Charles (2005). Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington, time and conflicts in India on behalf of the British East India Company and the British crown. 7. Military Heritage.
Mill, James; Horace Hayman Wilson (1997 [First published 1818]). The History of British India. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-15382-9.
Ward, S.G.P. (1957). Wellington's Headquarters: A Study of the Administrative Problems in the Peninsula 1809–1814. Oxford University Press.
Wellesley, Arthur; Gurwood, John (1838). The dispatches of Field Marshal the Duke of Wellington: During his various campaigns in India, Denmark, Portugal, Spain, the Low Countries, and France, from 1799 to 1818 Vol. X.. London: John Murray. http://www.archive.org/details/dispatchesoffiel10welluoft.
napoleonistyka.atspace.com. "Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington". Napoleon, His Army and Enemies. http://napoleonistyka.atspace.com/wellington_strategy_tactics_battles.htm.
Archival material relating to Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington listed at the UK National Archives
This entry is from Wikipedia, the leading user-contributed encyclopedia. It may not have been reviewed by professional editors (see full disclaimer)
Britannica Concise Encyclopedia. © 1994-2014 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. All rights reserved.					Read more
The Oxford Companion to Military History. Copyright © 2001, 2004 by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved.
A Dictionary of British History. Copyright © 2001, 2004 by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved.
The Concise Oxford Companion to Irish Literature. Copyright © 1996, 2000, 2003 by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved.
The Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia, Sixth Edition Copyright © 2014, Columbia University Press. Licensed from Columbia University Press. All rights reserved. www.cc.columbia.edu/cu/cup/.
The New Dictionary of Cultural Literacy, Third Edition Edited by E.D. Hirsch, Jr., Joseph F. Kett, and
	James Trefil. Copyright © 2002 by Houghton Mifflin Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin. All rights reserved.
	This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License. It uses material from the Wikipedia article Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington. 
