=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Natalie Portman was born Natalie Hershlag on June 9, 1981, in Jerusalem, Israel, to a Jewish family. She is the only child of a doctor father (from Israel) and an artist mother (from Cincinnati, Ohio), who also acts as Natalie's agent. She left Israel for Washington, D.C., when she was still very young. After a few more moves, her family finally settled in New York, where she still lives to this day. She graduated with honors, and her academic achievements allowed her to attend Harvard University. She was discovered by an agent in a pizza parlor at the age of 11. She was pushed towards a career in modeling but she decided that she would rather pursue a career in acting. She was featured in many live performances, but she made her powerful film debut in the movie Léon (1994) (aka "Léon"). Following this role Natalie won roles in such films as Heat (1995), Beautiful Girls (1996), and Mars Attacks! (1996).It was not until 1999 that Natalie received worldwide fame as Queen Amidala in the highly anticipated US$431 million-grossing prequel Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999). She then she starred in two critically acclaimed comedy dramas, Anywhere But Here (1999) and Where the Heart Is (2000), followed by Closer (2004), for which she received an Oscar nomination. She reprised her role as Padme Amidala in the last two episodes of the Star Wars prequel trilogy: Star Wars: Episode II - Attack of the Clones (2002) and Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith (2005). She received an Academy Award and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in Black Swan (2010).
      Turned down a role in The Horse Whisperer (1998) to act in "The Diary of Anne Frank" on Broadway.
      Stated in a TV interview that with the exception of the Star Wars prequels, she will not act for the next four years in order to concentrate on studying at Harvard University.
      Can speak two languages, Hebrew and English (her native languages), fluently. Also knows some conversational French, German, Japanese and Spanish.
      Originally turned down the role of Ann August in the film Anywhere But Here (1999) because of the love scene between herself and Corbin Allred that required nudity. Susan Sarandon, who had co-star approval, said she couldn't continue the movie without Portman, so the script was re-written without the scene and she accepted the role.
      Was a member of the environmental song and dance troupe The World Patrol Kids under her real name, Natalie Hershlag.
      She went to Stagedoor Manor Performing Arts Camp in 1994 and 1995 where she was Anne in "Anne of Green Gables" in 1994 and "Tapestry" in 1995.
      She was discovered in a pizza parlor and was originally turned down for the role of Mathilda in Léon (1994) because she was too young.
      Turned down the title role in Adrian Lyne's Lolita (1997), due to her feelings about young adult actors/actresses being exposed to sex in films.
      Before she was cast in Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999), she had never seen the original Star Wars trilogy. She admitted to James Lipton on "Inside the Actor's Studio" in 2004 that before being cast she didn't know the difference between Star Wars and Star Trek.
      Turned down the role of Wendy Hood in The Ice Storm (1997) because she felt the material was "too dark". The role went to Christina Ricci, who has said she often gets the projects Natalie turns down.
      Has said in interviews that when she gets older, she would like to be a doctor like her father.
      Was reportedly caught using a fake ID trying to sneak into Boston club called the Roxy. The performer Moby insisted that she was invited by him and refused to perform unless she was admitted. She was admitted, and security watched her as she stood in the back, watched the show, and didn't drink. She later stated in an online interview that the story about sneaking into the Roxy club in Boston was not true and that she and her friends went home after they were denied entrance.
      Takes pride in the fact that she is a role model for girls and choses roles that are positive so that they will have a positive role model to look up to.
      Became interested in acting after spending three summers at the prestigious (and expensive) Stagedoor Manor Performing Arts Camp.
      Is very close to her parents and says, "The best part about being friends with your parents is that no matter what you do, they always love you."
      Graduated from Harvard College in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 2003 with a Artium Baccalaureus degree in Psychology.
      Has a passion for travel. In late 2003 and early 2004, she traveled alone to Morocco and Guatemala.
      She has worked with or appeared with several of her co-stars twice: Ashley Judd in Heat (1995) and Where the Heart Is (2000); Lukas Haas in Mars Attacks! (1996) and Everyone Says I Love You (1996); Julia Roberts in Everyone Says I Love You (1996) and Closer (2004); Philip Seymour Hoffman in the play "The Seagull" and Cold Mountain (2003); John Carroll Lynch in Beautiful Girls (1996) and Anywhere But Here (1999); Stellan Skarsgård in Goya's Ghosts (2006) and Thor (2011); Olivia Thirlby in New York, I Love You (2008) and No Strings Attached (2011). She has also worked with director Mike Nichols on two occasions: for the play "The Seagull" and Closer (2004). She has also appeared alongside Jude Law three times in Cold Mountain (2003), Closer (2004) and My Blueberry Nights (2007), and with Hayden Christensen three times in the Star Wars prequels and New York, I Love You (2008).
      As a young girl, she was an understudy for the lead character in the off-Broadway show "Ruthless", alongside Britney Spears. They still keep in touch, and recently threw a party together in New York City.
      Both she and Sofia Coppola have played the daughter of a character played by Al Pacino, and also both appeared in a film featuring Pacino and Robert De Niro. Sofia Coppola was in all three Godfather films (though she had only an uncredited part in the second), and Portman was in Heat (1995). Portman and Coppola appeared together in Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999).
      Her comedic influences are Lily Tomlin and Diane Keaton. She said in an interview, "I love Lily Tomlin and I love Diane Keaton. They're sort of my heroes. Diane Keaton can do anything. She's just the best there is."
      She spoofed her role in Star Wars before becoming involved in the series. In Mars Attacks! (1996), she gives a medal to Lukas Haas in a scene resembling the award ceremony at the end of Star Wars (1977). The medals were given out by Princess Leia, the daughter of Portman's future character, Queen Amidala. In addition, the recipients of those medals, Haas and Harrison Ford, appeared together in Witness (1985).
      Has a CD named after her by Chicago-based DJ Intel One. The CD was done for charity, given away, and titled "Love: A Tribute to Natalie Portman". It featured songs by Shelley Duvall, Common, The Roots and others.
      She has worked with two Draculas as well as two Frankenstein monsters. In Léon (1994), she worked with Gary Oldman, who played Dracula for Francis Ford Coppola. In Heat (1995), she appeared with Robert De Niro, who played The Creature for Kenneth Branagh. In Star Wars, she works with Christopher Lee, who played both roles for Hammer Film Productions.
      Had to miss the premiere of Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999) so she could study for her high school final exams.
      Bears a striking resemblance to Keira Knightley. Knightley played Sabé, the Queen's decoy, in Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999). When in makeup, not even the mothers of the actresses could tell them apart.
      She hesitantly shot an explicit nude scene for Closer (2004), in the scene where Alice (Portman) strips for Larry (Clive Owen). Ultimately, Portman and director Mike Nichols agreed not to use it, as the scene was effective enough without it.
      Worked with a vocal coach to learn how to speak with an English accent for V for Vendetta (2005).
      Says her performances in Everyone Says I Love You (1996) is her worst. Her failure, she believes, is her inability to improvise.
      Several months after shaving her head, she was traveling through Ireland and stopped for directions at a bed and breakfast. The owners refused to allow her even onto their porch. However, they did give her directions.
      A radio station once had a contest to find out where she went to school; Backstreet Boys tickets were the prizes.
      Natalie is entirely of Ashkenazi Jewish descent. Natalie's father was born in Israel and Natalie's mother was born in the United States. Natalie's paternal grandparents, Zvi Yehuda Hershlag and Mania Portman, were from Poland and Romania, respectively. Natalie's maternal grandfather, Arthur Edelstein, was born in New York, to a family of immigrants from Austria and Russia, while Natalie's maternal grandmother, Bernice Hurwitz, was born in Maryland, the granddaughter of immigrants from Lithuania/Russia.
      In 1999, magazines reported that Portman started a new trend - wearing logo T-shirts - when they snapped photos of her at her 18th birthday wearing a snug Nesquik shirt. (However, logo T-shirts had already been popular since at least the 1970s) She had borrowed the shirt from her best friend's eight-year-old brother; he was appalled.
      In 2005, she spent a few months in Madrid partying with Javier Bardem and friends. She was mostly unrecognizable to fans because of her Mohawk.
      Once during an interview, she offered a metaphor for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict from the David Hare play "Via Dolorosa". It's about a man who jumps out of a burning building and lands on a passerby, breaking the passerby's leg. The passerby says, "You broke my leg", and the man breaks his other leg to shut him up.
      Said that it was while working on The Seagull (2002) that she became aware that acting is much more about the process than the product. Most helpful was when she would peek over Philip Seymour Hoffman's shoulder at the notebook he kept, in which he wrote questions and then answers about his character's feelings.
      She became the first client of Artists Management Group to land representation at the powerhouse Creative Artists Agency. CAA refused to work with clients of its former founder Michael Ovitz's AMG; as soon as the one-time super-agent sold out his interest in the management firm, CAA went straight after Portman.
      Was surprised and amused to discover that her apartment in the heart of Kings Cross, London, was across the street from a brothel.
      For her 2003 New Year's party, she wore a Zac Posen dress that had more than $10,000 worth of crystals sewn onto it. She also attended Moby's much-hyped secret Naked NYE party.
      As the first day of Cold Mountain (2003) filming fell on Halloween, Portman came to set dressed as Dorothy Gale in "The Wizard of Oz", only to realize she was the only one who had dressed up.
      Her years at Harvard resulted in the phenomenon of The Natalies, in which every underclasswoman with that first name received numerous e-mails and phone messages from fans.
      When she arrived at a London airport to do reshoots for the third Star Wars prequel, a customs official--going by her size--asked Natalie if she was traveling with a guardian.
      Is close friends and well-known customer of Zac Posen, friends with Jeanine Lobell and her husband Anthony Edwards, as well as Jonathan Safran Foer. Portman has also been friends with Isaac Mizrahi since she was 14, and friends with Mike Nichols and his wife Diane Sawyer since she was 15.
      Attended a soccer game in Madrid with Stellan Skarsgård. Afterwards, the team gave her her own jersey.
      While in northern Iraq in 2004, the 1st Battalion 5th Infantry hung a giant poster of her in their command hanger after discovering that most of the men in the unit were big fans.
      Was considered for the role of Jane Austen in Becoming Jane (2007), which went to Anne Hathaway.
      Her father Avner was born on September 12, 1951, and her mother Shelley was born on June 9, 1952.
      Has a slight indentation on her head that was visible during the time she her head shaved. The indentation was the result of being delivered by vacuum extraction.
      Director Milos Forman sought her out for an audition after seeing her on the cover of Vogue. He said that she looked like a Goya painting.
      She currently lives on Long Island, New York, and also shares a home in London, England. She has lived on Long Island, New York since she was a child.
      Listens mostly to R&B, old school hip-hop and 1990s alternative rock. Some of her favorite groups and artists are A Tribe Called Quest, Radiohead, Stevie Wonder, Portishead, Wu-Tang Clan and Nirvana.
      Footage of her and Leonardo DiCaprio as Juliet and Romeo in Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet (1996) was actually shot before executives had her replaced with Claire Danes due to the age difference between Natalie and Leonardo.
      Named #2 on Empire Magazine's 100 Sexiest Movie Stars (2007) and was ranked #2 on Entertainment Weekly's '30 Under 30' the actress list (2008).
      During the royal premiere of Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999), she met Prince Charles. The prince asked her whether she had also been in the original Star Wars (1977), which had been released four years before her birth.
      Was listed as a potential nominee for the 2008 Razzies for Worst Actress, for her performances in Goya's Ghosts (2006) and Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium (2007). She didn't make the final ballot.
      Sold her 2,088-square-foot house in Sea Cliff, New York for $1.750 million. She had purchased it in 2002 for $1.375 million.
      Sold her two-bedroom loft in Manhattan's West Village for $6.55 million. She purchased the property in 2005 for $5.7 million.
      She paid $3.25 million to purchase a four-bedroom, 4,866-sq.-ft. home in Los Angeles's Hollywood Hills area. Previous owners were Dermot Mulroney and Catherine Keener.
      Was in attendance at the wedding of her Your Highness (2011) co-star Zooey Deschanel to Benjamin Gibbard (13 September 2009).
      Was originally cast as Catherine Earnshaw in Wuthering Heights (2011), but was replaced by Gemma Arterton, who was later replaced by Kaya Scodelario, after dropping out of the project.
      Was in consideration for the role of Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow in Iron Man 2 (2010) after Emily Blunt dropped out of the project, but Scarlett Johansson was cast instead.
      Engaged to Black Swan (2010) choreographer Benjamin Millepied, with whom she is expecting their first child [December 28, 2010].
      In New York, she led a viewing of A Powerful Noise (2008), a documentary about women fighting adversity. Actress Sarah Michelle Gellar held another viewing in Los Angeles, California [6 March 2009].
      Was in consideration for the role of Selina Kyle/Catwoman in The Dark Knight Rises (2012), but Anne Hathaway was cast instead.
      Is one of 9 actresses to have won the Academy Award, BAFTA Award, Critics' Choice Award, Golden Globe Award and SAG Award for the same performance. The others in chronological order are Julia Roberts for Erin Brockovich (2000), Renée Zellweger for Cold Mountain (2003), Reese Witherspoon for Walk the Line (2005), Helen Mirren for The Queen (2006), Jennifer Hudson for Dreamgirls (2006), Kate Winslet for The Reader (2008), Mo'Nique for Precious (2009) and Octavia Spencer for The Help (2011).
      She has said one of the most difficult challenges of filming Black Swan (2010) was her speaking voice. She stated throughout her career, so far, director Mike Nichols has given her consistent criticism on how childish her voice normally sounds and encouraged her to work with vocal coaches to make it sound deeper and more adult. The role of Nina required her to regress backwards to make her voice more child-like. She felt it was taking her back to a point she worked hard to leave behind.
      Was briefly referenced in The Social Network (2010). Portman was approached by writer Aaron Sorkin when writing the screenplay to the film to get insider information on Harvard University at that time because she was a fellow student of Facebook co-founders Mark Zuckerberg and Eduardo Saverin, and also Divya Narendra and Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss.
      In spring 2004, she completed one semester of graduate courses at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in Jerusalem, Israel.
      She entered a project into the Intel Science Talent Search in the late 1990s while at Syosset High School. Her project, titled "A Simple Method to Demonstrate the Enzymatic Production of Hydrogen from Sugar", took her to the semi-finals of the Intel contest. She graduated Valedictorian of Syosset High School in 1999 and went on to study Psychology and Neuroscience at Harvard University, graduating in 2003.
      In 2006, she appeared as a guest lecturer at Columbia University in a political science course titled "Terrorism & Counterterrorism". She led the class in a discussion about politically infused violence referencing her most recent film at the time, V for Vendetta (2005). Her appearance was part of an MTV short-series, "Stand-Ins", where college professors were replaced with a celebrity instructor for one day.
      She often broke down and cried offstage while part of the Broadway adaptation of "The Diary of Anne Frank" in 1997, where she portrayed Anne Frank, because of her personal connections to the events. Her grandparents lost most of their family members in the Holocaust including her paternal great grandparents who were killed at the Auschwitz concentration camp in Poland.
      Did not have a Bat Mitzvah due to her parents being more secular than religious Jews. She attended a Conservative Jewish day school through seventh grade more to preserve her sense of Israel and her Hebrew than a religious motivation.
      In January 2011, she became the new face of Dior in the Miss Dior Cherie ad campaign. On February 27, 2011, a video of top Dior designer, John Galliano, going on an anti-Semitic rant in Paris surfaced online. Portman released a statement condemning Galliano's actions, specifying she was "shocked and disgusted," and as a proud Jewish woman refused to associate herself with him from that point on. Since the Miss Dior Cherie ad campaign was set to officially launch two days after the video surfaced, Dior was forced to take legal action to work out a settlement in order to keep Portman as a spokesperson. Galliano was fired on March 1, 2011 and the ad campaign launched as originally planned.
      Paid for all of her own ballet training to prepare for the role of Nina Sayers in Black Swan (2010).
      One month before filming began for The Other Boleyn Girl (2008), Portman began taking daily classes to master the English accent under dialect coach Jill McCullough.
      Was in consideration for the role of Dr. Ryan Stone in Gravity (2013), which went to Sandra Bullock.
      Is a spokeswoman for FINCA, a financial charity who gives and recycles small loans to women in poverty stricken countries so they can start small businesses. FINCA's president Rupert Scofield has spoken about feeling lucky to have Portman as a celebrity spokeswoman because she is, "extremely intelligent and committed." Portman has traveled to several countries as a FINCA ambassador and worked with many of the women FINCA's donations have helped.
      Was the one who led her Brothers (2009) co-star Bailee Madison to Guillermo del Toro for a role in Don't Be Afraid of the Dark (2010). Portman spoke about her young co-star with Alfonso Cuarón, who is a good friend of Guillermo del Toro, and then recommended Madison for a role. She ultimately was cast as a lead character, Sally Hirst. In July 2011, Guillermo del Toro spoke in an interview about how Bailee Madison was "a miracle" and that they had Portman to thank for it.
      Was one of the first actresses offered the role of Lisbeth Salander in The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo (2011) along with Carey Mulligan and Ellen Page, but Portman declined due to exhaustion. The role ultimately went to Rooney Mara.
      In September 2011, she traveled to Paris, France with fiancé Benjamin Millepied and their son Aleph to celebrate Millepied's retrieval of an award from the French Minister of Culture. Millepied was awarded the "Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres".
      Owns and operates her own film production company, Handsomecharlie Films, with Annette Savitch. As of 2011, every film produced by the company (except for the short film "Eve", which Portman wrote and directed) has featured Natalie in a lead or supporting role. As well as acting in the films produced by Handsomecharlie Films, she is also credited as an executive producer.
      On October 18, 2011, she added a fan-voted Spike TV Scream Award for Best Actress in the film Black Swan (2010) to the collection of other awards she received for the same film and category.
      Participated in a live reading of the 1960 film The Apartment (1960) where she read the part of Fran Kubelik originally portrayed by Shirley MacLaine. The sold out reading directed by Jason Reitman was held on November 17, 2011 at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. Portman read alongside J.K. Simmons, Ken Jeong, Nick Kroll, and her No Strings Attached (2011) co-star Mindy Kaling.
      Was a vegetarian from 1989 until 2009 when after reading the book Eating Animals she opted to become a vegan. However she resumed vegetarianism after falling pregnant with her son Aleph to give him the necessary supplements and also due to her insatiable craving for eggs and cheese. Following her son's birth she resumed veganism once again.
      Served on the jury at the 2011 Gotham Independent Film Awards alongside Nicole Kidman and Jodie Foster.
      Returned to work 10 months after giving birth to her son Aleph in order to begin filming Untitled Terrence Malick Project (2015).
      Gave birth to her first child at age 30, a son Aleph Portman-Millepied on June 14, 2011. Child's father is Benjamin Millepied.
      (August 4, 2012) Married her boyfriend of three years and father of her 13-month-old son Aleph Benjamin Millepied. It was a private ceremony in Big Sur, California.
      When Roman Polanski was arrested in Switzerland in September 2009 and awaiting extradition to the United States for having raped a 13-year-old girl back in 1975, Portman (along with Harrison Ford, Monica Bellucci, Tilda Swinton, Adrien Brody and many others) signed a petition to free him, even though Polanski did admit that he did have sex with the 13-year-old, committing statutory rape.
      Named as one of the "most desirable" famous women for 2013 by Askmen's list of the Top 99 Most Desirable Women.
      She holds the record for second-largest "Best Actress" award sweep (26 wins) for her role as Nina Sayers in Black Swan (2010) (2010), following Helen Mirren (27 wins) for her performance as Queen Elizabeth II in The Queen (2006) (2006).
      Los Angeles, CA, USA: Attended the 83rd annual Academy Awards with fiancé, Benjamin Millepied, and her parents, Avner and Shelley. [February 2011]
      Is one of 6 actresses to have been pregnant at the time of winning the Academy Award; the others are Eva Marie Saint, Patricia Neal, Meryl Streep, Catherine Zeta-Jones and Rachel Weisz. Neal is the only one to have not accepted her award in person as a result of her pregnancy. Portman was 5 months pregnant with her son Aleph when she won the Best Actress Oscar for Black Swan (2010).
      Was the 138th actress to receive an Academy Award; she won the Best Actress Oscar for Black Swan (2010) at The 83rd Annual Academy Awards (2011) on February 27, 2011.
      On Lolita (1997): "I don't think there needs to be a movie out where a child has sex with an adult."
      On Lolita (1997): I think there's enough exploitation out there that it's not necessary to do more.
      Young actors often don't think of the consequences of doing nudity or sex scenes. They want the role so badly that they agree to be exploited, and then end up embarassing family, friends, and even strangers.
      On violence in the media: "We live in a violent world, but since the success of films like Pulp Fiction (1994), it seems every movie has some violence in it, and it's now being used as a form of comedy: audiences are now being encouraged to laugh when people get their heads blown off. I just don't like hearing people laugh at violence."
      On acting: "I'm taking it day by day. Right now I like acting, but if something else sparks my interest in college, I'll do that. It's so limiting to say, this is it for the rest of my life. There are so many things that interest me: I love math, science, literature, languages."
      I'm going to college. I don't care if it ruined my career. I'd rather be smart than a movie star.
      I don't know if acting is what I want to do for the rest of my life, it's just what I've, you know, ended up doing when I was little, and I've kinda grown up with it.
      When I'm working they pretty much treat me like an adult, but then when there's a break everyone else goes to their trailers and drinks beer and I like, go to school.
      There's so much else to do in the world. To just be interested in doing films would limit my life.
      I think school is so much harder than real life. People are so much more accepting when they are adults.
      Cute is when a person's personality shines through their looks. Like in the way they walk, every time you see them you just want to run up and hug them.
      "I've never tried smoking. I don't drink. I've never tried drugs." (Australian Dolly August 2000)
      "Politics is easy to segue into from acting. I'm very interested in it, though I would never run for office. But after this, anything I do is going to seem very bizarre to me." (Interview October 1999)
      "No, but I've been thinking about it a lot. I love acting, but I don't know if there's something out there that I love more. That's what college is going to be about for me - checking things out." (Interview October 1999)
      When asked by Seventeen magazine what advice she had for teenagers going off to college she said, "I would say practicing laundry it's so hard." (November 1999)
      "There is a lot lacking on the intellectual side and on the values side when being an actor." (Seventeen, November 1999)
      Told the November 1999 issue of Mademoiselle magazine that she wished she knew David Letterman because, "He seems to be so smart, but you never get to hang out with him after the show."
      When asked by German Cosmopolitan (3/00) if she would like having herself as a daughter she replied, "Well of course. I am a good person, nice, smart, witty, trustworthy, know nice people, don't do drugs and earn a lot of money." On what she likes about her parents: "They have made it quite clear that they believe I can be great. Had my parents expected less of me,I would not be the person I am now. And I am very happy with myself." (German Cosmopolitan March 2000)
      I'm not planning to be an actress as an adult, I'm planning other things for my future. Source: Venice Magazine July 1995.
      I don't think I'd be able to deal with just acting, because I don't know if you get to use your brain that much. You do, for certain roles, but not most. Acting is more of a hobby for me.
      There's a big intellectual aspect that's kind of lacking, " she says of acting in films. "Right now I supplement that through being in school. I'm not sure I'd be happy if I was just acting. I haven't explored a lot of other avenues. Hopefully I'll figure it out by the end of school, so I know what I want to do with my life.
      When asked about her prom dress: "A designer is going to give me something to wear. It's the most amazing perk I have."
      I didn't have this undying need to be an actress. I didn't have that fire in me ever -- at any point. And still, I don't think I have that within me.
      I don't really know if acting would have ultimately become my passion as an adult, or if there's something else I would have found had I not been in the pizza shop. That's what college is helping me investigate.
      I'm ready to ditch the movies and keep at the books. There are so many other things, and it would feel limiting to say, 'Acting is it for me.'... I love psychology. That's what I'm studying right now. It would probably be difficult, because of my current occupation, to become a clinical psychologist, but I could certainly do research. And I'd like to have a family someday, too.
      It's horrible to be a sex object at any age, but at least when you're an adult you can make the decision if you want to degrade yourself.
      I couldn't be anorexic because I like food too much, and I couldn't be bulimic because I hate throwing up too much.
      "I've wanted to be an astronaut, a doctor, a vet - these are things I've said in interviews. Before that, I wanted to be a mermaid and a fairy".
      "I was in a relationship recently with someone who yelled at me for being too much in my head, you know? He said I was thinking too much about everything".
      "I usually run three or four times a week now. Pretty boring, but it's so worth it. It's done wonders for my mood".
      I basically have a little boy's body. They tell me, 'OK, this is where we're going to push up your cleavage,' and I'm like, 'What cleavage?'
      On traveling through Morocco with a guide and sleeping in tents: "They knew that I am Israeli, and yet they still opened the doors of their houses for me, offering me tea. They all were nice and hospitable."
      As I look back on it, I'm glad that I had this false image. I was who everyone else - my parents, my friends, society - wanted me to be. I was a pleaser, someone who wanted to make everyone happy, to not let anyone down. Now, I'm not like that.
      My contemporaries in Israel have a love for life that's amazing. There, there is not the luxurious and rich existence of material goods of Hollywood films, every day they struggle to survive, but they still have an enthusiasm difficult to find elsewhere.
      My grandfather was a Polish Jew and a socialist, and as a youngster he helped to organize special camps to teach agriculture to all the young men that were moving to Israel, where in 1930, they created the first kibbutz.
      At college I began to do research for a professor and so I became part of the organization promoted by the Queen of Jordon: the Foundation for International Community Assistance. That offers microcredits, offering small loans of money to women who want to start their own businesses. The interest is very low and the results are extraordinary.
      I'm pretty much a boring Goody Two-shoes. I've definitely gotten drunk before, I don't think it's possible to go through college without getting drunk, but I don't really like it at all. I actually tried my first cigarette last year at school. I just figured, if many people are smoking, there must be something to it, and before I pooh- pooh it I should at least know what it's about. I took one puff and I was like, OK, I was right. There's nothing to it. They're just wrong, it's disgusting.
      I've been doing like one movie a year so I haven't made that many movies. A lot of girls my age have done 40 already, so I guess I'm a little behind.
      I wanted to be able to form my own sexual identity. If other people have you in their mind as some sort of sex object, you have two choices: either live up to it and become super-sexual or rebel against it and be super-asexual.
      I'm the anti-Method actor. As soon as we finish a scene, I need to go back to being myself, because it freaks me out. But it was hard not to take this home with me. I would feel cheated on when I went home. There were weekend nights I would lie in bed instead of going out with my friends.
      I had a bad early experience when Léon (1994) (aka The Professional) came out. I'm really proud of the film, but it was strange for me to be looked at as a sexual object when I was 12.
      I think it is a really beautiful thing that we have recognition within our industry - but it's not that important.
      But we have to remember that almost all films are written and directed by men. Female characters are women imagined by men, so it's always this classic figure of a sexy woman with a childish innocence.
      You walk into a nice strip club, the ones where the women are treated well - obviously 'well' is debatable - and the women just seem so powerful. Women have full control; they can get whatever they want from these guys. But they realise it is a tacit contract: they are that way because men want them to be like that. Obviously, if the men wanted them on the floor scrubbing their shoes they'd probably be doing that too.
      I see that my girlfriends, already at 23, are thinking, 'What career can I choose that will also suit having children?' And it is limiting. Whereas my male friends aren't thinking that way. - Premiere magazine.
      Some people will think I'm a neo-Nazi or that I have cancer or I'm a lesbian. After all the crazy hairstyles I had to endure for the films, it's quite liberating to have no hair - especially in this heat. - about going bald.
      On filming Star Wars: "You learn after your first blue-screen movie, and more after your second, the extent to which you have to prepare. You have to come up with the scenery, the characters, the whole world, as well as what's going on with you. You're often talking to a tape mark instead of a character, and you have to project what they might be thinking, what's going on, how they're treating you."
      On filming Free Zone (2005) in Jerusalem: "I was sleeping five hours a night and we were running from location to location and making up the story as we went along. There's a scene where my arms are uncovered and I'm very close to the guy. People got upset and we moved to another place. It was just crazy because they were calling us Nazis, and I think that's a little much".
      I was the precocious one when I was younger, and now I'm the girlish one, which ultimately means I've stayed the same. Which is not a good sign.
      People think the film industry is going to corrupt me. I wasn't really home when my friends were trying pot for the first time. I was always around adults who wouldn't curse or smoke or do anything like that around me.
      The people whose secrets I most want to know are people who actually have families and marriages as well as careers - people like Meryl Streep, Cate Blanchett and Julianne Moore. I think that if I were like mid-30s and didn't have kids yet I would probably start adopting or something. Aargh, I don't even have a boyfriend, and I'm talking about kids!
      On starring in Closer (2004): "It's not exploitative, but it is about sex. No kids allowed. It's definitely a different thing for me, but I feel like I'm old enough to handle it now. I sort of understand more how to deal with it publicly, and it doesn't shatter me. I don't have to go to school the next day and have people be like, 'Oh I saw you in that movie; you were very dirty'".
      I think, especially in those first few years of college, my body started changing a lot. I got hips. Your metabolism changes; you're not exercising as much. I ran track for a couple of years in high school, and I was also dancing. I was always doing something. At Harvard, you don't really join the team unless you're a star.
      "They are all so very different, Episode III is very dark and much more demanding, we all know that Anakin becomes Darth Vader but to actually see this transition is very painful. So when you have such a dark story to work with it demands you as an actor to work harder. So even though I haven't seen the film yet I would suppose that the last one is my favorite". (On which of the three Star Wars prequels is her favorite)
      I began Star Wars when I was 14 and I'm going to be 24 when this final movie comes out, so these movies were 10 years of my life and now I'm just trying to do something different.
      I agree with Walter Murch's theory that digital will never have the emotional or visual power of regular film, because audiences respond to absences. Regular film has a split second of blank screen between each shot, which the audience's brain has to automatically fill in. Digital doesn't have that, so it doesn't engage the audience in the same ways. In all modernist literature, the most present thing is what's absent. Like the opening of The Sound and the Fury, where they're looking between the fence. Or in Closer the most important parts, the relationships, are missing and have to be filled in by the audience. Absences are crucial.
      I was especially fascinated by memory studies. There was one that requested people's good and bad memories, and then checked them for content. But non- pathological people, people who maintain a happy, healthy brain, couldn't provide negative memories. They'd say, 'But I learned this from the experience;' they'd turn their negative memories into positive ones.
      I get a copy of every action figure from Star Wars. I send them to charity. Some of the really cool ones I keep. Like there's a snow globe thing with one of the spacecrafts in it, which is also a music box, which I really love.
      (Asked if winning the Globe was a shock) God, yes! I was so sure I wasn't going to win it, I went up to Meryl Streep (nominated for The Manchurian Candidate (2004)) before the show and said, "You're going down". We'd done a play together, so I knew her pretty well, but to me, it was a big joke, like, I'm going to win against Meryl-yeah, right. When they called my name, all I could think was, oh no, Meryl's going to be mad at me!
      (On the necklace she gave Julia Roberts) Oh, I made the mistake of telling one person I did that - now everyone loves this story! It was just a joke, because there were lots of dirty words in the script and, every time Julia had to say a bad word, she got all blushy.
      The moment you buy into the idea you're above anyone else is the moment you need to be slapped in the face.
      I actually am starting to feel I should start a revolution against heels, even though that wouldn't be a dramatic revolution. Everyone around me says, 'You have to wear heels.' It's based on some silly concept that longer legs are more beautiful.
      In seventh grade I cried every single day when I came back from shooting The Professional. My friends were not my friends. They were saying, 'She thinks she's so hot now,' things like that, and it was the most painful thing I've ever gone through. Clearly, I haven't had that difficult a life. - Jane Magazine 1999.
Ashley Judd and I went to this place called the Broken Spoke. You walk in and everyone's wearing cowboy hats and men come up to you and ask you to dance. We danced the two-step together, and all these men were coming up, saying, "It's not right to see two ladies dancing. Let us cut in!".
      There were stories in the house of what had happened to them (her grandparents during the Holocaust), and it wasn't that much talked about. I had to go on a website to read my grandfather's descriptions of what happened to the family.
      [on Tom Tykwer, and working with him during his personal crisis] "The very first time we met we were able to tell each other so much about our personal experiences and what we were going through at the moment- my own experience was a similarly difficult and pivotal one for me, though obviously a bit more adolescent than Tom's. It was part of what made the film seem like a joint search for something, a joint expedition".
      [on shooting the strip-club scene fully nude] "You can't do this stuff half-assed, pun intended."
      [asked how she would like to be remembered] "I don't like that question. That question only provides irony if you prematurely die."
      [Morocco] "When I finished V for Vendetta (2005), I went for a few days as sort of a birthday present for myself. I went out into the desert and an amazing storm was taking place, which is so unusual in the desert. I ended up in a tent with the six strangers whom I had just met, and had traveled with earlier on camel back. There we were, watching this amazing lightening in the middle of the desert. The tent was shaking and it was a really exciting experience."
      When I was nine and attending a Jewish school, we had different kosher lunches served. We weren't kosher at home. My mom used to make me chicken salad sandwiches and I would have to lie to everyone, saying it was tuna. "It doesn't smell like tuna," they'd say.
      [on preparing for her role as Queen Amidala] "George worked with me a lot, on changing my voice and my movement and the way I carried myself. We worked on this accent that ... kinda goes to old, older generations of actresses who used kind of an unidentifiable accent. 'Is it American or is it British?' and I watched Lauren Bacall, Audrey Hepburn, Katharine Hepburn. If you look at them, their voices and the stature is so regal, even in their everyday characters. And that's kinda why I used it to model after".
      [on regretting doing nudity]: I'm really sorry I didn't listen to my intuition. From now on, I'm going to trust my gut more. Sometimes the most powerful thing you can do is say no.
      Last year, I did something that I wasn't comfortable with, and I'm really sorry I didn't listen to my intuition. There was a scene in a movie that felt inappropriate for me, but I didn't want to make waves... From now on, I'm going to trust my gut more. Sometimes the most powerful thing you can do is say 'no' - Referring to a torture scene she filmed for Goya's Ghosts (2006), to Parade magazine.
      [on the dangers of too-early celebrity] I've been lucky enough that most of my big falls have been missed by the tabloids. And I think the other people have not been so lucky. It's a tricky thing, and not necessarily a positive thing,that young people are working and seeking this kind of attention. Getting this sort of attention changes them.
      [on her mixed feelings about nudity] I'm really not prudish about doing nudity. I think it's beautiful in films, and sex is such a big part of life, and nudity is obviously our natural state. That's not my issue. My issue is that I feel it takes something away from what you're doing. And also that it can be used afterwards for different purposes. Misappropriated.
      [on Hillary Rodham Clinton] A lot of the stuff people say about her, I hear it and my stomach falls because it's so sexist. You ask people why they don't like her and it's because her husband cheated on her! That was obviously not her choice. She's so much more polished and experienced than anyone else. Last night, a friend, a social worker in L.A. who works with underprivileged kids, was saying how these girls who have never been interested in politics before are so excited that a woman might be president. I mean, look how many women are in government...Hillary's one of, what, [a handful of] female senators? I also like Obama. I even like McCain. I disagree with his war stance -- which is a really big deal -- but I think he's a very moral person. I met him and Hillary on the same day, actually, when I went to Washington with Finca [a nonprofit that gives loans to businesswomen in developing countries]. Hillary was by far the smartest person I met that day. Just totally focused, and knew more about the issues than anyone else, and was so able to go from one thing to the other.
      You look at Meryl Streep, who is so phenomenally, freakishly gorgeous, and in some ways it's just bizarre that she was never a sex symbol. But it was always about her - and now it doesn't matter that she's getting older, because we just want to continue watching her be an interesting person. (On Meryl Streep )
      I've always tried to stay away from playing Jews ... I get, like, 20 Holocaust scripts a month, but I hate the genre.
      [on Scarlett Johansson] Seriously, I would really want to grab Scarlett's breasts. She's got beautiful ones.
      There's so much else to do in the world. To just be interested in doing films would limit my life.
      Young actors often don't think of the consequences of doing nudity or sex scenes. They want the role so badly that they agree to be exploited, and then end up embarrassing family, friends, and even strangers.
      [on filming sex scenes in movies] - It's hard to have a sex scene, period. It doesn't matter if it's a friend, a male, a female. You're with 100-something crew members, lighting you, repositioning you, there's no comfort whatsoever.
      [on her role in Black Swan (2010)] - There were some nights that I thought I literally was going to die. It was the first time I understood how you could get so wrapped up in a role that it could sort of take you down.
      [on her doing kissing scenes and kissing Ashton Kutcher in No Strings Attached (2011)] - It's awkward! It's always awkward. It's just weird to kiss someone that you wouldn't choose to kiss in your personal life.... You get over it. You laugh through it and act like an immature kindergartner, which is what I did much of the time.
      [on romantic comedies] - I've always wanted to do [a romantic comedy]. But the girls are always in fashion, and it's always about their clothes," she explained.They always want to get married at the end. There's some kind of makeover scene. That stuff offends me.
      I want to thank everyone who has ever hired me; Luc Besson who gave me my first job when I was 11-years old, Mike Nichols who has been my hero and my champion for the past decade and, now, Darren Aronofsky. You are a fearless leader and visionary. I am blessed to have gotten to work with you every day for the period of time that I did.
      [on her pregnancy and engagement] I have always kept my private life private, but I will say that I am indescribably happy and feel very grateful to have this experience.
      The part I don't like is when what you put out there as part of a story, as art, can be expropriated into something disgusting and objectifying and salacious in another context. Which it all inevitably is in today's media. I'm just aware of that because, yes I'm interested in being in a really provocative film, and no I'm not interested in being on a porn site.
      [on losing weight for her Black Swan (2010) physique]: I'm a very short person and you're supposed to look very long, and you look longer when you don't have the bulk on you - which is, like, sick. The whole thing. I'm aware that it's sick.
      [on doing her own dancing for Black Swan (2010)]: I do have a double for the complicated turning stuff, but anything I could do myself saved the budget hundreds of thousands of dollars in special effects.
      [on the Black Swan (2010) dance controversy]: I know what went on and we had an amazing experience making the movie and I don't want to tarnish it by entering into nastiness. It's such a positive thing what we get to do. We get to create things and I feel so lucky to be a part of that. I'm really proud of everyone's work on the movie and of my experience and I'll have that forever. It's nice for me to always know about that no matter what kind of nastiness or gossip is going around.
      [on Sarah Lane dance controversy] I did my work and I'm in the majority of the film. I did have a dance double for the most difficult sequences. It was just unfortunate, the entire situation. She's a wonderful dancer and hopefully people will get to see her in her company. I'm sorry that she felt unacknowledged.
      Someone told me when I was really young not to touch my eyebrows, and that was a really good idea because it was the time when everybody was making their eyebrows really skinny. I am glad I didn't do that because they don't really come back.
      I would say my friends and family are a passion, as I spend most of my time with them. I love dancing, not necessarily ballet, and I love watching dance as well. Those are definitely passions of mine.
      I love being home. My work takes me away so much that it really feels like a vacation being at home and being able to stay in bed all day and not get up. However, I also love traveling and have had amazing trips to many parts of the world.
      Pretty much everyone's role on a film is indispensable -- hundreds of people. Like without a first assistant director? Without a good first AD? Your movie falls to pieces. And those are people who never, ever, ever get interviewed anywhere. And they make the movie. I feel like you could probably run a set better with a good first AD and no director than a good director and no AD.
Nicole Kidman gave me the advice to always choose a film by its director. You're never certain how the movie will turn out, but you are always guaranteed an interesting experience.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Natalie Portman (born Natalie Hershlag;[1][2] Hebrew: נָטַלִי הֶרְשְלַג; June 9, 1981)[3] is an actress with dual American and Israeli citizenship. Her first role was as an orphan taken in by a hitman in the 1994 action film Léon: The Professional, but mainstream success came when she was cast as Padmé Amidala in the Star Wars prequel trilogy (released in 1999, 2002 and 2005).[4] In 1999, she enrolled at Harvard University to study psychology while still working as an actress. She completed her bachelor's degree in 2003.[5][6]
In 2001, Portman opened in New York City's Public Theater production of Anton Chekhov's The Seagull.[4] In 2005, Portman won a Golden Globe Award and received an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Closer. She won a Constellation Award for Best Female Performance and a Saturn Award for Best Actress for her starring role in V for Vendetta (2006). She played leading roles in the historical dramas Goya's Ghosts (2006) and The Other Boleyn Girl (2008). In May 2008, she served as the youngest member of the 61st Annual Cannes Film Festival jury.[7] Portman's directorial debut, Eve, opened the 65th Venice International Film Festival's shorts competition in 2008.[8] Portman directed a segment of the collective film New York, I Love You. Portman is also known for her portrayal as Jane Foster, the love interest of Marvel superhero Thor, in the film adaptation Thor (2011), and its sequel, Thor: The Dark World (2013).
In 2010, Portman starred in the psychological thriller Black Swan. Her performance received critical praise and earned her a second Golden Globe Award, the Screen Actors Guild Award, the BAFTA Award, the Broadcast Film Critics Association Award and the Academy Award for Best Actress in 2011.
Portman was born in Jerusalem, Israel.[9][10][11] She is the only child of Shelley (née Stevens), an American homemaker who works as Portman's agent, and Avner Hershlag, an Israeli citizen who is a fertility specialist and gynecologist.[12][13][14] Portman's maternal ancestors were Jewish immigrants to the United States (from Austria and Russia); her mother's family had changed their surname from "Edelstein" to "Stevens".[15] Her paternal grandparents were Jews from Poland and Romania. Natalie's paternal grandfather, Zvi Yehuda Hershlag, was born in Poland, in 1914, and moved to then-Mandatory Palestine, where he was an economics professor, in 1938;[16] Zvi's parents died at Auschwitz. Natalie's Romanian-born great-grandmother was a spy for British Intelligence during World War II.[17][18][19]
Portman's parents met at a Jewish student center at Ohio State University, where her mother was selling tickets. They corresponded after her father returned to Israel and were married when her mother visited a few years later. In 1984, when Portman was three years old, the family moved to the United States, where her father received his medical training.[14] Portman, a dual citizen of the United States and Israel,[20] has said that although she "really love[s] the States... my heart's in Jerusalem. That's where I feel at home."[17]
Portman and her family first lived in Washington, D.C., but relocated to Connecticut in 1988 and then lived in Jericho, New York, on Long Island,[21] in 1990.[4][22][23][24]
In Washington, D.C., Portman attended Charles E. Smith Jewish Day School. Portman learned to speak Hebrew[25] and while living on Long Island attended a Jewish elementary school, the Solomon Schechter Day School in Glen Cove, New York.[21][26] She graduated from Syosset High School in Syosset, Long Island in 1999.[27][28][29] She studied ballet and modern dance at the American Theater Dance Workshop in New Hyde Park, New York, and attended the Usdan Center for the Creative and Performing Arts in Wheatley Heights, both on Long Island.[21] Portman skipped the premiere of her film Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace, so she could study for her high school final exams.[30]
In 2003, Portman graduated from Harvard University with an A.B. degree in psychology.[29][31][32][33] "I don't care if [college] ruins my career," she told the New York Post. "I'd rather be smart than a movie star."[34][35] At Harvard, Portman was Alan Dershowitz's research assistant.[36][37] While attending Harvard, she was a resident of Lowell House[38] and wrote a letter to the Harvard Crimson in response to an essay critical of Israeli actions toward Palestinians.[39]
Portman took graduate courses at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in the spring of 2004.[40] In March 2006, she was a guest lecturer at a Columbia University course in terrorism and counterterrorism, where she spoke about her film V for Vendetta.[41] Portman has professed an interest in foreign languages since childhood and has studied French,[42] Japanese,[42] German,[43] and Arabic.[44]
As a student, Portman co-authored two research papers that were published in scientific journals. Her 1998 high school paper, "A Simple Method to Demonstrate the Enzymatic Production of Hydrogen from Sugar," co-authored with scientists Ian Hurley and Jonathan Woodward, was entered in the Intel Science Talent Search.[45] In 2002, she contributed to a study on memory called "Frontal Lobe Activation during Object Permanence: Data from Near-Infrared Spectroscopy" during her psychology studies at Harvard.[46][47]
Portman started dancing lessons at age four[4] and performed in local troupes. At the age of ten, a Revlon agent asked her to become a child model,[4][48] but she turned down the offer to focus on acting. In a magazine interview, Portman said that she was "different from the other kids. I was more ambitious. I knew what I liked and what I wanted, and I worked very hard. I was a very serious kid."[49]
On school holidays, Portman attended theater camps. When she was ten, Portman auditioned for the 1992 Off-Broadway show Ruthless!, a musical about a girl who is prepared to commit murder to get the lead in a school play. Portman and future pop star Britney Spears were chosen as the understudies for star Laura Bell Bundy.[40] In 1993, she auditioned for the role of a child who befriends a middle-aged hit-man (played by Jean Reno) in Luc Besson's film, Léon: The Professional. Soon after getting the part, she took her paternal grandmother's maiden name, "Portman", as her stage name in the interest of privacy and to protect her family's identity.[50][51] Léon: The Professional opened on November 18, 1994, marking her feature film debut. That same year she appeared in the short film Developing, which aired on television.
During the mid-1990s, Portman had roles in the films Heat, Everyone Says I Love You, and Mars Attacks!, as well as a major role in Beautiful Girls.[4] She was the first choice to play Juliet in William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet, but producers felt her age wasn't suitable.[48] In 1997, Portman played the role of Anne Frank in a Broadway adaptation of The Diary of Anne Frank.
Also in 1997, Portman was cast as Padmé Amidala in the Star Wars prequel trilogy. The first film, The Phantom Menace, began filming in June 1997 and opened in May 1999, featuring alongside her is close friend and fellow actress Keira Knightley.[4][52] Following production on The Phantom Menace, she initially turned down a lead role in the film Anywhere but Here after learning it would involve a sex scene, but director Wayne Wang and actress Susan Sarandon (who played Portman's mother in the film) demanded a rewrite of the script. Portman was shown a new draft, and she decided to accept the role.[4] The film opened in late 1999, and she received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Supporting Actress for her role as Ann August.[53] Critic Mary Elizabeth Williams of Salon called Portman "astonishing" and said that "[u]nlike any number of actresses her age, she's neither too maudlin nor too plucky."[54] She then signed on to play the lead role of a teenaged mother in Where the Heart Is, which opened in April 2000.
After filming Where the Heart Is, Portman moved into the dorms of Harvard University to pursue her bachelor's degree in psychology.[4] She said in a 1999 interview that, with the exception of the Star Wars prequels, she would not act for the next four years in order to concentrate on studying.[55] During the summer break from June to September 2000, Portman filmed Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones in Sydney, along with additional production in London.[56]
In July 2001, Portman opened in New York City's Public Theater production of Chekhov's The Seagull, directed by Mike Nichols; she played the role of Nina alongside Meryl Streep, Kevin Kline, and Philip Seymour Hoffman.[4] The play opened at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park.[57] That same year, she was one of many celebrities who made cameo appearances in the 2001 comedy Zoolander. Portman was cast in a small role in the film Cold Mountain alongside Jude Law and Nicole Kidman.[4]
In 2004, Portman appeared in the independent movies Garden State and Closer.[4] Garden State was an official selection of the Sundance Film Festival and won Best First Feature at the Independent Spirit Awards. Her performance as Alice in Closer earned her a Supporting Actress Golden Globe as well as a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress.[58][59]
The final Star Wars prequel, Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith, was released on May 19, 2005. The film was the highest grossing domestic film of the year[60] and was voted Favorite Motion Picture at the People's Choice Awards. Also in 2005, Portman filmed Free Zone and director Miloš Forman's Goya's Ghosts. Forman had not seen any of her work but thought she looked like a Goya painting, so he requested a meeting.[61]
Portman hosted Saturday Night Live on March 4, 2006.[62] In a SNL Digital Short, she portrays herself as an angry gangsta rapper (with Andy Samberg as her Flavor Flav-esque partner in Viking garb) during a faux-interview with Chris Parnell, saying she cheated at Harvard University while high on marijuana and cocaine.[63] The song, titled "Natalie's Rap," was released – alongside other sketches from the show – in 2009 on Incredibad, an album by the Lonely Island.[64] In another sketch, she portrays a student named Rebecca Hershlag (her actual surname) attending a Bar Mitzvah, and in an installment of the recurring sketch The Needlers (also known as Sally and Dan, The Couple That Should Be Divorced), plays a fertility specialist (her father's profession).
V for Vendetta opened in early 2006. Portman portrayed Evey Hammond, a young woman who is saved from the secret police by the main character, V. Portman worked with a voice coach for the role, learning to speak with an English accent, and she famously had her head shaved.[65]
Portman has commented on V for Vendetta's political relevance and mentioned that the main character, who recruits Evey to join an underground anti-government group, is "often bad and does things that you don't like" and that "being from Israel was a reason I wanted to do this because terrorism and violence are such a daily part of my conversations since I was little." She said the film "doesn't make clear good or bad statements. It respects the audience enough to take away their own opinion".[66]
Both Goya's Ghosts and Free Zone received limited releases in 2006. Portman starred in the children's film Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium, which began filming in April 2006 and was released in November 2007; she has said that she was "excited to do a kids' movie."[65] In late 2006, Portman filmed The Other Boleyn Girl, a historical drama in which she plays Anne Boleyn; Eric Bana and Scarlett Johansson co-starred. She was named one of the hottest women of film and TV by Blender Magazine.[67]
In 2006, she filmed Wong Kar-wai's road movie My Blueberry Nights. She won acclaim for her role as gambler Leslie, because "[f]or once she's not playing a waif or a child princess but a mature, full-bodied woman... but she's not coasting on her looks... She uses her appeal to simultaneously flirt with and taunt the gambler across the table."[68] Portman voiced Bart Simpson's girlfriend Darcy in the episode "Little Big Girl" of The Simpsons' 18th season.[69]
She appeared in Paul McCartney's music video "Dance Tonight" from his 2007 album Memory Almost Full, directed by Michel Gondry.[70] Portman co-starred in the Wes Anderson short film Hotel Chevalier, opposite Jason Schwartzman. In May 2008, Portman served as the youngest member of the 61st Annual Cannes Film Festival jury,[7] and in 2009, she starred opposite Tobey Maguire and Jake Gyllenhaal in the drama film Brothers, a remake of the 2004 Danish film of the same name.[71] In 2008, Portman at age 27 made her directorial debut at the Venice Film Festival. Eve, a short film about a young woman who is dragged along on her grandmother's romantic date, was screened out of competition. Portman said she had always had a fascination with the older generation and drew inspiration for the character from her own grandmother.[72]
Portman played a young ballerina in Darren Aronofsky's 2010 film Black Swan,[73] a role of which critic Kurt Loder wrote: "Portman gives one of her most compelling performances in this film, which is saying something."[74] To prepare for the role, she went through five to eight hours of dance training each day for six months and lost 20 pounds.[75] In 2011, she won both the Golden Globe Award and the Academy Award for Best Actress.[76][77]
After Portman's Oscar win, controversy arose over who performed the bulk of the on-screen dancing in Black Swan.[78] Sarah Lane, one of Portman's dancing doubles in the film, claimed that Portman performed only about five percent of the full-body shots, adding that she was asked by the film's producers not to speak publicly about it during the Oscar season.[79] Director Aronofsky defended Portman by issuing a statement insisting that Portman performed 80 percent of the on-screen dancing in the movie.[79]
Portman was trained by professional ballerina Mary Helen Bowers for her role in the film and later wrote the foreword to Bowers' book, Ballet Beautiful.[80]
Portman co-starred in the 2011 film No Strings Attached, alongside Ashton Kutcher. She was also an executive producer on the film. She then starred in Your Highness, opposite James Franco and Danny McBride, and also played the role of Jane Foster in Kenneth Branagh's superhero film adaptation Thor.[81] In 2010, Portman dropped out of the lead role of Elizabeth Bennet in the novel adaptation, Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, but she will continue to be the producer of the film.[82]
In 2010, Portman signed on with Dior and appeared in several of the company's advertising campaigns. In October 2012, Britain's Advertising Standards Authority banned a Dior advertisement that featured Portman wearing Dior mascara after a complaint from Dior's competitor, L'Oreal. The ASA ruled that the photographs of Portman "misleadingly exaggerated the likely effects of the product".[83]
By February 2012, Portman had signed on for two Terrence Malick projects, one named Knight of Cups and one yet untitled, both planned for release within two years.[84] In April 2012, Portman starred in Paul McCartney's music video, "My Valentine", alongside Johnny Depp.[85] Portman is scheduled to star in the Western film Jane Got a Gun.[86][87]
In July 2013, Portman announced she had chosen an adaptation of Israeli author Amos Oz's autobiographical novel A Tale of Love and Darkness as her directorial feature debut. Portman will also star in the film and was a co-writer on the script.[88]
Portman, who is an advocate for animal rights, has been a vegetarian since childhood.[89] She became a vegan in 2009 after reading Jonathan Safran Foer's Eating Animals.[90] She does not eat animal products or wear fur, feathers, or leather. "All of my shoes are from Target and Stella McCartney," she has said.[91] In 2007, she launched her own brand of vegan footwear.[92] During her pregnancy in 2011, Portman went off her vegan diet and returned to vegetarianism.[93]
In 2007, Portman traveled to Rwanda with Jack Hanna, to film the documentary Gorillas on the Brink. Later, at a naming ceremony, Portman christened a baby gorilla Gukina, which means "to play."[94] Portman has been an advocate of environmental causes since childhood, when she joined an environmental song and dance troupe known as World Patrol Kids.[95] She is also a member of the One Voice movement.[96]
Portman has also supported antipoverty activities. In 2004 and 2005, she traveled to Uganda, Guatemala, and Ecuador as the Ambassador of Hope for FINCA International, an organization that promotes micro-lending to help finance women-owned businesses in developing countries.[97] In an interview conducted backstage at the Live 8 concert in Philadelphia and appearing on the PBS program Foreign Exchange with Fareed Zakaria, she discussed microfinance.[98] Host Fareed Zakaria said that he was "generally wary of celebrities with fashionable causes," but included the segment with Portman because "she really knew her stuff."[99]
In the "Voices" segment of the April 29, 2007, episode of the ABC Sunday morning program This Week with George Stephanopoulos, Portman discussed her work with FINCA and how it can benefit women and children in Third World countries.[100] In fall 2007, she visited several university campuses, including Harvard, USC, UCLA, UC Berkeley, Stanford, Princeton, New York University, and Columbia, to inspire students with the power of microfinance and to encourage them to join the Village Banking Campaign to help families and communities lift themselves out of poverty.[101] Portman is a supporter of the Democratic Party, and in the 2004 presidential race she campaigned for the Democratic nominee, Senator John Kerry. In the 2008 presidential election, Portman supported Senator Hillary Clinton of New York in the Democratic primaries. She later campaigned for the eventual Democratic nominee, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, during the general election.[102] In a 2008 interview, she also stated: "I even like John McCain. I disagree with his war stance—which is a really big deal—but I think he's a very moral person."[103]
In 2010, Portman's activist work and popularity with young people earned her a nomination for VH1's Do Something Awards, which is dedicated to honoring individuals who do good.[104] In 2011, Portman and her then fiancé Benjamin Millepied were among the signers of a petition to President Obama in support of same-sex marriage.[105] Portman supported Obama's re-election campaign.[106] In January 2011, Portman became an ambassador of Free The Children, an international charity and educational partner, spearheading their Power of a Girl campaign.[107] She hosted a contest challenging girls in North America to fundraise for one of Free The Children’s all-girls schools in Kenya. As incentives for the contest winner, she offered her designer Rodarte dress, worn at the red carpet premier of Black Swan, along with tickets to her next premier.[107]
Free The Children’s all-girls school was also the beneficiary of proceeds from sales of Nude Grege #169, the lipstick Portman designed for Christian Dior.[108] It was announced in May 2012 that Portman would be working with watch designer Richard Mille to develop a limited-edition timepiece with proceeds supporting Free The Children.[109]
In 2006, she commented that she felt more Jewish in Israel and that she would like to raise her children Jewish: "A priority for me is definitely that I'd like to raise my kids Jewish, but the ultimate thing is to have someone who is a good person and who is a partner."[110]
After starring in the video for his song "Carmensita", she began a relationship with American folk singer Devendra Banhart,[111] which ended in September 2008.[112]
Portman began dating ballet dancer Benjamin Millepied in 2009. The couple met while she was filming Black Swan, for which he was the choreographer.[113] In December 2010, Portman announced their engagement and confirmed her pregnancy.[114][115][116] Portman gave birth to their son Aleph Portman-Millepied in June 2011.[117][118] In February 2012, Portman and Millepied were photographed wearing wedding rings at the Academy Awards ceremony,[119] but representatives did not respond to requests for comment on the couple's marital status.[120][121] On August 4, 2012, Portman and Millepied married in an intimate Jewish ceremony in Big Sur, California.[122][123]
In 2013, it was announced that Millepied had accepted the position of director of the Paris Opera Ballet.[124] The couple plan to relocate to Paris when Millepied's new job starts in fall 2014. Portman has said she would like to become a French citizen when they move.[125]
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Natalie_Portman&oldid=611681545"					
Categories: 1981 births20th-century American actresses21st-century American actressesActresses from ConnecticutActresses from JerusalemActresses from Los Angeles, CaliforniaActresses from New York CityActresses from ParisActresses from Washington, D.C.American child actressesAmerican expatriate actresses in FranceAmerican female modelsAmerican film actressesAmerican people of Austrian-Jewish descentAmerican people of Polish-Jewish descentAmerican people of Romanian-Jewish descentAmerican people of Russian-Jewish descentAmerican stage actressesAmerican television actressesAnimal rights advocatesBAFTA winners (people)Best Actress Academy Award winnersBest Actress BAFTA Award winnersBest Drama Actress Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Supporting Actress Golden Globe (film) winnersHarvard University alumniIndependent Spirit Award for Best Female Lead winnersIsraeli emigrants to the United StatesIsraeli expatriate actresses in FranceIsraeli female modelsIsraeli film actressesIsraeli JewsIsraeli people of Austrian-Jewish descentIsraeli people of Polish-Jewish descentIsraeli people of Romanian-Jewish descentIsraeli people of Moldovan-Jewish descentIsraeli people of Russian-Jewish descentIsraeli stage actressesIsraeli television actressesJewish activistsJewish American actressesJewish female modelsLGBT rights activists from the United StatesLGBT rights activists from IsraelLiving peopleOutstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role Screen Actors Guild Award winnersPeople from Syosset, New YorkHidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only contentAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from March 2013Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersCS1 errors: datesArticles with dead external links from March 2011Articles with dead external links from September 2011Articles with dead external links from June 2012Use mdy dates from October 2012Articles with hCardsArticles containing Hebrew-language textCommons category template with no category setCommons category with page title same as on WikidataGood articlesWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
1994November 18The Young Professional"She was camera-ready when she arrived," Todd Thaler, casting director for The Professional, tells PEOPLE. Portman lands the role of a kid who charms a middle-aged hit man. "They literally could have gone into production without a stitch of rehearsal."1996February 09Playing the Old SoulTapping into her wise-child persona again, Portman gets attention for her Beautiful Girls role. She plays a precocious 13-year-old on whom her older neighbor Timothy Hutton develops a harmless crush. Meanwhile, Portman racks up prized parts in films including Heat and Woody Allen's Everyone Says I Love You.1997DecemberTaking on Anne FrankPortman tackles the title role in The Diary of Anne Frank on Broadway. The actress earns critical praise in the $1.6 million revival. "There is ineffable grace in her awkwardness, and her very skin seems to glow with the promise of miraculous transformations," writes The New York Times critic Ben Brantley.1999May 19Star Wars CallingPortman wins the role of Queen Amidala in the blockbuster Star Wars prequel and worries about the attention she'll get from avid fans. "I thought it would be awful," Portman says to PEOPLE after the first installment, Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace. "But I can still walk down the street alone and not worry about anyone accosting me."FallHarvard BoundPortman enrolls at Harvard. "I felt like I had to prove myself more," she tells Vanity Fair in 2006, "and it made me nervous all the time, because I feel that people always thought I was there because I was famous and not because I deserved to be there." In 2003, she graduates with a degree in psychology.NovemberMaturing RolesPortman appears as the responsible teen to flaky mom Susan Sarandon in Anywhere But Here. Of the young star, PEOPLE film critic Leah Rozen says she has "the kind of ravishing beauty not seen in an adolescent actress since Elizabeth Taylor galloped through National Velvet." Anywhere But Here is followed by another starring part as the spunky mom-to-be in Where the Heart Is. "She's gorgeous," director Matt Williams says to PEOPLE, "but people are also drawn to her for her intellect, substance and heart." 2002May 16The Trilogy ContinuesStar Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones premieres, followed by the last pre-chapter, Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith three years later. "The attention I get at college isn't always flattering," Portman tells Allure in 2002.  "Someone at a party will dare someone else to scream out 'Queen Amidala' to see if I turn around." December 31Unlikely BudsPortman and Britney Spears meet at a 2001 listening party for the pop singer's latest album and become friends. The 21-year-olds decide to ring in 2003 together, cohosting a New Year's Eve party for 40 friends – including Keri Russell and Sam Rockwell – at Manhattan's Hudson Hotel.2003SpringRomantic LinkThough Portman adamantly guards her private life, the star is linked with Y Tu Mamá También actor Gael García Bernal. Portman is also spotted with Jake Gyllenhaal in the coming years, but both decline to comment. "I'm a really open person," she tells USA Today. "Everyone I'm close to knows everything about me. But I have friends to tell my problems to, and I have no desire to tell them to strangers. Public confessional is not something I'm tempted to do."WinterThe BrainThe recent grad appears in Cold Mountain, costarring Nicole Kidman, Renée Zellweger and Jude Law. She's "disarmingly intelligent," director Anthony Minghella tells USA Today. "She reminds me a little of Jodie Foster, because I can see her, as time goes on, wanting to spread her wings beyond acting. Her big brain wants to be fed." 
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): Patrick Camboulive/Columbia Pictures; Everett Collection; Joan Marcus; Photofest; Dan Callister/Splash News; Everett Collection; Matthew Peyton/Getty; Jonathan Delano/Retna; Everett 
									Benjamin Millepied, husband (2009 to present) Devendra Barnhart, ex-boyfriend (2008)Nathan Bogle, ex-boyfriend (2007) Gael García Bernal, ex-boyfriend (2003 to 2004) 
   Sep 20, 2013 BETTER TOGETHER  Natalie Portman happily plays support system Thursday, attending the New York City Ballet's Fall Gala… See Photo   Sep 10, 2013 SPOUSAL SUPPORT  Natalie Portman stands by hubby Benjamin Millepied during a private reception celebrating his new gig… See Photo
=======================================================
	background-image: url('http://www.natalieportman.com/wp-content/plugins/wp-polls/images/default/pollbg.gif');
HomeCalendarFilmsFilmographyRumored ProjectsOld, Rumored & Dropped [...]Image GalleryBiographyThe Natalie Portman StoryQuotes by NataliePollsSite RelatedAdvertisingDisclaimerMerchandiseStaffVideo Archive (PHP)
Natalie Portman was born on Tuesday, June 9th 1981 in Jerusalem, actually on her mother’s birthday. A vacuum was used to get her out, so she had a cone-head during the first days of her life. She was the first and only child of her parents. Her Israeli father is an infertility specialist and works as a doctor. Her American mother is a full-time homemaker. Don’t get confused by all the biographies saying she’s an artist. In fact, Natalie used to call her an artist for juggling the household and upbringing stuff. I hope the following statement from Natalie about her mother makes it clear: “She always gets mad at me if I say she’s, like, a housewife because she says it sounds like… [...] she says it sounds as though she’s married to a house. [...] And that doesn’t work because, like, that doesn’t reflect well on her personality. And so then, I was like, well what should I say. So I started saying, like,
she was an artist because that’s what she studied in college. So then everyone was asking me, like, oh, what kind of art does she do? And does she paint, what kind of paints? [...] And I was like, I don’t know! [...] So then now I just say she’s a mom. It works.” (The Late Show with David Letterman 2/1996)
When she was three, her family moved to the US, because her father did his residency in Maryland. At the age of four she started taking dancing lessons and she remembers “I’ve always loved entertaining people and putting on shows at home.” (TV Hits Magazine 2/1997). She also took some singing lessons, and she recalls: “I was definitely heading more down the Broadway route. I wanted to be in “Oklahoma!” or something. I wasn’t thinking of films at all.”(Star Wars Insider #44 5/1999). Nevertheless was she a big fan of Dirty Dancing. Especially Patrick Swayze left quite an impression on her, as she later would admit: “I think I became an actress just so there would be a possibility that I might meet him one day, ’cause he’s just, like, so amazing”. (Harper’s Bazaar 11/1997
Her father started his fellowship three years later in Connecticut, so they had to move again. It made her “more able to adjust to new people and to make new friends easily. It’s a lot easier to make friends when you’re younger, because kids are a lot less judgmental than adults.” Beside the moves there is not much known about her childhood. She says she’s “been brought up in what you might call a pretty conventional family.” (Interview Magazine 2/1995) But since her dad is Israeli she grew up with a different set of values than most American kids. This would become obvious in her self-confident decisions in her future career as actress. Looking back she remarks “I don’t even remember who my friends were before I was nine.” It was then that her father became a doctor and started working in New York. This led to another move, this time to Long Island. Natalie admits “I have no clear memories from before I was around 12.” (Star Wars Insider #44 5/1999) That doesn’t mean she’s had a insignificant childhood, but it shows that she couldn’t grow roots back then. The only stable constitution was her family.
This explains why there has always been a strong bond between her and her parents. Concerning this constellation, Natalie says “You really learn to function as an adult.” Even before her movie career took off forcing her family to seek refuge in their privacy, they spend a lot of time together. “I’m an only child. All my vacations are with my parents.” (Vanity Fair #465 5/1999) She visited countries like Japan and Australia with them in her childhood days, what definitely had an impact on her. Later she’d take Japanese as a subject in school.
At the age of eight Natalie stopped eating meat as a matter of conscience. “I went to a medical conference with my dad where they were demonstrating laser surgery on a chicken. I think at that point I made the connection that animals were killed for meat. I had always kind of thought that animals died and then we ate them. At first, my parents thought it was just a phase.” (Time Out New York #114 11/1997) But it wasn’t.
After dissecting a fish in the sixth grade she stopped eating fish, too. In 1995 gelatin followed, and in 1997 she stopped eating cheese, because it can contain rennet, which is taken from animals’ stomachs. This shows clearly how she struggles to stay true to her ideals. Again, her parents supported her case although they’re not vegetarians themselves.
“When I was ten [note: in some interviews she says she was 11] years old, after dance class I went to a pizza parlor and a guy from Revlon was there and he wanted me to model for Revlon. So he introduced me to modeling agents, and I told them “I don’t want to model, I want to act,” so they introduced me to acting agents.” (The Late Show with David Letterman 11/1994) Three summers she spent at theatre camps gaining her first acting experiences playing such roles as Dream Laurey in “Oklahoma!” and Hermia in “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”. The latter one “is a good one to do, because it’s the easiest of the Shakespeares.” Around that time she skipped a grade due to her excellent grades at the Jewish school she went to until the 8th grade. “I loved school so much that most of my classmates considered me a dork,” she recalls. (Calgary Sun 4/2000)
From time to time she regrets not having siblings. Then she lamentates “I don’t like being an only child. I don’t think I would’ve been able to act, had there been other children, because it wouldn’t be really fair to them. But it’s strange for me to think that when I’m older my kids won’t have cousins from my side, and I won’t have any one to, like, be conspirators with and talk about my parents when I’m older. Because no one knows what it’s like to be in my family. I can say to someone, “Oh my God, they’re killing me!” And they’re like, ‘But your parents are so nice!’” (Jane Magazine 9/1999) At least she got a dog, a female Poodle-Schnauzer mix that was named “Noodles”. Natalie was a member of the group “World Patrol Kids” which toured through the country and released a cd called “Earth Tunes” in 1991. The whole thing was about motivating and teaching how to protect the environment.
Natalie Portman made her first professional performance in the off-Broadway musical “Ruthless” as an understudy for three weeks in 1993. Back then she lacked a bit of discipline being but a child. “I kept laughing on stage because I was having so much fun with this other girl: She would cross her eyes at me on stage, and I’d start laughing, and people would be like, Natalie, you’re not supposed to laugh on stage.” (Boston Magazine 10/1997) Eventually she participated at auditions for the role in “The Professional” which she would finally get. At first she was rejected being too young, but after a some more auditions director Luc Besson chose her to play Mathilda Lando. Luc Besson eventually cooperated with Natalie’s parents who wouldn’t have her daughter do certain things.
Adjustments of the script were made which led to a revised ending. “They talk to the director for hours before every project I do, to make sure I’m not going to be doing anything that’s going to be hurting me in my personal life” (Vanity Fair #465 5/1999) This meant that one of them would accompany her whenever she was filming outside New York, at least until she turned 18. So her mother flew with her to Paris. Her father visited them every other weekend. It was him who urged her to read the Diary of Anne Frank, when they visited the Anne Frank house in Amsterdam. The lecture of this book would have a deep impact on Natalie Portman’s life. More about that later.
Eventually she adapted Portman (her grandmother’s maiden name) as her stage name to protect her family life in case her performance would be unsatisfactory. Obviously this wasn’t the case. Still she kept it to protect her privacy as her acting career continued. “The Professional” starred Jean Reno, Gary Oldman and Danny Aiello. Shooting in New York began on June 1st and were finished on July 23rd. The major part (i.e. the indoor scenes) was filmed between July 28th and October 7th in Paris. Although she never took acting lessons her performance is convincing. Her character grows more mature as the plot unwinds and becomes strong and self-confident in the end. Commenting her performance in “The Professional” director Luc Besson states “Natalie had no experience before. The first time we have seen one- or two-thousand girls and she was the best. You explain, she listen and she do it, so simple.” (from a commentary video clip around 1994) In return Natalie praises him. “I went onto that film and I didn’t know what I was doing – but I was 11, and it was before the whole pre-teen self doubt set in. I was at that stage where I was completely unselfconscious, free and open, and it was really fun. I trusted Luc, and, luckily, my first experience was with such a great director. Luc really guided me.” (Vogue (Australia) 7/1999)
But her work as a child actress affected her private life in a negative way. “In seventh grade I cried every single day when I came back from shooting The Professional. My friends were not my friends. They were saying, ‘She thinks she’s so hot now,’ things like that, and it was the most painful thing I’ve ever gone through. Clearly, I haven’t had that difficult a life. But I have barely any memories of that year, except that I would just cry all the time. I went to public school after that year.” (Jane Magazine 9/1999) There she stayed until she finished highschool in 1999.
In November “The Professional” opened with Natalie Portman gaining attention all over the place. She appeared in public for the first time at the movie premieres in Los Angeles and Paris and she was also guest in several TV shows. At the same time she went to school, something that would dominate the interviews back then. Sometimes people were annoyed by the violence in the movie, but Natalie thinks of it rather as “a special love story; there’s never been one like it before.” (Venice Magazine 7/1995) “It’s also about two people who by themselves are so unhappy, but when they’re together they’re very, very happy just because they have each other’s companionship. They’re taking care of each other. They’re nurturing each other. Because love can be Platonic,” she adds. (Interview Magazine 2/1995)
A longer director’s cut, retitled “Léon: version integrale” was re-released in French cinemas on June 26, 1996. This version is 26 minutes longer than the previously release version and features all sequences that were removed from the film after disastrous tests with L.A. preview audiences. It was eventually released on DVD/VHS. Odd side note: The German version of the director’s cut lacks the scene with Mathilda telling Léon she is 18 years old. She had also played in the short film “Developing” directed by Marya Cohn. It would only be shown on TV a year later. Portman plays Nina who’s mother suffers from the consequences of breast cancer. She got the part through an audition. The story deals with the alienation and the reconciliation of mother and daughter. Due to the shortness of the film, its scenes appear more like episodes than like a real plot.
Due to her performance in “The Professional” Natalie didn’t have to go to auditions along with other candidates any longer. Instead producers approached her with roles and scripts. Her next film was “Beautiful Girls”. “When I got the script, I just fell in love with Marty,” Portman recalls. “It’s so rare to find a script where the character is my age, and smart and funny – and doesn’t have sex.” Finding an actress who could play the role without being pretentious was “the greatest challenge in making the movie,” says producer Cary Woods. “We’d said going in that we couldn’t make the movie if we couldn’t find Marty. It was the linchpin of the film.”
Between several 30-year olds who lament over their mid-life crises, Marty is a 13-year old girl who appears fresh and innocent. “She’s the smartest person involved in this movie,” says writer-producer Scott Rosenberg. “We were so unbelievably lucky to have made this movie at a time when Natalie Portman was a viable human being,” he adds. “We saw a lot of girls and nobody even came close. To me, she is Marty.” (Daily Bruin 2/1996) To Natalie Portman making the film was, once again, mainly fun. Regarding the relationship between Willie and Marty, she says “He doesn’t really have a crush on her. He has a crush on what she will become.” (Interview Magazine 3/1996)
“Beautiful Girls” was shot in Minnesota. The cast featured Timothy Hutton, Matt Dillon, Michael Rapaport, Uma Thurman, Lauren Holly and Rosie O’Donnell. Since there’s much more dialogue and almost no action in this movie, it didn’t take too long to shoot. Natalie Portman and Timothy Hutton (whom she has all her scenes with and who gave her her first screen kiss) got along very well. “Natalie’s very smart and she knew exactly the right way to approach potentially difficult scenes,” says Hutton of his co-star. “She knew exactly what to do. The scenes with her were the scenes I looked forward to the most, because I knew there would be real clarity coming from her. She knew what she wanted, but she was also extremely free in the choices she made. Every take was different. Some people do the same thing over and over again, but Natalie really listens, so if I did something different in take two, she made these beautiful adjustments. To do that at the age of 44 is extraordinary, but at 13…” Director Ted Demme adds: “Natalie absolutely blew me out of my seat in The Professional, and after one reading of the script for Beautiful Girls, I knew she was the only actress who could play this character.” (Vanity Fair #465 5/1999)
Now a teenager, Natalie Portman rethinks her work as an actress. “The anxiety I now feel about acting has nothing to do with movies, though – it’s just a part of getting older. You become aware of your body changing and of the fact that people are judging you – and you’re really aware of that when you’re in the public eye.” Another aspect that made her appear more mature than other girls at her age is the fact, that until then she has always been filming with people who were much older than here. “Acting probably is making me grow up faster than I normally would because I’m around adults so much of the time,” she says. “I’m friends with people much older than me, but they’re all quite intent on maintaining my innocence. Yesterday Ted Demme told me that if anyone ever did anything bad to me, I have 20 big brothers who’d rush to my rescue.” (Los Angeles Times 2/1996)
The film wouldn’t be as successful as “The Professional” or “Heat”. Still, Natalie Portman’s performance proved that there’s more to her than just her youth. Ironically, Portman herself had yet to experience even her first crush. “That happened right after filming ended. And it was so hard, because I was still in the Beautiful Girls mindset, and it made the crush so much more difficult.” (The Telegraph (UK) 7/1999)
Natalie Portman’s next role made her the suicidal step daughter of Al Pacino in Michael Mann’s Action-Thriller “Heat” which was filmed in spring 1995 on location in Los Angeles. Although the movie’s dominated by the duel between Detective Vincent Hanna (Al Pacino) and hi-tech criminal Neil McCauley (Robert DeNiro), the supporting roles don’t come off badly. Once again, the director has only words of praise for Natalie Portman: “When I met her, you could tell she was kind of a prodigy,” says Michael Mann. “In the movie, she has a very short amount of screen time to believably communicate a child who is seriously dysfunctional without any overt hysteria or exaggerated dialogue, and she delivers. Only someone with serious talent can do that.” (Entertainment Weekly 1/1996)
Eventually, Woody Allen offered her a role in his forthcoming movie “Everyone Says: I Love You” which Natalie accepted. The audition for the part was rather short. “I met him,” Portman relates, “I shook his hand. He said, ‘Hi, I’m Woody,’ and introduced me to the three people who were in the room. I said, ‘Hey, I’m Natalie.’ He asked me three questions, like, ‘Where do you live? How old are you? Are you free for the fall?’” (Detour Magazine 1/1996) Still, Natalie turned down starring roles in “The Ice Storm” for fear of exposing too much too early. She was rejected for “Romeo & Juliet” for being too young. Another offer she got was by Adrian Lyne who wanted to do a remake of Stanley Kubrick’s “Lolita” (that was finally released in 1997). Natalie turned down the role as well. “I met with the director but I immediately told him there’s no way I’m gonna do this movie,” she recalls. “Kubrick’s film of the book is great because nothing is really shown, but this one will be explicit. He told me they’d use body doubles but I said people will still think it’s me, so no thank you.” (Los Angeles Times 2/1996) “I don’t think there needs to be a film about a thirteen year old girl having, um, intercourse with a fifty year old man,” she states. (Good Morning America 2/1996) I think it must have been in summer 1995 when “Mars Attacks!” was filmed. Natalie plays Taffy, the daughter of President Jack Nicholson and first lady Glenn Close. She is actually among the few who are still alive by the end of the movie. The all-star cast featured stars like Pierce Brosnan, Annette Bening, Sarah Jessica Parker, Michael J. Fox, Danny DeVito and Tom Jones. They dominated the movie although Natalie delivered a remarkable performance as the only teenage actor in the movie beside Lukas Haas (who unfortunately survives as well).
The premier of “Heat” in December hadn’t as much influence on Natalie Portman’s life as “The Professional”‘s had. She wasn’t in the center of the public eye and could continue to pursue her work at school. Still her name popped up here and there.
A week before her third film (“Beautiful Girls”) hit the cinemas, Natalie had already finished shooting the Paris-part of “Everyone Says: I Love You”. It was the first time Allen filmed outside New York, so Portman got to see the place again where “The Professional” had been filmed. She plays the Laura, the daughter of some rich liberal Upper East Siders (played by Alan Alda and Goldie Hawn). Just like “Mars Attacks!”, the film features a cast of famous actor and actresses like Julia Roberts, Drew Berrymore, Ed Norton and, of course, Woody Allen himself. The movie is typically Woody Allen with lots of fast dialogues and a twisted storyline. Natalie Portman’s character remains in the background. Lukas Haas, Natasha Lyonne and Gaby Hoffman also appeared in the film, something Natalie enjoyed very much. “It’s really fun because this is the first movie I’ve done with other kids, so we all hang out together – we go to the movies and stuff” (Sassy Magazine 3/1996)
Despite that fun she wasn’t very satisfied with her performance. Three years later she said: “Oh God, I was so awful in that. My agents said, ‘Well, you just don’t turn down Woody Allen.’ But I was so wrong because there was so much improvisation and I just couldn’t do it.” (The Telegraph (UK) 7/1999)
At that point Natalie Portman’s career seemed to have reached its climax. She was already signed to play Kristin Scott Thomas’ daughter in “The Horse Whisperer” under Robert Redford’s direction, and still was able to maintain her very good results at school. Then she got a phone call from Robin Gurland, a casting director working for Lucasfilm. Portman was offered the female leading role for the upcoming pre-quels of the “Star Wars”-saga. Eventually she met with Lucas and producer Rick McCallum at the Skywalker farm outside San Francisco and after some time for reflection she signed a deal for all three movies. She remembers that time: “I really thought about it for many weeks before I agreed to do the film. First, because it places you in the limelight and pushes you into the public eye more than probably any other film could. Second, it was a huge commitment to make as a fourteen-year-old, to decide that I was going to be doing three films in the next ten years. That’s a huge decision to make at any point in your life, and especially when you’re fourteen and don’t know what you want to do with your life. You don’t know what you want to do the rest of the day, you know? So I really thought about it a lot and weighed my considerations and talked to all the people I love and trust before I made my decision.” (TV Guide Online 5/1999) “I thought it was a good way to grow up in films. I get to have the romance, and then having kids… always playing my age. If I do decide to continue in film, it’s a great way to make the transition to adult roles. And if I don’t-which is definitely possible-it would be a nice last thing to do.” (The Telegraph 7/1999)
This year Natalie also modelled although she didn’t like it when she did it before she actually became a film star. She recalls: “One year, a local dance supply company came to my dance class looking for girls to be in its catalog. I did it and I hated it. It was so boring! So not stimulating. I couldn’t handle it.” (Sassy Magazine 3/1996) She starred in designer Isaac Mizrahi’s “Inside every woman there’s a star” ad campaign for his Isaac line and apparently enjoyed it. The photographs shot by Dewey Nicks fueled constant comparisons with Audrey Hepburn. Mizrahi himself praises Natalie: “There are not enough superlatives for this girl, she is such a gifted actress and then, to top it off, what she looks like! I have this strong feeling that she is going to be a legend.” (Vogue (UK) 8/1999) He was a bit sceptical about her protective parents who were always at her side when she worked on movies watching over her. But after he had met them he understood their motivation. “They value her, and they weren’t going to let her go down the scary path so many actresses go down. I think that’s why Natalie feels lighthearted; she feels cared for. I think her parents are doing everything right. She’s sort of a miracle, that she hasn’t become this egomaniacal little bitch like the kid stars you hear about. She was an absolute dream to work with.” (Vanity Fair #465 5/1999)
But even if it looks as if there was always sunshine in her movie life, here and there some critical remarks came to the surface. Natalie politely refused to tell any names, though. “I’ve been treated badly by producers and I definitely speak up then – the way they make me work, the conditions. I am not difficult at all and I’m a really hard worker, but I have had some very high demands made of me. People have wanted me to break the law by overworking. Breaking child labour laws means they lose less money. But those are laws for a reason.” (The Telegraph (UK) 7/1999)
On her fifteenth birthday she was in Hollywood, and spent four hours putting in an appearance at an AIDS charity event. Her summer she spent at theater camp in the Catskills. Both, “Mars Attacks” and “Everyone Says: I Love You” premiered in December bringing Natalie back into the limelight of TV-shows and print media interviews. Because of all the other famous people in these films, she remained in the background, though.
Surprisingly Natalie Portman withdrew from the starring role in “The Horse Whisperer” to appear in The Diary of Anne Frank on Broadway instead. Ever since she read the book during the shooting of “The Professional” she felt drawn to the character of Anne Frank. Producer David Stone, who initiated the project, says of the preliminary reading, “Natalie was so magnificent that not only was she crying during the last scene, but so were the other actors; their mouths were agape at this girl.” (Boston Magazine 10/1997) So she got the part of Anne Frank.
This commitment even forced George Lucas to rearrange the filming schedule for “Episode I” a bit. In the middle of June the first scenes were shot in London, then in July the crew went to Italy for two weeks and to Tunisia for three weeks. But making “Episode I” wasn’t all fun for Portman. “This is the first job job I’ve had,” she says. “Every other acting job was more like playing. [...] So I woke up at six in the morning and got home at 9:30 at night. In Tunisia, it was over a hundred Fahrenheit – the locals don’t even go out during the day – and we worked from 3 a.m. to 5 p.m.” (W Magazine 11/1997) She admits that “on Star Wars, all of a sudden, it didn’t feel like fun anymore; it was very hard work, I was working sixteen hours a day! But, as work, it’s really fun.” (IMDb 8/2000) Eventually they went back London. “I kind of envisioned everyone being in the same hotel-playing and hanging out,” she says. “But Ewan and Liam have wives and kids. And Jake was only eight.” Lucas finally took pity on her and flew in one of her friends from New York. Until then she had been living there alone with her mother. But not only had she the troubles every adolescent goes through, her work as an actress changed as well. “I’d always been treated like a kid on sets,” Portman says. “Now I was, like, an adult, and I kind of wasn’t ready for it. It’s a big mind change.” (Premiere Magazine 5/1999)
Still she enjoyed shooting the film. “It was hard work, but I loved the people that worked with. All the actors are so nice. Ahmed Best is awesome. Ewan McGregor is so cool. Jake Lloyd is the cutest kid, and Liam Neeson is the best guy. And George is an amazing person, really nice and intelligent and a great director. He is so efficient, and the crew is awesome. The crew was so cool.” (Star Wars Insider #44 5/1999) Natalie Portman then returned to school, just to leave again when the rehearsals for “The Diary Of Anne Frank” began. During the preparations for the play, an adaptation of Frances Goodrich and Albert Hackett’s play (which won a Pulitzer and a TONY) by playwright and screenwriter Wendy Kesselman, that included new material from the 1995 version of the diaries, Portman wrote the following article:
We rehearse six days a week, seven hours a day (six hours if we’re doing well). School days, I wake up at 7:15, leave for school at 8:00, go to English class, physics and gym. Then, at 10:30, a car picks me up at school and drives me to Manhattan (a one-hour drive). Rehearsal begins at 11:30. We break for lunch from 2:00 to 3:00, and during that time I am tutored in one of the classes that I have missed at school: history, French, math or Japanese. Rehearsal ends by 7:30 PM, and I get tutored again from 7:30 to 8:30. On weekends, I get tutored before and after work both Saturday and Sunday. A car drives me home each day, and I go to sleep. After a month of rehearsal, I will leave for Boston where we will open the show, fix it if necessary, and basically prepare for New York City. We will open in December in New York and perform eight shows a week. We will have Mondays off and do two shows on Wednesdays and Saturdays. While I’m on Broadway, I will go to school full-time. I will finish playing Anne Frank toward the end of the school year. If my schedule sounds hectic, it is. I’m always pressed to finish homework, study for tests, learn lines. But I’m really excited to bring this show to people, and my parents and friends keep me sane. I go out with my friends at least one night a week, and that maintains my energy because I feel then that I have balanced work, school and play. I have the greatest friends in the world. They’re fun, nice, and they have never acted weird about my being an actress.
When I was twelve, I was in Paris filming The Professional. I was living with my mother; my father was working, so he only visited every other weekend. One weekend we went to Anne Frank’s house in Amsterdam. I bought a copy of her diary there and began to read it at my father’s urging. I became so entwined in her writing that I did nothing else for the next week until I finished it. I wouldn’t hear what people were saying. I got yelled at all the time.
For those of you who don’t know, Anne Frank was a 13-year-old Jewish girl who was living in Holland when Hitler sent a notice for her older sister, Margot, to go work in a labor camp. Their family had already experienced a lot of anti-Semitism, and this was the final straw that made them go into hiding. They lived in a secret part of her father’s warehouse for two years. While there, Anne kept a diary, documenting not only the progression of the war, but also her feelings about life, love and maturation.
This is the most honest book I’ve ever read because it is a true diary. It made me feel as if someone understood me. Anne Frank wrote about things that every teenager goes through but doesn’t really discuss openly. At the end, the family and the other people they hid with were caught and sent to concentration camps. This horrific ending brings even more meaning to her diary. Her faith in humanity, even when she was starving and sick in the attic – all because she was Jewish – had a huge influence on me. She believed in good and she believed that people were good at heart, even when everything pointed in the other direction.
I decided to do this play because I am truly convinced that people need to be constantly reminded of compassion. We have starving people, war-torn countries and children who will not have the chance to change the world as they should. This sounds cliched and idealistic, I know, but it really is what the world is like, and people must remember that.
I also have a personal attachment to the play because my great-grandparents, my great-uncle and several other family members were murdered by the Nazis during World War II. I think that the world must acknowledge and understand how useless hatred and racism are, and fight against these problems. Every time I hear a racist, an anti-Semitic or any other hateful slur, I am reminded that people have not yet learned. We will soon perform the play and spread the message to our audiences – we hope. It is the least I can do in tribute to Anne Frank, who has helped me become a better human being. Every day, when I go to rehearsal, petty problems that seem like traumas are put back into perspective and become trivial. I can imagine a time when our generation is made up of parents and educators who are compassionate and caring. If we begin now to strive towards that goal, we may begin to reach it. (Seventeen Magazine 1/1998)
The play stayed for a month at the Colonial Theater in Boston before it had its premiere on Broadway at the Music Box Theater in early December. The cast featured Broadway veterans Harris Yulin, Linda Lavin, Austin Pendleton and George Hearn (as Anne’s father). “I’m not religious, but I speak fluent Hebrew and even dream in Hebrew when we visit there, once or twice a year. I have strong feelings about my people and my country. We don’t even belong to a temple; it’s more about a sense of patriotism,” says Portman who taught the other actors the Hebrew songs that were sung in the play. (Boston Globe 10/1997) One of her father’s uncles was murdered in the street, while her paternal great-grandparents were killed at Auschwitz. “So I mean, it’s very, very close to us,” she says of Anne Frank’s story, adding “I can’t imagine not knowing your grandparents.” (Boston Magazine 10/1997)
“She’s so centered, so together,” praised Lapine the actress. “She has a kind of maturity many adult actors don’t have.” (Vanity Fair #465 6/1999) and he added: “She has a magnetic quality, the same that one imagines Anne Frank would have had. What Natalie has is real emotional presence and intelligence. Boy, is she smart.” (Harper’s Bazaar 11/1997)
By the end of May Natalie Portman left the production of Anne Frank being rewarded with a Tony nomination and raves from the theater critics. All the while she had been attending school during day, taking classes like history, honors physics, math theory, French honors and Japanese II. Looking back on the play she recalls: “It was really amazing. But those were my most difficult days. I thought you got all your crying out on stage, and then you were fine, but anything would set me off. You get so emotional because on stage, you cry five or six times, and you’re doing this show eight times a week. [...] Doing Anne Frank was definitely an amazing experience, and it really shaped me. From the beginning to the end, I grew up. It was kind of perfect, because I went from being a girl to being a woman, and that’s how Anne progresses in the play.” (Jane Magazine 9/1999)
Earlier she had been by been approached by Wayne Wang to star in film “Anywhere But Here”, based on the Mona Simpson novel with the same title. But after reading the script Natalie refused the part of Ann. “In the original script there was a sex scene, and I want to emphasize that I don’t have any problems with sex scenes on film,” Portman said. “I’m not into censorship, but I just wasn’t prepared to do the scene at that point in my life.” But she also respected the integrity of the producers and screenwriter Alvin Sargent. “I didn’t really want to change their whole idea of the film, because I thought it was so well written, so I simply turned down the role and said I was not prepared to do it.” It was at this point that Wang and Susan Sarandon, who played Ann’s mother, sprang to Portman’s support, saying the young actress deserved respect for her position and that they weren’t prepared to proceed with the project if she was no longer involved. Then, to Portman’s “surprise,” she received a new script a week later and discovered that her controversial scene with Corbin Alldred, who plays an admiring teenage friend in the movie, had been extensively reworked. “It was really wonderful,” Portman said later, “and they did it by their own choice, so I don’t really feel I’ve ruined their art or anything, and I think the scene still works. I also think filmmakers should try to be more creative. I think the scene gets across the same message without having to be explicit and without having to exploit someone who’s young.” (The Ottawa Citizen 10/1999) She continues: “I think probably people view me as a goody-goody, which isn’t necessarily true. I mean, I’m a human being. I’m not an angel.” (CNN 11/1999) – still she has to admit that “I’ve never tried smoking, I don’t drink, I’ve never tried any drugs. I don’t condemn people who do; I’ve just never wanted to. I don’t really like high-school parties. My closest friends are very straight, compared with a lot of other kids.”
“She’s a really smart girl who has had a very rarefied upbringing, who has been raised with a lot on confidence and self-esteem, so she seems older than she is in many ways,” says Susan Sarandon. “I felt at times that I was working with an equal. She has a natural grace that doesn’t make her seem as if she’s of her generation.” Natalie herself is aware of her generation’s inclination to convenience. “I think a lot of people my age are behind. They’re less mature than they should be. A lot of kids I know have kind of been handed everything. I didn’t come from a hard-knock life, but I’ve worked hard. Most of the people where I live get their car on their 16th birthday. Most of them don’t really care about school. I see a lot of people who seem to have no interests. There’s a lack of individualism. They’re born into a world where you don’t have to prove anything to anybody. A lot of families have inherited their businesses; others have worked so hard they want their families to be comfortable, so they’re not pushing their kids. I’ve gravitated toward friends that are more rounded-toward people with ambitions.” (Vanity Fair #465 6/1999)
In June she started filming “Anywhere But Here” in Los Angeles. “George never once suggested guidelines for the movies I do between the Star Wars films. He knows that his movies are not the centre of my life. He knows I’ll be going to college, so he has scheduled our next shoot in Australia for my summer break. He has three of his own children and has incredible respect for education.” (Calgary Sun 5/1999) The movie is apparently a far cry from “Episode I”, still Natalie says, “I love it as much as Star Wars!” It’s a story about an excentric, irresponsible mother and her teenage daughter who move to Beverly Hills and struggle to make their way there. The film allows Sarandon and Portman to display all facettes of their characters’ relationship. Portman’s performances reminds one of her role in “Developing”, but this time she has more time and a more obnoxious counterpart in Sarandon’s Adele. Asked about her own life she answers: “I fight with my mom just like any teenager, but I’m very close to her.” (YM Magazine 10/1999)
In May “Star Wars: Episode I: The Phantom Menace” opened in the United States. The effect it had on Natalie Portman’s life can be described with one word: Exposure. “The thing I feared most has begun to happen. People are becoming too interested in me as a person and not me as an actress. I have purposely tried to keep my personal life out of the public domain, but it’s getting harder with each passing week.” (Calgary Sun 5/1999) Her face appeared on merchandise and soda cans all over the world, she had to give countless interviews and soon bootlegs of the movie were spread all over the world via the internet. Untouched by all the excitement about Star Wars, Portman also wrote an article for the TIME magazine entitled “From Teen To Teen: Thoughts From a Young Actor” which dealt with her adolescence and what influence the diary of Anne Frank had on it. She finally got her driver’s license in May as well. Despite all this she graduated from high school with honors in June. Earlier that year she had her wisdom teeth removed while preparing for her finals. She also found time to teach dance to fifth and sixth-graders in the inner city with some classmates.
In the interviews for the promotion of the film she talked a lot about Amidala’s impressive costumes which helped her to impersonate the young queen: “I’m so lucky to have been able to wear them. I think they’re some of the most beautiful – if not the most beautiful – costumes ever made for film. Trisha Biggar did an unbelievable job, and the people who made the original sketches did too. [...] It was just unbelievable, and it really helped me with the character, too – because you carry yourself so much differently when you’re wearing that kind of gear. [...] To put on, it really didn’t take very long. Hair and makeup is probably about two hours – that was long. But the costumes snap on, snap off – because if I had to go to the bathroom or something, you don’t want to take all day.”
She also changed her voice for the role: “George wanted me to do something very different than myself. So he suggested the accent be in a deeper tone of voice. I worked with a dialect coach for about two days to make up a “nothing” accent that’s kind of unidentifiable and all over the place – an accent that was somewhat reminiscent of the older actresses like Lauren Bacall and Katherine Hepburn, who had that kind of regal tone.” (Star Wars Insider 1/2000) “After we completed the film, George electronically modulated it even more.” (Calgary Sun 5/1999)
The consequences of Star Wars she describes as followed: “Professionally, participation in a success increases your commercial value. From now on, I am a product that allows a movie to be more easily sold. It’s in particular thanks to that that I could make an independent film this summer: it found its financing when I accepted the role. Personally, the success of “Star Wars” modified the nature of my public, of my fans. Now, I interest more kids of 10-12 years than men of ripe age and, frankly, I prefer that.” (La Libre Belgique 2/2000)
The title of that independent film was “Where The Heart Is”, an adaption of the Oprah Winfrey-endorsed novel by Billie Letts with the same title. Directed by Matt Williams, the movie also stars Ashley Judd and Stockard Channing, with a cameo appearance by Sally Field. Portman who accepted 48 hours after receiving the script explains her choice: “I was looking for a film to do during summer. This script was just so great, so quirky and different from everything else. A lot of the scripts I get are really just bland. What really impressed me was it was a good-natured, sweet story which is really unusual to find because everything’s trying to be edgy, cool and cutting-edge.” (The Sunday Telegraph 8/2000) Although she was brought up completely different than her character Novalee, she can relate to her: “There are definite parallels during this period of my life,” says Portman. “I’m going from living dependent on other people to making my own movement to take care of myself and in turn take care of others. You discover that not everyone’s good and people will disappoint you. It’s disillusioning. But rather than think everyone evil, you say, ‘I’ve got to be more careful,’ and there are people I can find who will be true friends.” (Boston Herald 4/2000)
It was the first time that she did a film without being accompanied by one of her parents. She enjoyed it, because “everyone was so much fun to work with. There was a lot of energy and spirit on the set. Even in the heavier scenes, it was light between the scenes. [...] It was an unusually happy set.” (Entertainment Tonight 4/2000) “We had the best time. Yeah. [...] It was so fun [...] Austin, Texas is one of the greatest cities in the country, I think, that I’ve been to. [...] And it was just so fun. And our cast was very close. And the crew. And, you know, we would hang out on weekends. And there’s a lot to do in Austin, too. So, it was really fun.” (The Today Show 4/2000)
Shortly after she had finished shooting “Where The Heart Is” in Texas, Portman flew to the Toronto and joined Wayne Wang and Susan Sarandon at the Toronto Film Festival where “Anywhere But Here” had its premiere. Afterwards she returned to the East Coast to attend her first classes at a New England Ivy League college and to move into a dorm there. Although she it meant leaving her parents and home, she is happy with the situation. “I live with three room mates on the college campus. It’s great. I love it. [...] I’m talking chemistry, a seminar on the Russian novel “War And Peace” and a writing class that’s required on “Theories of Influence”. So I’m reading a lot of psychology books. I’m also taking a course in Israeli culture.” (J17 Magazine 1/2000) In November “Anywhere But Here” opened in cinemas in North America. Its lack of success made clear that her participation in Star Wars hadn’t made her a movie star, still it shows that she’s everything but run of the mill. After all, it was her role as Ann that scored her first major award nomination, as Best Supporting Actress at the Golden Globes.
This year Natalie Portman made the decision to major in psychology at college. In April “Where The Heart Is” premiered on North American screens. During the interviews for the movie (held in Los Angeles and New York) she talked a lot about her college life and about the love scene in the film, yet another first in her career. “I keep saying it was the ideal situation,” Portman says, “because James [Frain] was a very close friend of mine, so we were very comfortable with each other. But there was nothing romantic going on, so it was kind of ideal. And the cast and crew that were around during the day I was very comfortable with. But it’s just strange to be kissing someone not by choice. Not any insult to James, but you know, I’m not in love with him or crushy with him. So it was strange to be told to kiss someone, and while you’re kissing they were, like, screaming things out at us. Like, ‘Turn your head more to the left, face the camera more, turn your body so we can see you!’ That kind of thing. That was just really bizarre. But I think it was appropriate for the film, and that’s why I decided to do it after many years of deciding not to do love scenes.” (Hollywood.com 4/2000)
Nevertheless she enjoyed making the movie a lot of as she looks back on it, especially the work with Ashley Judd with whom she had most of her scenes: “Ashley is great. I only have amazing things to say about her.” (Access Hollywood 4/2000) She sounds quite amused when she recalls “Well physically, they gave me some boobs. They gave me different hairstyles, more mature makeup. When people physically buy that you’re older than you are, it helps a lot in your confidence and acting more mature.” (Hollywood.com 4/2000)
Portman’s participation in the Public Theater Shakespeare-in-the-Park production of “The Seagull” (written by Anton Checkhov, translated by Tom Stoppard) along with Meryl Streep and Kevin Kline had already been confirmed by then, but director Mike Nichols was still looking for a suiting location. The fact that Portman would only do it during her summer vacations delayed the whole production for a year. This year’s summer vacation she spent in Sydney filming “Episode II”. This commitment included short visits to Tunisia and Italy as well. Again, her parents weren’t with her on the set (they visited her, though). Instead she had two friends with her who got jobs as co-workers, and, of course, Hayden Christensen, who has probably better chances to play with light-sabers than Natalie. Still she jokes: “I can’t wait till they have girl-light-saber fights, that would be awesome.” (The Big Breakfast Show 7/1999)
In spring Natalie returned to London to film some additional scenes for “Episode II”. Apart from that she stayed out of the limelight. Meanwhile the production of “The Seagull” finally took shape. Rehearsals began in June shortly after her 20th birthday which she celebrated in a club in New York, just like the two previous ones. By the end of July the first public performance took place at the Delacorte Theater where the play would stay until the end of August. The demand for tickets was enormous and People spent 16 hours and more in line to get ‘the hottest ticket in town’ all through the night on the street and in Central Park. Natalie was by far the youngest cast member. She harmonized perfectly with the cast, especially with Philip Seymour Hoffman’s Konstantin who is desperately in love with Nina (Portman).
Natalie spent a lot of time doing research on Checkhov so she could impersonate her character properly. “Nina’s really complicated. On a very surface reading, she seems to be this innocent ingenue who’s so entranced with the glory of leading an artistic life. So when she has an affair with Trigorin, an older man, the Kevin Kline character, at first you think, Oh, he’s taking advantage of her. You think he has nothing better to do than destroy her like she’s just some seagull shot down for sport. But there are all these little clues in the writing. And my reading is that she’s sort of going after him. She’s not the seagull, because in the end he hasn’t destroyed her. She’s calculated. And she’s not quite as innocent as you think.” (Nylon Magazine 8/2001)
Ever since she started acting she wasn’t sure how long she will pursue this career. “I’m taking it day by day.” Natalie says. “Right now I like acting, but if something else sparks my interest in college, I’ll do that. It’s so limiting to say, ‘This is it for the rest of my life.’ There are so many things that interest me.” Apparently she’s still able to juggle movies and college. “I feel like I’m having the best of both worlds.” (Vanity Fair #465 5/1999) “I don’t think I’ll ever be satisfied just doing one thing.” (The Sunday Telegraph 8/2000) “I’m taking next semester off, but I haven’t made any commitment yet. When I choose something, it will be for the director. I’m very director-oriented right now,” says the now 20-year old, still uncertain about her future. (Nylon Magazine 8/2001)
In fall Natalie Portman had a short cameo-appearance in Ben Stiller’s movie “Zoolander” playing herself. She was also said to have accepted a role in the movie “The Bride Wore Black”, but it never happened. Meanwhile the first harbingers of “Episode II” appeared on the official Star Wars site. A weekend of additional shooting in England would follow in early November.
The year began with Portman abandoning the Merchant/Ivory-project “Le Divorce”. She was replaced with Kate Hudson. In April Natalie responded to an article dealing with the thought of anti-Palestinian rascism being the origin of the conflict in Israel. She ended with the following lines: “I pray for the safety of all those in the region and hope that we may someday use our unique human assets of language and empathy rather than military technology or propaganda to resolve this conflict.” (Crimson Online, April 17, 2002) Her contribution was later taken up by the Washington Post.
Portman appeared in a commercial for Mt. Rainier, a Japanese coffee brand. Around that time she participated in a film called “Domino One”, an independet movie shot on her campus which would only appear a couple of years later. Besides that, “Star Wars: Episode II: Attack of The Clones” premiered in cinemas around the globe. All of a sudden, Natalie Portman was back in the limelight. She appeared in many TV-shows and gave a lot of interviews to promote the movie. Most of them focused on run of the mill topics as her studies (“College was really the first time I had my own ideas.”) and – surprise, surprise – Star Wars (“It’s a great movie to see after you shoot it [...] You’re basically working against a blue screen the whole time, and then all of a sudden you’re seeing yourself in this amazing environment that wasn’t even remotely like that when you were actually shooting. So it’s like seeing travel pictures of yourself, in places you’ve never been.”).
In “Episode II” Padmé Amidala, Portman’s character, falls in love with Anakin Skywalker, who’s supposed to be five years younger than her. “So I’m the cradle-robber, I’m the pedophile in this case.” She laughs. “Hayden [Christensen] is actually two months older than I am, but he was directed to play the character very young, and he’s quite the petulant one in the movie.” Her only comment on a rumored offscreen affair was: “I don’t ever talk about my private life, so i won’t talk about that at all.” She did say, “I’m in a new phase.” (Premiere 6/2002) This had at least partly to do with her 21st birthday, which she celebrated in June. Around that time rumors turned to news that she’d be participating in the Civil War drama “Cold Mountain” along with Jude Law and Nicole Kidman. The film was directed by Anthony Minghella. She also spent a couple of weeks with her parents in Scandinavia during summer.
In early August, Portman shot a film in Paris. Tom Tykwer had chosen her to star in his contribution to a movie called “Paris, je t’aime”. The movie features short films by directors such as Jean-Luc Godard, Woody Allen, Agnes Varda, Sally Potter and Johnny Depp. Each of them filmed a story in one of the 20 Arrondissements of Paris. Tykwer’s short movie “True” tells the story of a young actress who’s framing her blind boy-friend (played by Melchior Beslon) via phone. All in all 98 Scenes were filmed on 31 different locations in only four days. “It was an incredible way to shoot because it stripped the film down to its essential elements – there were never more than five people around, hair and makeup became tangential, and it opened us up to a lot of spontaneity and experimentation.” (True Press Pack 2/2004)
Natalie still doesn’t read her fan mail. “I already get so much weird, gross mail that I can’t read any of my fan letters.” (Allure 6/2002) But she appeared in public several times, including a couple of movie premiers in New York. She also accompanied Jimmy Fallon in a couple of spots for the MTV Video Music Awards, more or less enthusiastic about him. Further, she presented her new dog and “best friend” Charlie to the public respectively the New York Times. “Cold Mountain” was shot in various countries in autumn. Eventually, Portman was supposed to shoot John Duigan’s “Head In The Clouds”. Natalie celebrated New Year’s Eve together with Britney Spears at a party at the Hudson Hotel in New York. She was also reported to have showed up at Moby’s party in the Sky Studios in SoHo.
The year began with the news that Portman would play the female main character in Zach Braff’s drama “Large’s Ark”. “It’s not doing the cliché things that so many independent movies have been doing lately.” (Interview Magazine 7/2004) However, she dropped out of “Head in the Clouds” due to unknown reasons. She got replaced by Charlize Theron. In February it was announced that Mike Nichols (“my mentor, my rock idol, my daddy, my best friend” Elle 12/2004), who had been the director of “The Seagull” in Central Park in 2001, would make a film out of Patrick Marber’s play “Closer”. The preliminary cast included Jude Law, Cate Blanchett, Clive Owen, and Natalie Portman, who meanwhile visited Israel and participated in a charity event of the International Neuroscience Foundation in New York. She also appeared in a “Sesam Street”-episode which was broadcasted in April and did a couple of commercials. “Large’s Ark” was filmed in New Jersey and Los Angeles in April and May during her final semester at Harvard where she graduated with a degree in psychology.”I was doing my finals so I would fly over, take a test or write a paper, then fly back for a scene. It was a lot of work but I’m most productive when I am busiest.” (Time Out London August 4, 2004) Natalie’s parts for “Episode III” were shot in Sydney between June and August. For the first time in ages (it seems) Natalie had some free time, eventually. She attended various events in New York and made a trip to Spain. She also moved into a house in Long Island not too far away from her parents’ place.
Before the first rehearsals for “Closer” began in Manhattan in December, Cate Blanchett, had to drop out because of impending motherhood. Julia Roberts was announced to replace her in September. “Julia Roberts plays the role of Anna, and we were laughing about the dirty words we have to say. You blush at first, and then you get pretty liberal with them. [...] At the start of shooting I gave Julia a necklace that said “Cunt” on it [laughs], then as a wrap gift she gave me one that said “Lil Cunt.” ” (Interview Magazine 7/2004) Also in December “Cold Mountain” opened in U.S. cinemas. Since Natalie’s Role (Sara) turned out to be rather small. “It’s a really beautiful film [...] I am a widow, civil war widow, and I have a baby, and Jude Law’s character is walking back to his love Nicole Kidman and he needs a place to stay for the night.” (Late Night with Conan O’Brien December 19, 2003)
And then there was Charlie: “He’s a little terrier mutt; he’s very attractive. He’s not allowed to have a girlfriend – I’d be too jealous.” (Vogue 3/2006) However, Natalie’s said to have spent New Year’s Eve with Gael Garcia Bernal in Mexico City.
The filming of “Closer” eventually started in January in London and was finished in March. Natalie herself faced a new challenge during the production: “I’m usually the opposite of a Method actor. Just for my own sanity, as soon as they say ‘Cut,’ I’m me again. I have to separate like that. But this is the first time I really, really brought my work home with me. I felt cheated on, I felt betrayed, I felt all those things. It was tough to experience it. The breakup scene was so harsh. Afterward I started crying. I just lost it. Jude did a really good job of being a total asshole to me on camera and then turning around and being the nicest person, going, ‘Sorry! So sorry!’” (Elle 12/2004)
Meanwhile, the premiere of “Garden State” (formerly known as “Large’s Ark”) took place at the Sundance Film Festival in Salt Lake City and “True” (the best movie about love ever made) was finally shown in German cinemas – its only major exposure so far (apart from another run in German cinemas in spring 2005). A couple of additional scenes were shot for “Episode III” in England in April. Eventually, Natalie relocated to Jerusalem for a semester, studying spoken Arabic, spoken Hebrew, the history of Israel, the history of Islam, and the Anthropology of Violence (“It has to do with the way violence is expressed and reacted to in different cultures.” W 5/2005) She also did some promotion for “Garden State” during the summer while the movie became more and more successful throughtout the U.S. Persisting rumors that she would be in a project called “The Smoker” didn’t turn true. A little bit later, Natalie could be seen smoking, anway.
At a meeting with Queen Rania of Jordan (“She’s the smartest, most eloquent, beautiful, kind and giving woman ever.” Time Out London August 4, 2004) Portman learned of the Foundation for International Community Assistance (FINCA). Since then she serves as the Ambassador of Hope for the organisation which helps women in the developing world build businesses through micro-loans. “I think it’s an amazing way to combat many of the side effects of poverty. [...] It’s sustainable, which is key. [...] A few years ago I had a very personal experience – one that I don’t wish to share publicly – with political unrest in Israel. And it made me want to get involved in a productive way, not in a political finger-pointing way.” (Newsweek International July 11, 2005) Ever since she’s travled to Guatemala, Ecuador and Uganda and made lobbying trips to Washington DC, as well. “I lived in Uganda for a month in April with Village Banking clients. I mean, it’s amazing what they have to face on less than a dollar a day. They have five kids, everyone is dying of AIDS and malaira… It’s a really dire situation. But they still have so much hope and work so hard – it was really incredible to see.” (Seventeen 8/2004)
Portman supported John Kerry in the presidential election in autumn appearing at various events either actively speaking or just passively wearing pro-Kerry-shirts. In November there was the premiere of “Closer” in Los Angeles – without the pregnant Julia Roberts, but with Law, Owen, and Portman. The movie deals with the problems of beautiful people who can’t help falling in love with each other. Law commented: “Natalie is wonderful, a warm hearted person and full of humor – but every time you talk to her, at some point she starts such a flash of genius that you can’t help but wonder if she isn’t on this planet since a few hundred years.” (Vogue Germany 11/2005)
The year began with the news that Natalie had been casted as Evey for “V for Vendetta”, an adaptation of a graphic novel by Alan Moore and David Lloyd. (“I read the scene at the kitchen sink, and the scene where I realize that I have to stay in the Shadow Gallery.” Vogue 3/2006) Amos Gitai’s movie “Free Zone” was being filmed around February in Israel. It deals with two women driving around. Finally, Natalie Portman was awarded a Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actress in “Closer” and also got a nomination for the Oscar in the same category. Concerning the ceremony of the latter one, she recounts: “It was my first time and, I don’t know, it was weird,” she says of the event, to which she wore a Lanvin bronze goddess dress that landed her on many a best-dressed list. “I was really honored and grateful to be there, but it was a lot less glamorous than I thought it would be.” (W 3/2005)
In March Natalie arrives in Germany in order to shoot “V for Vendetta” in Berlin. During the first press conference she confirms that she would have her hair cut for the movie. Two months later, the first visual proof appears in Time. “To make a dramatic reversible change always seemed like a fun thing to try.” (ABC Good Morning America March 13, 2006) During the production, James Purefoy got replaced by Hugo Weaving. Also in May the premiere of “Episode III” was celebrated at Cannes for which Natalie took a short break from filming in Berlin. The premiere of “Free Zone” took also place at Cannes a couple of days later. Frankly enough, there wasn’t anything of importance being said in the accompanying interviews. In July Natalie attended the Live 8-concert in Philadelphia where she announced the Dave Matthews Band and Alicia Keys. She also appeared at the Comic-Con in San Diego to promote “V for Vendetta” already.
Natalie spent the last four months of the year in Spain shooting Milos Forman’s “Goya’s Ghosts”. The movie is a costume drama with Javier Bardem and Stellan Skarsgard. It involves the Spanish Inquisition. During her stay in Spain she “read a lot, visited every museum in Madrid about 27 times, and saw a lot of movies.” (Vogue 3/2006)
In February Natalie returned to Berlin to attend the premiere of “V for Vendetta”. In the wake of the movie she gave countless interviews. Sadly enough, she was asked the same five questions over and over again (i.e., hair, mask, violence, graphic novel, Berlin). Unsurprisingly, she praised the movie: “I literally begged for this part. I flew out to San Francisco and read for the role. And thank God I got it. I just think its so rare to find a movie that’s really entertaining and really fun on a big scale and on an impressive visual scale, that’s also really so interesting and is going to give you something to think about afterwards. I’ve not seen a movie like this – that’s this big and this interesting – in at least the past 20 years. Not since the Sixties and Seventies has there been some evidence of a big studio movie being compelling and visually exciting, entertaining, smart and interesting and something you could fight about afterwards. Big, big Hollywood movies have been disappointing until this.” (The Independent March 17, 2006)
Since she played the leading role in “V for Vendetta”, she did most of the promotional work for the movie all around the globe. Here are replies to the top five topics for the record:
On shaving off her hair: “Obviously for the character it’s a very traumatic experience because it’s a violence committed upon her. But for me, I got to choose to do it so it didn’t feel like a violent thing committed against me. It was actually kind of wonderful to throw vanity away for a little bit.” (bbc.co.uk March 10, 2006)
On the mask: “Hugo is just an incredible actor, so even though he had that barrier of not being able to use his face, which we’re so used to using as film actors, he was able to use his physicality and his voice to really create a specific character. Anything I was wondering as an actress, like, “What’s going on behind the mask?” the character was feeling, too, so I could use any of those doubts.” (ComingSoon.net March 13, 2006)
On violence: “The problem with non-violence is that if you have violent neighbors, you cease to exist which is sort of like violence to yourself. That helped me to understand violence, because that self-defensive violence is one that I can understand as a human being, but that can be extended to such a large thing. If you think that you would defend your family from a threat, or you’re a president, and your country’s your family, what if the threat is perceived rather than real? All of these things posed questions that you could talk about for a lifetime, and never really come to solid conclusions.” (blackfilm.com 3/2006)
On the graphic novel: “It’s such a great thing to have an almost storyboard of the movie and to have David [Lloyd]‘s illustrations of what she goes through physically. It was an incredible place to start.” (ComingSoon.net March 13, 2006)
On Berlin: “It was amazing, though. They’ve been through so much. I mean since that time, too. Obviously they went through the whole Soviet splitting of the city and all of that, so. They’ve had another history since and it really feels like it’s changing. It’s really cool.” (The Daily Show March 15, 2006)
Natalie hosting an episode of Saturday Night Live and rapping about Star Wars fans was certainly one of the year’s highlights. In it she laid waste to her super serious image and the short became as big a hit and water cooler moment as she’d had in her career thus far. In spring she went back to work and traveled to Toronto to film Zach Helm’s “Mr. Magorium’s Wonder Emporium”. It’s a children’s movie about a magic toy shop an its keeper (played by Dustin Hoffman). “He’s in his mid 240s, and he decides he’s done, and he’s going to leave the toy store to me. But I’m too scared to take that step.” (Vogue 3/2006)
May brought the news that Natalie was cast for the movie “My Blueberry Nights” by director Wong Kar Wai. Meanwhile, “Paris, je t’aime” was premiered in its entirety at Cannes. Tom Tykwer, who wrote and directed the “True” segment, said in an interview with Canal+: “I didn’t cast the queen of Star Wars but one of the best actresses of her generation.” After spending her birthday in Paris, she was confirmed to play Anne Boleyn in “The Other Boleyn Girl”. June saw the shooting of “My Blueberry Nights” in Nevada (among other places), and later on in Las Vegas. The cast included Norah Jones and, once again, Jude Law. Natalie interviewed Bryce Dallas Howard for Elle (“I’m happy to be on the other side!”), talking about dogs, movies and how she’s not inclined to go to a psychic. (“I’m cynical.”, Elle 8/2006) She also continued lobbying for FINCA and began appearing at talks about it at universities. “I just find it to be such an amazing thing to learn about, how women live in much of the world.” (Entertainment Weekly May 3, 2007) “I’m at my happiest when I’m working on stuff like this,” she remarked, “so it’s a lucky opportunity.” (Harper’s Bazaar 10/2006)
“Goya’s Ghosts” hit European movie theatres in autumn. Shooting “The Other Boleyn Girl” in England prevented Natalie from attending the premieres in Spain. She did some promotion, later on (e.g., attended the Czech premiere in early 2007). “The only thing I knew about the Spanish Inquisition was probably from the Monty Python sketch or History of the World,” she said. “I knew Goya’s paintings very vaguely – I’d been to the Prado gallery once before but, luckily, because we did all the pre-production work in Madrid, I got to go there every day for a month. There was an art historian that took me around and explained everything to me – it was really quite amazing.” (BBC News Online 5/2007) She also talked about how her degree in psychology helped her playing her character Inés (who is imprisoned during the Inquisition for heresy and goes insane, eventually): “I talked to my old professor – she had worked a lot with female prisoners – and she gave me a lot of the common personality disorders you find in women who have spent time in prison.” (Guardian 4/2007) Milos Forman praised Natalie for her “intelligence, talent and versatility. She’s brilliant. She has in a perfect balance her intellectual preparation for the role and instinct. If the intellect prevails or the instinct prevails, you don’t get the best. But when it’s in perfect harmony, as it is in Natalie Portman, then I am thrilled.” (CHUD.com 8/2007)
A Simpson episode featuring Natalie’s voice was aired in February. Natalie also contributed an essay to the book “What does Israel mean to you?”, which was compiled by Alan Dershowitz and includes texts from various politicians, journalists, celebrities and so on. Natalie did reshoots for “Mr. Magorium’s Wonder Emporium” in Toronto in May and appeared in the music video for the song “Dance Tonight” by Paul McCartney. The clip was directed by Michel Gondry and features Natalie as some kind of fairy.
Once again, Cannes witnessed the premiere of one of Natalie’s movies; this time around “My Blueberry Nights”. (To use Dazza’s words: It “blew in and out of Cannes with a chorus of shrugs.”) Natalie couldn’t be there. She plays a gambler called Leslie in the movie, a rather small role, for which she (unlike the movie itself) received some positive press. During the summer, she was involved in filming a documentary about endangered mountain gorillas in Rwanda, shot on location (the documentary, not the gorillas). It’s called “Saving a Species: Gorillas on the Brink” and was broadcasted in October 2007. In other news, a romantic link between Nathan Bogle and Natalie could hardly be denied. She still refused to talk about it in interviews, however.
Natalie returned to England in August along with the cast of “The Other Boleyn Girl” for reshoots. The release of the movie, directed Justin Chadwick, has been postponed to early 2008. Natalie Portman and Scarlett Johansson play Anne and Mary Boleyn, Eric Bana plays Henry VIII. Johansson had already nice things to say about Natalie, like: “She’s a wonderful actor, just a great scene partner. (…) She’s so professional. And she’s not pretentious or anything, just a really nice girl.” (Vogue 4/2007)
The short movie “Hotel Chevalier” was premiered in September at the Venice International Film Festival and released online later that month. It was shot in 2005 in Paris. Natalie plays the ex-girlfriend of Jack (Jason Schartzmann), who visits him in a hotel room and shows a lot of skin. The film was directed by Wes Anderson and represents the introduction to his full-length movie “The Darjeeling Limited”. Natalie commented: “I think it’s beautiful and I think it’s tastefully done and I love the short” (The Observer, November 2007) Natalie appeared in Francesco Vezzoli’s play “Right You Are (If You Think You Are)” alongside Cate Blanchett and Peter Sarsgaard at the Guggenheim Museum in New York, one night only. She also compiled “Big Change: Songs for FINCA”, a charity album available through iTunes. Charlie died.
The end of the year found her acting in the remake of a Danish film called “Brothers”. It features Jake Gyllenhaal and Tobey Maguire (the husband of Natalie’s character) and is directed by Jim Sheridan. Natalie hasn’t seen the original version yet. “I’m not sure if I will because I’m a little scared. I’m always scared that my whole performance will be dictated by either trying to do the same or trying to do something different than what I see someone else do.” (EW.com 11/2007) Meanwhile, “Mr. Magorium’s Wonder Emporium” premiered in November and reached US movie theatres, accompanied by various appearances of Natalie recounting the expected praise of the movie, like: “It’s really unique and sweet.” (NBC Today, November 2007) “I like a good laugh more than anything. [...] I aspire to make many more comedies because we never see enough good ones.” (Buy Magazine 7/2006) Besides her continuing acting jobs, Natalie’s first work as a director is also there on the horizon.
What will the future hold? “I can’t say anything’s forever. I know how much I change from year to year, so it’s hard for me to say what I am going to be like in the future, but I love acting now and that has been a constant in my life.” (Buy Magazine 7/2006) She’s also been travelling a lot besides her acting work, attended numerous movie premieres (of both, her own and other’s movies) and kept promoting FINCA throughout the years. It’s more than likely that she’ll continue on this path for the time being, making more movies and the world a better place.
The main source for this biography was NataliePortman.com with its article archive. Most of the stuff from 2003 to 2006 I gathered from NataliePortman.de. The very small rest was retrieved from a few other homepages and interviews with Natalie Portman in various magazines and tv shows. Apparently there are gaps, but hey, the title of this page says ‘unofficial’ biography.
Further, I couldn’t confirm wether “Mars Attacks!” was shot in 1995 or 1996. It’s unlikely that she did the movie while she went to school, especially regarding her statement: “In the past three years, I’ve only missed two months of school, so it’s not as if acting has taken over my life.” (Los Angeles Times 2/1996) So my conclusion is that “Mars Attacks!” was already shot in summer 1995, simply because I doubt that all the Martians-special effects could have been created within less than half a year. Portmaniacs might notice that sometimes I took whole sentences from other publications. English isn’t my native language, that’s why I ‘borrowed’ some parts where I couldn’t come up with a different way of telling the story during the early years. Sorry.
The story was last updated in November 2007, so pleasure excuse the lack of any children, marriages, divorces which occured in the meantime. Last and maybe least:”I get really bored reading about myself.” (Vanity Fair 4/2006)
 .utcw-2qbk7i {word-wrap:break-word}.utcw-2qbk7i span,.utcw-2qbk7i a{border-width:0px}.utcw-2qbk7i span:hover,.utcw-2qbk7i a:hover{border-width:0px} Tag Clouda tale of love and darkness academy awards aleph articles award show behind the scenes benjamin black swan calendar candids cannes charlie awards dior drawing event fanart fashion film set filming films france interview israel jane got a gun knight of cups l.a. magazine covers magazines miss dior nyc paris photo shoot photos poll public appearance rouge dior sofia coppola still television terrence malick the professional thor 2 trailer twitter video  Search:     Calendar
=======================================================
	background-image: url('http://www.natalieportman.com/wp-content/plugins/wp-polls/images/default/pollbg.gif');
HomeCalendarFilmsFilmographyRumored ProjectsOld, Rumored & Dropped [...]Image GalleryBiographyThe Natalie Portman StoryQuotes by NataliePollsSite RelatedAdvertisingDisclaimerMerchandiseStaffVideo Archive (PHP)
lived in Jerusalem until she was 3 years old. Due to her father’s medical training and career advancements, the family then
moved to Washington D.C. in 1984, and then on to Connecticut in 1988. They moved again to Long Island, New York in 1990. That’s where she lived until her acceptance to Harvard in 1999 which made her stay 4 years in Boston. She lived in Soho NYC for many years, before eventually buying a house and moving to LA.
also some French and Japanese she studied at school and we think she’s picked up some Arabic, Spanish and sign language.
Natalie’s first dog, that we know about, was a Poodle-Schnauzer called Noodles. Her next dog was Charlie, who was clearly beloved as Natalie named her production company after him – Handsomecharlie Films.
her Long Island High School (Syosset High School) in June 1999.She then decided to study Psychology in Harvard for 4 years and graduated on June 5th of 2003. Spent a semester in Israel studying spoken Arabic, spoken Hebrew, the history of Israel, the history of Islam, and the Anthropology of Violence
father. She does not eat meat of any kind. In recent years Natalie has also spent long periods as fully vegan.
Actors Greta Gerwig, Mila ‘sweet lips’ Kunis, Rashida ‘puppies’ Jones, Olivia Thirlby, Macaulay Culkin, Kat Dennings, Bryce Dallas Howard, Jake Gyllenhaal, Susan Sarandon, Ivanka Trump, Anthony Edwards and wife Jeanine Lobell.
Schindler’s List, Amelie, Y Tu Mama Tambien, Days Of Heaven, Tiny Furniture, Please Give, the films of Martin Scorsese, Michael Haneke, Jacques Audiard, Lynne Ramsay, Jane Campion, Alexander Payne and particularly the Coen Brothers.
Michael Fassbender, Joseph Gordon Levitt, Leonardo Di Caprio, Jude Law, Clive Owen, Mos Def, Chris Hemsworth, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Jonah Hill, Eric Bana, Sasha Baron Cohen and Brad Pitt.
Meryl Streep, Isabelle Hupert, Julia Roberts, Kate Winslet, Cate Blanchett, Laura Linney, Julianne Moore, Annette Bening, Olivia Thirlby, Kat Dennings, Rooney Mara, Greta Gerwig, Emma Stone, Holly Hunter and Michelle Williams.
 .utcw-2qbk7i {word-wrap:break-word}.utcw-2qbk7i span,.utcw-2qbk7i a{border-width:0px}.utcw-2qbk7i span:hover,.utcw-2qbk7i a:hover{border-width:0px} Tag Clouda tale of love and darkness academy awards aleph articles award show behind the scenes benjamin black swan calendar candids cannes charlie awards dior drawing event fanart fashion film set filming films france interview israel jane got a gun knight of cups l.a. magazine covers magazines miss dior nyc paris photo shoot photos poll public appearance rouge dior sofia coppola still television terrence malick the professional thor 2 trailer twitter video  Search:     Calendar
=======================================================
                BUY TICKETS, GET MUSIC. Buy any ticket on Fandango this month and get a free Amazon Music code for two songs!
            Within 48 hours of your ticket purchase, you’ll receive an email from Fandango with your Amazon Music promotional code. You’ll receive one promotional code per ticket transaction, limit one per Amazon account. Offer is valid through 9:00 AM PDT 6/30/2014, while supplies last. Amazon.com account required. Amazon Music promotional code expires 11:59pm PDT, 7/30/14. This is a promotional code and is not to be shared, is not for resale, has no cash value, and will not be replaced if lost or stolen. Terms and conditions apply. See www.amazon.com/fandangoMP3 for details.
                                                        News Bites: Disney is making a live-action 'Beauty and the Beast'
                                                        Watch how Emily Blunt almost killed Tom Cruise on the set of 'Edge of Tomorrow'
                                                        J.J. Abrams tweets 'Star Wars' photo from onboard the Millennium Falcon
With an Oscar before the age of 30, repeated comparisons to Audrey Hepburn, and the drool of a thousand critics at her feet, Natalie Portman has emerged as one of the most promising actresses of her generation.  Born in Jerusalem on June 9, 1981, to an artist mother and doctor father, Portman moved to New York when she was three. Raised on Long Island, she was discovered by a modeling agent who signed her on the spot. Her modeling stint led to an audition for Luc Besson's Leon (or The Professional, as it was called in the United States). Due to her age (she was 12 when the film was cast), Portman was initially turned down for the lead role of Mathilda, a girl who asks a hit man (Jean Reno) to train her as an assassin to avenge her brother's death and falls innocently in love with him in the process. However, she ultimately won the part and her 1994 film debut earned a number of positive notices. In interviews, Portman allowed that making her first film in the toughest sections of Spanish Harlem was frightening, but not quite so frightening, she claimed, as going back to school once shooting wrapped. Portman then took on the role of Al Pacino's step-daughter in another demanding film, Michael Mann's Heat (1995). She followed this up with lighter fare, like Mars Attacks! (1996), Everyone Says I Love You, and Beautiful Girls. After turning down title roles in both Lolita and William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet, Portman took on another title role with her 1997 Broadway debut in The Diary of Anne Frank. She stayed with the show until May 1998, during which time she received positive notices for her performance. After lending her voice to The Prince of Egypt (1998), Portman took on her most talked-about role to date, that of Queen Amidala in Star Wars: The Phantom Menace (1999). Despite very mixed reviews, the film went into box-office hyperdrive, further propelling Portman toward her status as a rapidly emerging talent for the new millennium. She would end the 20th century with projects like Wayne Wang's Anywhere But Here and Where the Heart Is.  Offscreen, Portman also did some growing up, enrolling for her college education at Harvard University. A psychology major, she made it clear upon her enrollment that, aside from her role as Queen Amidala in the Star Wars films, she would not accept any film roles for the duration of her education. Perhaps to the disappointment of fans, she stuck to her word, remaining absent from the screen (save Star Wars, Episode II: Attack of the Clones) until she received her degree in 2003. Luckily, upon her return to acting, it was immediately evident that it had been worth the wait.Portman's first foray following graduation was the 2003 Civil War ensemble drama Cold Mountain, alongside Renee Zellweger and Nicole Kidman. But in 2004, Portman was at the forefront of both Garden State, a moody dramedy that endeared her to fans, and Closer, a taught, intimate drama that earned her massive critical accolades, as well as her first Oscar nomination.  In 2005, as the curtain finally closed on the Star Wars franchise with the release of Star Wars, Episode III: Revenge of the Sith, Portman could be seen with a now iconic pixie haircut after shaving her head for a role in the graphic-novel adaptation V for Vendetta. The dystopic action thriller received mixed reviews, but Portman's performance, as usual, earned accolades. Per her usual M.O. as an actress, she would complete a number of independent, arthouse, or otherwise challenging projects for every blockbuster under her belt, like the 2006 Milos Forman directed period drama Goya's Ghosts, and the Wes Anderson 2007 road (or rather, train) movie The Darjeeling Limited.  After appearing opposite Scarlett Johansson and Eric Bana as Anne Boleyn, the famously beheaded wife of King Henry VII in the 2008 period drama The Other Boleyn Girl, Portman turned her high-brow image on its ear the very next year, playing a small town cheerleader turned army wife in the Iraq War drama Brothers. Portman had even more impressive turns awaiting her, however, as 2010 brought the lead role in the hallucinatory Darren Aronofsky film The Black Swan, about an obsessively diligent ballerina who, in order to play both the innocent and dark sides of femininity with the leading role in Swan Lake, must battle her own conflicting inner demons as a woman. Portman trained in ballet rigorously for six months to perform the role, and her efforts paid dividends. Her performance received massive adoration from critics and audiences alike, and she emerged with an Academy Award for Best Actress - which Portman accepted while five months pregnant with a baby she was expecting with fiancé Benjamin Millepied, her choreographer whom she met while filming.Professionally, Portman had a mind to keep a balance with her choice of roles. In a change of pace from the gritty material in The Black Swan, she appeared in the stoner comedy Your Highness, the rom-com No Strings Attached, and the comic-book action thriller Thor. Portman had her first child with husband Benjamin Millepied in June of 2011. ~ Rebecca Flint Marx, Rovi
						and authorize Fandango and its service providers to deliver FanTexts and other promotional texts to your mobile phone. 
                    You can unsubscribe at any time by texting "STOP" or seek help by texting "HELP" to "FNDGO" (36346).
=======================================================
Birth Name: Natalie HershlagBirth Place: Jerusalem, IsraelDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 06/09/1981, GeminiProfession: Actor; model
Natalie Portman made her film debut in 1994’s The Professional. As the only friend of a hit man, the 13-year-old earned rave reviews and quickly landed additional big-screen parts. Yet fame didn’t go to her head and she continued to live at home in Long Island, even while appearing on Broadway. Everything could have changed for Portman when she signed on as the heroine of the long-anticipated Star Wars prequels. But while the blockbuster movies turned her into an international superstar, Portman eschewed the usual pitfalls of young stardom and used her downtime to attend Harvard University. In 2004, a pair of winning performances reminded audiences that the brunette beauty could indeed act: Garden State director/writer/star Zach Braff handpicked her as his loopy love interest, and she netted an Oscar nod and a Golden Globe award as a savvy stripper in Closer. Never willing to be typecast, Portman proved she was not afraid to take risks when she shaved her head on-screen in the 2006 allegorical thriller V for Vendetta. In 2008, she made her directorial debut with the short film Eve, which premiered at the 65th Venice Film Festival. Although she is undoubtedly one of Hollywood’s biggest names, she enjoys a low-profile private life (her reported relationships with Lukas Haas and Gael Garcia Bernal played out away from the tabloids). A vegetarian since childhood, Portman is a staunch advocate for environmental preservation and animal rights.Natalie Portman Fast Facts:
Became close friends with Britney Spears when they appeared in the off-Broadway musical Ruthless in the early '90s. 
Traveled the globe as FINCA International's Ambassador of Hope to promote aiding female-owned businesses in impoverished nations. 
Met with The Social Network screenwriter Aaron Sorkin to fill him in on life at Harvard while Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg attended school there.Natalie Portman Relationships: Shelley Hershlag - MotherAvner Hershlag - FatherAleph - SonDevendra Banhart - Ex-significant OtherBenjamin Millepied - HusbandNatalie Portman Awards: 2010 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role - Winner2004 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Supporting Role - Nominee2011 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Drama - Winner2010 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Leading Actress - Winner2010 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role - Winner2005 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Motion Picture - Winner2000 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Motion Picture - Nominee2004 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role - Nominee2010 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture - NomineeCollege: Harvard University, Cambridge, MA (BS in Psychology, 2003)
Buy Charlie Rose with Samuel Berger; Natalie Portman (May 2, 2000) from Amazon.comFrom Charlie Rose (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $24.95 (as of 06/05/14 5:50 PM EST - more info)Buy Charlie Rose with Paul Simon, Derek Walcott & Mark Morris; James Lapine, Wendy Kesselman, Natalie Portman & Linda Lavin (January 2, 1998) from Amazon.comFrom Charlie Rose (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $24.95 (as of 06/05/14 5:50 PM EST - more info)
