=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Born in precisely the kind of small-town American setting so familiar from his films, David Lynch spent his childhood being shunted from one state to another as his research scientist father kept getting relocated. He attended various art schools, married Peggy Lynch and then fathered future director Jennifer Chambers Lynch shortly after he turned 21. That experience, plus attending art school in a particularly violent and run-down area of Philadelphia, inspired Eraserhead (1977), a film that he began in the early 1970s (after a couple of shorts) and which he would work on obsessively for five years. The final film was initially judged to be almost unreleasable weird, but thanks to the efforts of distributor Ben Barenholtz, it secured a cult following and enabled Lynch to make his first mainstream film (in an unlikely alliance with Mel Brooks), though The Elephant Man (1980) was shot through with his unique sensibility. Its enormous critical and commercial success led to Dune (1984), a hugely expensive commercial disaster, but Lynch redeemed himself with the now classic Blue Velvet (1986), his most personal and original work since his debut. He subsequently won the top prize at the Cannes Film Festival with the dark, violent road movie Wild at Heart (1990), and achieved a huge cult following with his surreal TV series Twin Peaks (1990), which he adapted for the big screen, though his comedy series On the Air (1992) was less successful. He also draws comic strips and has devised multimedia stage events with regular composer Angelo Badalamenti. He had a much-publicized affair with Isabella Rossellini in the late 1980s.
          Born in 1946 in Missoula, Montana, David Lynch was raised in small-town America. After high school, he went to Boston to attend the School of the Museum of Fine Arts. Shortly after that, he planned a three-year trip to Europe to work on his art, but didn't take to it and left after 15 days. In 1977, he released his first film Eraserhead (1977), which, although not critically acclaimed, was noticed by many people, including Francis Ford Coppola, who was rumored to have screenings of it for his cast and crew on the Apocalypse Now (1979) set. After a stream of visually striking films such as Blue Velvet (1986), Lost Highway (1997) and Mulholland Dr. (2001). These films and others, beginning with Blue Velvet (1986), and including his Twin Peaks (1990) T.V. series, feature what has now been added to signature Lynch features, such as vibrant colors, the use of dreams and montage to connect character thought and multiple emotions into one sequence. In addition to that, since Blue Velvet (1986), Lynch has gained the reputation of one of the foremost auteurs in the film industry, and one of the few living auteurs who continually defies cinematic convention. His films continually represent his ideal that films, representing life, should be complex, and in some cases, inexplicable. Due to his decisive innovation and the beautiful confusion of his films, he will always be recognized as if not one of the greatest film-makers, one of the most original. Lynch is an innovative director, and even if his films aren't necessarily realistic, they are real in their representation of what life is: a confusing, irrational series of events that have little purpose, and one makes one's own interpretation of each event, giving life one's own purpose. Lynch wants his films to resonate emotionally and instinctively, and for every person to relate and find its own understanding. As he said, "Life is very, very confusing, and so films should be allowed to be, too". David Lynch is original. He has done things in film-making that D.W. Griffith did in his day. David Lynch will never stop making beauty on the screen.
        Has frequently cast Jack Nance, Kyle MacLachlan, Sheryl Lee,  Laura Dern, Isabella Rossellini, Sherilyn Fenn, Harry Dean Stanton, Michael J. Anderson, Everett McGill, Frances Bay, Dean Stockwell, David Patrick Kelly, Brad Dourif, Catherine E. Coulson, Grace Zabriskie, Ian Buchanan, Alicia Witt, Justin Theroux, Bellina Logan, Laura Harring, and Naomi Watts.
        Has a taste for low/middle frequency noise, dark and rotting environments, distorted characters, a polarized world (angels vs demons, Madonnas vs whores), and debilitating damage to the skull or brain.
        Almost always casts a musician for a supporting role: Sting in Dune (1984); Chris Isaak, David Bowie, Julee Cruise, and 'Miguel Ferrer' (son and former drummer of Rosemary Clooney in Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me (1992); Marilyn Manson and Henry Rollins in Lost Highway (1997); Billy Ray Cyrus, Rebekah Del Rio and Angelo Badalamenti in Mulholland Dr. (2001). Regular collaborator Kyle MacLachlan is also descended from composer Johann Sebastian Bach.
      Ate lunch at Bob's Big Boy in Los Angeles, California, nearly every day for almost eight years in a row.
      Currently (2002) runs his own personally authorized Web site, www.davidlynch.com and has been rumored to appear in the chat area of the site under a more than obvious name.
      Personally approved DVD releases of his movies do not have any chapter stops. This is done because he believes that films are meant to be viewed from beginning to end.
      He is also an artist working in paint and such dynamic elements as live ants and rotting flesh. He also frequently designs and builds the furniture in his films. These can be seen in the documentary about him, Pretty as a Picture: The Art of David Lynch (1997).
      Projects he has written but to date has not produced include "Ronnie Rocket," "Up at the Lake," and "One Saliva Bubble."
      Producer Dino De Laurentiis offered him the chance to direct "Hand-Carved Coffins" based on a Truman Capote work, but Lynch turned it down; to date the project has not been produced.
      After the financial disaster that was Dune (1984), Lynch and Dino De Laurentiis were almost ready to part company but Lynch showed Dino the script for Blue Velvet (1986), which he had been working on for some time, and the two combined talents to make the seminal 1986 classic.
      After George Lucas saw Eraserhead (1977), he offered Lynch the chance to direct Star Wars: Episode VI - Return of the Jedi (1983) but Lynch turned him down. Lynch felt the film would be more Lucas's vision than his own.
      Daughter, Director Jennifer Chambers Lynch (b. 1968), with first wife actress Peggy Lynch. Son, Austin Jack Lynch (b. 1982), with second wife Mary Fisk. Son, Riley Lynch (b. 1992), with film editor Mary Sweeney (she later became his third wife).
      While in college, roomed with Peter Wolf, former lead singer with the J. Geils Band. Lynch kicked him out, however, because he thought Wolf was "too weird."
      His son, Austin Jack Lynch, appeared in an episode of Twin Peaks (1990) as Pierre Tremond, or the Creamed-Corn Kid. His nephew, Jonathan J. Leppell, played Pierre Tremond/Chalfont in the movie Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me (1992). Julee Cruise, who appears in Twin Peaks (1990), is his musical protégée. Lynch wrote the lyrics on her first album, some of the lyrics of her second album, and occasionally plays an instrument on her recordings.
      Biography in: John Wakeman, editor. "World Film Directors, Volume Two, 1945-1985," pp. 621-626 (as David K. Lynch). New York: The H.W. Wilson Company, 1988.
      Insisted his name be struck from the 190-minute Extended Cut of Dune (1984), which was prepared specially for television. That version credits the pseudonymous "Judas Booth" as writer/director. Yet in 2009 - the movie's 25th anniversary - Lynch (by a fan's request) actually signed Booth's name to a vintage "Making of Dune (1984) paperback at West Hollywood's famous Book Soup.
      Has cited Luis Buñuel, Werner Herzog, Federico Fellini, Ingmar Bergman, Stanley Kubrick, and Roman Polanski as some of his influences.
      In addition to excluding chapter breaks in his approved DVD releases of his movies, he hasn't recorded an audio commentary in any of his films. This is because he believes that films speak for themselves.
      Announced at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival that he has been shooting a feature length project on digital video called Inland Empire (2006) for over a year. He also announced that he was so impressed with digital that he was giving up directing projects on film.
      He drew and wrote the comic strip, "The Angriest Dog in the World" that ran in the Los Angeles Reader newspaper throughout the 1980s.
      Is famous (or infamous) for not saying anything on Eraserhead (1977). He lets the viewers decide what it means.
      He was offered the chance to direct Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982), but he turned it down, saying that the script was funny, but it wasn't his thing.
      He was introduced to Isabella Rossellini at a restaurant by a mutual friend when he was in the process of casting Blue Velvet (1986). Struck by her serene European beauty, he told her, "You could be Ingrid Bergman's daughter." 'You idiot,' my friend said to me," Lynch recalled, "'she is Ingrid Bergman's daughter!'"
      Though on the surface his alliance with Mel Brooks on The Elephant Man (1980) would seem unlikely to many, a number of Lynch's films are interpreted as being satirical of traditional Hollywood clichés (Mulholland Dr. (2001), Wild at Heart (1990), Blue Velvet (1986) albeit in a much darker and artistic way than in the films that made Brooks a success (Young Frankenstein (1974), Blazing Saddles (1974), etc.).
      Claims one of his favorite films to be The Wizard of Oz (1939), and has many references to the classic in his films, the most obvious are in Wild at Heart (1990). He has also cited Vertigo (1958) and Glen or Glenda (1953) as his other favorites.
      Has practiced Transcendental Meditation for at least 20 minutes each day since 1973. Now very actively leads his own worldwide organization, the David Lynch Foundation for Consciousness-Based Education and World Peace, that is the midst of a campaign to raise $7 billion to further its goals. As a result, Lynch has not made a film since 2006's Inland Empire (2006).
      Although having planned to study three years with painter Oskar Kokoschka in Austria for three years, he returned to the US after only 15 days.
      Born to Donald Lynch, a research scientist for the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and his wife Sunny, an English language tutor.
      Some of his favorite films of all time are: 8½ (1963), La Strada (1954), Sunset Blvd. (1950), The Apartment (1960), Lolita (1962), Persona (1966), Vargtimmen (1968), Les vacances de Monsieur Hulot (1953), Mon oncle (1958), Rear Window (1954), Vertigo (1958), Stroszek (1977) and The Wizard of Oz (1939).
Sherilyn Fenn, who worked with him in Twin Peaks (1990) and Wild at Heart (1990), later starred in his daughter Jennifer Chambers Lynch's directorial debut Boxing Helena (1993).
      He was so impressed by Sheryl Lee's performance as the dead Laura Palmer in Twin Peaks (1990)' pilot episode that he wrote the role of Maddy Ferguson for her, in order to bring her back in the series.
      The car accident scene in Wild at Heart (1990) came from his impression of actress Sherilyn Fenn as a china doll, and from the idea of seeing a porcelain doll breaking. He told her, "I envisioned this broken China doll, all bloody, and ranting and raving, and it was you".
      Has worked with real-life father-son pair José Ferrer and Miguel Ferrer in Dune (1984) and Twin Peaks (1990); and real-life mother-daughter pair Diane Ladd and Laura Dern in Wild at Heart (1990) and Blue Velvet (1986).
      Directed 3 actors in Oscar nominated performances: John Hurt, Diane Ladd, and Richard Farnsworth.
      Has said that he is an admirer of Ronald Reagan, and supported the Natural Law Party in the 2000 Presidential Election. In both the 2008 and 2012 Presidential Elections, he supported Barack Obama.
      Among the places he lived in his rootless childhood were Missoula, Montana (his birth place), Sandpoint, Idaho (where his family moved when he was only 2 months old), Spokane, Washington, Durham, North Carolina, Boise, Idaho and Alexandria, Virginia (where he attended high school).
      In 2002, Lynch paid $1 million to spend a month studying Transcendental Meditation along with a few other well-heeled adherents in a compound in the Netherlands with the movement's founder, Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. The Maharishi was living in the house, but only communicated with the group via TV conferencing.
      Lodz, Poland. Discussing his plans for building post production film studio in an old factory on Targowa street. [May 2004]
      It's better not to know so much about what things mean or how they might be interpreted or you'll be too afraid to let things keep happening. Psychology destroys the mystery, this kind of magic quality. It can be reduced to certain neuroses or certain things, and since it is now named and defined, it's lost its mystery and the potential for a vast, infinite experience.
      I sort of go by a duck when I work on a film because if you study a duck, you'll see certain things. You'll see a bill, and the bill is a certain texture and a certain length. Then you'll see a head, and the features on the head are a certain texture and it's a certain shape and it goes into the neck. The texture of the bill for instance is very smooth and it has quite precise detail in it and it reminds you somewhat of the legs. The legs are a little bit bigger and a little more rubbery but it's enough so that your eye goes back and forth. Now, the body being so big, it can be softer and the texture is not so detailed, it's just kind of a cloud. And the key to the whole duck is the eye and where the eye is placed. And it has to be placed in the head and it's the most detailed, and it's like a little jewel. And if it was fixed, sitting on the bill, it would be two things that were too busy, battling, they would not do so well. And if it was sitting in the middle of the body, it would get lost. But it's so perfectly placed to show off a jewel right in the middle of the head like that, next to this S-curve with the bill sitting out in front, but with enough distance so that the eye is very very very well secluded and set out. So when you're working on a film, a lot of times you can get the bill and the legs and the body and everything, but this eye of the duck is a certain scene, this jewel, that if it's there, it's absolutely beautiful. It's just fantastic." "Film exists because we can go and have experiences that would be pretty dangerous or strange for us in real life. We can go into a room and walk into a dream. If we didn't want to upset anyone, we would make films about sewing, but even that could be dangerous. But I think finally, in a film, it is how the balance is and the feelings are. But I think there has to be those contrasts and strong things withing a film for the total experience.
      I'm not a real film buff. Unfortunately, I don't have time. I just don't go. And I become very nervous when I go to a film because I worry so much about the director and it is hard for me to digest my popcorn.
      It makes me uncomfortable to talk about meanings and things. It's better not to know so much about what things mean. Because the meaning, it's a very personal thing, and the meaning for me is different than the meaning for somebody else.
      To give a sense of place, to me, is a thrilling thing. And a sense of place is made up of details. And so the details are incredibly important. If they're wrong, then it throws you out of the mood. And so the sound and music and color and shape and texture, if all those things are correct and a woman looks a certain way with a certain kind of light and says the right word, you're gone, you're in heaven. But it's all the little details.
      In Hollywood, more often than not, they're making more kind of traditional films, stories that are understood by people. And the entire story is understood. And they become worried if even for one small moment something happens that is not understood by everyone. But what's so fantastic is to get down into areas where things are abstract and where things are felt, or understood in an intuitive way that, you can't, you know, put a microphone to somebody at the theatre and say 'Did you understand that?' but they come out with a strange, fantastic feeling and they can carry that, and it opens some little door or something that's magical and that's the power that film has.
      I think that ideas exist outside of ourselves. I think somewhere, we're all connected off in some very abstract land. But somewhere between there and here ideas exist. And I think the mind isn't conscious enough to go all the way to where we're connected, but it's conscious of a certain amount of that territory. And when these ideas fly into the conscious part, then you can capture them. But if they're outside of the conscious part, you don't even know about them. So you just hope that you can make the conscious part of your mind bigger or that these ideas will fly into your airspace, so you can shoot them down and grab them and take them home. So that's all you try to do. Sometimes an idea will strike you when you're sitting in a quiet chair. But sometimes an idea will strike you when you're standing. Sometimes music will also help you. If I thought I could just sit still in a quiet place and get ideas, I would do that all the time, but sometimes nothing happens. There's no rhyme or reason to it. But you've got to write them down right away. I forget so many things. Then if I forget it and try to remember it, my whole day is ruined because I can't remember and I feel horrible. And I imagine that it was one of the all time great ideas. And it probably isn't.
      [His films] mean different things to different people. Some mean more or less the same things to a large number of people. It's okay. Just as long as there's not one message, spoon-fed. That's what films by committee end up being, and it's a real bummer to me . . . Life is very, very complicated, and so films should be allowed to be, too.
      I don't think that people accept the fact that life doesn't make sense. I think it makes people terribly uncomfortable. It seems like religion and myth were invented against that, trying to make sense out of it.
      [on plans to build 100 transcendental meditation centers to bring an end to crime and war]: "Peace could be on this Earth this year. It would be a whole new world."
      I like to make films because I like to go into another world. I like to get lost in another world. And film to me is a magical medium that makes you dream...allows you to dream in the dark. It's just a fantastic thing, to get lost inside the world of film.
      All my movies are about strange worlds that you can't go into unless you build them and film them. That's what's so important about film to me. I just like going into strange worlds.
      I'm not sure what these people are saying. Is it that if you depicted no graphic violence, the world would calm down and there would be less violence? Or is it that if you sense certain things about violence and then portray those things in a film, does that make the violence go to another level? Or is the violence in films a way to experience something without having to do it in real life?
      Sex is a doorway to something so powerful and mystical, but movies usually depict it in a completely flat way. Being explicit doesn't tap into the mystical aspect of it either in fact, that usually kills it because people don't want to see sex so much as they want to experience the emotions that go along with it. These things are hard to convey in film because sex is such a mystery.
      I'm convinced we all are voyeurs. It's part of the detective thing. We want to know secrets and we want to know what goes on behind those windows. And not in a way that we would use to hurt anyone. There's an entertainment value to it, but at the same time we want to know: What do humans do? Do they do the same things as I do? It's a gaining of some sort of knowledge, I think.
      My mother refused to give me coloring books as a child. She probably saved me, Because when you think about it, what a coloring book does is completely kill creativity.
      Cigarettes are pretty much my worst vice, and I even stopped smoking for 20 years. I spend most of my free time with my family and working on art.
      Sex was like a world so mysterious to me, I really couldn't believe there was this fantastic texture to life that I was getting to do...it has all these different levels, from lust and fearful, violent sex to the real spiritual thing at the other end. It's the key to some fantastic mystery of life.
      I like things to be orderly. For seven years I ate at Bob's Big Boy. I would go at 2:30, after the lunch rush. I ate a chocolate shake and four, five, six, seven cups of coffee--with lots of sugar. And there's lots of sugar in that chocolate shake. It's a thick shake. In a silver goblet. I would get a rush from all this sugar, and I would get so many ideas! I would write them on these napkins. It was like I had a desk with paper. All I had to do was remember to bring my pen, but a waitress would give me one if I remembered to return it at the end of my stay. I got a lot of ideas at Bob's.
      [on actor Kyle MacLachlan]: "What do we do together? I have a pretty good cappuccino machine, and anytime he gets the urge, he comes on over. We talk about the problems associated with getting a good cup of coffee."
      In a large city I realized there was a large amount of fear. Coming from the Northwest, it kind of hits you like a train.
      As a teenager, I was really trying to have fun 24 hours a day. I didn't start thinking until I was 20 or 21. I was doing regular goof-ball stuff.
      My father was a scientist for the Forest Service. He would drive me through the woods in his green Forest Service truck, over dirt roads, through the most beautiful forests where the trees are very tall and shafts of sunlight come down and in the mountain streams the rainbow trout leap out and their little trout sides catch glimpses of light. Then my father would drop me in the woods and go off. It was a weird, comforting feeling being in the woods. There were odd, mysterious things. That's the kind of world I grew up in.
      [on his 1965 sojourn to Europe to study art] I didn't take to Europe. I was all the time thinking, "This is where I'm going to be painting". And there was no inspiration there at all for the kind of work I wanted to do.
      [on his 1965 sojourn to Europe to study art] I intended to stay three years. Instead, I stayed 15 days! I remember lying in an Athens basement with lizards crawling along the walls and contemplating that I was 7,000 miles from McDonalds!
      [on why his officially sanctioned DVDs contain no chapter stops] It is my opinion that a film is not like a book--it should not be broken up. It is a continuum and should be seen as such.
      Absurdity is what I like most in life, and there's humor in struggling in ignorance. If you saw a man repeatedly running into a wall until he was a bloody pulp, after a while it would make you laugh because it becomes absurd.
      I let the actors work out their ideas before shooting, then tell them what attitudes I want. If a scene isn't honest, it stands out like a sore thumb.
      [on Sheryl Lee and her performance in Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me (1992)] It turns out, at least in my opinion, she's an unbelievable actress and there are things that she's done in this movie that are truly incredible. I haven't seen too many people get into a role and give it as much. So, the big news for me was this person was hired to be a dead girl and turns out to be a great actress and a perfect Laura Palmer.
      [on Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me (1992)] I love that film. I say now that The Straight Story (1999) is my most experimental movie, but up until then, "Fire Walk With Me" was my most experimental film, and some of the things, the combos, you know, like, sequences . . . It was a dark film, but like Peggy Lipton said in an interview, it was just too much in people's faces, and it didn't have the humor of Twin Peaks (1990). So it was what it was supposed to be, but it wasn't what people wanted. It was supposed to be stand-alone, but it was also supposed to be the last week of Laura Palmer's life. And all those things that had been established, they could be pleasant on one level to experience, but unpleasant on another level.
      arking about Elvis Presley's reported comment to one of his backup singers that he thought no one would remember him] That's incredible. Elvis swims in our minds, and in the emotions all through time.
      [on Eyes Wide Shut (1999)] I really love Eyes Wide Shut. I just wonder if Stanley Kubrick really did finish it the way he wanted to before he died.
      [on actress Joan Chen] She's the best thing from China since pasta - and much more beautiful. (People, May 04, 1992)
      [on actress Sherilyn Fenn] She's a mysterious girl and I think that actresses like her who have a mystery - where there's something hiding beneath the surface - are the really interesting ones. (Premiere UK, July 1993)
      I was driving through Central Park with Kyle MacLachlan and on the radio came Crying by Roy Orbison. I started listening to this song and I'm thinking only of Blue Velvet (1986) and I'm thinking this song could appear in the film. Once we were filming in Virginia, I ask for Roy Orbison's Greatest Hits and I hear In Dreams and boom! An explosion goes off in my head. And I think, "This is it." Dennis [Hopper] was supposed to sing that and Dean Stockwell was supposed to listen but Dennis couldn't remember the lines. And I thought, "Wait a minute, Dean will sing and Dennis will listen." It was a magical thing.
      People say my films are dark. But like lightness, darkness stems from a reflection of the world. The thing is, I get these ideas that I truly fall in love with. And a good movie idea is often like a girl you're in love with, but you know she's not the kind of girl you bring home to your parents, because they sometimes hold some dark and troubling things.
      [on The Straight Story (1999)] I wanted the film to have a floating feeling. I particularly wanted that quality to come through in the aerial landscape shots, and it took a lot of explaining to get the helicopter pilots to slow down enough to get the look I was after.
      [on The Straight Story (1999)] Some people still wait for something very bad to happen in the movie. Also, somebody was standing in line for a preview screening and a lady behind them said, 'Isn't it odd that there are two directors named David Lynch.'
      [on 'Richard Farnsworth' in The Straight Story (1999)] A lot of times people say someone was born to play a certain role. If there was ever a case for that, this is it. The film hangs on his performance. There's nobody who could have done it like he did. He has a quality, which is in all the films he's been in, that just makes you want to instantly love this guy. He fits the definition of an actor - a person who makes something real.
      Sometimes when you pass a house and you see that the door's closed, the window blinds are closed, you wonder what's going on in there. We all get feelings from places. Some feelings are happy feelings, and some don't put out such happy feelings. There seems to be something more.
      It's thrilling for me to play an electric guitar. I like to think of it as a gasoline-powered engine. Running rough, with a loud muffler.
      Desiring an idea is like bait on a hook. You can pull them in. If you catch an idea that you love, that's a beautiful day, and you write it down. That idea might just be a fragment of the whole, but now you have even more bait. Thinking about that small fragment, that little fish will bring in more. Pretty soon you may have a script.
      There's a comfort when you realize your ideas are realized. You've worked so that all the elements are working together and it feels complete and correct and you say it's done. Then it goes out into the world, but it doesn't need any more explanation. It is what it is. Cinema is such a beautiful language [but] as soon as people finish a film, people want you to turn it into words. It's kind of a sadness for me: the words are limiting.
=======================================================
David Keith Lynch (born January 20, 1946) is an American film director, television director, visual artist, musician and occasional actor. Known for his surrealist films, he has developed a unique cinematic style. The surreal, and in many cases, violent, elements contained within his films have been known to "disturb, offend or mystify" audiences.[2]
Born to a middle-class family in Missoula, Montana, Lynch spent his childhood traveling around the United States, before going on to study painting at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in Philadelphia, where he first made the transition to producing short films. Deciding to devote himself more fully to this medium, he moved to Los Angeles, where he produced his first motion picture, the surrealist horror Eraserhead (1977). After Eraserhead became a cult classic on the midnight movie circuit, Lynch was employed to direct The Elephant Man (1980), from which he gained mainstream success. Then being employed by the De Laurentiis Entertainment Group, he proceeded to make two films: the science-fiction epic Dune (1984), which proved to be a critical and commercial failure, and then a neo-noir crime film, Blue Velvet (1986), which was critically acclaimed.
Next, Lynch created his own television series with Mark Frost, the highly popular murder mystery Twin Peaks (1990–1991); he also created a cinematic prequel, Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me (1992), a road movie, Wild at Heart (1990), and a family film, The Straight Story (1999), in the same period. Turning further towards surrealist filmmaking, three of his subsequent films operated on "dream logic", non-linear narrative structures: Lost Highway (1997), Mulholland Drive (2001) and Inland Empire (2006). Meanwhile, Lynch embraced the Internet as a medium, producing several web-based shows, such as the animation Dumbland (2002) and the surreal sitcom Rabbits (2002).
Over his career, Lynch has received three Academy Award nominations[3] for Best Director and a nomination for best screenplay. Lynch has won France's César Award for Best Foreign Film twice, as well as the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival[4] and a Golden Lion award for lifetime achievement at the Venice Film Festival. The French government awarded him the Legion of Honor, the country's top civilian honor, as a Chevalier in 2002 and then an Officier in 2007,[5] while that same year, The Guardian described Lynch as "the most important director of this era".[6] Allmovie called him "the Renaissance man of modern American filmmaking",[7] while the success of his films has led to him being labelled "the first popular Surrealist."[8]
"My childhood was elegant homes, tree-lined streets, the milkman, building backyard forts, droning airplanes, blue skies, picket fences, green grass, cherry trees. Middle America as it's supposed to be. But on the cherry tree there's this pitch oozing out – some black, some yellow, and millions of red ants crawling all over it. I discovered that if one looks a little closer at this beautiful world, there are always red ants underneath. Because I grew up in a perfect world, other things were a contrast."
Lynch was born in Missoula, Montana on January 20, 1946.[10][11] His father, Donald Walton Lynch, was a research scientist working for the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and his mother, Edwina "Sunny" Lynch (née Sundholm), was an English language tutor[10] whose grandfather's parents had immigrated to the United States from Finland in the 19th century.[12] Lynch was raised a Presbyterian.[13][14] The Lynch family often moved around according to where the USDA assigned Donald. It was because of this that when he was two months old, David Lynch moved with his parents to Sandpoint, Idaho, and only two years after that, following the birth of his brother John, the family again moved, this time to Spokane, Washington. It was here that his sister Martha was born, before they once more moved, this time to Durham, North Carolina, then to Boise, Idaho and then to Alexandria, Virginia.[11] Lynch found this transitory early life relatively easy to adjust to, noting that he found it fairly easy to meet new friends whenever he started attending a new school.[15] Commenting on much of his early life, Lynch has remarked that "I found the world completely and totally fantastic as a child. Of course, I had the usual fears, like going to school ... For me, back then, school was a crime against young people. It destroyed the seeds of liberty. The teachers didn't encourage knowledge or a positive attitude."[16] Alongside this schooling, he joined the Boy Scouts, although he would later note that he only "became one so I could quit, and put it behind me." He rose to the highest rank of Eagle Scout. It was through being an Eagle Scout that he was present with other Boy Scouts outside of the White House at the inauguration of President John F. Kennedy, which took place on Lynch's birthday in 1961.[17]
Lynch had become interested in painting and drawing from an early age, becoming intrigued by the idea of pursuing it as a career path when living in Virginia, where his friend's father was a professional painter.[18] At Francis C. Hammond High School in Alexandria, Virginia, he did poorly academically, having little interest in school work, but was popular with other students, and after leaving decided that he wanted to study painting at college, thereby beginning his studies at School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston in 1964, where he was a roommate of Peter Wolf.[19] Nonetheless, he left after only a year, stating that "I was not inspired AT ALL in that place", and instead deciding that he wanted to travel around Europe for three years with his friend Jack Fisk, who was similarly unhappy with his studies at Cooper Union. They had some hopes that in Europe they could train with the expressionist painter Oskar Kokoschka at his school. Upon reaching Salzburg, however, they found that he was not available and, disillusioned, returned to the United States after spending only 15 days of their planned three years in Europe.[20]
Screenshot from Six Men Getting Sick (Six Times). The film was an animation based upon Lynch's paintings.
Back in the United States, Lynch returned to Virginia, but since his parents had moved to Walnut Creek, California, he stayed with his friend Tony Keeler for a while. Before he decided to move to the city of Philadelphia, he decided to enroll at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, after advice from Jack Fisk, who was already attending it. He preferred attending the college far more than his previous art college in Boston, claiming that "In Philadelphia there were great and serious painters, and everybody was inspiring one another and it was a beautiful time there."[21] It was here that he began a relationship with a fellow student, Peggy Reavey, and they were married in 1967. The following year, Peggy gave birth to their daughter Jennifer. Later describing this situation, Peggy stated that "[Lynch] definitely was a reluctant father, but a very loving one. Hey, I was pregnant when we got married. We were both reluctant."[22] As a family, they moved to the Fairmount neighborhood of Philadelphia, where they were able to purchase a large 12-room house for a relatively low $3,500 due to the high crime and poverty rates in the area. Later describing living there, Lynch stated that "We lived cheap, but the city was full of fear. A kid was shot to death down the street ... We were robbed twice, had windows shot out and a car stolen. The house was first broken into only three days after we moved in ... The feeling was so close to extreme danger, and the fear was so intense. There was violence and hate and filth. But the biggest influence in my whole life was that city."[23] Meanwhile, in order to help financially support his family alongside his art studies, he took up a job printing engravings.[24]
It was at the Philadelphia Academy that Lynch made his first short film, which was titled Six Men Getting Sick (Six Times) (1967). He had first come up with the idea when he developed a wish to see his paintings move, and he subsequently began discussing the idea of creating an animation with an artist named Bruce Samuelson. When this project never came about, Lynch decided to work on a film alone, and so purchased the cheapest 16mm camera that he could find in order to do so. Taking one of the abandoned upper rooms of the Academy as a working space, he spent $200 – which at the time he felt to be a lot of money – to produce Six Men Getting Sick.[25] Describing the work as "57 seconds of growth and fire, and three seconds of vomit", Lynch played the film on a loop at the Academy's annual end-of-year exhibit, where it shared joint first prize with a painting by Noel Mahaffey.[26][27] This led to a commission from one of his fellow students, the wealthy H. Barton Wasserman, who offered him $1000 to create a film installation in his home. Spending $478.28 of that on purchasing the second-hand Bolex camera "of [his] dreams," Lynch produced a new animated short, but upon getting the film developed, realized that the result was simply a blurred, frameless print. As he would later relate, "So I called up Bart [Wasserman] and said, 'Bart, the film is a disaster. The camera was broken and what I've done hasn't turned out.' And he said, 'Don't worry, David, take the rest of the money and make something else for me. Just give me a print.' End of story."[28]
Using this leftover money, Lynch decided to experiment on making a work that was a mix of animation with live action, producing a four-minute short called The Alphabet (1968). The film starred Lynch's wife Peggy as a character known as The Girl, who chants the alphabet to a series of images of horses before dying at the end by hemorrhaging blood all over her bed sheets. Adding a sound effect, Lynch used a broken Uher tape recorder to record the sound of his baby daughter Jennifer crying, creating a distorted sound that Lynch felt to be particularly effective. Later describing where he had got inspiration for this work from, Lynch stated that "Peggy's niece was having a bad dream one night and was saying the alphabet in her sleep in a tormented way. So that's sort of what started The Alphabet going. The rest of it was just subconscious."[27][29]
Learning about the newly founded American Film Institute, which gave grants to film makers who could produce for them both a prior work and a script for a new project, Lynch decided to send them a copy of The Alphabet along with a script that he had written for a new short film, one that would be almost entirely live action, and which would be named The Grandmother.[30] The Institute agreed to help finance the work, initially offering him $5000, out of his requested budget of $7,200, but later granting him the further $2,200 which he needed. Starring people he knew from both work and college and filmed in his own house,[31] The Grandmother revolved around the story of a neglected boy who "grows" a grandmother from a seed to care for him. The film critics Michelle Le Blanc and Colin Odell later remarked that "this film is a true oddity but contains many of the themes and ideas that would filter into his later work, and shows a remarkable grasp of the medium".[32]
In 1971 Lynch moved with his wife and daughter to Los Angeles, where he began studying filmmaking at the AFI Conservatory, a place that he would later describe as being "completely chaotic and disorganized, which was great ... you quickly learned that if you were going to get something done, you would have to do it yourself. They wanted to let people do their thing."[33] He began writing a script for a proposed work titled Gardenback, which had "unfolded from this painting I'd done." In this venture he was supported by a number of figures at the Conservatory, who encouraged him to lengthen the script and add in more dialogue, something that he reluctantly agreed to do. Nonetheless, with all the interference on his Gardenback project, he became fed up with the Conservatory and announced that he was quitting. Attempting to prevent this, many of the teachers at the center asked him to reconsider, believing that he was one of their best students, and he finally agreed, albeit on the condition that he could create his own project that would not be interfered with. Feeling that Gardenback was "wrecked", he instead set about on a new film, which he called Eraserhead.[34]
Despite the fact that the film was planned to be about forty-two minutes long (it ended up being eighty-nine minutes long), the script for Eraserhead was only 21 pages long, and some of the teachers at the Conservatory were concerned that the film would not be a success with such little dialogue and action. Nonetheless, they agreed not to interfere as they had done with Gardenback, and as such Lynch was able to create the film free from interference. Filming, which began in 1972, took place at night in some abandoned stables, allowing the production team, which was largely Lynch and some of his friends, including Sissy Spacek, Jack Fisk, cinematographer Frederick Elmes and sound designer Alan Splet to set up a camera room, green room, editing room, sets as well as a food room and a bathroom.[35] Initially, funding for the project came from the AFI, who gave Lynch a $10,000 grant, but it was not enough to complete the work, and under pressure from studios after the success of the relatively cheap feature film Easy Rider, they were unable to provide him with any more. Following this, Lynch was also supported by a loan given to him by his father, and by money that he was able to bring in from a paper route that he took up delivering the Wall Street Journal.[36][37] Not long into the production of Eraserhead, Lynch and his wife Peggy amicably separated and divorced, and so he began living full-time on set. In 1977, Lynch would remarry, this time to a woman named Mary Fisk.[38]
Filmed in black and white, Eraserhead tells the story of a quiet young man named Henry (Jack Nance) living in a dystopian industrial wasteland, whose girlfriend gives birth to a deformed baby whom she leaves in his care. The baby constantly cries, causing much concern. When he realizes the baby has actually become ill, Henry tries to help it. This leads to its accidental death, after which he is haunted by what seem to be daemons that represent the baby and Henry finds himself in a "heaven" which he arrives at by entering the center of a planet rock. Lynch has consistently refused to either confirm or deny any interpretation of Eraserhead, or to "confess his own thinking behind the many abstractions in the film."[39] Nonetheless, he admits that it was heavily influenced by the fearful mood of Philadelphia, and referred to the film as "my Philadelphia Story".[40][41]
Due to financial problems with the production of Eraserhead that filming was haphazard, regularly stopping and starting again. It was in one such break in 1974 that Lynch created a short film titled The Amputee, which revolved around a woman with two amputated legs (played by Jack Nance's wife, Catherine Coulson) reading aloud a letter and having her stumps washed by a doctor (played by Lynch himself).[42][43]
Eraserhead was finally finished in 1976, after five years of production. Lynch subsequently tried to get the film entered into the Cannes Film Festival, but while some reviewers liked it, others felt that it was awful, and so it was not selected for screening. Similarly, reviewers from the New York Film Festival also rejected it, though it was screened at the Los Angeles Film Festival, where Ben Barenholtz, the distributor of the Elgin Theater, heard about it.[44] He was very supportive of the movie, helping to distribute it around the United States in 1977, and Eraserhead subsequently became popular on the midnight movie underground circuit,[39] and was later described as one of the most important midnight movies of the seventies along with El Topo, Pink Flamingos, The Rocky Horror Picture Show, The Harder They Come and Night of the Living Dead.[45] The acclaimed film maker Stanley Kubrick said that it was one of his all-time favorite films.[46]
After the cult success of Eraserhead on the underground circuit, Stuart Cornfeld, an executive producer for Mel Brooks, saw it and later remarked that "I was just 100 percent blown away ... I thought it was the greatest thing I'd ever seen. It was such a cleansing experience."[47] Contacting Lynch, he agreed to help him with his next planned project, a film titled Ronnie Rocket for which Lynch had already written a script. Nonetheless, Lynch soon realized that Ronnie Rocket, a film that he described as being about "electricity and a three-foot guy with red hair", was not going to be picked up by any financiers, and so he asked Cornfeld to find him a script written by someone else which he could direct. Cornfeld went away and found him four possible scripts, but upon hearing the title of the first, The Elephant Man, Lynch was already sure that that was the script for him, going on nothing but the title.[48]
The Elephant Man script – written by Chris de Vore and Eric Bergren – was based upon a true story, that of Joseph Merrick, a heavily deformed man living in Victorian London, who was held in a sideshow but was later taken under the care of a London surgeon, Frederick Treves. Lynch wanted to film it, but at the same time also had to make some alterations that would alter the story from true events, but in his view make a better plot.[49] However, in order to do so he would have to get the permission of Mel Brooks, whose company, BrookFilms, would be responsible for production; subsequently Brooks viewed Eraserhead, and after coming out of the screening theatre, embraced Lynch, declaring that "You're a madman, I love you! You're in."[50]
The resulting film, The Elephant Man, starred John Hurt as John Merrick (his name was changed from Joseph), as well as Anthony Hopkins as Frederick Treves. Filming took place in London, and Lynch brought his own distinctively surrealist approach to the film, filming it in color stock black and white, but nonetheless it has been described as "one of the most conventional" of his films.[51] The Elephant Man was a huge critical and commercial success, and earned eight Academy Award nominations, including Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay for Lynch personally.[52]
Following on from the success of The Elephant Man, the film maker George Lucas, himself a fan of Eraserhead, offered Lynch the opportunity to direct the third film in his Star Wars trilogy, Return of the Jedi. Lynch however refused, arguing that Lucas should direct the film himself as the movie should reflect his own vision, not Lynch's take on it.[41][53] Soon after however, the opportunity to direct another big-budget science fiction epic arose when Dino de Laurentiis of the De Laurentiis Entertainment Group asked him to create a film adaptation of Frank Herbert's science fiction novel Dune (1965).[53] Lynch agreed, and in doing so was also contractually obliged to produce two other works for the company. He then set about writing a script based upon the original novel, initially with both Chris de Vore and Eric Bergren, and then just by himself when De Laurentiis wasn't happy with their ideas.[54] Lynch also helped build some of the sets, attempting to create "a certain look" for the film, and he particularly enjoyed building the set for the oil planet of Giedi Prime, for which he "used steel, bolts, and porcelain to construct" it.[55]
Dune is set in the far future, when humans live in an interstellar empire run along a feudal system. The main character, Paul Atreides (played by Kyle MacLachlan), is the son of a noble who takes control of the desert planet Arrakis which grows the rare spice melange, the most highly prized commodity in the empire. Lynch however was unhappy with the work, later remarking that "Dune was a kind of studio film. I didn't have final cut. And, little by little, I was subconsciously making compromises" to his own vision.[56] He produced much footage for the film that was eventually removed from the final theatrical cut, dramatically condensing the plot.[57] Although De Laurentiis hoped it would be as successful as Star Wars, Lynch's Dune (1984) was a critical and commercial dud; it had cost $45 million to make, and grossed a mere $27.4 million domestically. Later on, Universal Studios released an "extended cut" of the film for syndicated television, containing almost an hour of cutting-room-floor footage and new narration. Such was not representative of Lynch's intentions, but the studio considered it more comprehensible than the original two-hour version. Lynch objected to these changes and had his name struck from the extended cut, which has "Alan Smithee" credited as the director and "Judas Booth" (a pseudonym which Lynch himself invented, inspired by his own feelings of betrayal) as the screenwriter.[58]
Meanwhile in 1983 he had begun the writing and drawing of a comic strip, The Angriest Dog in the World, which featured unchanging graphics of a tethered dog that was so angry that it could not move, alongside cryptic philosophical references. It ran from 1983 until 1992 in the Village Voice, Creative Loafing and other tabloid and alternative publications.[59] It was around this period that Lynch also got increasingly interested in photography as an art form, and travelled to northern England to take photos of the degrading industrial landscape, something that he was particularly interested in.[60]
Following on from Dune, Lynch was contractually still obliged to produce two other projects for De Laurentiis: the first of these was a planned sequel, which due to the film's lack of success never went beyond the script stage.[54] The other was a more personal work, based upon a script that Lynch had been working on for some time. Developing from ideas that Lynch had had since 1973, the resulting film, Blue Velvet, was set in the fictional town of Lumberton, USA, and revolves around a college student named Jeffrey Beaumont (Kyle MacLachlan), who finds a severed ear in a field. Subsequently investigating further with the help of friend Sandy (Laura Dern), he uncovers that it is related to a criminal gang led by psychopath Frank Booth (Dennis Hopper), who has kidnapped the husband and child of singer Dorothy Vallens (Isabella Rossellini) and repeatedly subjects her to rape. Lynch himself characterizes the story as "a dream of strange desires wrapped inside a mystery story."[61]
For the film, Lynch decided to include pop songs from the 1950s, including "In Dreams" by Roy Orbison and "Blue Velvet" by Bobby Vinton, the latter of which was largely inspirational for the film, with Lynch stating that "It was the song that sparked the movie ... There was something mysterious about it. It made me think about things. And the first things I thought about were lawns – lawns and the neighbourhood."[62] Other music for the film was also produced, this time composed by Angelo Badalamenti, who would go on to produce the music for most of Lynch's subsequent cinematic works.[63] Dino de Laurentiis loved the film, and it achieved support from some of the early specialist screenings, but the preview screenings to a mainstream audience were instead highly negative, with most of the audience hating the film.[64] Although Lynch had found success previously with The Elephant Man, Blue Velvet's controversy with audiences and critics introduced him into the mainstream, and became a huge critical and moderate commercial success. The film earned Lynch his second Academy Award nomination for Best Director. Woody Allen, whose film Hannah and Her Sisters was nominated for Best Picture, said that Blue Velvet was his favorite film of the year.[65]
During the late 1980s, Lynch had begun to work in television as well as cinema, directing a short piece titled The Cowboy and the Frenchman for French television in 1989.[66] Around this time, he met the television producer Mark Frost, who had formerly worked on such projects as the television police series Hill Street Blues, and they decided to start working together on a biopic of singer and actress Marilyn Monroe based upon Anthony Summers's book, The Goddess: The Secret Lives of Marilyn Monroe. While this project never got off the ground, the duo went on to work on a comedy script named One Saliva Bubble, but that did not see completion either.[67][68] It was while they were talking in a coffee shop that Lynch and Frost both had the idea of a corpse washing up on the shore of a lake, and using this image as a basis subsequently set about on their third project, which they initially named Northwest Passage but which would eventually come to fruition as the television series Twin Peaks (1990–1991).[69] A drama series set in a small Washington town where popular high school student Laura Palmer has been raped and murdered, Twin Peaks featured FBI Special Agent Dale Cooper (Kyle MacLachlan) as the investigator trying to unearth the killer, and discovering not only the supernatural elements to the murder but also the secrets of many of the local townsfolk – as Lynch himself summed it up, "The project was to mix a police investigation with the ordinary lives of the characters." In plotting out the series, Lynch later related that "[Mark Frost and I] worked together, especially in the initial stages. Later on we started working more apart." They subsequently pitched the series to the ABC Network, who agreed to finance the pilot episode, and once this was completed they also commissioned the first season, which comprised seven episodes.[70]
A second season went into production soon after, which lasted for a further 22 episodes. In all, Lynch himself only directed six episodes out of the whole series due to other responsibilities, namely his work on the film Wild at Heart (see below), but carefully chose those other directors whom he entrusted with the job.[71] Meanwhile, Lynch also appeared in several episodes of the series, acting in the role of deaf FBI agent Gordon Cole. The series was a success, with high viewing figures both in the United States and in many nations abroad, and soon spawned a cult following. Nonetheless, the executives at the ABC Network, believing that public interest in the show was decreasing, insisted that Lynch and Frost reveal who the killer of Laura Palmer was prematurely, something that they only begrudgingly agreed to do,[72] and Lynch has always felt that agreeing to do so is one of his biggest professional regrets.[73] Following the revealing of the murderer and the series' move from Thursday to Saturday night on the ABC Network, Twin Peaks continued on for several more episodes, but following a ratings drop was cancelled. Lynch, who disliked the direction that the writers and directors had taken in the previous few episodes, chose to direct the final episode, which he ended on a cliffhanger, later stating that "that's not the ending. That's the ending that people were stuck with."[74]
While Twin Peaks was in production, the Brooklyn Academy of Music asked Lynch and the composer Angelo Badalamenti, who had been responsible for the music in Twin Peaks, to create a theatrical piece which would only be performed twice at their academy in New York City in 1989 as a part of the New Music America Festival. The result was Industrial Symphony No. 1: The Dream of the Broken Hearted, which starred such frequent Lynch collaborators as Laura Dern, Nicolas Cage and Michael J. Anderson as well as containing five songs sung by Julee Cruise. David Lynch produced a fifty-minute video of the performance in 1990.[75] Meanwhile, Lynch was also involved in the creation of various commercials for different companies, including perfume companies like Yves Saint Laurent, Calvin Klein and Giorgio Armani and for the Japanese coffee company Namoi, the latter of which involved a Japanese man searching the town of Twin Peaks for his missing wife.[76]
"1990 was Lynch's annus mirabilis: Wild at Heart won the Palme d'Or at Cannes, and the television series Twin Peaks was proving a smash hit with audiences across the world. The musical/performance piece Industrial Symphony No. 1, which Lynch had staged with Angelo Badalamenti at the Brooklyn Academy of music, had spawned the album Floating into the Night and launched singer Julee Cruise. Five one-man exhibitions between 1989 and 1991 emphasized Lynch's roots in fine art and painting, and a rash of ads (including a teaser trailer for Michael Jackson's 'Dangerous' tour) confirmed the demand for the Lynch touch ... In an unlikely scenario for the maker of Eraserhead, Lynch had become an influential and fashionable brand name."
While still working on the first few episodes of Twin Peaks, Lynch's friend, Monty Montgomery "gave me a book that he wanted to direct as a movie. He asked if I would maybe be executive producer or something, and I said 'That's great, Monty, but what if I read it and fall in love with it and want to do it myself?' And he said, 'In that case, you can do it yourself'." The book was Barry Gifford's novel Wild at Heart: The Story of Sailor and Lula, which told the tale of two lovers on a road trip, and Lynch felt that it was "just exactly the right thing at the right time. The book and the violence in America merged in my mind and many different things happened."[78] With Gifford's support, Lynch set about to adapt the novel into a film, with the result being Wild at Heart, a crime and road movie starring Nicolas Cage as Sailor and Laura Dern as Lula. Describing his plot as a "strange blend" of "a road picture, a love story, a psychological drama and a violent comedy", he altered much from the original novel, changing the ending, and incorporating numerous references to the classic film The Wizard of Oz.[79] Despite receiving a muted response from American critics and viewers, it won the prestigious Palme d'Or at the 1990 Cannes Film Festival.[4]
Following on from the success of Wild at Heart, Lynch decided to return to the world of the now-cancelled Twin Peaks, this time without Mark Frost, to create a film that acted primarily as a prequel but also, in part, as a sequel, with Lynch stating that "I liked the idea of the story going back and forth in time."[80] The result, Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me (1992), primarily revolved around the last few days in the life of Laura Palmer, and was much "darker" in tone than the television series, having much of the humour removed, and dealing with such topics as incest and murder. Lynch himself stated that the film was about "the loneliness, shame, guilt, confusion and devastation of the victim of incest." Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me was financed by the company CIBY-2000, and most of the cast of the series agreed to reprise their roles for the film, although some refused, and many were not enthusiastic about the project.[81] The film was, for the most part, a commercial and critical failure in the United States; however, it was a hit in Japan and British critic Mark Kermode (among others) has hailed it as Lynch's "masterpiece".[82]
Meanwhile, Lynch continued working on a series of television shows with Mark Frost. After Twin Peaks, they produced a series of documentaries titled American Chronicles (1990) which examined life across the United States, the comedy series On the Air (1992), which was cancelled after only three episodes had aired, and the three-episode HBO mini-series Hotel Room (1993) about events that happened in the same hotel room but at different dates in time.[83]
Following his unsuccessful television ventures since Twin Peaks, Lynch returned to making feature films. In 1997 he released the non-linear, noiresque Lost Highway, co-written by Barry Gifford and starring Bill Pullman and Patricia Arquette. The film failed commercially and received a mixed response from critics.
Following Lost Highway, Lynch went on to work on directing a film from a script written by Mary Sweeney and John E. Roach. The resulting motion picture, The Straight Story, was, like The Elephant Man before it, based upon a true story, that of Alvin Straight (played in the film by Richard Farnsworth), an elderly man from Laurens, Iowa, who goes on a three hundred mile journey to visit his sick brother (played by Harry Dean Stanton) in Mount Zion, Wisconsin, riding the whole way there upon a lawnmower. Commenting on why he chose this script, Lynch would simply relate that "that's what I fell in love with next", and displayed his admiration for Straight, describing him as being "like James Dean, except he's old."[84] Once more, Angelo Badalamenti produced the music for the film, although he created instrumentation that was "very different from the kind of score he's done for [Lynch] in the past."[85] Having many differences with most of his work, particularly in that it did not contain any profanities, sexual content or violence, The Straight Story was rated G (general viewing) by the Motion Picture Association of America, and as such came as "shocking news" to many in the film industry, who were surprised that it "did not disturb, offend or mystify."[2] As Le Blanc and Odell stated, the plot made it "seem as far removed from Lynch's earlier works as could be imagined, but in fact right from the very opening, this is entirely his film – a surreal road movie".[86]
The same year, Lynch approached ABC once again with ideas for a television drama. The network gave Lynch the go-ahead to shoot a two-hour pilot for the series Mulholland Drive, but disputes over content and running time led to the project being shelved indefinitely. However, with seven million dollars from the French production company StudioCanal, Lynch completed the pilot as a film, Mulholland Drive. The film, a non-linear narrative surrealist tale of the dark side of Hollywood, stars Naomi Watts, Laura Harring and Justin Theroux. The film performed relatively well at the box office worldwide and was a critical success, earning Lynch a Best Director prize at the 2001 Cannes Film Festival (shared with Joel Coen for The Man Who Wasn't There) and a Best Director award from the New York Film Critics Association. In addition, Lynch also received his third Academy Award nomination for Best Director.[87]
With the onset of popularity of the internet, Lynch decided to utilize this new medium, releasing several new series that he had created exclusively on his website, davidlynch.com. In 2002, he created a series of online shorts named Dumbland. Intentionally crude both in content and execution, the eight-episode series was later released on DVD.[88] The same year, Lynch released a surreal sitcom via his website – Rabbits, which revolved around a family of humanoid rabbits. Later, he showed his experiments with Digital Video in the form of the Japanese-style horror short Darkened Room.
In 2006, Lynch's feature film Inland Empire was released. At three hours long, it was the longest of Lynch's films. Like Mulholland Drive and Lost Highway before it, the film did not follow a traditional narrative structure. It starred Lynch regulars Laura Dern, Harry Dean Stanton, and Justin Theroux, with cameos by Naomi Watts and Laura Harring (voices of Suzie and Jane Rabbit), and a performance by Jeremy Irons. Lynch described the piece as "a mystery about a woman in trouble". In an effort to promote the film, Lynch made appearances with a cow and a placard bearing the slogan "Without cheese there would be no Inland Empire".[89]
In 2009, Lynch produced a documentary web series directed by his son, Austin Lynch and friend Jason S. called Interview Project.[90] Interested in working with Werner Herzog, Lynch collaborated with him in 2009 to produce Herzog's film My Son, My Son, What Have Ye Done? Another film with a nonstandard narrative, the film was based on the true story of an actor who committed matricide while acting in a production of the Oresteia, and starred Grace Zabriskie, a Lynch regular.[91]
Lynch plans to direct a documentary on Maharishi Mahesh Yogi consisting of interviews with people who knew him.[92]
In 2010, Lynch began making guest appearances on the Family Guy spin-off, The Cleveland Show as Gus the Bartender. He had been convinced to appear in the show by its lead actor, Mike Henry, who is a fan of Lynch and who felt that his whole life had changed after seeing Wild at Heart.[93] Gus the Bartender is drawn with a strong likeness to Lynch.
Lady Blue Shanghai, written, directed and edited by Lynch, is a 16-minute promotional film made for Dior and released on the Internet in May 2010.
Lynch directed a concert by English new wave band Duran Duran on March 23, 2011. The concert was streamed live on YouTube from the Mayan Theater in Los Angeles as the kickoff to the second season of Unstaged: An Original Series from American Express. "The idea is to try and create on the fly, layers of images permeating Duran Duran on the stage," Lynch said. "A world of experimentation and hopefully some happy accidents."[94] The animated short I Touch a Red Button Man, a collaboration between Lynch and the band Interpol, played in the background during Interpol's concert at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in April 2011. The short, which featured Interpol's song "Lights", was later made available online.[95]
In a June 2012 Los Angeles Times interview, Lynch stated that he lacked the inspiration to start a new movie project, but "If I got an idea that I fell in love with, I'd go to work tomorrow."[96] In September 2012, Lynch appeared in the three-part "Late Show" arc on FX's Louie as Jack Dahl.
In November 2012, Lynch hinted at plans for a new film while attending Plus Camerimage in Bydgoszcz, Poland. Speaking at the festival, Lynch said "something is coming up. It will happen but I don't know exactly when."[97] At Plus Camerimage, Lynch was also presented with a lifetime achievement award and the key to the city by Bydgoszcz's mayor Rafał Bruski.[98] During an interview with the Los Angeles Times in January 2013, frequent Lynch collaborator Laura Dern confirmed she and Lynch are planning a new project,[99][100] and The New York Times later revealed Lynch is working on the script.[101] Idem Paris, a short documentary film about the lithographic process, was released online in February 2013.[102] On June 28, 2013, a music video directed by Lynch for the Nine Inch Nails song "Came Back Haunted" was released.[103]
"I look at the world and I see absurdity all around me. People do strange things constantly, to the point that, for the most part, we manage not to see it. That's why I love coffee shops and public places – I mean, they're all out there."
Lynch says that his work is more similar in many respects to those of European film makers than American ones, believing that most films that "get down and thrill your soul" were by European directors.[105] Lynch has commented on his admiration for such film makers as Stanley Kubrick,[46] Federico Fellini,[105] Werner Herzog[105] and Jacques Tati.[105] He has also stated that Billy Wilder's Sunset Boulevard (1950) is one of his favourite films,[106] as is Kubrick's Lolita (1962).[107]
There are several recurring themes within Lynch's work, leading film critics Le Blanc and Odell to state that "his films are so packed with motifs, recurrent characters, images, compositions and techniques that you could view his entire output as one large jigsaw puzzle of ideas".[108] One of the key themes that they noted was the usage of dreams and dreamlike imagery and structure within his works, something they related to the "surrealist ethos" of relying "on the subconscious to provide visual drive". This can be seen in John Merrick's dream of his mother in The Elephant Man, Agent Cooper's dreams of the red room in Twin Peaks and the "dreamlike logic" of the narrative found in Eraserhead, Mulholland Drive and Inland Empire.[109] Discussing his attitude to dreams, Lynch has stated that "Waking dreams are the ones that are important, the ones that come when I'm quietly sitting in a chair, letting my mind wander. When you sleep, you don't control your dream. I like to dive into a dream world that I've made or discovered; a world I choose ... [You can't really get others to experience it, but] right there is the power of cinema."[110] His films are known for their use of magic realism.
Another of Lynch's prominent themes include industry, with repeated imagery of "the clunk of machinery, the power of pistons, shadows of oil drills pumping, screaming woodmills and smoke billowing factories", as can be seen with the industrial wasteland in Eraserhead, the factories in The Elephant Man, the sawmill in Twin Peaks and the lawn mower in The Straight Story.[111] Describing his interest in such things, Lynch stated that "It makes me feel good to see giant machinery, you know, working: dealing with molten metal. And I like fire and smoke. And the sounds are so powerful. It's just big stuff. It means that things are being made, and I really like that."[112]
Another theme is the idea of a "dark underbelly" of violent criminal activity within a society, such as with Frank's gang in Blue Velvet and the cocaine smugglers in Twin Peaks. The idea of deformity is also found in several of Lynch's films, from The Elephant Man, to the deformed baby in Eraserhead, as is the idea of death from a head wound, found in most of Lynch's films. Other imagery commonly used within Lynch's works are flickering electricity or lights, as well as fire and the idea of a stage upon which a singer performs, often surrounded by drapery.[111]
With the exception of The Elephant Man and Dune, which are set in Victorian London and a fictitious galaxy respectively, all of Lynch's films have been set in the United States, and he has stated that "I like certain things about America and it gives me ideas. When I go around and I see things, it sparks little stories, or little characters pop out, so it just feels right to me to, you know, make American films."[113] A number of his works, including Blue Velvet, Twin Peaks and Lost Highway are intentionally reminiscent of the 1950s American culture even though they were set in the later decades of the 20th century. Lynch later commented on his feelings for this decade, which was that in which he grew up as a child, by stating that "It was a fantastic decade in a lot of ways ... there was something in the air that is not there any more at all. It was such a great feeling, and not just because I was a kid. It was a really hopeful time, and things were going up instead of going down. You got the feeling you could do anything. The future was bright. Little did we know we were laying the groundwork then for a disastrous future."[114]
Lynch also tends to feature his leading female actors in multiple or "split" roles, so that many of his female characters have multiple, fractured identities. This practice began with his choice to cast Sheryl Lee as both Laura Palmer and her cousin Maddy Ferguson in Twin Peaks and continued in his later works. In Lost Highway, Patricia Arquette plays the dual role of Renee Madison/Alice Wakefield, while in Mulholland Drive, Naomi Watts plays Diane Selwyn/Betty Elms and Laura Harring plays Camilla Rhodes/Rita and in Inland Empire, Laura Dern plays Nikki Grace/Susan Blue. By contrast, Lynch rarely creates multi-character roles for his male actors.
Lynch is also widely noted for his collaborations with various production artists and composers on his films and multiple different productions.[citation needed] He frequently works with Angelo Badalamenti to compose music for his productions, former wife Mary Sweeney as a film editor, casting director Johanna Ray, and cast members Harry Dean Stanton, Jack Nance, Kyle MacLachlan, Naomi Watts, Isabella Rossellini, Grace Zabriskie, and Laura Dern.
Lynch first trained as a painter, and although he is now better known as a filmmaker, he has also produced much painting work. Lynch has stated that "all my paintings are organic, violent comedies. They have to be violently done and primitive and crude, and to achieve that I try to let nature paint more than I paint."[115] Many of his works are very dark in colour, and Lynch has described this as being because "I wouldn't know what to do with [colour]. Colour to me is too real. It's limiting. It doesn't allow too much of a dream. The more you throw black into a colour, the more dreamy it gets ... Black has depth. It's like a little egress; you can go into it, and because it keeps on continuing to be dark, the mind kicks in, and a lot of things that are going on in there become manifest. And you start seeing what you're afraid of. You start seeing what you love, and it becomes like a dream."[116]
Many of his works also contain letters and words added to the painting, something which he explains: "The words in the paintings are sometimes important to make you start thinking about what else is going on in there. And a lot of times, the words excite me as shapes, and something'll grow out of that. I used to cut these little letters out and glue them on. They just look good all lined up like teeth ... sometimes they become the title of the painting."[115]
Lynch considers the 20th-century Irish artist Francis Bacon to be his "number one kinda hero painter", stating that "Normally I only like a couple of years of a painter's work, but I like everything of Bacon's. The guy, you know, had the stuff."[117]
Lynch was the subject of a major art retrospective at the Fondation Cartier, Paris from March 3 – May 27, 2007. The show was titled The Air is on Fire and included numerous paintings, photographs, drawings, alternative films and sound work. New site-specific art installations were created specially for the exhibition. A series of events accompanied the exhibition including live performances and concerts.[118] Some of Lynch's art include photographs of dissected chickens and other animals as a "Build your own Chicken" toy ad. His favorite photographers include William Eggleston (The Red Ceiling), Joel-Peter Witkin, and Diane Arbus.[119]
Between 1983 and 1992, Lynch wrote and drew a weekly comic strip called The Angriest Dog in the World for the L.A. Reader. The drawings in the panels never change, just the captions.
Lynch has also been involved in a number of music projects, many of them related to his films. Most notably he produced and wrote lyrics for Julee Cruise's first two albums, Floating into the Night (1989) and The Voice of Love (1993), in collaboration with Angelo Badalamenti who composed the music and also produced. Lynch has also worked on the 1998 Jocelyn Montgomery album Lux Vivens. He has also composed bits of music for Wild at Heart, Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me, Mulholland Drive, and Rabbits. In 2001, he released BlueBob, a rock album performed by Lynch and John Neff. The album is notable for Lynch's unusual guitar playing style: he plays "upside down and backwards, like a lap guitar", and relies heavily on effects pedals.[120] Most recently Lynch has composed several pieces for Inland Empire, including two songs, "Ghost of Love" and "Walkin' on the Sky", in which he makes his public debut as a singer. In 2009, his new book-CD set Dark Night of the Soul was released.[121] In 2008, he started his own record label called David Lynch MC on which its first release Fox Bat Strategy: A Tribute to Dave Jaurequi was released in early 2009. In August 2009, it was announced that he was releasing Afghani/American singer Ariana Delawari's Lion of Panjshir album in conjunction with Manimal Vinyl record company in October 2009.
In November 2010, Lynch released two electro pop music singles, "Good Day Today" and "I Know", through the independent British label Sunday Best Recordings. Describing why he created them, he stated that "I was just sitting and these notes came and then I went down and started working with Dean [Hurley, his engineer] and then these few notes, 'I want to have a good day, today' came and the song was built around that".[122] The singles were followed by an album, Crazy Clown Time, which was released in November 2011 and described as an "electronic blues album".[123] The songs were sung by Lynch, with guest vocals on one track by Karen O of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs,[124] and composed and performed by Lynch and Dean Hurley.[123]
On September 29, 2011, Lynch released This Train with vocalist and long-time musical collaborator Chrysta Bell on the La Rose Noire label.[125] The 11-song album was produced by Lynch and co-written primarily by Lynch and Bell.[126] It includes the song "Polish Poem" which is featured on the Inland Empire soundtrack.
Lynch's second studio album, The Big Dream, was released in 2013 and included the single, "I'm Waiting Here", with Swedish singer-songwriter Lykke Li.[127] The Big Dream's release was preceded by TBD716, an enigmatic 43-second video featured on Lynch's YouTube and Vine accounts.[128]
For Record Store Day 2014 David Lynch released 'The Big Dream Remix EP' which featured four songs from his album remixed by various artists. This included the track 'Are You Sure' remixed by Bastille. The band Bastille have been known to take inspiration from David Lynch's work for their songs and music videos, the main one being their song 'Laura Palmer' which is influenced by Lynch's television show 'Twin Peaks'.[129]
Lynch designed and constructed some furniture for his 1997 film Lost Highway, notably the small table in the Madison house and the VCR case.
In April 1997 he presented a furniture collection at the prestigious Milan Furniture Fair in Italy. "Design and music, art and architecture – they all belong together."[130]
In 2011 Lynch signed a brand extension agreement licensing the name "Twin Peaks" for use in a Texas restaurant.[citation needed] While his involvement with the project was minimal, many fans expressed outrage. He has since said he regrets the move.[citation needed]
Working with designer Raphael Navot, architectural agency Enia and light designer Thierry Dreyfus, Lynch has conceived and designed a nightclub in Paris.[131] "Silencio" opened in October 2011, and is a private members' club although is free to the public after midnight. Patrons have access to concerts, films and other performances by artists and guests. Inspired by the club of the same name in his 2001 film Mulholland Drive, the underground space consists of a series of rooms, each dedicated to a certain purpose or atmosphere. "Silencio is something dear to me. I wanted to create an intimate space where all the arts could come together. There won't be a Warhol-like guru, but it will be open to celebrated artists of all disciplines to come here to programme or create what they want."[132]
Lynch has had several long-term relationships. In 1967, he married Peggy Lentz in Chicago, Illinois.[133] They had one child, Jennifer Chambers Lynch, born in 1968, who is a film director. They filed for divorce in 1974. On June 21, 1977, Lynch married Mary Fisk, and the couple had one child, Austin Jack Lynch, born in 1982. They divorced in 1987, and Lynch began dating Isabella Rossellini after filming Blue Velvet. Lynch and Rossellini broke up in 1991, and Lynch developed a relationship with Mary Sweeney, with whom he had one son, Riley Lynch, in 1992. Sweeney also worked as Lynch's longtime film editor/producer and co-wrote and produced The Straight Story. The two married in May 2006, but divorced that July. Lynch married actress Emily Stofle, who appeared in his 2006 film Inland Empire, in February 2009. They have a daughter, Lula, born 2012.
Lynch has said that he is "not a political person". However, he has expressed admiration for former US President Ronald Reagan.[134] He endorsed the Natural Law Party in the 2000 presidential election[135] and Democratic incumbent Barack Obama in the 2012 presidential election.[136]
Lynch advocates the use of Transcendental Meditation in bringing peace to the world.[138] He was initiated into Transcendental Meditation in July 1973, and has practiced the technique consistently since then.[139][140] Lynch says he met Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, the founder of the TM movement, for the first time in 1975 at the Spiritual Regeneration Movement center in Los Angeles, California.[141][142] He reportedly became close with Maharishi during a month-long "Millionaire's Enlightenment Course" held in 2003, the fee for which was US$1 million.[143]
In July 2005, he launched the David Lynch Foundation For Consciousness-Based Education and Peace,[144][145] established to help finance scholarships for students in middle and high schools who are interested in learning the Transcendental Meditation technique and to fund research on the technique and its effects on learning. Together with John Hagelin and Fred Travis, a brain researcher from Maharishi University of Management (MUM), Lynch promoted his vision on college campuses with a tour that began in September 2005.[146] Lynch is on the board of trustees of MUM Trustees[citation needed] and has hosted an annual "David Lynch Weekend for World Peace and Meditation" there since 2005.[147]
Lynch is working for the building and establishment of seven buildings, in which 8,000 salaried people will practice advanced meditation techniques, "pumping peace for the world". He estimates the cost at US$7 billion. As of December 2005, he had spent US$400,000 of personal money, and raised US$1 million in donations.[140] In December 2006, the New York Times reported that he continued to have that goal.[144]
Lynch's book, Catching the Big Fish (Tarcher/Penguin 2006), discusses the impact of the Transcendental Meditation technique on his creative process. He is donating all author's royalties to the David Lynch Foundation.
Lynch attended the funeral of the Maharishi in India in 2008.[143] He told a reporter, "In life, he revolutionised the lives of millions of people. ... In 20, 50, 500 years there will be millions of people who will know and understand what the Maharishi has done."[148] In 2009, he went to India to film interviews with people who knew the Maharishi as part of a biographical documentary.[149][150]
In 2009, Lynch organized a benefit concert at Radio City Music Hall for the David Lynch Foundation. On April 4, 2009, the "Change Begins Within" concert featured Paul McCartney, Ringo Starr, Donovan, Sheryl Crow, Eddie Vedder, Moby, Bettye LaVette, Ben Harper, and Mike Love of the Beach Boys.[151]
David Wants to Fly, released in May 2010, is a documentary by German filmmaker David Sieveking "that follows the path of his professional idol, David Lynch, into the world of Transcendental Meditation (TM)."[152][153]
An independent project starring Lynch called Beyond The Noise: My Transcendental Meditation Journey, directed by film student Dana Farley, who has severe dyslexia and attention deficit disorder, was shown at film festivals in 2011,[154] including the Marbella Film Festival.[155] Filmmaker Kevin Sean Michaels is one of the producers.[156]
In 2013 Lynch wrote: "Transcendental Meditation leads to a beautiful, peaceful revolution. A change from suffering and negativity to happiness and a life more and more free of any problems."[138]
Lynch designed his personal website, a site exclusive to paying members, where he posts short videos and his absurdist series Dumbland, plus interviews and other items. The site also featured a daily weather report, where Lynch gives a brief description of the weather in Los Angeles, where he resides. Until June 2010, this weather report (usually no longer than 30 seconds) was also being broadcast, on his personal YouTube-channel David Lynch – Daily Weather Report.[157] An absurd ringtone ("I like to kill deer") from the website was a common sound bite on The Howard Stern Show in early 2006.
Lynch is an avid coffee drinker and even has his own line of special organic blends available for purchase on his website. Called "David Lynch Signature Cup", the coffee has been advertised via flyers included with several recent Lynch-related DVD releases, including Inland Empire and the Gold Box edition of Twin Peaks. The possibly self-mocking tag-line for the brand is "It's all in the beans ... and I'm just full of beans."[158] This is also a quote of a line said by Justin Theroux's character in Inland Empire.
Le Blanc, Michelle and Odell, Colin (2000). David Lynch. Harpenden, Hertfordshire: Pocket Essentials. ISBN 1-903047-06-4. 
Lynch, David and Rodley, Chris (2005). Lynch on Lynch (revised edition). New York: Faber and Faber. ISBN 978-0-571-22018-2. 
David Lynch: Interviews, a collection of interviews with Lynch from 1977 to 2008, edited by Richard A. Barney for the series Conversations with Filmmakers (University Press of Mississippi, 2009, ISBN 978-1-60473-237-5 [paperback], ISBN 978-1-60473-236-9 [hardback]). This volume covers topics that include Lynch's filmmaking, furniture design, painting, and music career.
The Passion of David Lynch: Wild at Heart in Hollywood by Martha Nochimson (University of Texas Press, 1997, ISBN 0-292-75565-1).
Weirdsville U.S.A.: The Obsessive Universe of David Lynch by Paul A. Woods (Plexus Publishing. UK, Reprint edition, 2000, ISBN 0-85965-291-2).
David Lynch (Twayne's Filmmakers Series) by Kenneth C. Kaleta (Twayne Publishers, 1992, ISBN 0-8057-9323-2).
Pervert in the Pulpit: Morality in the Works of David Lynch by Jeff Johnson (McFarland & Company, 2004, ISBN 0-7864-1753-6).
Catching the Big Fish: Meditation, Consciousness, and Creativity by David Lynch (Jeremy P. Tarcher, 2006, ISBN 978-1-58542-540-2 / 978–1585425402).
Snowmen by David Lynch (Foundation Cartier pour l'art contemporain, Paris, 2008, ISBN 978-3-86521-467-6).
The Film Paintings of David Lynch: Challenging Film Theory by Allister Mactaggart (Intellect, 2010, ISBN 978-1-84150-332-5).
Interpretazione tra mondi. Il pensiero figurale di David Lynch by Pierluigi Basso Fossali (Edizioni ETS, Pisa, 2008, ISBN 88-467-1671-X, 9788846716712).
David Lynch – Un cinéma du maléfique, by Enrique Seknadje, Editions Camion Noir, 2010. ISBN 978-2-35779-086-5
David Lynch in Theory, a collection of essays edited by Francois-Xavier Gleyzon (Charles University Press, 2010) ISBN 978-80-7308-317-5.
Categories: 1946 birthsAmerican furniture designersAmerican animatorsAmerican comic strip cartoonistsAmerican rock musiciansAmerican experimental filmmakersAmerican film directorsAFI Conservatory alumniAmerican experimental musiciansAmerican paintersCésar Award winnersEagle ScoutsAmerican people of Finnish descentLiving peoplePeople from Missoula, MontanaTranscendental Meditation practitionersPennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts alumniPeople from Los Angeles, CaliforniaOfficiers of the Légion d'honneurDavid LynchAmerican male voice actorsAmerican male television actorsMale actors from MontanaFilm directors from CaliforniaAmerican television directorsAmerican screenwritersPalme d'Or winnersAmerican lyricistsAmerican music video directorsSurrealist filmmakersHidden categories: Articles with Swedish-language external linksPages using web citations with no URLPages using citations with accessdate and no URLAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from March 2013Use mdy dates from January 2012Articles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from September 2012Articles with unsourced statements from December 2013Articles with unsourced statements from August 2012Articles with invalid ISBNsCommons category template with no category setCommons category with page title same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersVIAF different on Wikidata 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Administration AboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor Information Arts, Health & Society AboutProgramsProspective StudentsSummer ResidenciesResearch Database Media & Communication AboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & Scholarships Admission Online ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer Students Students OverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest Documents FacultyFaculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and Positions 
Admission» Application & Deadlines» Tuition & Scholarships» Questions & Answers» Financial Aid» AccreditationStudents» Overview» Student Email» Student News» Event Calendar» Student Directory» Students Gateway» Request DocumentsAlumni» Overview» Alumni Association» Alumni Directory» Alumni News» Event Calendar» Request Transcripts» Giving to EGSFaculty» Faculty Overview» Faculty News» Event Calendar» Video Lectures» Jobs and PositionsMedia» EGS Publications» EGS on Facebook» EGS on YouTube» EGS on Google+» EGS on Flickr» EGS on Twitter» Conferences & Festivals» Library / Encyclopedia» Research DatabaseResources» News» Event Calendar» Information Technology» Health Services» A-Z Index» Sitemap» Contacts
							  Biography  |  Bibliography  |  Filmography  |  Works  |  Articles  |  Lectures  |  Photos  |  Videos  |  Quotes  |  Links  
David Lynch was born in Missoula, Montana on January 20, 1946. David Lynch is an American filmmaker with European sensibilities, famous for his cinema of absurdity full of psychogenic fugues and travelogues from everyday Hell.  David Lynch is a prolific director, visual artist, writer and trend setter.  His films include Change Begins Within (2009), My Son, My Son, What Have Ye Done (2009), More Things That Happened (2009), Inland Empire (2006), Boat (2006), The Darkened Room (2002), Dumbland  (2002), Rabbits (2002), Eraserhead Stories. (2001), Mulholland Drive (1999), The Straight Story (1999), Lost Highway (1996), Lumière et compagnie (1995), Hotel Room, (1993), On the Air  (1992), Wild At Heart (1990), Industrial Symphony No. 1: The Dream of the Broken Hearted (1991), American Chronicles (1990), The Cowboy and the Frenchman (1987), Blue Velvet (1986), Dune (1984), The Elephant Man (1980), Eraserhead (1976), The Amputee (1968), The Grandmother  (1970), The Alphabet (1968) and Six Figures Getting Sick (1967).  His books include Dark Night of the Soul (2009), David Lynch: Snowmen  (2007), David Lynch: The Air Is on Fire (2007), Images (1994), Lost Highway 1997 and Lynch on Lynch  (1997). 
David Lynch grew up as a Presbyterian.  David Lynch spent his childhood throughout the Pacific Northwest and Durham, North Carolina depending on where his father's job as a research scientist for the Department of Agriculture took him.  His mother was an English tutor whose parents immigrated to the United States from Finland in the 19th century.  David Lynch attained the rank of Eagle Scout and, as a teenager served as an usher at John F. Kennedy's Presidential Inauguration.  David Lynch took courses at The Corcoran School of Art during his high school career at Francis C. Hammond High School in Alexandria, Virginia.  He enrolled in the School of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston for one year (where he was a roommate of Peter Wolf) before leaving for Europe with childhood friend and contemporary artist Jack Fisk.  In 1966 he attended the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts (PAFA).
While enrolled at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts (PAFA) he created the visual work, Industrial Symphonies.  During this time David Lynch created his first short film Six Men Getting Sick (1966) which played as a loop at an art exhibit.  This film won the Academy's annual film contest leading to a commission with H. Barton Wasserman.  The commission resulted in the creation of The Alphabet in 1968.  The Alphabet is a dark short film featuring a young girl tormented by the incessant ringing of the alphabet.  This film was inspired by a nightmare in which his niece stood up in her bead and began reciting the alphabet.  In 1970 The American Film Institute awarded a grant to Lynch to produce The Grandmother, a short film about a neglected boy who grows a grandmother from a seed. 
In 1977 Lynch moved to L.A. to study for his MFA at the AFI Conservatory.  With $10,000 in grant money from the AFI he began work on his feature debut film Eraserhead (1977), a nightmarish meditation on family life.  The $10,000 did not cover the production costs and Lynch restored to gathering funds from friends and even took on a paper route.  This disturbing film set the tone for Lynch's career and brought him to the attention of producer Mel Brooks who hired him to direct The Elephant Man (1982).  Elephant Man was Lynch's first commercial success earning eight Academy Award nominations, including Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay.
Lynch's feature film Blue Velvet (1986), cemented his critical success.  The film is a dark story of college student (Kyle MacLachlan) who discovers the dark side of his idealic American hometown after finding a severed ear in a field.  The film featured performances from Isabella Rossellini and Dennis Hopper.  The film earned Lynch his second Academy Award nomination for Best Director.  The film has drawn controversy since its opening.  For this film Lynch began his collaboration with composer Angelo Badalamenti, who would contribute to all of his future full-length films except Inland Empire (2006).
The end of the 80's were a period where Lynch made the transition from big screen to television.  His first television production was The Cowboy and the Frenchman (1989) produced for French television.  With producer Mark Frost, Lynch created Twin Peaks (1990), a television drama series which takes place in a small town in Washington.  Popular high school student Laura Palmer's rape and murder causes FBI agent Dale cooper (Kyle MacLachlan) to investigate the town where he reveals the many layers of secrets and supernatural events surrounding the crime.  Twin Peaks was a cultural phenomenon and led to Lynch appearing on the cover of Time Magazine.
Lynch could not stay away from feature films and in 1997 released the film Lost Highway co-written by Barry Gifford, starring Bill Pullman and Patricia Arquette.  Despite the film's limited commercial success and mixed critical reviews it brought Lynch to a new generation of fans.  His next feature film Muholland Drive (1999) performed better at ticket counters and was acclaimed by critics.  For the film Lynch won Best Director at the 2001 Cannes Film Festival and a Best Director award from the New York Film Critics Association.  The film's non-linear structure weaves together a surrealist tale of the dark underbelly of Hollywood, starring Naomi Watts, Laura Harring and Justin Theroux. Inland Empire (2006) continued the theme of non-linear narrative structures.  It starred Lynch regulars Laura Dern, Harry Dean Stanton, and Justin Theroux, with cameos by Naomi Watts and Laura Harring (voices of Suzie and Jane Rabbit), and a performance by Jeremy Irons. 
Lynch is not only a film director, his artistic work crosses the field to include photography, soundscapes, sculpture and multimedia works.  The internet provided a new medium with which Lynch found material for his artistic creations.  In 2002 he launched Davidlynch.com. Dumbland, a series of short films, was released via his website.  The disturbing shorts were later released as an eight episode DVD. From his website he also released Rabbits a sitcom about a family of humanoid rabbits.  In 2007, the Foundation Cartier in Paris hosted an exhibition of Lynch's artwork spanning more than 40 years.
David Lynch's unique vision is influenced by a traumatic understanding of Francis Bacon that has impacted him since the early 1960's.  Surrealism also shapes Lynch's distorted perspective in which as he says in an interview with Air France Magazine, "I put as much energy into distortion and twists as I do in actually creating, in the strictest sense of the term" (2007).  Growing up in the 1950's provided the foundation to his unique cinematic vision.  As Lynch says in a commonly used quote about America in the fifties, "All the problems were there, but it was somehow glossed over. And then the gloss broke, or rotted, and it all came oozing out. I grew up in Middle America as its supposed to be. But on the cherry tree there's this pitch oozing out  some black, some yellow, and millions of red ants crawling all over it. I discovered that if one looks a little closer at this beautiful world, there are always red ants underneath."
Lynch has been engaged with Transcendental meditation since 1973.  The David Lynch Foundation For Consciousness-Based Education and Peace was created in 2005, providing scholarships for middle and high school students interested in studying Transcendental meditation.  His book Catching The Big Fish (2006) discusses the relationship between Transcendental meditation and Lynch's creative process.  In 2009 Lynch began working on a documentary on Maharishi Mahesh Yogi (January 12, 1914 - February 5, 2008).  Lynch tells Dave Metz in a Vogue interview, "See, I love ideas, and ideas are thoughts, right? So the source of all thought is the unified field, the absolute. It´s pure consciousness. And the whole process of these thoughts rising out is the principle of TM" (2003).  Lynch stresses that Transcendental Mediation is not a religion, but rather a practice.  Practice or religion, if Transcendental Mediation is key to the genius of Lynch then the world can only hope he is meditating right now.
David Lynch has been invited to the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, to lead an Intensive Summer Workshop.
» Giorgio Agamben» Pierre Alferi» Hubertus von Amelunxen» Alisa Andrasek» Alain Badiou» Judith Balso» Jason Barker» Jean Baudrillard» Philippe Beck» Geoffrey Bennington» Robert Bramkamp» Benjamin Bratton» Catherine Breillat» Judith Butler» Eduardo Cadava» Hélène Cixous» Simon Critchley» Diane Davis» Claire Denis» Manthia Diawara» Suzanne Doppelt» Anne Dufourmantelle» Elie During» Atom Egoyan» Bracha Ettinger» Mike Figgis» Alessandro De Francesco» John Frazer» Christopher Fynsk» Heiner Goebbels» Antony Gormley» Peter Greenaway» Boris Groys» Werner Hamacher» Barbara Hammer» Graham Harman» Michael Hardt» Martin Hielscher» Brian Holmes» Mitchell Joachim» Tom Kalin» Friedrich Kittler» Chris Kraus» Manuel De Landa» Katarzyna Lazari-Radek» Neil Leach» Sylvère Lotringer» Geert Lovink» Catherine Malabou» Lev Manovich» Elissa Marder» Clem Marshall » Colum McCann» Achim Menges» Jean-Luc Nancy» François Noudelmann» Mathieu Potte-Bonneville» Peter Price» Stephen & Timothy Quay» Jacques Rancière» Laurence Arthur Rickels» Denise Riley» Avital Ronell» Wolfgang Schirmacher» Volker Schlöndorff» Michael Schmidt» Patrik Schumacher» Peter Singer» DJ Spooky - Paul Miller» Bruce Sterling» Caspar Stracke» Elia Suleiman» Leslie Thornton» Ilija Trojanow» Margarethe von Trotta» Agnès Varda» Paul Virilio» Victor Vitanza» Samuel Weber» Klaus Wyborny» Caveh Zahedi» Siegfried Zielinski» Slavoj Zizek» Thomas Zummer» Alenka Zupancic
AdministrationAboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor InformationMedia & CommunicationAboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & ScholarshipsAdmissionOnline ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer StudentsStudentsOverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest DocumentsAlumniOverviewAlumni AssociationAlumni DirectoryAlumni NewsEvent CalendarRequest TranscriptsGiving to EGSFacultyFaculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and PositionsResourcesNewsEvent CalendarInformation TechnologyHealth ServicesA-Z IndexSitemapContactsMediaEGS PublicationsEGS on FacebookEGS on YouTubeEGS on Google+EGS on FlickrEGS on TwitterConferences & FestivalsLibrary / EncyclopediaResearch Database
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
David Lynch was born in Missoula, Montana, on January 20, 1946. Two months after his birth, Lynch's family moved to Sandpoint, Idaho, where they remained for two years. From there, they moved to Spokane, Washington, then to Boise, Idaho, where Lynch attended grades three through eight, and finally to Alexandria, Virginia, where he spent his high school years. While there he was an Eagle Scout and even attended the inauguration of JFK.
Lynch recalls his childhood as "Good Times on our Street." "It was beautiful old houses, tree-lined streets, the milkman, building forts, lots and lots of friends. It was a dream world, those droning airplanes, blue skies, picket fences, green grass, cherry trees -- Middle America the way it was supposed to be. But then on this cherry tree would be this pitch oozing out, some of it black, some of it yellow, and there were millions of red ants racing all over the sticky pitch, all over the tree. So you see, there's this beautiful world and you just look a little bit closer, and it's all red ants."
"My parents didn't drink," he continues. "They didn't smoke; they never argued. And I wanted them to smoke; I wanted them to drink; I wanted them to argue, but they never did. I wanted to have strange things happen in my life. I knew nothing was as it seemed, not anywhere, but I could never really find proof of it. It was just a feeling."
 Lynch suspects that "because I grew up in that very beautiful, sort of perfect world, other things became a contrast. I went to Brooklyn as a little kid, for instance, and it just scared the hell out of me. I remember being with my father and brother in the subway, and I could feel this wind coming from the train, down the tunnel. First the wind and then a smell and then a sound. It was frightening. I had lots of tiny tastes of horror every time I went to New York. I felt fear in the air, and I felt fear in lots of places."
 In 1964, Lynch graduated from high school in Alexandria and headed for Boston's Museum School. At the end of his first year, he left for Europe. "I went to study under one of my least favorite artists -- but I meant to stay in Europe for three years." Instead, he returned to the United States in 15 days. "I remember lying in a basement in Athens and lizards were crawling up and down the walls. I began contemplating how I was 7,000 miles from McDonald's. And I really missed it. I missed America. I knew I was an American, and I wanted to be there."
Upon reentering the United States, Lynch headed directly for Alexandria, Virginia. A series of short-term jobs followed, leading Lynch (at age 20) to enroll at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in January, 1966.
The Philadelphia house into which Lynch and his friend Jack Fisk moved was "kitty-cornered from the morgue and next door to Pop's Diner. And that has influenced more things." Lynch calls that period "one of the best times of my life -- and one of the worst times, too. The area had the greatest mood, an unbelievable mood. It was an industrial part of the city, with the strangest characters, the darkest nights. Factories, smoke, railroads, diners, true factory people -- you could see strange stories in their faces. You could see plastic curtains and windows held together with Band-Aids, things stuffed into holes in the windows. Associations like smiling bags of death that they brought the bodies in with. We'd always go through the morgue garage enroute to the hamburger restaurant. I only lived at night then." Their home was a gutted building. "You could see where it was separated from the building next to it. It was a horrible place, but it was a great feeling."
Lynch remained in Philadelphia for over four years, from 1966 to 1970. In 1967, he married his girlfriend Peggy, and in 1968, their daughter Jennifer was born. "We were living in a house with 12 rooms, three stories. The bedroom alone was 25 by 25 feet, giant, high ceilings. And this huge place cost $3,500. That's all! A whole huge house and only $600 down. So you know what kind of neighborhood it was in. A kid was shot to death a half-block from our front door, and the chalk marks around where he'd lain stayed on the sidewalk for five days. The house was broken into twice; two windows were shot out. I saw horrible things pretty much every day." He shakes his head. "I thought I'd never get out of there, ever. I thought that was it. There was tremendous fear in Philadelphia, fear I didn't realize I was living with until I eventually moved to California and the fear left." That, Lynch says, was the    genesis of "Eraserhead."
It was in Philadelphia, also, that Lynch began making films. The Academy's yearly experimental painting and sculpture contest began it all.
For the first year's contest, Lynch built a kinetic sculpture which won second prize. The second year he constructed "a sculptured screen with three-dimensional heads. And I made this film, to be projected on it, of six people getting sick. First their heads, and then their stomachs animated in. It was all on a big loop that went up into the ceiling and came back into the projector. The whole thing cost me $200 to do and took several months." He'd never made a movie before. "But I always sort of wanted to do films. Not so much a movie-movie as a film-painting. I wanted the mood of the painting to be expanded through film, sort of a moving painting. It was really the mood I was after. I wanted a sound with it that would be so strange, so beautiful, like if the Mona Lisa opened her mouth and turned, and there would be a wind, and then she'd turn back and smile. It would be strange." The film-sculpture won Lynch a shared first prize.
Lynch quit the Academy, "because I wasn't learning anything and could paint on my own at home." He proceeded to make a four-minute movie combining animation and, for the first time for him, live action. It was called "The Alphabet," and he presented it to the American Film Institute, hoping to win a grant.
One day in the mail, Lynch received an announcement of the AFI's first group of independent film grant winners. "On this list were some of the real heavy-weights in experimental movies, all in their 40s. I looked at the list, and I said, 'That's it; there's no possible way I'm going to win one of these things.'"
A few days later, George Stevens, Jr., head of the AFI, offered Lynch a grant for $5,000 to do his first film.
"I painted the entire third floor of my house black and made a very abstract film called 'The Grandmother' about a little disturbed boy who plants a seed and it grows into his own grandmother and is filled with love for him."
With "The Grandmother," in 1970, Lynch was accepted into the AFI's Center for Advanced Film Studies. For the next year at AFI, he worked on a forty-five page script for a movie called "Gardenback." The film, intended as a low-budget horror film for Fox, involved an snake-like insect crossing over between a couple when a guy looks at a girl. The insect then grew in the guy's attic, mirroring his mind. It was never made as Lynch was forced to waterdown the script. However, it was the catalyst for his creating "Eraserhead" to which he devoted himself for the next five years. Lynch and Peggy seperated about a year into the filming of Eraserhead.
Working intensively with his four-crew nucleus chiefly at night and supporting himself with a Wall Street Journal paper route during daylight hours, Lynch ran out of the money with which the AFI had funded him in June of 1973, after a year's labor. For the subsequent year, Lynch added a series of odd jobs to his paper route and devoted himself to raising the necessary money. The film was completed two years thereafter.
Lynch became interested in a project being developed by producer-actor Mel Brooks -- "The Elephant Man." Lynch met Jonathan Sanger, the film's producer, and began to work with the two writers who had developed the first draft. But Brooks was less certain about giving the movie to Lynch to direct. "Brooks decided he had to see 'Eraserhead.' I thought, 'That's it, he'll see it and hate it.'" Instead, Lynch laughs, "Mel literally came running out, threw his arms around me and said, 'You're a madman. I love you. You're in!'" Lynch directed the film which received two Academy Award nominations in 1980 for Best Director and Best Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium.
After "The Elephant Man's" success, Lynch spent another two years during which he wrote the original screenplay for "Blue Velvet," and tried to get "Ronnie Rocket" off the ground. Lynch also began a weekly comic strip for the LA Reader, The Angriest Dog in the World. At that point Dino De Laurentiis phoned and offered him "Dune."
"I'd never heard of 'Dune,'" said Lynch, "but I read the book, loved it, and began the screenplay." For Lynch, "There's something of 'Eraserhead' in 'The Elephant Man' and some of both in 'Dune.' There's some sort of thread that connects the three of them in my mind. They're all strange worlds that you can't go into unless you build them and film them. I just like going into strange worlds."
Which he did in 1985 as he entered the world of "Blue Velvet," a sensual mystery thriller which unravels very strange goings-on in a small North Carolina town.
Under Lynch's direction, "Blue Velvet" brings together the diverse talents of Isabella Rossellini, Kyle MacLachlan, Laura Dern, and Dennis Hopper who play the lead roles in an original screenplay written by Lynch. The film was shot at the DEG Film Studios in Wilmington, North Carolina.
"Blue Velvet" was voted best film of 1986 by the National Society of Film Critics and was nominated for the Academy Award for best film and best director. It is often hailed by critics as one of the Ten Best Films of the Decade
Shortly after the release of Blue Velvet, Lynch narrated a BBC Arena documentary in cinematic surrealism. Following the success of Blue Velvet, Lynch was offered the chance to direct the film "Goddess," written by Mark Frost. It recounted the last few days of the life of Marilyn Monroe. The film was not to be due to funding problems, but the creative friendship between Lynch and Frost would not remain idle for long. The newly formed team of Lynch and Frost penned the screenplay to "One Saliva Bubble," a tale of the small town of Newtonville, KS, where a secret government project goes amuck. The result is an exchange of identities of several of the townsfolk. 
 Lynch feels that his approach to films "probably came out of painting, out of my art background, in a subconscious sort of way. I'm interested not only in the story, but also in the mood set by the combination of sound and look. That's what makes it magic for me, what makes it profound -- the visual and sound working together."
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/loading-indicator._V192185253_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif');
        background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/buttons._V243643239_.gif')
    background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/traffic/s9m/alert-small._V195630253_.gif");
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/donsbeak-sm-up._V197474569_.png) no-repeat 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite-mini.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/tile-blue-bg._V46870869_.gif)
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tl._V192184760_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tm._V192184721_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tr._V192184429_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bl._V192184824_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bm._V192184603_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-br._V192545463_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tl2._V192545542_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tr2._V192545537_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-bl._V192545543_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-br._V192545543_.gif);
Help us improve our Author Pages by updating your bibliography and submitting a new or current image and biography.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
that's David Lynch's own four-word bio which he chose to characterize himself to the press in 1990. I don't want to make it that short.
Lynch: "My father was a scientist for the Forest Service. He would drive me through the woods in his green Forest Service truck, over dirt roads, through the most beautiful forests where the trees are very tall and shafts of sunlight come down and in the mountain streams the rainbow trout leap out and their little trout sides catch glimpses of light.  Then my father would drop me in the woods and go off.   It was a weird, comforting feeling being in the woods.  There were odd, mysterious things.  That's the kind of world I grew up in."
"As a teenager, I was really trying to have fun 24 hours a day. I didn't start thinking until I was 20 or 21. I was doing regular goofball stuff."
"My mother refused to give me colouring books as a child. She probably saved me, 'cause when you think about it, what a colouring book does is completely kill creativity."
Lynch has a younger brother and a younger sister.He grew up in Sandpoint, Idaho, Spokane, Washington, Durham, North Carolina and  eventually Boise, Idaho.
Lynch: [His sister Margaret] "was afraid of green peas because they were hard on the outside and soft on the inside"
Lynch: "In a large city I realized there was a large amount of fear. Coming from the Northwest, it kind of hits you like a train."
 Sets off for Europe with his friend Jack Fisk to study with the expressionist painter Oskar Kokoschka in Salzburg, Austria. Trips to Paris, France, and eventually to Athens, Greece,  but they returned to the U.S. after only 15 days
Lynch: "I didn't take to Europe. I was all the time thinking, this is where I'm going to be painting. And there was no inspiration there at all for the kind of work I wanted to do."
"I intended to stay three years. Instead, I stayed 15 days! I remember lying in an Athens basement with lizards crawling along the walls and contemplating that I was 7,000 miles from McDonalds!"
Back in Alexandria Lynch landed - and lost - a succession of jobs at a drugstore cigar counter, an art store, an engineering office and a frame shop Lynch: ("The owner's name was Michelangelo - honest!')
"Whenever I was fired, it led somewhere else with new experiences. Each time I got axed, I was ecstatic!"
"But, after I'd cleaned a clogged toilet - a job no one else would touch - for five dollars, I'd have gone anywhere to get out of there."
Lynch: "It was a great time to be at the Academy. Schools have waves, and it just happened that I hit on a really rising, giant wave. There were so many good people at the school. And that really started everything rolling. I kind of got a feeling for things in terms of painting, and my own style kind of clicked in."
"The house I moved into was across the street from the morgue, next door to Pop's Diner. The area had a great mood - factories, smoke, railroads, diners, the strangest characters, the darkest nights. The people had stories etched in their faces, and I saw vivid images-plastic curtains held together with Band-Aids, rags stuffed in broken windows, walking through the morgue en-route to a hamburger joint."
"We lived cheap, but the city was full of fear. A kid was shot to death down the street, and the chalk marks around where he'd lain stayed on the sidewalk for five days. We were robbed twice, had windows shot out and a car stolen."
"One year I made a kind of electrical pool table, in which you dropped a ball-bearing which went down a ramp, setting off a whole series of contacts that first struck a match on a scraper to light a firecracker, then others opend the womans mouth, lit up a red bulb and made her scream when the firecracker exploded." 
 Graduates art school, his first animated film "Six Men Getting Sick" awarded the second annual Dr. W.S. Biddle Cadwalder Memorial Prize, PAFA.
Gets married to his first wife Margaret (Peggy) Reavey when she's pregnant, and gave birth to his  daughter Jennifer in April 1968.
Moves to Los Angeles with his wife Peggy and daughter Jennifer, attends the AFI Center for Advanced Film Studies
Begins work on "Eraserhead" script, various jobs during his work on "Eraserhead" like delivering the Wall Street Journal, installing hot water heaters or building sheds.
 Begins working on "Elephant Man" in London, group exhibition at the  International Art Fair, Washington DC.
=======================================================
                David Lynch is most famous for his stylish and strange films, as well as the television series, 'Twin Peaks'.In 1965, he attended art college in Philadelphia, a city that he enjoyed living and working in, and found visually stimulating. After graduating, he made some acclaimed animated film work and soon entered film school. His first film to have a commercial impact was 'Eraserhead', a film that he started developing in 1972 and which was released in 1976. Films that followed were the 'Elephant Man' in 1980, based on the tragic real life experience of Joseph Merrick in Victorian London, and 'Blue Velvet' in 1986, starring Isabella Rosselini and Kyle MacLachlan. All of these films are characterised by their darkness and beauty. The television series 'Twin Peaks', in the late eighties, brought Lynch's work to a far larger audience and was hailed as a lovingly crafted, strange and original work for television. In 1992, 'Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me' was released in the cinema. 'Wild At Heart', starring Nicolas Cage, won the Palme D'Or at the Cannes Film Festival in 1990. His first film of the late nineties, 'Lost Highway' had mixed reviews, his only poorly received work. 1999 saw the release of 'The Straight Story', which was considered a beautifully shot film of a remarkable true story. 'Mullholland Drive' won Lynch the Best Director award at Cannes in 2001. As well as making films, David Lynch has made some notable music videos and adverts. Although most famous for his work with a film camera, he has consistently made and exhibited work as a sculptor and painter, and also makes furniture.
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
world.  He did it again a few years later with the feature, Mulholland Drive (2001), which was again praised throughout the world and earned him his third Academy Award for Directing.
Filmography → Oscars™ Nominations And AwardsActorGreat Directors (2010)DirectorTo Each His Cinema (2008)DirectorInland Empire (2007)ProducerInland Empire (2007)DirectorMulholland Dr. (2001)Best DirectorNomineeDirectorThe Straight Story (1999)DirectorLost Highway (1997)DirectorBlue Velvet (1986)DirectorThe Elephant Man (1980)DirectorEraserhead (1977)
=======================================================
MoreAutosCareers & JobsCelebritiesDelishEntertainmentGamesGloHealthy LivingLivingMoneyNewsmsnNOWReal Estate & RentalsSportsTravelVideoWeatherFull MSN IndexOutlook.comInboxCalendarContactsSend e-mailMobileBingRewardsï¿½                
 From the beginning of his career, David Lynch quickly established himself as the Renaissance man of modern American filmmaking, an acclaimed and widely recognized writer-director as well as television producer, photographer, cartoonist, composer, and graphic artist. Walking the tightrope between the mainstream and the avant-garde with remarkable balance and skill, Lynch brought to the screen a singularly dark and disturbing view of reality, a nightmare world punctuated by defining moments of extreme violence, bizarre comedy, and strange beauty. More than any other arthouse filmmaker of his era, he enjoyed considerable mass acceptance and helped to redefine commercial tastes, honing a surrealistic aesthetic so visionary and deeply personal that the phrase "Lynchian" was coined simply to describe it. 
Born January 20, 1946, in Missoula, Montana, David Keith Lynch grew up the archetypal all-American boy. The son of a U.S. Department of Agriculture research scientist, he was raised throughout the Pacific Northwest, eventually becoming an Eagle Scout and even serving as an usher at John F. Kennedy's presidential inauguration. Originally intending to become a graphic artist, Lynch enrolled in the Corcoran School of Art in Washington, D.C., in 1963, falling under the sway of expressionist painter Oskar Kokoschka and briefly studying in Europe. By the early weeks of 1966, he had relocated to Philadelphia, where he attended the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts and began his first experimentation with film.
The violence and decay which greeted Lynch in Philadelphia proved to have a profound and long-lasting effect, as his work became increasingly obsessed with exploring the dark corners of the human experience. From his first experimental student film (1967's "moving painting" Six Men Getting Sick, onward, his vision grew more and more fascinated with the seedy underbelly of everyday life. He received an American Film Institute Grant and made The Alphabet, a partially animated 16 mm color film, soon after, but then turned away from the cinema to renew his focus on fine art. His next short film, The Grandmother, did not appear until 1970.
In 1972, Lynch began work on his first feature effort, Eraserhead. A surreal nightmare borne of the director's own fears and anxieties of fatherhood, the film took over five years to complete, finally premiering in March 1977. An instant cult classic, it was also a tremendous critical success, launching Lynch to the forefront of avant-garde filmmaking. Eraserhead not only established Lynch's singular world view but also cemented the team of actors and technicians who would continue to define the texture of his work for years to come, including cinematographer Frederick Elmes, sound designer Alan Splet, and actor Jack Nance.
The success of Eraserhead brought Lynch to the attention of Mel Brooks, who was seeking projects to produce besides his own comedies. He recruited Lynch to helm 1980's The Elephant Man, the tale of John Merrick. Complete with a cast including such celebrated talent as John Hurt, Anthony Hopkins, Anne Bancroft, and John Gielgud, the film marked Lynch's acceptance into the Hollywood mainstream, even netting an Academy Award nomination for Best Picture as well as a nod for Best Director. 
For a time, Lynch opted to advance his script Ronnie Rocket at Francis Coppola's Zoetrope Studios, but when this failed to materialize, he went to work for Dino De Laurentiis, adapting  the Frank Herbert science fiction novel Dune. The first of Lynch's films to star actor Kyle MacLachlan, the 1984 big-budget effort was a commercial and critical disaster -- Lynch himself even disowned the project after it was re-edited for release without his consent.
Lynch had agreed to make Dune for de Laurentiis in order to film 1986's Blue Velvet, a long-simmering tale exploring the dark underbelly of small-town life. Insisting upon complete artistic control, he made the picture for under seven million dollars, casting actors ranging from MacLachlan to model Isabella Rossellini to Dennis Hopper and Dean Stockwell, former stars whose popularity had suffered in recent years. The completed film was an unqualified masterpiece, a hypnotically violent creep show which earned Lynch his second Oscar nomination as well as boosting the careers of all involved. 
In 1990, Lynch mounted his most commercially successful work, the ABC television series Twin Peaks. A surrealist soap opera created in conjunction with former Hill Street Blues producer Mark Frost, Twin Peaks became a cultural phenomenon, spurred by the mystery of "Who killed Laura Palmer?," the series' central plot thread. Suddenly, Lynch was a cultural figure of considerable renown, a filmmaker perhaps more famous than any of his actors. His fame was bolstered when his fifth feature, 1990s hallucinatory road movie Wild at Heart, grabbed the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival. 
As quickly as the media had built Lynch up, however, they tore him down. Wild at Heart received mixed reviews from American critics, while Twin Peaks was scuttled off to a poorly suited Saturday-night slot, leading to its demise in early 1991. Two other Lynch-created series, the documentary anthology American Chronicles and the situation comedy On the Air, also met with premature deaths. In 1992, he released Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me, a feature-film prequel to the television series. An ambitious, fractured work featuring Sheryl Lee as the ill-fated Laura Palmer, the picture was savaged by critics, leaving a wounded Lynch to plot his next move. He spent the next few years away from the limelight. 
Finally, in 1997, Lynch resurfaced with the enigmatic Lost Highway, another experimental, dream-like effort that polarized viewers' responses. He enjoyed more renown in 1999 when The Straight Story was released at the Cannes Film Festival. The film, based on a true story, marked a departure from Lynch's previous subject matter; the simple tale of a man (Richard Farnsworth) who gets on his tractor and drives 350 miles to see his brother, it offered few of the dark undertones and twisted subtext that had come to be known as the director's trademarks. 
That notion would continue with 2001's Hollywood-set thriller-melodrama, Mulholland Drive. Like Twin Peaks, the project was originally developed with ABC as a series pilot; unlike Lynch's first foray into television, however, Mulholland was scrapped before it could make a prime-time premiere. Although Lynch tinkered with the two-hour pilot several times in an attempt to satisfy the network brass, they remained unsatisfied. The frustrated director then turned to European financing in order to sculpt a feature film out of his material. Premiering at the 2001 Cannes Film Festival, Mulholland garnered much acclaim, snagging Lynch the fest's Best Director award, and cementing his career resurgence.
Lynch spent the next few years immersed in the world of digital video, first on his exclusive website -- members of which were allowed access to never-before-seen short films -- and then on the highly experimental feature Inland Empire. Crafted over a series of years using a light, mobile video camera and very few crew members, the film was Lynch's declaration of true artistic independence; the director himself heralded it as a breakthrough. The meandering, non-narrative, 3-hour opus, however, left critics and fans sharply divided as they tried to make sense of such disparate elements as a tortured, ghostly ingenue (played by Laura Dern), a Polish film crew, and Justin Theroux wearing a rabbit's-head mask. Dissatisfied with the response from possible buyers at the 2006 Cannes Film Festival, Lynch chose to distribute the film himself, even mounting his own Oscar campaign -- stationing himself on various L.A. streetcorners, no less -- for Dern. In the years that followed, the director continued to immerse himself in experimental video, with short subjects including Boat, More Things That Happened and Lady Blue Shanghai - each of which alternately beguiled and delighted longtime Lynch adherents. ~ Jason Ankeny, Rovi 
   Search by location, title, or genre:    Choose a movie--- Featured movies ---X-Men: Days of Future PastBlendedGodzillaMillion Dollar ArmCaptain America: The Winter So...-------------------------2 GunsAfter EarthBaggage ClaimBefore MidnightThe Big WeddingCloudy with a Chance of Meatba...The ConjuringDespicable Me 2Don JonElysiumEpicThe FamilyFast & Furious 6Fruitvale StationGirl Most LikelyGrown Ups 2The HeatInsidious Chapter 2 The InternshipJobsKick-Ass 2Lee Daniels' The ButlerThe Lone RangerMan of SteelThe Mortal Instruments: City o...MudPacific RimParanoiaPrisonersR.I.P.D.RED 2RiddickRushThe Smurfs 2This is the EndThe To Do ListTurboThe Way, Way BackWe're the MillersWhite House DownThe WolverineThe World's End-------------------------more movies...   
MoviesIn TheatersComing SoonNewsActionsFind ShowtimesRead Critics' ReviewsSee Top Box OfficeTop Movie TrailersGodzillaMaleficentAmazing Spider-Man 2FeaturesSuperheroes' girlfriendsClassical myth in filmSet in the 1970sExplore with Bing2014 moviesJennifer LawrenceRyan GoslingOur blogHitlist
=======================================================
html,body{font-size:100%;height:100%;font-family:arial,verdana,sans-serif;}html,body,form,h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6,p,ul{margin:0;padding:0;}body{-ms-text-size-adjust:100%;-webkit-text-size-adjust:100%;-moz-text-size-adjust:100%;text-size-adjust:100%;}img{border:0;display:block;}ul{list-style-type:none;}a{color:#0000cc;}a:hover{text-decoration:;}a:visited{color:;}#p{font-size:0.813em;margin:0 auto;width:1024px;}.landing #p{height:100%;margin:0 auto;}.landing #CHROME,.landing #IE,.landing #IE6,.landing #IE7,.landing #IE8,.landing #IE9,.landing #SAFARI,.landing #isMacOS,.landing #AOL,.landing #AOL91,.landing #AOL95,.landing #AOL96{height:100%;}.landing #h{min-height:275px;max-height:456px;height:60%;position:relative;width:716px;margin:0 auto 0 auto;background:none;}.landing #IE7 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:455px;}.landing #IE8 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:456px;}.landing #IE9 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:456px;}#h{padding-top:0px;margin-bottom:12px;background:none;}#IE #h{position:relative;z-index:1;zoom:100%;}.landing #IE6 #h{height:550px;}.landing #AOL #h{height:555px;}#l{width:92px;float:left;padding-left:0px;padding-right:43px;clear:both;margin-top:;}#p.r #w{padding-right:325px;}#p.l #w{padding-left:135px;}#c{float:left;width:100%;background-color:#fff;margin-top:;}#IE6 #c{width:98%;}.cw{margin-left:;padding-left:;padding-right:10px;width:auto;}#p.r .cw{margin-right:;}#r{width:308px;float:left;border-left:1px solid #e5e5e5;padding-left:8px;padding-right:8px;margin-top:;}#IE6 #r{position:relative;}.rw{margin:10px;}#f{clear:both;background:none;min-width:650px;}.landing #f{background:none;}#hw,#center_wrap,#fw{margin:0 auto;width:auto;max-width:;min-width:650px;}.landing #hw,.landing #center_wrap,.landing #fw{margin:auto;min-width:100%;}.clear{clear:both;height:0;overflow:hidden;}.lr-sep{border-top:1px solid #e5e5e5;margin:10px 0 0;width:149px;height:0;overflow:hidden;}.lhrgt,.lhrlt{display:block;cursor:pointer;text-decoration:none;outline:none;}.lhrgt:hover,.lhrlt:hover,.lhrgt span:hover,.lhrlt span:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.lhrgt .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat -1px -8px;margin:4px 0 0 5px;height:7px;width:7px;}#IE .lhrgt .sprite{margin-top:5px;}.lhrlt .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat 0 0;margin:5px 5px 0 0;height:7px;width:7px;}.lhrgt span,.lhrlt span{float:left;}.acc{position:absolute;text-indent:-1000em;overflow:hidden;}.hac{display:inline;margin:0;font-size:1em;font-weight:normal;}.obscure{position:absolute!important;clip:rect(1px 1px 1px 1px);clip:rect(1px,1px,1px,1px);}.sprite{text-indent:-9999px;display:block;overflow:hidden;}#h .cntr{padding-left:10px;float:left;}#h .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:8px;}#f .cntr{padding-left:10px;float:left;}#f .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:8px;}#isMobile #c{float:none;padding-left:10px;padding-right:10px;width:auto;}#isMobile #h{height:auto;margin:0;max-height:none;min-height:0;padding-top:0;}.landing #isMobile #c,.landing #isMobile .cw{padding:0;}.landing #isMobile #h{padding-top:0px;}.article #p{font-size:;margin:;width:;}.article #p.r #w{padding-right:332px;}.article #p.l #w{padding-left:;}.article #h{padding-top:;margin-bottom:;background:;}.article #c{margin-top:;}.article .cw{margin-left:15px;padding-left:;padding-right:;width:;}.article #p.r .cw{margin-right:5px;}.article #r{width:;padding-left:15px;padding-right:;margin-top:;}.article #f{background:;min-width:;}.article #hw,.article #center_wrap,.article #fw{margin:;width:;max-width:;min-width:;}.article #h .cntr{padding-left:;}.article #h .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:;}.article #f .cntr{padding-left:;}.article #f .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:;}.landing{background-color:#ffffff;;;}.CSB{position:relative;width:653px;float:left;}.CSB .csbtds{padding-top:0px;padding-right:0px;padding-bottom:0px;padding-left:0px;background:transparent;}.csbs{background-color:#fff;border:1px solid black;color:#000000;font-size:1.308em;font-weight:normal;font-family:arial,verdana,sans-serif;height:28px;width:100%;position:relative;padding:5px 3px 4px 6px;}.landing .csbs{border:;}.ghost{color:#b9b9b9;}.csbb{background:url("http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites2/wow-search-button.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;cursor:pointer;font-weight:normal;font-size:1.462em;margin:0 0 0 10px;padding:0;display:block;white-space:nowrap;line-height:40px;height:40px;position:relative;text-shadow:0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.7);border:none;width:80px;}.csbb:hover{background:url("http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites2/wow-search-button.png") no-repeat scroll -80px 0 transparent;}.CSB td{vertical-align:top;}.CSB a,.CSB a:hover,.CSB a:active,.CSB a:visited{text-decoration:none;color:#fff;}#IE6 .CSB form{zoom:100%;}#IE6 .csbs,#IE7 .csbs,#IE8 .csbs{line-height:28px;}.landing .CSB{position:absolute;bottom:187px;left:33px;width:622px;}.landing #IE7 .CSB{bottom:184px;}.landing #ACC{width:529px;}.landing #ACC .acs.sel{background:#CFECFF;}.landing #IE7 .GLOG{background-position:-43px -23px;}.GLOG{background:transparent url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat -43px -23px;width:96px;height:16px;bottom:0;right:0;top:-18px;position:absolute;}.GLOG.bgnone{background:none;}.leftBrandLogo{background:transparent url() no-repeat ;width:185px;height:115px;left:-185px;top:-35px;position:absolute;text-indent:-9999px;}.rightBrandLogo{background:transparent url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/logos/2-a_google_logo_right.png) no-repeat 0px 0px;width:185px;height:115px;right:-184px;top:-35px;position:absolute;text-indent:-9999px;}#ACC{position:absolute;display:none;background:white;border:1px solid #CFECFF;padding:0 9px 0 0;width:561px;z-index:3;font-size:1.308em;top:-1px;left:1px;margin-left:-1px;}#ACC .acs{color:#3c3c3c;display:block;text-decoration:none;padding:3px 3px 4px 6px;width:100%;}#ACC .acs.sel{background:#CFECFF;}#IE6 #ACC .acs{zoom:100%;}.ACPAR{position:relative;z-index:2;}#ACC .CSERD{color:#00c;display:inline-block;padding:1px 0;margin-left:4px;}#ACC .sel .CSERD{color:#fff;}#IE .CSB td{vertical-align:middle;}#IE7 .ACPAR{clear:both;}#IE7 #ACC .acs,#IE8 #ACC .acs{padding-left:6px;}.csbSearchBox{border:1px solid transparent;}.csbSearchBox:hover{border-color:transparent;}.landing .csbSearchBox{border:1px solid transparent;}.landing .csbSearchBox:hover{border-color:transparent;}body #h .cntr,body #f .cntr{padding-top:25px;}body .leftBrandLogo{display:none;}body .GLOG{display:none;}span.clearbutton{position:relative;}span.clearbutton input{padding-right:26px;-webkit-user-modify:read-write-plaintext-only;}span.clearbutton span{position:absolute;display:block;top:-2px;right:5px;width:20px;height:19px;background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) 0 -59px;cursor:pointer;visibility:visible;}span.clearbutton span.show{visibility:visible;}span.clearbutton span.hide{visibility:hidden;}#isMobile #ACC{-webkit-tap-highlight-color:rgba(255,255,255,0);}#isMobile .CSB{padding-right:10px;position:absolute;}#isMobile .GLOG.bgnone{display:none;}.landing #isMobile .CSB{float:none;margin:;padding:0;position:static;}.landing #isMobile .CSB #inner{margin:0 auto;max-width:;padding:;}.PS{clear:both;position:absolute;left:33px;bottom:-26px;font-weight:bold;width:622px;}.PS .popSites .psHead{font-size:1.2308em;color:;text-align:;margin-bottom:11px;}.PS .furl{background-color:transparent;height:100px;margin:6px 9px 0 0;width:60px;display:block;float:left;}.PS .furl2{margin-bottom:-57px;}.PS .popSites{display:inline-block;}.PS a{color:#00F;text-decoration:none;outline:0;}.PS a.furl{background-position:0 0;background-repeat:no-repeat;}.PS .popSites ul li{float:left;}.PS a.furl .iconText{bottom:23px;color:#3B3B3B;font-size:12px;padding-top:62px;text-shadow:0px 1px 1px #FFF;text-align:center;}#IE6 .PS,#IE7 .PS{z-index:-1;}#IE7 .PS .popSites{display:inline;}#CHROME .PS .furl{margin:5px 9px 0 0;}#IE7 .PS .popSites>ul{display:inline-block;}.flogo{bottom:30px;float:right;}.flogo .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/logos/2-a_wow_logo_bottom.png) no-repeat 0 0;height:89px;width:107px;}.generror .flogo .sprite,.landing .flogo .sprite{background-position:0px 0px;height:125px;width:200px;text-indent:-9999px;}#f{bottom:0;vertical-align:bottom;position:absolute;width:100%;left:0;}.flanding{height:21.5px;padding:8.5px 16px 0 16px;display:block;clear:both;color:#5B5A5A;font-size:0.923em;background-color:#eeeeee;}.flanding ul,.flanding .extraL{float:right;}.flanding ul a{color:#5B5A5A;}.flanding ul a:visited{color:#5B5A5A;}.flanding ul a:hover{color:;}.flanding .copy{float:left;}
=======================================================
A spellbinding true story — Raised on Fear by Lee Cox  http://wp.temphost.us/book/purchase/Igniting hope and purpose in peoples lives. The EVE Foundation is impacting teens and adults who have been abused. Our programs open up conversations about hardship and abuse and inspire a positive view of the future, empowering people to go beyond the hurt and pain and to live life with an inspired purpose. http://wp.temphost.us/programs/Who We Are We are committed to a future where children are born into a world of love and acceptance.  
"I grew up in a world of unpredictability and violence. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence." Raised on Fear is a true story by Lee Cox. A self healing, must-read. Buy today and get free shipping.
From Chapter One – “I grew up in a world of violence and unpredictability. I learned to protect myself the best I could. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal, and to cover my fear with anger and violence.
No one knew the abuse that went on in our home, as we all learned to keep it hidden. No one knew my wish to make it stop. And later, no one knew the fear that overwhelmed me and drove me to hit and hurt the ones I loved most.”
This book exposes the thinking, beliefs and actions of a child who grows up to find himself being the abuser in his family. We follow his story from before childhood to the beginning of his journey to stop his violent and abusive behaviors.
Lee Cox offers powerful insights into his journey of healing himself. When he shares his story, his courage, candor and honesty inspire his audience to help stop domestic abuse. Lee speaks to: Students, Teachers, Law Enforcement, Domestic Violence Professionals, Civic organizations, Self Help groups and Community Leaders. Contact the EVE Foundation to have Lee speak at your next event.
“I grew up in a world of unpredictability and violence. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence.” Raised on Fear is a true story by Lee Cox. A self healing, must-read. Buy today and get free shipping.
“I grew up in a world of violence and unpredictability. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence.”
The EVE Foundation is impacting teens and adults who have been abused. Our programs open up conversations about hardship and abuse and inspire a positive view of the future, empowering people to go beyond the hurt and pain and to live life with an inspired purpose. It is our mission to make a real difference with humans by educating and continually re-igniting their flame of hope, inspiration, and purpose, so they can heal themselves.
The EVE Foundation is committed to a future where children are born into a world of love and acceptance. We contribute to that future through programs designed to inspire healing, responsibility, empowerment and hope. Our target audience is at risk teens, abusers and the abused.
Committed to raising money to fund local organizations who focus on child abuse prevention. We achieve this by collecting, repairing, cleaning and selling donated items.
Group of men and women working to make our communities better places to live though programs of service in Americanism, Community  Service, Youth Activities, and it’s national project, the Prevention of Child Abuse.
=======================================================
Sponsors | Privacy Policy | Technical Questions | Editorial Questions | Usage Policy | Directors & Staff | Site Map  | RSS Feeds 
=======================================================
Immersive 118-ft Wall Painting by Markus Linnenbrink  Transforms Lobby of PAFA’s Hamilton Building 5/23/2014
=======================================================
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #0E658E), color-stop(.5, #0C577A), color-stop(.5, #014D71), to(#003E5C)); 
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #b28b06), color-stop(.5, #9c7705), color-stop(.5, #9c7705), to(#5c4100)); 
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #edbf21), color-stop(.5, #c89b0f), color-stop(.5, #c89b0f), to(#906706)); 
.stab{font-family: 'Days One', sans-serif; text-shadow: 1px 1px 2px #ffffff; filter: dropshadow(color=#ffffff, offx=1, offy=1);  width:500px; line-height:36px; padding-bottom:5px; color:#4c4136; font-size:36px;font-weight:bold; text-transform:uppercase;}
                            Memoro is an international non-profit project, an open archive of audio or video interviews of people born before 1950.
                    You can easily contribute: a camera, a smartphone, a webcam or an audio-recorder is enough. 
                            If you are an Association, a Museum or an Archive, share your contents with more 
                            We need your help to improve the project, to collect more memories and preserve them for the future, to develop Memoro projects in new Countries, to keep the site free from advertising.
