=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Walter Bruce Willis (born March 19, 1955), better known as Bruce Willis, is an American actor, producer, and singer. His career began on the Off-Broadway stage and then in television in the 1980s, most notably as David Addison in Moonlighting (1985–89) and has continued both in television and film since, including comedic, dramatic, and action roles. Probably best known for his role of John McClane in the Die Hard series, which were mostly critical and uniformly financial successes. He has also appeared in over sixty films, including the box office hits, Pulp Fiction (1994), 12 Monkeys (1995), The Fifth Element (1997), Armageddon (1998), The Sixth Sense (1999), Unbreakable (2000), and Sin City (2005).
Motion pictures featuring Willis have grossed US$2.64 billion to 3.05 billion at North American box offices, making him the ninth highest-grossing actor in a leading role and twelfth highest including supporting roles.[2][3] He is a two-time Emmy Award–winning, Golden Globe Award–winning and four-time Saturn Award–nominated actor. Willis was married to actress Demi Moore and they had three daughters before their divorce in 2000, following thirteen years of marriage. Since 2009, he has been married to model Emma Heming, with whom he has two daughters.
Willis was born on March 19, 1955 in Idar-Oberstein, West Germany. His father, David Willis, was an American soldier. His mother, Marlene K., was German, and had been born in Kaufungen, near Kassel.[4][5][6] Willis is the oldest of four children: he has a sister, Florence, and a brother, David. His brother Robert died of pancreatic cancer in 2001, aged 42.[7] After being discharged from the military in 1957, Willis's father took his family back to Carneys Point, New Jersey.[8] Willis has described himself as having come from a "long line of blue collar people";[8] his mother worked in a bank and his father was a welder, master mechanic, and factory worker.[9] Willis attended Penns Grove High School in his hometown, where he encountered issues with a stutter.[8] He was nicknamed Buck-Buck by his schoolmates.[9][10][11] Finding it easy to express himself on stage and losing his stutter in the process, Willis began performing on stage and his high school activities were marked by such things as the drama club and student council president.[9]
After high school, Willis took a job as a security guard at the Salem Nuclear Power Plant[12][13] and also transported work crews at the DuPont Chambers Works factory in Deepwater, New Jersey.[13]
After working as a private investigator (a role he would play in the television series Moonlighting as well as in the 1991 film, The Last Boy Scout), Willis turned to acting. He enrolled in the drama program at Montclair State University, where he was cast in the class production of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof. Willis left school in his junior year and moved to New York City,[5] where in the early 1980s he supported himself as a bartender at the West 19th Street art bar Kamikaze.[14]
After multiple auditions, Willis made his theater debut in the off-Broadway production of Heaven and Earth. He gained more experience and exposure in Fool for Love, and in a Levi's commercial. Willis also played a lead role in the Off-Broadway production of writer-director Dennis Watlington Bullpen for four years.[citation needed]
Willis left New York City and headed to California to audition for several television shows.[5] In 1984, he appeared in an episode of the TV series Miami Vice, titled "No Exit". In 1985, he was the guest actor in the first episode of The Twilight Zone (1985 TV series), "Shatterday".[15] He auditioned for the role of David Addison Jr. of the television series Moonlighting (1985–89), competing against 3,000 other actors for the position.[16] The starring role, opposite Cybill Shepherd, helped to establish him as a comedic actor, with the show lasting five seasons.[8] During the height of the show's success, beverage maker Seagram hired Willis as the pitchman for their Golden Wine Cooler products.[17] The advertising campaign paid the rising star between $5–7 million over two years. In spite of that, Willis chose not to renew his contract with the company when he decided to stop drinking alcohol in 1988.[18]
Willis made his film debut in the 1987 Blake Edwards film Blind Date, with Kim Basinger and John Larroquette.[8] Edwards cast him again to play the real-life cowboy actor Tom Mix in Sunset (1988). However, it was his then-unexpected turn in the film Die Hard (1988) as John McClane that catapulted him to movie star status.[8] He performed most of his own stunts in the film,[19] and the film grossed $138,708,852 worldwide.[20] Following his success with Die Hard, he had a supporting role in the drama In Country as Vietnam veteran Emmett Smith and also provided the voice for a talking baby in Look Who's Talking, as well as its sequel Look Who's Talking Too.
In the late 1980s, Willis enjoyed moderate success as a recording artist, recording an album of pop-blues titled The Return of Bruno, which included the hit single "Respect Yourself",[21] promoted by a Spinal Tap–like rockumentary parody featuring scenes of him performing at famous events including Woodstock. He released a version of the Drifters song "Under The Boardwalk" as a follow-up, which got to number 2 in the UK Top 40, though was less successful in the USA. Willis returned to the recording studio several times afterward. (See Discography below.)
Having acquired major personal success and pop culture influence playing John McClane in Die Hard, Willis followed up by playing him again in the sequels Die Hard 2 in 1990 and Die Hard with a Vengeance in 1995.[8] These first three installments in the Die Hard series grossed over US$700 million internationally and propelled Willis to the first rank of Hollywood action stars.
In the early 1990s, Willis's career suffered a moderate slump starring in flops such as The Bonfire of the Vanities, Striking Distance, and a film he co-wrote titled Hudson Hawk, among others. He starred in a leading role in the highly sexualized erotic thriller Color of Night (1994): another box office failure, it was savaged by critics but did well in the home video market and became one of the Top 20 most-rented films in the United States in 1995.[22]
In 1994, he had a supporting role in Quentin Tarantino's acclaimed Pulp Fiction,[8] which gave a new boost to his career. In 1996, he was the executive producer of the cartoon Bruno the Kid which featured a CGI representation of himself.[23] He went on to play the lead roles in Twelve Monkeys (1995) and The Fifth Element (1997). However, by the end of the 1990s, his career had fallen into another slump with critically panned films like The Jackal, Mercury Rising, and Breakfast of Champions, saved only by the success of the Michael Bay-directed Armageddon which was the highest grossing film of 1998 worldwide.[24] The same year his voice and likeness were featured in the PlayStation video game Apocalypse.[25] In 1999, Willis then went on to the starring role in M. Night Shyamalan's film, The Sixth Sense. The film was both a commercial and critical success[8] and helped to increase interest in his acting career.
In 2000, Willis won an Emmy[26] for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series for his work on Friends (in which he played the father of Ross Geller's much-younger girlfriend).[27] He was also nominated for a 2001 American Comedy Award (in the Funniest Male Guest Appearance in a TV Series category) for his work on Friends. Also in 2000, Willis played Jimmy "The Tulip" Tudeski in The Whole Nine Yards alongside Matthew Perry. Willis was originally cast as Terry Benedict in Ocean's Eleven (2001) but dropped out to work on recording an album.[28] In Ocean's Twelve (2004), he makes a cameo appearance as himself. In 2007, he appeared in the Planet Terror half of the double feature Grindhouse as the villain, a mutant soldier. This marks Willis's second collaboration with director Robert Rodriguez, following Sin City.
Willis has appeared on the Late Show with David Letterman several times throughout his career. He filled in for an ill David Letterman on his show February 26, 2003, when he was supposed to be a guest.[29] On many of his appearances on the show, Willis stages elaborate jokes, such as wearing a day-glo orange suit in honor of the Central Park gates, having one side of his face made up with simulated buckshot wounds after the Harry Whittington shooting, or trying to break a record (parody of David Blaine) of staying underwater for only twenty seconds.
On April 12, 2007, he appeared again, this time wearing a Sanjaya Malakar wig.[30] His most recent appearance was on June 25, 2007, when he appeared wearing a mini-turban strapped to his head to accompany a joke about his own fictional documentary titled An Unappealing Hunch (a wordplay of An Inconvenient Truth).[31] Willis also appeared on Japanese Subaru Legacy television commercials.[32] Tying in with this, Subaru did a limited run of Legacys, badged "Subaru Legacy Touring Bruce", in honor of Willis.
Willis has appeared in four films with Samuel L. Jackson (National Lampoon's Loaded Weapon 1, Pulp Fiction, Die Hard with a Vengeance, and Unbreakable) and both actors were slated to work together in Black Water Transit, before dropping out. Willis also worked with his eldest daughter, Rumer, in the 2005 film Hostage. In 2007, he appeared in the thriller Perfect Stranger, opposite Halle Berry, the crime/drama film Alpha Dog, opposite Sharon Stone, and marked his return to the role of John McClane in Live Free or Die Hard. Subsequently, he appeared in the films What Just Happened and Surrogates, based on the comic book of the same name.[33]
Willis was slated to play U.S. Army general William R. Peers in director Oliver Stone's Pinkville, a drama about the investigation of the 1968 My Lai Massacre.[34] However, due to the 2007 Writers Guild of America strike, the film was cancelled. Willis appeared on the 2008 Blues Traveler album North Hollywood Shootout, giving a spoken word performance over an instrumental blues-rock jam on the track "Free Willis (Ruminations from Behind Uncle Bob's Machine Shop)". In early 2009, he appeared in an advertising campaign to publicize the insurance company Norwich Union's change of name to Aviva.[35]
Willis starred with Tracy Morgan in the comedy Cop Out, directed by Kevin Smith and about two police detectives investigating the theft of a baseball card.[36] The film was released in February 2010. Willis appeared in the music video for the song "Stylo" by Gorillaz.[37] Also in 2010, he appeared in a cameo with former Planet Hollywood co-owners and '80s action stars Sylvester Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger in the film The Expendables. Willis played the role of generic bald man "Mr. Church". This was the first time these three legendary action stars appeared on screen together. Although the scene featuring the three was short, it was one of the most highly anticipated scenes in the film. The trio filmed their scene in an empty church on October 24, 2009.[38] Willis next starred in RED, an adaptation of the comic book mini-series of the same name, in which he portrayed Frank Moses. The film was released on October 15, 2010.[39]
Willis starred alongside Bill Murray, Edward Norton, and Frances McDormand in Moonrise Kingdom (2012). Filming took place in Rhode Island under the direction of Wes Anderson, in 2011.[40] Willis returned, in an expanded role, in The Expendables 2 (2012).[41] He appeared alongside Joseph Gordon-Levitt in the sci-fi action film, Looper (2012), as the older version of Gordon-Levitt's character, Joe.
Willis teamed up with 50 Cent in a film directed by David Barrett called Fire with Fire, starring opposite Josh Duhamel and Rosario Dawson, about a fireman who must save the love of his life.[42] Willis also joined Vince Vaughn and Catherine Zeta-Jones in Lay the Favorite, directed by Stephen Frears, about a Las Vegas cocktail waitress who becomes an elite professional gambler.[43] The two films were distributed by Lionsgate Entertainment.
Willis reprised his most famous role, John McClane, for a fifth time, starring in A Good Day to Die Hard, which was released on February 14, 2013.[44] In an interview, Willis said, "I have a warm spot in my heart for Die Hard..... it's just the sheer novelty of being able to play the same character over 25 years and still be asked back is fun. It's much more challenging to have to do a film again and try to compete with myself, which is what I do in Die Hard. I try to improve my work every time."[45]
The character of Lex Luthor in Injustice: Gods Among Us performed by Mark Rolston was modeled after Willis with the character's signature movie called "Die Hard". On October 12, 2013, Willis hosted Saturday Night Live with Katy Perry as a musical guest.[46]
Willis will star in the movie adaptation of the video game Kane & Lynch: Dead Men, named Kane & Lynch.[47]
Willis owns property in Los Angeles and in Penns Grove, New Jersey; rents apartments in Trump Tower[48] and Trump Place,[49] both in New York City; has a home in Malibu, California; a ranch in Montana; a beach home on Parrot Cay in Turks and Caicos; and multiple properties in Sun Valley, Idaho.[5]
In 2000, Willis, with his business partner Arnold Rifkin, started a motion picture production company called Cheyenne Enterprises. He left the company to be run solely by Rifkin in 2007 after Live Free or Die Hard.[50] He also owns several small businesses in Hailey, Idaho, including The Mint Bar and The Liberty Theater and is a co-founder of Planet Hollywood, with actors Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone.[51] In 2009 Willis signed a contract to become the international face of Belvedere SA's Sobieski Vodka in exchange for 3.3% ownership in the company.[52]
At the premiere for the film Stakeout, Willis met actress Demi Moore. Willis married Moore on November 21, 1987 and had three daughters: Rumer Willis (b. August 16, 1988), Scout LaRue Willis (b. July 20, 1991) and Tallulah Belle Willis (b. February 3, 1994) before the couple divorced on October 18, 2000. The couple gave no public reason for their breakup. Regarding the divorce, Willis stated, "I felt I had failed as a father and a husband by not being able to make it work." He credited actor Will Smith for helping him cope with the situation.[5][17] After their breakup, rumors persisted that the couple planned to re-marry, until Demi Moore married Ashton Kutcher. Willis has maintained a close relationship with both Moore and Kutcher, even attending their wedding.
Willis was engaged to actress Brooke Burns until they broke up in 2004 after ten months together.[16] He married model Emma Heming in Turks and Caicos on March 21, 2009;[54] guests included his three daughters, Demi Moore, and Ashton Kutcher. The ceremony was not legally binding, so the couple wed again in a civil ceremony in Beverly Hills, six days later.[55] The couple has two daughters: Mabel Ray Willis (b. April 1, 2012)[56] and Evelyn Penn Willis (b. May 5, 2014).[57]
Willis was, at one point, Lutheran (specifically Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod),[58] but no longer practices. In a July 1998 interview with George magazine, he stated:
Organized religions in general, in my opinion, are dying forms. ... They were all very important when we didn't know why the sun moved, why weather changed, why hurricanes occurred, or volcanoes happened. ... Modern religion is the end trail of modern mythology. But there are people who interpret the Bible literally. Literally! I choose not to believe that's the way. And that's what makes America cool, you know?[59]
In 1988, he and then-wife Demi Moore openly campaigned for Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis's Presidential bid. Four years later, he supported President George H. W. Bush for reelection and he was an outspoken critic of Bill Clinton. However, in 1996, he declined to endorse Clinton's Republican opponent Bob Dole, because Dole had criticized Demi Moore for her role in the film Striptease.[60] Willis was an invited speaker at the 2000 Republican National Convention,[61] and openly supported George W. Bush that year. He did not make any contributions or public endorsements in the 2008 presidential campaign. In several June 2007 interviews, he declared that he maintains some Republican ideologies.[5][17]
In 2006, he said that the United States should intervene more into Colombia, in order to end the drug trafficking.[62] In several interviews Willis has said that he supports large salaries for teachers and police officers, and said he is disappointed in the United States foster care system as well as treatment of Native Americans.[60][63] Willis also stated that he is a supporter of gun rights, stating, "Everyone has a right to bear arms. If you take guns away from legal gun owners, then the only people who have guns are the bad guys."[64]
In February 2006, Willis appeared in Manhattan to talk about 16 Blocks with reporters. One reporter attempted to ask Willis about his opinion on the current government, but was interrupted by Willis in mid-sentence: "I'm sick of answering this fucking question. I'm a Republican only as far as I want a smaller government, I want less government intrusion. I want them to stop shitting on my money and your money and tax dollars that we give 50 percent of... every year. I want them to be fiscally responsible and I want these goddamn lobbyists out of Washington. Do that and I'll say I'm a Republican... I hate the government, OK? I'm apolitical. Write that down. I'm not a Republican."[65]
Willis's name was in an advertisement in the Los Angeles Times on August 17, 2006, that condemned Hamas and Hezbollah and supported Israel in the 2006 Israel-Lebanon war.[66]
Throughout his film career, Willis has depicted several military characters in films such as The Siege, Hart's War, Tears of the Sun, Grindhouse and G.I. Joe: Retaliation. Growing up in a military family, Willis has publicly sold Girl Scout cookies for the United States armed forces. In 2002, Willis's second youngest daughter, Tallulah, suggested that he purchase Girl Scout cookies to send to troops. Willis purchased 12,000 boxes of cookies, and they were distributed to sailors aboard USS John F. Kennedy and other troops stationed throughout the Middle East at the time.[67]
Willis meets with Brigadier General Albert Bryant, Jr and deployed soldiers from the 4th Infantry Division, in Tikrit, Iraq, during his 2003 USO tour
In 2003, Willis visited Iraq as part of the USO tour, singing to the troops with his band, The Accelerators.[68] Willis considered joining the military to help fight the second Iraq war, but was deterred by his age.[69] It was believed he offered $1 million to any noncombatant who turns in terrorist leaders Osama bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahiri, or Abu Musab al-Zarqawi; in the June 2007 issue of Vanity Fair, however, he clarified that the statement was made hypothetically and not meant to be taken literally. Willis has also criticized the media for its coverage of the war, complaining that the press were more likely to focus on the negative aspects of the war:
I went to Iraq because what I saw when I was over there was soldiers—young kids for the most part—helping people in Iraq; helping getting the power turned back on, helping get hospitals open, helping get the water turned back on and you don't hear any of that on the news. You hear, 'X number of people were killed today,' which I think does a huge disservice. It's like spitting on these young men and women who are over there fighting to help this country.[70]
Willis stated in 2005 that he wanted to "make a pro-war film in which American soldiers will be depicted as brave fighters for freedom and democracy."[71] The film would follow members of Deuce Four, the 1st Battalion, 24th Infantry, who spent considerable time in Mosul and were decorated heavily for it. The film is to be based on the writings of blogger Michael Yon, a former United States Army Special Forces soldier who was embedded with Deuce Four and sent regular dispatches about their activities. Willis described the plot of the film as "these guys who do what they are asked for very little money to defend and fight for what they consider to be freedom."[72]
Willis, an avid New Jersey Nets fan, made controversial comments on April 29, 2007 during a live broadcast of a Nets home playoff game on TSN by saying a catch phrase from his Die Hard films, "Yippee-ki-yay, motherfucker", at the end of the interview. Reacting to the backlash, he later blamed his actions on jet lag, stating: "Sometimes I overestimate my ability to function under duress with less than enough sleep".[17]
On May 5, 2007, someone using the screen name "Walter_B" started posting detailed responses onto Ain't it Cool News, where people were discussing the fact that Live Free or Die Hard received a PG-13 rating, instead of an R rating like the earlier three Die Hard films.[73] The responses included detailed information on Live Free or Die Hard, which was yet to be released; the theme of the Die Hard film series, direct criticisms of other film crews and casts, and many film trivia answers. Many people were skeptical that "Walter_B" was indeed Willis, but on May 9, Willis revealed his identity during a video chat session.[74][75]
In 1996, Roger Director, a writer and producer from Moonlighting, wrote a roman à clef on Willis titled A Place to Fall.[76] Cybill Shepherd wrote in her 2000 autobiography, Cybill Disobedience, that Willis was angry at Director, because the character was written as a "neurotic, petulant actor."
In 1998, Willis participated in Apocalypse, a PlayStation video game. The game was originally announced to feature Willis as a sidekick, not as the main character. The company reworked the game using Willis's likeness and voice and changed the game to use him as the main character.[25]
1991: Hudson Hawk soundtrack; tracks "Swinging on a Star" and "Side by Side", both duets with Danny Aiello
2008: North Hollywood Shootout, Blues Traveler; track "Free Willis (Ruminations from Behind Uncle Bob's Machine Shop)"
Willis has won a variety of awards and has received various honors throughout his career in television and film.
1986/87: Emmy (Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series) and Golden Globe (Best Performance by an Actor in a TV-Series – Comedy/Musical) Awards for Moonlighting (also received four nominations for the show)[77]
2000: Blockbuster Entertainment Award ("Favorite Actor – Suspense") and the People's Choice Award ("Favorite Motion Picture Star in a Drama") for The Sixth Sense (also nominated for the Saturn Award for Best Actor and received two nominations for the MTV Movie Awards for "Best Male Performance" and "Best On-Screen Duo")[77]
2002: The Hasty Pudding Man of the Year award from Harvard's Hasty Pudding Theatricals – given to performers who give a lasting and impressive contribution to the world of entertainment[79]
2002: Appointed as national spokesman for Children in Foster Care by President George W. Bush;[80] Willis wrote online: "I saw Foster Care as a way for me to serve my country in a system by which shining a little bit of light could benefit a great deal by helping kids who were literally wards of the government."
2006: Honored by French government for his contributions to the film industry; appointed an Officer of the French Order of Arts and Letters in a ceremony in Paris; the French Prime Minister stated, "This is France's way of paying tribute to an actor who epitomizes the strength of American cinema, the power of the emotions that he invites us to share on the world's screens and the sturdy personalities of his legendary characters."[81]
2006: Honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on October 16; located at 6915 Hollywood Boulevard and it was the 2,321st star awarded in its history; at the reception, he stated, "I used to come down here and look at these stars and I could never quite figure out what you were supposed to do to get one...time has passed and now here I am doing this, and I'm still excited. I'm still excited to be an actor."[82]
2013: Promoted to the dignity of Commander of the Order of Arts and Letters on February 11 by French Minister of Culture Aurélie Filippetti[84]
BruceWillis.com (Way Back Machine) Official website – shutdown since Thanksgiving 2005. Link refers to the cached homepages of the site at Archive.org.
Ellen DeGeneres / Brad Garrett / Darrell Hammond / George Lopez / Conan O'Brien / Bernie Mac / Dennis Miller / Garry Shandling / Martin Short / Jon Stewart / Wanda Sykes (2003)
Wild Wild West – Jim Thomas, John Thomas, S. S. Wilson, Brent Maddock, Jeffrey Price and Peter S. Seaman (1999)
Movie 43 - Steve Baker, Ricky Blitt, Will Carlough, Tobias Carlson, Jacob Fleisher, Patrik Forsberg, Will Graham, James Gunn, Claes Kjellstrom, Jack Kukoda, Bob Odenkirk, Bill O'Malley, Matthew Alec Portenoy, Greg Pritikin, Rocky Russo, Olle Sarri, Elizabeth Wright Shapiro, Jeremy Sosenko, Jonathan van Tulleken and Jonas Wittenmark (2013)
Categories: 1955 births20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsAmerican people of German descentAmerican bloggersAmerican male film actorsAmerican male television actorsAmerican male voice actorsAmerican male video game actorsBest Musical or Comedy Actor Golden Globe (television) winnersGerman emigrants to the United StatesLiving peopleMale actors from IdahoMale actors from New JerseyMilitary bratsMontclair State University alumniOfficiers of the Ordre des Arts et des LettresOutstanding Performance by a Lead Actor in a Drama Series Primetime Emmy Award winnersPeople from Birkenfeld (district)People from Penns Grove, New JerseyPeople from Rhineland-PalatinateHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from April 2012Articles with dead external links from June 2012Articles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2013Use mdy dates from March 2012Good articlesWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with MusicBrainz identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Actor and musician Bruce Willis is well known for his film appearances as wisecracking or hard-edged characters, often in spectacular action films. Collectively, he has appeared in films that have grossed in excess of $2.5 billion USD placing him in the top ten stars in terms of box office receipts. Walter Bruce Willis was born on March 19, 1955, in West Germany, to an American father and a German mother, who were living on a United States military base. He was raised in Penns Grove, New Jersey. Willis picked up an interest for the dramatic arts in high school, and was allegedly "discovered" whilst working in a café in New York City and then appeared in a couple of off-Broadway productions. While bartending one night, he was seen by a casting director who liked his personality and needed a bartender for a small movie role.After countless auditions, Willis contributed minor film appearances, usually uncredited, before landing the role of private eye "David Addison" alongside sultry Cybill Shepherd in the hit romantic comedy television series Moonlighting (1985). The series firmly established Bruce Willis as a hot new talent, and his sarcastic and wisecracking P.I. was in effect a dry run for the role of hard-boiled NYC detective "John McClane" in the monster hit Die Hard (1988). This superbly paced action film balanced laconic humor and wholesale destruction as Willis' character single handedly battles a gang of ruthless international thieves in a Los Angeles skyscraper. Willis reprized the role of tough guy cop "John McClane" in the eagerly anticipated sequel Die Hard 2 (1990) set at snowbound Washington's Dulles International Airport as a group of renegade Special Forces soldiers seek to repatriate a corrupt South American general. Excellent box office returns demanded a further sequel Die Hard: With a Vengeance (1995) this time also starring Samuel L. Jackson as a cynical Harlem shopowner unwittingly thrust into assisting McClane during a terrorist bombing campaign on a sweltering day in NYC.Willis found time out from all the action mayhem to provide the voice of "Mikey" the baby in the very popular family comedies Look Who's Talking (1989), and its sequel Look Who's Talking Too (1990) also starring John Travolta and Kirstie Alley. Over the next decade, Willis starred in some very successful films, some very offbeat films and some unfortunate box office flops. The Bonfire of the Vanities (1990) and Hudson Hawk (1991) were both large scale financial disasters that were savaged by the critics, and both are arguably best left off the CVs of all the actors involved, however Willis was still popular with movie audiences and selling plenty of theatre tickets with the hyperviolent The Last Boy Scout (1991), the darkly humored Death Becomes Her (1992) and the mediocre police thriller Striking Distance (1993). During the 1990s, Willis also appeared in several independent and low budget productions that won him new fans and praise from the critics for his intriguing performances working with some very diverse film directors. He appeared in the oddly appealing North (1994), as a cagey prizefighter in the Quentin Tarantino directed mega-hit Pulp Fiction (1994), the Terry Gilliam directed apocalyptic thriller Twelve Monkeys (1995), the Luc Besson directed sci-fi opus The Fifth Element (1997) and the M. Night Shyamalan directed spine-tingling epic The Sixth Sense (1999).Willis next starred in the gangster comedy The Whole Nine Yards (2000), worked again with "hot" director M. Night Shyamalan in the less gripping Unbreakable (2000), and in two military dramas, Hart's War (2002) and Tears of the Sun (2003) that both failed to really fire with movie audiences or critics alike. However, Willis bounced back into the spotlight in the critically applauded Frank Miller graphic novel turned movie Sin City (2005), the voice of "RJ" the scheming raccoon in the animated hit Over the Hedge (2006) and "Die Hard" fans rejoiced to see "John McClane" return to the big screen in the high tech Live Free or Die Hard (2007) aka "Die Hard 4.0".Willis was married to actress Demi Moore for approximately thirteen years and they share custody to their three children.
        Frequently plays a man who suffered a tragedy, had lost something or had a  crisis of confidence or conscience.
      (June 24, 1998) He and Demi Moore announce they are ending their marriage of 11 years. No reasons given.
      Ranked #22 in Empire (UK) magazine's "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time" list. [October 1997]
      He was born on a military base in Germany. His mother, Marlene, was German, and was born in Kassel, Germany. His father, David Willis, was American-born, and had English, and smaller amounts of Dutch, French, Irish and Welsh ancestry.
      Has appeared on Late Show with David Letterman (1993) to advertise for Demi Moore's Striptease (1996) by doing his own undressing act.
      As a young man his personality was very much like that of the character that he portrayed on Moonlighting (1985). He was always getting into trouble because of this and was bodily ejected from parties by the hosts for being obnoxious.
      Has been very vocal in his support of almost every major Republican candidate in recent history except Bob Dole. He felt that presidential candidate Dole was out of line in his attacks on Demi Moore and her part in the movie Striptease (1996).
      Was the first actor to ever "act" in a video game (Apocalypse (1998)). No one before had ever done voice work along with having their likeness and movements digitally added to the game, as well as receiving prominent billing on the game's cover.
      Wears his watch upside down with the face on the inside of his hand. This is also visible in many movies he has done (Die Hard: With a Vengeance (1995), Mercury Rising (1998), etc.) where they haven't requested him to flip it over.
      Memorial Day weekend, 1987: Was arrested after reportedly disturbing the peace and assaulting a police officer who was called to quiet a raucous party at his home. The charges were dropped after Willis agreed to apologize to his neighbors.
      Set a new benchmark for actors' salaries when he was paid $5 million for Die Hard (1988) in 1988. Eight years later, his wife, Demi Moore, set a benchmark of $12 million with Striptease (1996).
      He filled in as a last-minute host for David Letterman on February 26, 2003, a show he was supposed to be the guest for. It was Letterman's first "sick day" in 20 years (other than his time off for heart surgery).
      Lives in Hailey, Idaho, where he owns the Mint bar and the Liberty Theater. He also owns the old Hailey Drug Store, but the building has been vacant and unused since the early 1990s.
      The scar on his right shoulder is from surgery due to complications from a broken arm when he was 17.
      He is the hero of singer Nick Lachey. Lachey's ex-wife, Jessica Simpson, unsuccessfully auditioned for the part of Kate, the daughter of Bruce's character in Live Free or Die Hard (2007).
      Graduated from Penns Grove High School in Penns Grove, New Jersey. Class of 1973 who voted him "Most School Spirit".
      (October 20, 2004) Sued Revolution Studios for unspecified damages related to a blow to his forehead that he received during "ultrahazardous activity" involved in the filming of Tears of the Sun (2003). He claims that it has caused him extreme mental, physical and emotional pain and suffering.
      France awarded him Officer of the Order of Arts and Letters in April 2005. "France pays homage to an actor who represents the force of American cinema and the power of emotions that he invites us to share on screens throughout the world", Culture Minister Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres said. "I'm nervous. Bonjour Paris", he replied.
      (June 2, 2004) After dating Brooke Burns for ten months and finally being engaged to her they decided to split because of the difficulties with maintaining a long-distance relationship.
      Was chosen to play John McClane in Die Hard (1988) because the producers felt he brought warmth and humor to an otherwise cold and humorless character. Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone had turned down the role.
      Ten directors cast him at least twice in their films: Blake Edwards, Amy Heckerling, Rob Reiner, Robert Benton, John McTiernan, Alan Rudolph, M. Night Shyamalan, Quentin Tarantino, Robert Rodriguez and Barry Levinson.
      Along with Arnold Schwarzenegger and Charlton Heston, Willis was one of very few Hollywood celebrities to publicly support the Iraq war. While visiting the troops in 2003, he offered $1 million of his own money for the man who would capture Saddam Hussein. When Hussein was captured, it turned out that military rules prevent troops from collecting such a reward.
      Served as a delegate at the Republican National Convention in 1992. In 2000, he was unable to narrate a biographical film of previous presidents to be shown at the RNC due to scheduling conflicts.
      Has worked closely with two promising child stars: Miko Hughes in Mercury Rising (1998) and Haley Joel Osment in The Sixth Sense (1999). The boys had major roles in the films opposite him.
      Announced his intention to make a film in which American soldiers will be depicted as brave fighters for freedom and democracy. It will be based on the exploits of the heavily decorated members of "Deuce Four", the 1st Battalion, 24th Infantry, which has spent the past year battling insurgents in the northern Iraqi town of Mosul. Willis attended "Deuce Four"'s homecoming ball this month in Seattle, Washington, where the soldiers are on leave, along with Stephen J. Eads, the producer of Armageddon (1998) and The Sixth Sense (1999). The actor said that he was in talks about a film of "these guys who do what they are asked to for very little money to defend and fight for what they consider to be freedom". Willis is likely to take on the role of the unit's commander, Lieutenant Colonel Erik Kurilla (November 2005).
      Honored in Paris for his contribution to the film industry, by the French government. The actor was awarded Officer of the Order of Arts and Letters at a ceremony in the capital, where he was presented with his honor by French Culture Minister Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres. de Vabres said, "This is France's way of paying tribute to an actor who epitomizes the strength of American cinema, the power of the emotions that he invites us to share on the world's screens and the sturdy personalities of his legendary characters." Willis replied in French that he was "very touched" to receive his medal, adding, "Thank you France and Culture Minister for this great, great honor." (13 April 2005).
      In November 2005, he offered $1 million of his own money to anyone who turns in al-Qaeda terror leaders Osama bin Laden, Ayman Al-Zawahiri or 'Abu Musab Al-Zarqawi', the alleged brains behind the 9/11 attacks. Willis announced his reward on the US television show Rita Cosby Live & Direct (2005), where he also criticized what he claimed to be "biased" media coverage of the Iraq war.
      (July 23, 2002) Appointed by President George W. Bush as national spokesman for Children in Foster Care.
      His performance as John McClane in the "Die Hard" trilogy is ranked #46 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time.
      He and Linda Fiorentino were employed as bartenders in the early 1980s at the Kamikaze Club in New York City.
      Turned down the role of Sam Wheat in Ghost (1990) because he didn't think the plot would work and that playing a ghost would be detrimental to his career. Ironically, he played a ghost in The Sixth Sense (1999), which was a critical success and is widely regarded as one of his best performances.
      He apologized to Colombia after blaming the nation for America's drug problems. The star insisted the United States is as much to blame for the prolific trade and confessed he didn't mean to single out any one country as the supplier. He told the New York Daily News, "I said Colombia because it was the first country to come to mind." The actor was dubbed "ignorant" and "ungrateful" by the Colombian president for his comments in March 2006, and advised not to base his arguments on "Hollywood clichés".
      In November 2000, he urged his fans to vote for Republican candidate George W. Bush in the presidential election. He told an interviewer, "If you guys vote for Al Gore, you're out of your minds ... Gore's a knucklehead ... just the lying and mendacity of the last eight years of the regime that Al Gore was a part and parcel of ... I mean, there is only so much lying the American people will take before they go, 'Uh, this doesn't seem like a good idea.' You have to look at what he does and what he stands for.".
      Received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6915 Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, California on October 16, 2006. The ceremony was attended by his friends Don Johnson, Sylvester Stallone and Kevin Costner.
      Often supports the careers of other actors he has met on set, and asks they be given supporting roles on later films, most famously Michael Clarke Duncan, whom he worked with on The Whole Nine Yards (2000), asked for him on Armageddon (1998) and and suggested him to the producers of The Green Mile (1999). Other actors include Billy Bob Thornton (Armageddon (1998), Bandits (2003)), Johnny Messner (Tears of the Sun (2003), The Whole Ten Yards (2004)), Nick Chinlund (Tears of the Sun (2003), The Kid (2000)) and Cole Hauser (Hart's War (2002), "Tears of the Sun" (2003)). Met and befriended Matthew Perry on the set of "The Whole Nine Yards" (2000) and then appeared on "Friends" (2000) at Perry's request.
      Has appeared in 14 movies with numbers in the title: The First Deadly Sin (1980), Twelve Monkeys (1995), Four Rooms (1995), The Fifth Element (1997), The Sixth Sense (1999), The Whole Nine Yards (2000), 16 Blocks (2006), The Whole Ten Yards (2004), Die Hard 2 (1990), Loaded Weapon 1 (1993), Ocean's Twelve (2004), Catch .44 (2011), The Expendables 2 (2012) and RED 2 (2013).
      Has the distinction of playing two psychologists who have suffered serious work-related emotional trauma: Dr. Bill Capa in Color of Night (1994) and Dr. Malcolm Crowe in The Sixth Sense (1999). Ironically, Color of Night (1994) was a box-office bomb and was widely ridiculed by critics (this movie did much better business in home video market, though), while The Sixth Sense (1999) became a box-office smash and received several Oscar nominations, including Best Picture.
      During the Lebanon crisis Willis signed his name on an ad in the Los Angeles Times in support of Israel, along with Nicole Kidman and numerous other Hollywood celebrities.
      He was the only celebrity that attended Julia Roberts' wedding to Daniel Moder. Their friendship is referred to in Ocean's Twelve (2004), when he mistakes Tess Ocean for Julia Roberts, and asks her about 'Danny'.
      Co-founder of "Planet Hollywood" together with Demi Moore, Sylvester Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger (1991).
      Endorsed his friend and former co-star Fred Dalton Thompson in his failed bid to win the Republican nomination for the 2008 presidential election.
      Maxim magazine had named his sex scenes in Color of Night (1994) as the best sex scenes ever in film history.
      Became the first actor to guest star on Friends (1994) and win an Emmy Award in the Outstanding Guest Actor category for their performance.
      Was considered for the role of Kyle Reese in The Terminator (1984), which went to Michael Biehn.
      (March 21, 2009) Bruce married his girlfriend of a year, Emma Heming, at his home in Parrot Cay, Turks & Caicos.
      Among the guests at his wedding to Emma Heming were his three daughters, Demi Moore, Ashton Kutcher and Madonna.
      He visited Michael Jackson on the set of filming the 'Smooth Criminal' segment for Moonwalker (1988). Also visiting the set was 'Gregory Peck' and Robert De Niro.
      Was in consideration for the part of Lester Burnham in American Beauty (1999) but Kevin Spacey, who went on to win a Best Actor Oscar for his performance, was cast instead.
      Has appeared with Samuel L. Jackson in 4 films: Loaded Weapon 1 (1993), Pulp Fiction (1994), Die Hard: With a Vengeance (1995) and Unbreakable (2000), even though they only shared scenes together in the last two.
      Admitted to Playboy Magazine in 1996 that he was once arrested at age 19 for possessing two joints.
      Met Demi Moore at a screening of Emilio Estevez's film, Stakeout (1987). Although she was seeing Estevez at the time, they were married four months later.
      Inducted into the New Jersey Hall of Fame in 2011 for his contributions to Arts and Entertainment.
      Is left-handed and is displayed in most of his films. In The Sixth Sense (1999), he learned to write with his right hand so it wouldn't be so easily noticeable that his character wasn't wearing his wedding ring.
      Credits Will Smith with helping him come to terms with his divorce from Demi Moore, and accepting Ashton Kutcher as her new husband.
      Has regularly been named on "Best Celebrity Tippers" lists over the years. This is largely due to his early "struggling" waiter/bartender days.
      He was awarded Commander of the Order of Arts and Letters, the highest French culture award, in Paris, France [February 12, 2013].
      Became a father for the 1st time at age 33 when his [now ex] 1st wife Demi Moore gave birth to their daughter Rumer Glenn Willis, aka Rumer Willis, on August 16, 1988.
      Became a father for the 2nd time at age 36 when his [now ex] 1st wife Demi Moore gave birth to their daughter Scout LaRue Willis on July 20, 1991.
      Became a father for the 3rd time at age 38 when his [now ex] 1st wife Demi Moore gave birth to their daughter Tallulah Belle Willis on February 3, 1994.
      Became a father for the 4th time at age 57 when his 2nd wife Emma Heming gave birth to their daughter Mabel Ray Willis on April 1, 2012.
      As of 2014, has appeared in three films that were nominated for the Best Picture Oscar: The Verdict (1982), Pulp Fiction (1994) and The Sixth Sense (1999).
      Mentioned in the lyrics of "Jizz in My Pants" by The Lonely Island. One of the composers of the song, Jorma Taccone, shares birthday with Willis.
      Became a father for the 5th time at age 59 when his 2nd wife Emma Heming gave birth to their daughter Evelyn Penn Willis on May 5, 2014.
      Willis has played many roles whose character names have the letter "J" in the beginning. Examples include "Die Hard" (John McLean), "Mercury Rising" (Art Jeffries), "Hostage" (Jeff Talley), "Mortal Thoughts" (James Urbanski), 12 Monkeys (James Cole), "The Whole Nine Yards" (Jimmy "The Tulip" Tudeski) and the title role in "The Jackal".
      I'm staggered by the question of what it's like to be a multimillionaire. I always have to remind myself that I am.
      [on how he stays in shape, interview in People.com, 10 March 2005] Mostly weight resistance training, almost an hour of cardio at least three times a week. I have a gym in my house in Los Angeles and a gym trailer that I can take on the road with me when I'm on location. At my house there's a very long steep driveway. I do wind sprints that kick my 50-year-old ass. It's part of my job. I have come to associate working out as work. Whenever I don't have to do it for films, I kind of slack off.
      I am a sensitive guy. People think they know the real me, but they don't. And then they write things that make me sound like such a jerk.
      I hate working out. I work out for films solely. I associate working out with films. As soon as they stop, I stop working out.
      Fifty is the new forty. I always thought my best work would come in the years forty to sixty, if I was fortunate enough to hang around - and it is hard to stick around.
      I am baffled to understand why the things that I saw happening in Iraq, really good things happening in Iraq, are not being reported on.
      [on Hudson Hawk (1991)] I always thought it was a little ahead of its time, a little too hip for the room.
      I think the rules are going to have to change for me to ever run for public office. My checkered past will always keep me out of politics. If I ever did run I would run on the platform that I did all these bad things, but I no longer do them, and during the four years of being president or whatever office it might be, I would be good and serve my country. I want to serve my country.
      I'm a Republican only as far as I want a smaller government, I want less government intrusion, I want them to stop pissing on my money and your money, the tax dollars that we give 50 percent of, or 40 percent of, every year, and I want them to be fiscally responsible, and I want these goddamn lobbyists out of Washington. Do that and I'll say I'm a Republican. But other than that, I want the government to take care of people who need help, like the kids in foster care, the half a million kids who are in orphanages right now - they call them foster homes, but they're orphanages. I want them to take care of the elderly and give them free medicine, give them whatever they need. There's tons, billions and billions of dollars that are just being wasted. Okay? I hate government. I'm apolitical. Write that down: I'm not a Republican.
      [February 2006] Look at what happened to James Frey in the last two weeks. That's a great book and so is the follow-up book. And just because his publisher chose to say that these were memoirs, it took it out of being a work of fiction, a great work of fiction and very well-written to this guy having to go be sucker punched on The Oprah Winfrey Show (1986) by one of the most powerful women in television just to grind her own ax about it. Hey Oprah, you had President [Bill Clinton] on your show and if this prick didn't lie about a couple of things I'm going to set myself on fire right now. James Frey is a writer, okay? He can write whatever he wants. It's fiction, and it's just hard, it's just shameful how he was treated in some of these things. It's just shameful and it's just not fair and not right . . .
      I'm not an action hero anymore, and I think it would be inappropriate for me to compare anything that happens in Hollywood and the entertainment industry to the tragic loss of life on September 11th.
      I spoke to the Colombians. It's fine. I get passionate sometimes. I said Colombia because it was the first country to come to mind. The drug problem has as much to do with what's going on in this country. If there wasn't a demand, there wouldn't be a supply.
      I think what the United States, and everyone who cares about protecting the freedoms that the largest part of the free world now has, should do whatever it takes to end terrorism in the world and not just in the Middle East. I'm talking also about going to Colombia and doing whatever it takes to end the cocaine trade. It's killing this country. It's killing all the countries that coke goes into. I believe that somebody's making money on it in the United States. If they weren't making money on it, they would have stopped it. They could stop it in one day. It's just a plant that they grow, and these guys are growing it like it's corn or tobacco or any other thing. By the time it gets here, it becomes a billion dollar industry. And I think that's a form of terrorism as well.
      The Iraqi people want to live in a world where they can move from their homes to the market and not have to fear being killed. I mean, doesn't everybody want that?
      I have zero interest in performing in films to try to convey any kind of message. My job is to be entertaining. There's a very different point of view about messages in films in Europe than there is in the States. Audiences rebel because they feel that they are being preached to.
      [on his planned film about the Iraq war] The movie is about these guys who do what they are asked for very little money to defend and fight for what they consider to be freedom.
      I thought about signing up but my friends told me I was too old. I called the White House, called President [George Bush] and asked what I could do. So I got involved with the national foster care program.
      If you take guns away from legal gun owners then the only people who would have guns would be the bad guys. Even a pacifist would get violent if someone were trying to kill him or her. You would fight for your life, whatever your beliefs. You'd use a rock or tear one of these chairs out of the floor. Hey, maybe I've been watching too many Bruce Willis movies!
      I'm always being accused of being a Hollywood Republican, but I'm not! I have just as many Democratic ideas as Republican ones. If they could build three fewer bombs every month and give the money to foster care, that would be great.
      The idea of serving my country remained in my mind. Over the past few years from varying sources - Time Magazine, books, and television - information began coming to my attention on Foster Care; its history and the current crisis of an antiquated system overburdened with 580,000 children who have no voice. Children need to be protected by interstate technology systems that can track placements, education, medical records and protect these children from predators traveling from state to state. I saw Foster Care as a way for me to serve my country in a system by which shining a little bit of light could benefit a great deal by helping kids who were literally wards of the government.
      [1998] Organized religions in general, in my opinion, are dying forms. They were all very important when we didn't know why the sun moved, why weather changed, why hurricanes occurred or volcanoes happened. Modern religion is the end trail of modern mythology. But there are people who interpret the Bible literally. Literally! I choose not to believe that's the way. And that's what makes America cool, you know?
      I don't think my opinion means jack shit, because I'm an actor. Why do actors think their opinions mean more because you act? You just caught a break as an actor. There are hundreds - thousands - of actors who are just as good as I am, and probably better. Have you heard anything useful come out of an actor's mouth lately? Although I liked George Clooney's documentary on Darfur.
      They still haven't caught the guy that killed [John F. Kennedy]. I'll get killed for saying this, but I'm pretty sure those guys are still in power, in some form. The entire government of the United States was co-opted.
      I happen to live in Los Angeles and it is probably one of the most toxic environments on earth. People live here and they know that the air is poisonous. They know that children are affected by the air in Los Angeles. They say that growing up in Los Angeles is the equivalent of smoking a pack and a half of cigarettes throughout your entire childhood. It's horrific when you can actually look at the air and see it.
      No, I am not in favor of the war in Iraq, so let me stop you right there. I am not pro-war but what I am is that, I like to support the young men and women who are over there participating in the war.
      [on Twitter] I just can't live with myself if I started twittering. I just think: 'That way lies madness.'
      [on The Expendables (2010) sequel] I talked to Sly [Sylvester Stallone] and he's going for all the marbles this time, and he's going to get everybody in this time. Even Stone Cold Steve Austin, who took two bullets in the last film, is coming back. Hopefully, they'll start shooting it while we're young enough to survive!
      [on the possibility of Michael Bay directing a a Die Hard film, specifically Live Free or Die Hard (2007)] Would have ruined DH4. Few people will work with him now, and I know I will never work with him again.
      [on whether an R-rated 'Die Hard' could be done without producer Joel Silver] Fuck Joel Silver. That is because you do not understand my relationship with Joel S. We are cordial now when we bump into each other, but we have not worked together since The Last Boy Scout (1991).
      I'm really pleased to continue to be asked back to do other versions and other incarnations of Die Hard (1988). The first one really is... that's all there is. Everything else is just trying to be as good as that film.
      [on A Good Day to Die Hard (2013)] It's a difficult title. A Good Day to Die Hard (2013)? It's like, have a sandwich and let's go shopping - then die hard.
      I want to do A Good Day to Die Hard (2013), then one final Die Hard movie - Die Hard 6 - before finally hanging that white vest up for good. At the moment, I can run and I can fight on screen. But there will come a time when I no longer want to do that. That's when I'll step away from the Die Hard films.
=======================================================
                From hardboiled action hero in the 'Die Hard' movies to a spooky psychiatrist in 'The Sixth Sense', Willis has covered all the bases in his remarkably successful career.Walter Bruce Willis was born on March 19th 1955 in West Germany to an American father, David Willis, and a German mother, Marlene, who worked in a bank. Bruce was the eldest of four children.  After being discharged from the military in 1957, David Willis took the family back to New Jersey and he worked as a welder and factory worker. A popular classmate, Willis was elected Student Council President and also threw himself into drama classes. This was perhaps because, tormented by a debilitating stutter, he discovered that he lost his impediment when on stage. Rather than go to college after graduation, Willis farmed sheep in a mining village in Alabama but decided to quit after a colleague was killed on the job. After a stint as a bodyguard, Willis returned to his original passion of acting. He enrolled in a drama course at Montclair State University, where he was cast as Brick in the class production of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof. Having decided where his vocation lay, Willis decided to leave school to head to New York in pursuit of more lucrative acting parts. Willis initially took work at Café Central as a way to meet celebrities and finally made his off-Broadway debut in 1977 in Heaven And Earth. He also took uncredited roles in The First Deadly Sin, Prince Of The City and The Verdict starring Paul Newman. Slowly the acting dream began to transpire. Willis was a hit in Sam Shephard's theatre production of Fool For Love and managed to land a role as a wife-beating gun-runner in the massive hit show Miami Vice. Alongside acting roles, Willis also appeared in the first TV ad for Levi 501 Blues plus, with the then-unknown Sharon Stone plus another ad for Seagram’s wine coolers. Now real stardom arrived, Willis flew to LA to audition for a part in Desperately Seeking Susan, but was rejected. While he was in town he found out what other auditions were taking place - one of which was for a new ABC show to be named Moonlighting. Willis found himself up against 3,000 other hopefuls in the race to star alongside Cybil Shepherd as the smooth, wisecracking David Addison. He managed to win over the producer, who cast him despite protests from ABC who would have preferred a well-known actor in the lead role. Moonlighting ran from 1985 to 1989 and was an enormous success, but Willis soon got a hunger for roles beyond the world of TV. Off the back of Moonlighting, Willis starred in two films by Blake Edwards - Blind Date with Kim Basinger and Sunset - both of which were flops. 1987 was to be Willis’s year though. Firstly, Willis met his future wife, Demi Moore, at the premiere of Stakeout, and also became an unlikely international singing star with the hit record The Return Of Bruno, a collection of Motown-type material, including a cover of Respect Yourself. This was followed by a second album, If It Don't Kill You, It Just Makes You Stronger.Willis won an Emmy and a Golden Globe for Moonlighting the same year. But the real breakthrough came when Willis took the part of Detective John McClane in the film Die Hard. The film was a word-of-mouth smash that took everyone by surprise with Willis redefining the role of the action hero. Willis then hit big again in 1989, this time providing the voice of baby Mikey in the comedy Look Who's Talking. More box office hits followed with the sequels to Die Hard and Look Who's Talking, but then Willis's career encountered a rollercoaster period. Willis’s next project was starring alongside Tom Hanks in Brian De Palma's adaptation of Bonfire Of The Vanities (1990), which sadly bombed with both the critics and consumer audience. Quickly Willis redeemed himself with The Last Boy Scout (1991), but then took another nosedive in Hudson Hawk (1991) which once again drew embarrassing box office takings. Willis’s career continued on an uninspiring plateau with the minor hit comedy Death Becomes Her (1992), the enjoyable but mostly ignored Striking Distance (1993), and an uncredited role in Loaded Weapon (1993). But the intervention of cult Director Quentin Tarantino in offering Willis a part in Pulp Fiction (1994) earned him rave reviews and finally, Willis was back on track. Rather than sit back and be content, Willis next played a man in a pink bunny-suit in Rob Reiner's North, appeared alongside Paul Newman again in the low-key Nobody's Fool, both in 1994. Success continued in 1995 with Terry Gilliam's tremendous 12 Monkeys, and once more in Die Hard III. A series of mediocre flicks in 1997 and 1998 saw Willis star in the films The Jackal, The Siege and Mercury Rising, and the superficial sci-fi oddity The Fifth Element. Willis took the lead in Armageddon in 1998, which went on to be a $200 million box office hit. He continued his hiatus starring in the supernatural thriller The Sixth Sense, which broke Armageddon’s box office results and was an instant success. A debut in Friends as Jennifer Anniston’s boyfriend led not only to a second Emmy win for Outstanding Guest Actor but also to a role alongside Matthew Perry in The Whole Nine Yards (2000), in which Willis donated his fee to various charities. The same year brought another massive screen hit for Willis with Unbreakable, working once more with Sixth Sense director M. Night Shalamayan. While Willis’s career was undoubtedly at an all-time high, his personal life was sadly working in retrograde. After a 12 year marriage and three daughters, Willis separated from Demi Moore in 2000. The year was also tarnished by Willis losing his position as Seagrams spokesman after being caught drink driving. And then there was Planet Hollywood, which filed for bankruptcy, closed numerous branches and submitted to a major restructuring.Returning back to music, Willis toured Europe to try and revive interest in the Planet Hollywood chain again. Attempting to spread his wings even further, Willis followed the worldwide success of Unbreakable with a string of more testing projects. A return to comedy alongside Billy Bob Thornton and Cate Blanchett in the film Bandits (2001) was followed by an appearance in a filmed stage version of Sam Shephard's True West recorded at the Liberty Theatre in Idaho, then the war film, Tears Of The Sun (2003). Willis took just one film part in 2004 when he reprised his role as Jimmy The Tulip in a sequel to The Whole Nine Yards (The Whole Ten Yards). 2005 would see a string of new releases (as well as a tour of musical dates in Las Vegas). First came Hostage, which also saw the debut of Willis's daughter, Rumer. Next was a role starring in Robert Rodriguez's visually-stunning Sin City, based on the graphic novels of Frank Miller. This was set in a seedy, violent noir-world. Willis next moved on to Alpha Dog (2006), written and directed by Nick Cassavetes and based on the real-life story of Jesse James Hollywood. Another film noir in Lucky Number Sleven (2006) followed recently and Willis replaced Jim Carrey as the voice of a con-artist raccoon in the animation Over The Hedge- proof of his penchant for accepting a mixed bag of opposing parts. After nearly 20 years of fame, Bruce Willis remains at the top of the A-list and still going strong.
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
1975MayCollege DropoutAfter his sophomore year at Montclair State College, the blue-collar, Carney's Point, N.J., native (he was born on a military base in Germany) drops out of school and moves to New York determined to make it as an actor. Willis parties hard, tending bar and nightclubbing while getting roles off Broadway and off off Broadway. "I'd just start walking, anywhere, wind up in some new neighborhood, spend all day doing that," he later tells  The New York Times in 1995. 1985March 05Mr. PrimetimeAs wisecracking private detective David Addison, Willis becomes a household name opposite Cybill Shepherd on the ABC primetime series Moonlighting. "Women find him appealing and guys have a fantasy that they could be like him," ABC talent vice-president Gary Pudney tells PEOPLE in 1987. "That's why he's become such a valuable commodity to us so quickly." 
1987May 25Not So Good NeighborThrowing a raucous four-day Memorial Day weekend bash at his Hollywood Hills home, Willis is arrested on suspicion of assaulting an LAPD officer when police respond to several noise complaints. With stereo speakers set up poolside, Willis plugged in a mike and sang along with many of his favorite albums, to his neighbors' chagrin. "Listening to Bruce Willis try to sing over a P.A. system," a nearby resident tells PEOPLE, "isn't quite like listening to Sinatra." He'll move out of the rented house several weeks later and charges against him will be dropped. November 21Rolling the DiceAfter dating for several months, Willis marries actress Demi Moore in a suite at the Golden Nugget hotel in Las Vegas. It's the first marriage for Willis, while Moore, 25, who was engaged to fellow Brat Pack actor Emilio Estevez until the previous winter, was married in the early '80s to musician Freddy Moore.1988July 15Yippie-ki-yay!Willis earns $5 million to play Det. John McClane in the explosive blockbuster Die Hard. In his first non-comedy role, Willis becomes a bona-fide action star, performing his own stunts, including jumping off a 25-foot ledge into an air bag, just ahead of a 60-foot ball of flame. "My character, even though he's a hero, is just a regular guy," Willis tells the Los Angeles Times. "This film satisfied me in a lot of masculine ways." After Die Hard grosses over $81 million domestically, Willis will star in three sequels: 1990's Die Hard 2, 1995's Die Hard: With a Vengeance, and 2007's Live Free  or Die Hard.August 16Kentucky BabyOn location in Kentucky where Willis is filming the Vietnam vet drama In Country, Moore gives birth to an 8-lb., 1-oz. daughter named Rumer Willis (after British fiction writer Rumer Godden). "We are ecstatic," Willis tells the Associated Press. "The baby is very happy and healthy." The couple will have two more daughters, Scout Larue in 1991 and Tallulah Belle in 1994.1994October 14Zed's Dead, BabyAfter several years of middling big-budget action fare (The Last Boy Scout), Willis appears as Butch Coolidge in the surprise hit Pulp Fiction. Although he initially wanted the role of Vincent Vega (played by John Travolta), he takes his part for scale, earning $1,685 per week with a back-end arrangement that allows him to receive a share of the profits. 1995SummerShopping SpreeIn one day, Willis purchases a slew of buildings in Penns Grove, N.J., the blue-collar town neighboring Carney's Point, where he grew up. After spending $475,000 on an 11-acre parcel on the Delaware River and $175,000 on a large stone house, Willis buys the long-vacant Penns Grove National Bank – where his mother once worked – for $65,000. "I'm an investor who has come home to the town where I grew up," he tells PEOPLE. It's not his first real estate venture. In 1986, he began buying property in the small Idaho village of Hailey –where he and Moore raise their children – and now owns almost $10 million in investments in the area including a barbershop, pizza joint, movie theater and bar.1998June 24Dreams Die HardWillis and Moore decide to separate after more than 10 years of marriage. A producer close to Moore notes to PEOPLE that "they have had problems for at least two years." They also spent considerable time apart, with Willis never visiting Moore during the four-month shoot of G.I. Jane. They finalize the divorce in 2000, with Willis buying a $1.1 million home near Moore and the girls in Hailey, Idaho.1999August 06I See Huge Ticket SalesBruce is one of the few actors who can play a rugged guy who is also dealing with emotions," writer-director M. Night Shyamalan tells PEOPLE. As a psychologist who helps a young child (Haley Joel Osment) tormented by ghostly visions, Willis helps propel the hair-raising The Sixth Sense to almost $300 million in box receipts. "Although a lot of people lumped him in with Stallone and Schwarzenegger," adds Shyamalan. "I never did." The pair team up again in 2000's Unbreakable, where Willis plays the lone survivor of a train crash. 
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): Classmates Yearbook Archives; ABC/Getty; David McGough/DMIPhoto; 20th Century FOX/Everett; Ron Galella/Wireimage; Miramax; Anita Weber/SIPA 
									Emma Heming, wife (2008 to present) Karen McDougal, ex-girlfriend (2007) Brooke Burns, ex-girlfriend (Sept. 2003 to May 2004) Maria Bravo, ex-girlfriend (1998 to 2000) Demi Moore, ex-wife (1987 to 2000)  
									Rumer Willis, daughter (8/16/1988)Scout Willis, daughter (7/20/1991)Tallulah Willis, daughter (2/3/1994)Mabel Ray Willis, daughter (4/1/2012)  
   Jul 12, 2013 RED STREAK  Nice seeing you again! Costars Helen Mirren and Bruce Willis happily reunite at the L.A. premiere of… See Photo   Jul 01, 2013 HEAVY LIFTING  It's all in the bag for Bruce Willis, who frees up wife Emma Heming's hands to hold their 15-month-old… See Photo
=======================================================
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
   background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/twister/tiny-snake._V192199047_.gif') no-repeat scroll 0px 0px;
  cursor: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-in._V184888790_.bmp'),pointer;
  cursor: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-out._V184888738_.bmp),pointer;
.swSprite { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; margin: 0;padding: 0; position: relative; overflow: hidden; vertical-align: middle; background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler div.disabled-button { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image {  background-position: -60px -80px;background-color: white;}
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image { background-position: -30px -80px; background-color: white;}
.dpSprite { background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-dp-2._V384267953_.png'); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.udpSprite { background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/udp-sprite-dp-2._V358106326_.png') no-repeat; vertical-align: middle; display: inline-block;}
.cmtySprite { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-communities._V136632413_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192250049_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V156431432_.png);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192190832_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite._V192250042_.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192239831_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/customerimage/shuttle-gradient._V192250138_.gif); 
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V192238939_.gif');
    background: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/sprite-carousel-btns-stars2._V376388587_.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_left_17._V248144977_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_right_17._V248144979_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_left._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top._V265110086_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_left._V265110084_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom._V265110084_.png); }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-arrow-v._V219326286_.png);
     #twister .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; } #twister .a-dropdown-container span.a-button-dropdown { display: none !important } 	
     #buybox_feature_div .a-native-dropdown, #buybox .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; font-weight: normal;}
     #buybox_feature_div label.a-native-dropdown, #buybox label.a-native-dropdown {padding-right: 5px;}
     #buybox_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown, #buybox .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown  { display: none !important;} 
     #defaultChildDropdown_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown { display: none !important;}
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York TimesŽ Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
No Kindle device required. Download one of the free Kindle apps to start reading Kindle books on your smartphone, tablet and computer.
    * https://omni-grok.amazon.com/xref/src/appgroup/websiteTemplates/retail/SoftlinesDetailPageAssets/udp-intl-lock/src/legacy.css?indexName=WebsiteTemplates#40
 This is the first biography of Bruce Willis, one of the most bankable Hollywood stars who currently commands $17-20 million per film. From his first taste of success in his TV role in 'Moonlighting', the book traces his career through the much publicised period of drug and alcohol abuse, and a number of box-office flops in the early 1990's which so often spell the end of a film career. Pulp Fiction is treated as the resurrection of his film career, aquiring cult status and re-emerging as a top player who now consistently attracts rave reviews and huge audiences. The book also deals with his off screen high-profile marriage to Demi Moore, looking at Bruce the filmstar and Bruce the family man. The author has spoken to their friends and relatives and people they have worked with to attempt to reveal the real Bruce Willis.
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V397906885_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-right._V192549178_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_br._V192190565_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_03._V192190907_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-topleft._V192549173_.gif');
    .quotes-bubble-arrow { height: 0; width: 0; left: 18px; border-color: #EEEEEE rgba(238,238,238,0); border-width: 15px 0 0 19px; border-style: solid; position:relative; content:""; }
  He is a great actor.GraceAgain, no references to back up these claims were provided because not a lick of research was conducted.JGCOh God, I just love Bruce Willis, he is the best actor I have ever seen.Karen Stephanie
  John Parker gives great detail of Bruce Willis' life and his career. The book delivers information that not many people know about Bruce Willis. Bruce Willis has so far had an excellent career and you learn about this in  this book.
  If you're interested in all the details of how Bruce Willis accomplished  his incredible career, "Bruce Willis: The Unauthorized Biography"  is an excellent book to purchase.  The book fills in all the details of  stories heard in the tabloids and the truth behind them! You don't have to  be a Bruce Willis fan to enjoy the book.  The book  sheds light on  different areas of the movie industry and people involved. There is one  thing that's for sure and that is "Die Hard" would not have been  the same if Clint Eastwood would have played the part of John McClane.
I was very eager to read this book, "Bruce Willis: The Unauthorized Biography" by John Parker as I am a big Bruce Willis fan and wish to learn all I can about this fascinating and talented actor. However this book did not tell me anything that I did not already know. Instead, it just rehashed the plots of his movies and TV appearances and included slapjack commentary by the author.The book is a total of 250 pages long and was published in 1997 (the actual "story" only goes up to the summer of '96 though) and this was published in the UK by Virgin Books. There aren't any in-depth or exclusive interviews nor did the author do any prior research.The only thing I like about the book is the cover, a nice pic of Bruce.I get the feeling that Mr. Parker relied mostly on "news reports" (i.e. 20 year-old magazine articles) to piece this book together which just came off as sloppy and shoddy because there were numerous inaccuracies and grammatical errors. And he even got the plots of some of Bruce's most well-known movies wrong which makes me question Mr. Parker's motives in writing this foolishness.The book also takes a ton of dips and discuses the movie plots of Demi Moore as well as the movies and careers of several other Hollywood actors (past, present and current). What does this have to do with Bruce Willis's biography? Not a thing!!! It should not have found a home in Bruce's book, yet I suppose journalistic integrity has very little to do with making a quick buck.The author also writes about Bruce Willis's hometown in NJ as if it were some flyover Midwestern state that no one has ever heard of. Again, no references to back up these claims were provided because not a lick of research was conducted.Read more ›
  You know it is funny but i think this book is just a front to pump bruce to his man but is it working for real???
      It was an excellent book. I love it. (My Mom tells me i read it too much.) He is the best actor. I have been dieing to meet him though I doubt I ever will.
      i am forever fan "the bruce willis" iwant his book the bruce willis story i`m really needed this book thank you please call for me i`m ready money for exgample my e-mail...
      Oh God, I just love Bruce Willis, he is the best actor I have ever seen.Since I`m from Brazil and I have no way to meet him sometimes I fell very sad, but I try to watch one of his...
      Hello  ,Bruce  Willis.  My  name  is Evelina . I'm  18  years  old.I  won't  to  be  your  penfrind.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMens GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
.ap_classic { border-top:1px solid #ccc;border-left:1px solid #ccc;border-bottom:1px solid #2F2F1D; border-right:1px solid #2F2F1D;background-color:#EFEDD4;padding:3px; }
.ap_classic .ap_content { clear:both;background-color:white;border:1px solid #ACA976;padding:8px;font-size:11px; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png");  
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV  Amazons Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
Biography:The eldest of four children, Walter Bruce Willis was born on March 19, 1955, in Idar-Oberstein, West Germany, where his father was a welder serving in the U.S. military. The family later moved to Penns Grove, NJ, where Willis spent the remainder of his childhood. Nicknaming himself 'Bruno' to gain confidence, Willis quickly became a popular student... Continue Bio >>Photo Gallery:
