=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
This article is about the 41st U.S. president.  For the ship named after him, see USS George H.W. Bush (CVN-77).  For his son, the 43rd U.S. president, see George W. Bush.  For other persons of the same name, see George Bush.
George Herbert Walker Bush (born June 12, 1924) is an American politician who served as the 41st President of the United States (1989–1993). A Republican, he had previously served as the 43rd Vice President of the United States (1981–1989), a congressman, an ambassador, and Director of Central Intelligence. He is the oldest living former President and Vice President. He is also the last living former President who is a veteran of World War II. Bush is often referred to as "George H. W. Bush", "Bush 41", "Bush the Elder", Bush I, or "George Bush, Sr." to distinguish him from his son, former President George W. Bush. Prior to his son's fame or notability, he was widely known simply as George Bush.
Bush was born in Milton, Massachusetts, to Senator Prescott Bush and Dorothy Walker Bush. Following the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941, Bush postponed college, enlisted in the U.S. Navy on his 18th birthday, and became the youngest aviator in the U.S. Navy at the time.[1][2] He served until the end of the war, then attended Yale University. Graduating in 1948, he moved his family to West Texas and entered the oil business, becoming a millionaire by the age of 40.
He became involved in politics soon after founding his own oil company, serving as a member of the House of Representatives and Director of Central Intelligence, among other positions. He failed to win the Republican nomination for President in 1980, but was chosen by party nominee Ronald Reagan to be his running mate, and the two were elected. During his tenure, Bush headed administration task forces on deregulation and fighting the "War on Drugs".
In 1988, Bush ran a successful campaign to succeed Reagan as President, defeating Democratic opponent Michael Dukakis. Foreign policy drove the Bush presidency: military operations were conducted in Panama and the Persian Gulf; the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, and the Soviet Union dissolved two years later. Domestically, Bush reneged on a 1988 campaign promise and after a struggle with Congress, signed an increase in taxes that Congress had passed. In the wake of a weak recovery from an economic recession, along with continuing budget deficits, he lost the 1992 presidential election to Democrat Bill Clinton.
Bush left office in 1993. His presidential library was dedicated in 1997, and he has been active—along with President Clinton—in various humanitarian activities. Bush's eldest son, George W. Bush, later served as the 46th Governor of Texas (1995–2000) and as the 43rd President of the United States (2001–2009), becoming one of only two presidents—the other being John Quincy Adams—to be the son of a former president (with other familial presidential relations being the Harrisons as grandfather-grandson, as well as the Roosevelts being 5th cousins). His second son, Jeb Bush, served as the 43rd Governor of Florida (1999–2007).
Young George H. W. Bush taking his first steps at his grandfather's house in Kennebunkport, Maine, c. 1925
George Herbert Walker Bush was born at 173 Adams Street in Milton, Massachusetts[3] on June 12, 1924 to Prescott Sheldon Bush and Dorothy (Walker) Bush. The Bush family moved from Milton to Greenwich, Connecticut, shortly after his birth.
Bush began his formal education at the Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich. Beginning in 1936, he attended Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts, where he held a number of leadership positions including president of the senior class, secretary of the student council, president of the community fund-raising group, a member of the editorial board of the school newspaper, and captain of both the varsity baseball and soccer teams.[4]
Following the attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941, Bush decided to join the US. Navy,[1] so after graduating from Phillips Academy in 1942, he became a naval aviator at the age of 18.[4] After completing the 10-month course, he was commissioned as an ensign in the U.S. Naval Reserve at Corpus Christi, Texas on June 9, 1943, just three days before his 19th birthday, which made him the youngest naval aviator to that date.[1]
He was assigned to Torpedo Squadron (VT-51) as the photographic officer in September 1943.[1] The following year, his squadron was based on the USS San Jacinto as a member of Air Group 51, where his lanky physique earned him the nickname "Skin".[5] During this time, the task force was victorious in one of the largest air battles of World War II: the Battle of the Philippine Sea.[1]
After Bush's promotion to Lieutenant (junior grade) on August 1, 1944, the San Jacinto commenced operations against the Japanese in the Bonin Islands. Bush piloted one of four Grumman TBM Avenger aircraft from VT-51 that attacked the Japanese installations on Chichijima.[6] His crew for the mission, which occurred on September 2, 1944, included Radioman Second Class John Delaney and Lieutenant Junior Grade William White.[1] During their attack, the Avengers encountered intense anti-aircraft fire; Bush's aircraft was hit by flak and his engine caught on fire. Despite his plane being on fire, Bush completed his attack and released bombs over his target, scoring several damaging hits.[1] With his engine ablaze, Bush flew several miles from the island, where he and one other crew member on the TBM Avenger bailed out of the aircraft;[7] the other man's parachute did not open.[1] It has not been determined which man bailed out with Bush[1] as both Delaney and White were killed as a result of the battle.[7] Bush waited for four hours in an inflated raft, while several fighters circled protectively overhead until he was rescued by the lifeguard submarine USS Finback.[1] For the next month he remained on the Finback, and participated in the rescue of other pilots.
Bush subsequently returned to San Jacinto in November 1944 and participated in operations in the Philippines until his squadron was replaced and sent home to the United States. Through 1944, he flew 58 combat missions[7] for which he received the Distinguished Flying Cross, three Air Medals, and the Presidential Unit Citation awarded to San Jacinto.[1]
Because of his valuable combat experience, Bush was reassigned to Norfolk Navy Base and put in a training wing for new torpedo pilots. He was later assigned as a naval aviator in a new torpedo squadron, VT-153, based at Naval Air Station Grosse Ile, Michigan. Upon the Japanese surrender in 1945, Bush was honorably discharged in September of that year.
George Bush married Barbara Pierce on January 6, 1945, only weeks after his return from the Pacific. The couple's first residence was a small rented apartment in Trenton, Michigan, near Bush's Navy assignment at NAS Grosse Ile. Their marriage produced six children: George Walker Bush (born 1946), Pauline Robinson "Robin" Bush (1949–1953, died of leukemia), John Ellis "Jeb" Bush (born 1953), Neil Mallon Bush (born 1955), Marvin Pierce Bush (born 1956), and Dorothy Bush Koch (born 1959).[8]
Bush had been accepted to Yale University prior to his enlistment in the military, and took up the offer after his discharge and marriage.[9] While at Yale, he was enrolled in an accelerated program that allowed him to graduate in two and a half years, rather than four.[9] He was a member of the Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity and was elected its president. He also captained the Yale baseball team, and as a left-handed first baseman, played in the first two College World Series.[9] As the team captain, Bush met Babe Ruth before a game during his senior year. He was also, like his father, a member of the Yale cheerleading squad.[10] Late in his junior year he was, like his father Prescott Bush (1917), initiated into the Skull and Bones secret society. He graduated as a member of the Phi Beta Kappa from Yale in 1948 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics.[11]
After graduating from Yale, Bush moved his family to West Texas. His father's business connections proved useful when he ventured into the oil business, starting as a sales clerk with Dresser Industries, a subsidiary of Brown Brothers Harriman.[12] His father had served on the board of directors there for 22 years. While working for Dresser, Bush lived in various places with his family: Odessa, Texas; Ventura, Bakersfield and Compton, California; and Midland, Texas.[13] Bush started the Bush-Overbey Oil Development company in 1951 and in 1953 co-founded the Zapata Petroleum Corporation, an oil company that drilled in the Permian Basin in Texas.[14] In 1954 he was named president of the Zapata Offshore Company, a subsidiary which specialized in offshore drilling.
When the subsidiary became independent in 1958, Bush moved the company from Midland to Houston. He continued serving as president of the company until 1964, and later chairman until 1966, but his ambitions turned political.[12] By that time, Bush had become a millionaire.[15]
Bush served as Chairman of the Republican Party for Harris County, Texas, in 1964, but wanted to be more involved in policy making, so he set his sights high: he aimed for a U.S. Senate seat from Texas.[12] After winning the Republican primary, Bush faced his opponent, incumbent Democrat Ralph W. Yarborough, who attacked Bush as a right-wing extremist, and Bush lost the general election. The Republican candidate for governor, Jack Crichton of Dallas, a Louisiana native who often campaigned alongside Bush before the election, lost by a much wider margin to Governor John B. Connally, Jr.[16] It was suggested in PBS's "American Experience" episode about Bush that he and the Harris County Republicans played a role in the development of the New Republican Party of the late 20th century. First, Bush worked to absorb the John Birch Society members, who were trying to take over the Republican Party and lead it towards a more anti-Communist direction. Second, during and after the Civil Rights Movement, Democrats in the South who were committed to segregation left their party, and although the "country club Republicans" had differing ideological beliefs, they found common ground in hoping to expel the Democrats from power.[17]
Bush was elected in 1966 to a House of Representatives seat from the 7th District of Texas, defeating with 57 percent of the ballots cast the Democrat Frank Briscoe, the district attorney of Harris County known for his law and order credentials and a cousin of later Governor Dolph Briscoe.[18][19] Bush was the first Republican to represent Houston in the U.S. House.[12] Bush's representative district included Tanglewood, the Houston neighborhood that was his residence;[20] his family had moved into Tanglewood in the 1960s.[21] His voting record in the House was generally conservative: Bush voted for the Civil Rights Act of 1968, although it was generally unpopular in his district. He supported the Nixon administration's Vietnam policies, but broke with Republicans on the issue of birth control, which he supported.[12] Despite being a first-term congressman, Bush was appointed to the powerful House Ways and Means Committee, where he voted to abolish the military draft.[15] He was elected to a second term in 1968.[22]
In 1970 Nixon convinced Bush to relinquish his House seat to run for the Senate against Ralph Yarborough, a fierce Nixon critic. In the Republican primary, Bush easily defeated conservative Robert J. Morris, by a margin of 87.6% to 12.4%.[23] Nixon came to Texas to campaign in Longview for Bush and gubernatorial candidate Paul Eggers, a Dallas lawyer who was a close friend of U.S. Senator John G. Tower.[24] Former Congressman Lloyd Bentsen, a more moderate Democrat and native of Mission in south Texas, defeated Yarborough in the Democratic primary.[15] Yarborough endorsed Bentsen, who defeated Bush, 53.4 to 46.6%.[25] As Bush's political career waned, he moved out of Houston and sold his first Tanglewood house, but for periods of time continued to reside in Tanglewood.[21]
Following his 1970 loss, Bush was well known as a prominent Republican businessman from the "Sun Belt", a group of states in the Southern part of the country.[15] Nixon noticed and appreciated the sacrifice Bush had made of his Congressional position,[12] so he appointed him Ambassador to the United Nations.[11] He was confirmed unanimously by the Senate, and served for two years, beginning in 1971.[12]
Amidst the Watergate scandal, Nixon asked Bush to become chairman of the Republican National Committee in 1973.[11] Bush accepted, and held this position when the popularity of both Nixon and the Republican Party plummeted.[26] He defended Nixon steadfastly, but later as Nixon's complicity became clear, Bush focused more on defending the Republican Party, while still maintaining loyalty to Nixon. As chairman, Bush formally requested that Nixon eventually resign for the good of the Republican party.[12] Nixon did this on August 9, 1974; Bush noted in his diary that "There was an aura of sadness, like somebody died.... The [resignation] speech was vintage Nixon—a kick or two at the press—enormous strains. One couldn't help but look at the family and the whole thing and think of his accomplishments and then think of the shame.... [President Gerald Ford's swearing-in offered] indeed a new spirit, a new lift."[27]
Gerald Ford, Nixon's successor, appointed Bush to be Chief of the U.S. Liaison Office in the People's Republic of China. Since the United States at the time maintained official relations with the Republic of China on Taiwan and not the People's Republic of China, the Liaison Office did not have the official status of an embassy and Bush did not formally hold the position of "ambassador", though he unofficially acted as one. The 14 months that he spent in China were largely seen as beneficial for U.S.-China relations.[12]
After Ford's accession to the presidency, Bush was under serious consideration for being nominated as Vice President. Ford eventually narrowed his list to Nelson Rockefeller and Bush. White House Chief of Staff Donald Rumsfeld reportedly preferred Rockefeller over Bush. Rockefeller was finally named and confirmed.[28]
Bush was again passed over for the vice presidency by Ford when the president chose Bush's future presidential rival, Senator Bob Dole, to replace Rockefeller on the 1976 presidential ticket.
Bush, as CIA Director, listens at a meeting following the assassinations in Beirut of Francis E. Meloy, Jr. and Robert O. Waring, 1976.
In 1976 Ford brought Bush back to Washington to become Director of Central Intelligence (DCI), replacing William Colby.[29] He served in this role for 357 days, from January 30, 1976, to January 20, 1977.[30] The CIA had been rocked by a series of revelations, including those based on investigations by the Church Committee regarding illegal and unauthorized activities by the CIA, and Bush was credited with helping to restore the agency's morale.[31] In his capacity as DCI, Bush gave national security briefings to Jimmy Carter both as a Presidential candidate and as President-elect, and discussed the possibility of remaining in that position in a Carter administration,[32] but did not do so. He was succeeded by Deputy Director of Central Intelligence E. Henry Knoche, who served as acting Director of Central Intelligence until Stansfield Turner was confirmed.[33]
After a Democratic administration took power in 1977, Bush became chairman on the Executive Committee of the First International Bank in Houston.[34] He later spent a year as a part-time professor of Administrative Science at Rice University's Jones School of Business beginning in 1978, the year it opened; Bush said of his time there, "I loved my brief time in the world of academia."[35] Between 1977 and 1979, he was a director of the Council on Foreign Relations foreign policy organization.[36]
Bush had decided in the late 1970s that he was going to run for president in 1980; in 1979, he attended 850 political events and traveled more than 250,000 miles (400,000 km) to campaign for the nation's highest office. In the contest for the Republican Party nomination, Bush stressed his wide range of government experience, while competing against rivals Senator Howard Baker of Tennessee, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, Congressman John Anderson of Illinois (who would later run as an independent), Congressman Phil Crane, also of Illinois, former Governor John Connally of Texas, and the front-runner Ronald Reagan, former actor, and Governor of California.[28]
In the primary election, Bush focused almost entirely on the Iowa caucuses, while Reagan ran a more traditional campaign. Bush represented the centrist wing in the GOP, whereas Reagan represented conservatives. Bush famously labeled Reagan's supply side-influenced plans for massive tax cuts "voodoo economics". His strategy proved useful, to some degree, as he won in Iowa with 31.5% to Reagan's 29.4%. After the win, Bush stated that his campaign was full of momentum, or "Big Mo". As a result of the loss, Reagan replaced his campaign manager, reorganized his staff, and concentrated on the New Hampshire primary. The two men agreed to a debate in the state, organized by the Nashua Telegraph, but paid for by the Reagan campaign. Reagan invited the other four candidates as well, but Bush refused to debate them, and eventually they left. The debate proved to be a pivotal moment in the campaign; when the moderator, John Breen, ordered Reagan's microphone turned off, his angry response, "I am paying for this microphone," struck a chord with the public. Bush ended up losing New Hampshire's primary with 23% to Reagan's 50%. Bush lost most of the remaining primaries as well, and formally dropped out of the race in May of that year.[28]
With his political future seeming dismal, Bush sold his house in Houston and bought his grandfather's estate in Kennebunkport, Maine, known as "Walker's Point".[37] At the Republican Convention, Reagan selected Bush as his Vice Presidential nominee, placing him on the winning Republican presidential ticket of 1980.
As Vice President, Bush generally took on a low profile while recognizing the constitutional limits of the office; he avoided decision-making or criticizing Reagan in any way. As had become customary, he and his wife moved into the Vice President's residence at Number One Observatory Circle, about two miles from the White House. After selling the house in the Tanglewood, the Bushes declared a room in The Houstonian Hotel in Houston as their official voting address.[20] The Bushes attended a large number of public and ceremonial events in their positions, including many state funerals, which became a common joke for comedians. Mrs. Bush found the funerals largely beneficial, saying, "George met with many current or future heads of state at the funerals he attended, enabling him to forge personal relationships that were important to President Reagan." As the President of the Senate, Bush stayed in contact with members of Congress, and kept the president informed on occurrences on Capitol Hill.[28]
On March 30, 1981, early into the administration, Reagan was shot and seriously wounded in Washington, D.C. Bush, second in command by the presidential line of succession, was in Fort Worth, Texas, and flew back to Washington immediately. Reagan's cabinet convened in the White House Situation Room, where they discussed various issues, including the availability of the Nuclear Football. When Bush's plane landed, his aides advised him to proceed directly to the White House by helicopter, as an image of the government still functioning despite the attack. Bush rejected the idea, responding, "Only the President lands on the South Lawn."[28] This made a positive impression on Reagan,[28] who recovered and returned to work within two weeks. From then on, the two men would have regular Thursday lunches in the Oval Office.
In December 1983 Bush flew to El Salvador and warned that country's military leaders to end their death squads and hold fully free elections or face the loss of U.S. aid. Bush's aides feared for his safety and thought about calling the meeting off when they discovered apparent blood stains on the floor of the presidential palace of Álvaro Magaña. Bush was never told of the aides' concerns and a tense meeting was held in which some of Magaña's personnel brandished semiautomatic weapons and refused requests to take them outside.[38]
Bush was assigned by Reagan to chair two special task forces, on deregulation and international drug smuggling. The deregulation task force reviewed hundreds of rules, making specific recommendations on which ones to amend or revise, in order to curb the size of the federal government. The drug smuggling task force coordinated federal efforts to reduce the quantity of drugs entering the United States. Both were popular issues with conservatives, and Bush, largely a moderate, began courting them through his work.[28]
Reagan and Bush ran for reelection in 1984. The Democratic opponent, Walter Mondale, made history by choosing a woman as his running mate, New York Representative Geraldine Ferraro. She and Bush squared off in a single televised Vice Presidential debate.[39] Serving as a contrast to the Ivy-League educated Bush, Ferraro represented a "blue-collar" district in Queens, New York; this, coupled with her popularity among female journalists, left Bush at a disadvantage. The Reagan-Bush ticket won in a landslide against the Mondale-Ferraro ticket. Early into his second term as Vice President, Bush and his aides were planning a run for the presidency in 1988. By the end of 1985, a committee had been established and over two million dollars raised for Bush.[28]
Bush became the first Vice President to serve as Acting President when, on July 13, 1985, Reagan underwent surgery to remove polyps from his colon, making Bush acting president for approximately eight hours.
The Reagan administration was shaken by a scandal in 1986, when it was revealed that administration officials had secretly arranged weapon sales to Iran, and had used the proceeds to fund the anticommunist Contras in Nicaragua, a direct violation of the law. When the Iran-Contra Affair, as it became known, broke to the media, Bush, like Reagan, stated that he had been "out of the loop" and unaware of the diversion of funds,[40] although this was later questioned.[41] But his own diaries from that time stated "I'm one of the few people that know fully the details." He had repeatedly refused to disclose this to investigators.[42] Public opinion polls taken at the time indicated that the public questioned Bush's explanation of being an "innocent bystander" while the trades were occurring; this led to the notion that he was a "wimp". His fury during an interview with CBS's Dan Rather largely put the "wimp" issue to rest.[28]
In the January 26, 1987, issue of Time magazine, in an article entitled "Where Is the Real George Bush?" journalist Robert Ajemian reported that a friend of Bush's had urged him to spend several days at Camp David thinking through his plans for his prospective presidency, to which Bush is said to have responded in exasperation, "Oh, the vision thing."[43] This oft-cited quote became a shorthand for the charge that Bush failed to contemplate or articulate important policy positions in a compelling and coherent manner. The phrase has since become a metonym for any politician's failure to incorporate a greater vision in a campaign, and has often been applied in the media to other politicians or public figures.[44]
Bush had been planning a presidential run since as early as 1985, and entered the Republican primary for President of the United States in October 1987.[28] His challengers for the Republican presidential nomination included U.S. Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, U.S. Representative Jack Kemp of New York, former Governor Pete DuPont of Delaware, and conservative Christian televangelist Pat Robertson.
Though considered the early frontrunner for the nomination, Bush came in third in the Iowa caucus, behind winner Dole and runner-up Robertson.[45] Much like Reagan did in 1980, Bush reorganized his staff and concentrated on the New Hampshire primary.[28] With Dole ahead in New Hampshire, Bush ran television commercials portraying the senator as a tax raiser;[46] he rebounded to win the state's primary. Following the primary, Bush and Dole had a joint media appearance, when the interviewer asked Dole if he had anything to say to Bush, Dole said, in response to the ads, "yeah, stop lying about my record" in an angry tone. This is thought to have hurt Dole's campaign to Bush's benefit. Bush continued seeing victory, winning many Southern primaries as well.[12] Once the multiple-state primaries such as Super Tuesday began, Bush's organizational strength and fundraising lead were impossible for the other candidates to match, and the nomination was his.[15]
Leading up to the 1988 Republican National Convention, there was much speculation as to Bush's choice of running mate. Bush chose little-known U.S. Senator Dan Quayle of Indiana, favored by conservatives. Despite Reagan's popularity, Bush trailed Democratic nominee Michael Dukakis, then Governor of Massachusetts, in most polls.[47]
Bush, occasionally criticized for his lack of eloquence when compared to Reagan, delivered a well-received speech at the 1988 Republican National Convention. Known as the "thousand points of light" speech, it described Bush's vision of America: he endorsed the Pledge of Allegiance, prayer in schools, capital punishment, gun rights, and opposed abortion.[47] The speech at the convention included Bush's famous pledge: "Read my lips: no new taxes."[48]
The general election campaign between the two men has been described as one of the nastiest in modern times.[48] Bush blamed Dukakis for polluting the Boston Harbor as the Massachusetts governor.[12] Bush also pointed out that Dukakis was opposed to the law that would require all students to say the Pledge of Allegiance, a topic well covered in Bush's nomination acceptance speech.[47]
Dukakis's unconditional opposition to capital punishment led to a pointed question during the presidential debates. Moderator Bernard Shaw asked Dukakis hypothetically if Dukakis would support the death penalty if his wife, Kitty, were raped and murdered.[49] Dukakis's response of no, as well as the Willie Horton ad, contributed toward Bush's characterization of him as "soft on crime".[12]
Bush defeated Dukakis and his running mate, Lloyd Bentsen, in the Electoral College, by 426 to 111 (Bentsen received one vote from a faithless elector).[48] In the nationwide popular vote, Bush took 53.4% of the ballots cast while Dukakis received 45.6%.[12] Bush became the first serving Vice President to be elected President since Martin Van Buren in 1836 as well as the first person to succeed someone from his own party to the Presidency via election to the office in his own right since Herbert Hoover in 1929.[28]
Chief Justice William Rehnquist administering the oath of office to Bush during Inaugural ceremonies at the United States Capitol, January 20, 1989.
Bush was inaugurated on January 20, 1989, succeeding Ronald Reagan. He entered office at a period of change in the world; the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of Soviet Union came early in his presidency.[2] He ordered military operations in Panama and the Persian Gulf, and, at one point, was recorded as having a record-high approval rating of 89%.[50] Economic recession and breaking his "no new taxes" pledge caused a sharp decline in his approval rating, and Bush lost the 1992 election.[2]
I come before you and assume the Presidency at a moment rich with promise. We live in a peaceful, prosperous time, but we can make it better. For a new breeze is blowing, and a world refreshed by freedom seems reborn; for in man's heart, if not in fact, the day of the dictator is over. The totalitarian era is passing, its old ideas blown away like leaves from an ancient, lifeless tree. A new breeze is blowing, and a nation refreshed by freedom stands ready to push on. There is new ground to be broken, and new action to be taken.[51]
Early in his term, Bush faced the problem of what to do with leftover deficits spawned by the Reagan years. At $220 billion in 1990, the deficit had grown to three times its size since 1980. Bush was dedicated to curbing the deficit, believing that America could not continue to be a leader in the world without doing so. He began an effort to persuade the Democratic controlled Congress to act on the budget; with Republicans believing that the best way was to cut government spending, and Democrats convinced that the only way would be to raise taxes, Bush faced problems when it came to consensus building.[15]
In the wake of a struggle with Congress, Bush was forced by the Democratic majority to raise tax revenues; as a result, many Republicans felt betrayed because Bush had promised "no new taxes" in his 1988 campaign. Perceiving a means of revenge, Republican congressmen defeated Bush's proposal which would enact spending cuts and tax increases that would reduce the deficit by $500 billion over five years. Scrambling, Bush accepted the Democrats' demands for higher taxes and more spending, which alienated him from Republicans and gave way to a sharp decrease in popularity. Bush would later say that he wished he had never signed the bill.[15] Near the end of the 101st Congress, the president and congressional members reached a compromise on a budget package that increased the marginal tax rate and phased out exemptions for high-income taxpayers. Despite demands for a reduction in the capital gains tax, Bush relented on this issue as well. This agreement with the Democratic leadership in Congress proved to be a turning point in the Bush presidency; his popularity among Republicans never fully recovered.[12]
Bush's approval ratings (red) compared to his disapproval ratings (blue) for his four-year presidency.
Coming at around the same time as the budget deal, America entered into a mild recession, lasting for six months. Many government programs, such as welfare, increased.[15] As the unemployment rate edged upward in 1991, Bush signed a bill providing additional benefits for unemployed workers.[12] The year 1991 was marked by many corporate reorganizations, which laid off a substantial number of workers. Many now unemployed were Republicans and independents, who had believed that their jobs were secure.
By his second year in office, Bush was told by his economic advisors to stop dealing with the economy, as they believed that he had done everything necessary to ensure his reelection. By 1992, interest and inflation rates were the lowest in years, but by midyear the unemployment rate reached 7.8%, the highest since 1984. In September 1992, the Census Bureau reported that 14.2% of all Americans lived in poverty.[12] At a press conference in 1990, Bush told reporters that he found foreign policy more enjoyable.[15]
See also: Environmental policy of the United States § The George H. W. Bush Administration (1988–1992)
During a speech to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing, Bush announced a vision to complete Space Station Freedom, resume exploration of the Moon and begin exploration of Mars.[52] Although a space station was eventually constructed–work on the International Space Station began in 1998–other work has been confounded by NASA budgetary issues. In 1998, Bush received the Rotary National Award for Space Achievement's National Space Trophy for his pioneering leadership of the U.S. space program.
Bush signed a number of major laws in his presidency, including the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; this was one of the most pro-civil rights bills in decades. He is also the only President to successfully veto a civil rights act, having vetoed the job-discrimination protection Civil Rights Act of 1990.[53] Bush feared racial quotas would be imposed, but later approved watered-down Civil Rights Act of 1991.[54] He worked to increase federal spending for education, childcare, and advanced technology research. He also signed the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act which provides monetary compensation of people who were contracted cancer and a number of other specified diseases disease as a direct result of their exposure to atmospheric nuclear testing undertaken by the United States during the Cold War, or their exposure to high levels of radon while doing uranium mining. In dealing with the environment, Bush reauthorized the Clean Air Act, requiring cleaner burning fuels. He quarreled with Congress over an eventually signed bill to aid police in capturing criminals, and signed into law a measure to improve the nation's highway system.[15] Bush signed the Immigration Act of 1990,[55] which led to a 40 percent increase in legal immigration to the United States.[56]
Bush became a life member of the National Rifle Association early in 1988 and had campaigned as a "Pro-gun" candidate with the NRA's endorsement.[57] In March 1989, he placed a temporary ban on the import of certain semiautomatic rifles.[58] This action cost him endorsement from the NRA in 1992. Bush publicly resigned his life membership in the organization after losing the election and receiving a form letter from NRA depicting agents of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms as "jack-booted thugs". He called the NRA letter a "vicious slander on good people".[59]
President Bush devoted attention to voluntary service as a means of solving some of America's most serious social problems. He often used the "thousand points of light" theme to describe the power of citizens to solve community problems. In his 1989 inaugural address, President Bush said, "I have spoken of a thousand points of light, of all the community organizations that are spread like stars throughout the Nation, doing good."[60]
Four years later in his report to the nation on The Points of Light Movement, President Bush said, "Points of Light are the soul of America. They are ordinary people who reach beyond themselves to touch the lives of those in need, bringing hope and opportunity, care and friendship. By giving so generously of themselves, these remarkable individuals show us not only what is best in our heritage but what all of us are called to become."[60]
In 1990 the Points of Light Foundation was created as a nonprofit organization in Washington to promote this spirit of volunteerism.[61] In 2007, the Points of Light Foundation merged with the Hands On Network with the goal of strengthening volunteerism, streamlining costs and services and deepening impact.[62] Points of Light, the organization created through this merger, has approximately 250 affiliates in 22 countries and partnerships with thousands of nonprofits and companies dedicated to volunteer service around the world. In 2012, Points of Light mobilized 4 million volunteers in 30 million hours of service worth $635 million.[63]
On October 16, 2009, President Barack Obama held a Presidential Forum on Service hosted by former President George H. W. Bush and Points of Light at the George Bush Presidential Library Center on the campus of Texas A&M University. The event celebrated the contributions of more than 4,500 Daily Point of Light award winners and honored President Bush's legacy of service and civic engagement.[64]
In 2011 Points of Light paid tribute to President George H. W. Bush and volunteer service at Washington, D.C.'s Kennedy Center. President Bush was joined by Presidents Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush to highlight the role volunteer service plays in people's lives.[65]
President Bush created the Daily Point of Light Award in 1989 to recognize ordinary Americans from all walks of life taking direct and consequential voluntary action in their communities to solve serious social problems. The President focused great attention on these individuals and organizations, both to honor them for their tremendous work and to call the nation to join them and multiply their efforts. By the end of his administration, President Bush had recognized 1,020 Daily Points of Light representing all 50 states and addressing issues ranging from care for infants and teenagers with AIDS to adult illiteracy and from gang violence to job training for the homeless.[60] The Daily Point of Light continues to be awarded by Points of Light and President Bush continues to sign all of the awards.[66]
On July 15, 2013, President Barack Obama welcomed President Bush to the White House to celebrate the 5,000th Daily Point of Light Award.[67] They bestowed the award on Floyd Hammer and Kathy Hamilton of Union, Iowa, for their work founding Outreach, a nonprofit that delivers free meals to hungry children in 15 countries.[68]
In addition to his two Supreme Court appointments, Bush appointed 42 judges to the United States Courts of Appeals, and 148 judges to the United States district courts. Among these appointments was Vaughn R. Walker, who would later be revealed to be the earliest known gay federal judge.[69] Bush also experienced a number of judicial appointment controversies, as 11 nominees for 10 federal appellate judgeships were not processed by the Democrat-controlled Senate Judiciary Committee.[70]
Bush speaks on the telephone regarding Operation Just Cause with General Brent Scowcroft and Chief of Staff John H. Sununu, 1989
In the 1980s, Panamanian leader Manuel Noriega, a once U.S.-supportive leader who was later accused of spying for Fidel Castro and using Panama to traffic drugs into the United States, was one of the most recognizable names in America and was constantly in the press. The struggle to remove him from power began in the Reagan administration, when economic sanctions were imposed on the country; this included prohibiting American companies and government from making payments to Panama and freezing $56 million in Panamanian funds in American banks. Reagan sent more than 2,000 American troops to Panama as well.[71] Unlike Reagan, Bush was able to remove Noriega from power, but his administration's unsuccessful post-invasion planning hindered the needs of Panama during the establishment of the young democratic government.[72]
In May 1989, Panama held democratic elections, in which Guillermo Endara was elected president; the results were then annulled by Noriega's government. In response, Bush sent 2,000 more troops to the country, where they began conducting regular military exercises in Panamanian territory (in violation of prior treaties). Bush then removed an embassy and ambassador from the country, and dispatched additional troops to Panama to prepare the way for an upcoming invasion.[71] Noriega suppressed an October military coup attempt and massive protests in Panama against him, but after a U.S. serviceman was shot by Panamanian forces in December 1989, Bush ordered 24,000 troops into the country with an objective of removing Noriega from power;[73] "Operation Just Cause" was a large-scale American military operation, and the first in more than 40 years that was not related to the Cold War.[72]
The mission was controversial, but American forces achieved control of the country and Endara assumed the Presidency.[74] Noriega surrendered to the United States and was convicted and imprisoned on racketeering and drug trafficking charges in April 1992.[75] President Bush and First Lady Barbara Bush visited Panama in June 1992, to give support to the first post-invasion Panamanian government.
See also: Dissolution of the Soviet Union, New world order (politics), A World Transformed and History of the United States (1988–present) § The end of the Cold War
In 1989, just after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Bush met with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev in a conference on the Mediterranean island of Malta. The administration had been under intense pressure to meet with the Soviets, but not all initially found the Malta summit to be a step in the right direction; General Brent Scowcroft, among others, was apprehensive about the meeting, saying that it might be "premature" due to concerns where, according to Condoleezza Rice, "expectations [would be] set that something was going to happen, where the Soviets might grandstand and force [the U.S.] into agreements that would ultimately not be good for the United States." But European leaders, including François Mitterrand and Margaret Thatcher, encouraged Bush to meet with Gorbachev,[76] something that he did December 2 and 3, 1989.[77] Though no agreements were signed, the meeting was viewed largely as being an important one; when asked about nuclear war, Gorbachev responded, "I assured the President of the United States that the Soviet Union would never start a hot war against the United States of America. And we would like our relations to develop in such a way that they would open greater possibilities for cooperation.... This is just the beginning. We are just at the very beginning of our road, long road to a long-lasting, peaceful period."[78] The meeting was received as a very important step to the end of the Cold War.[79]
Another summit was held in July 1991, where the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START I) was signed by Bush and Gorbachev in Moscow. The treaty took nine years in the making and was the first major arms agreement since the signing of the Intermediate Ranged Nuclear Forces Treaty by Reagan and Gorbachev in 1987. The contentions in START would reduce the strategic nuclear weapons of the United States and the USSR by about 35% over seven years, and the Soviet Union's land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles would be cut by 50%. Bush described START as "a significant step forward in dispelling half a century of mistrust".[80] After the dissolution of the USSR in 1991, President Bush and Gorbachev declared a U.S.-Russian strategic partnership, marking the end of the Cold War.
On August 2, 1990, Iraq, led by Saddam Hussein, invaded its oil-rich neighbor to the south, Kuwait; Bush condemned the invasion[81] and began rallying opposition to Iraq in the US and among European, Asian, and Middle Eastern allies.[15] Secretary of Defense Richard Bruce "Dick" Cheney traveled to Saudi Arabia to meet with King Fahd; Fahd requested US military aid in the matter, fearing a possible invasion of his country as well.[81] The request was met initially with Air Force fighter jets. Iraq made attempts to negotiate a deal that would allow the country to take control of half of Kuwait. Bush rejected this proposal and insisted on a complete withdrawal of Iraqi forces.[15] The planning of a ground operation by US-led coalition forces began forming in September 1990, headed by General Norman Schwarzkopf.[81] Bush spoke before a joint session of the U.S. Congress regarding the authorization of air and land attacks, laying out four immediate objectives: "Iraq must withdraw from Kuwait completely, immediately, and without condition. Kuwait's legitimate government must be restored. The security and stability of the Persian Gulf must be assured. And American citizens abroad must be protected." He then outlined a fifth, long-term objective: "Out of these troubled times, our fifth objective – a new world order – can emerge: a new era – freer from the threat of terror, stronger in the pursuit of justice, and more secure in the quest for peace. An era in which the nations of the world, East and West, North and South, can prosper and live in harmony.... A world where the rule of law supplants the rule of the jungle. A world in which nations recognize the shared responsibility for freedom and justice. A world where the strong respect the rights of the weak."[82] With the United Nations Security Council opposed to Iraq's violence, Congress authorized the use of Military force[81] with a set goal of returning control of Kuwait to the Kuwaiti government, and protecting America's interests abroad.[15]
Early on the morning of January 17, 1991, allied forces launched the first attack, which included more than 4,000 bombing runs by coalition aircraft. This pace would continue for the next four weeks, until a ground invasion was launched on February 24, 1991. Allied forces penetrated Iraqi lines and pushed toward Kuwait City while on the west side of the country, forces were intercepting the retreating Iraqi army. Bush made the decision to stop the offensive after a mere 100 hours. Critics labeled this decision premature, as hundreds of Iraqi forces were able to escape; Bush responded by saying that he wanted to minimize U.S. casualties. Opponents further charged that Bush should have continued the attack, pushing Hussein's army back to Baghdad, then removing him from power.[15] Bush explained that he did not give the order to overthrow the Iraqi government because it would have "incurred incalculable human and political costs.... We would have been forced to occupy Baghdad and, in effect, rule Iraq."[83]
Bush's approval ratings skyrocketed after the successful offensive.[15] Additionally, President Bush and Secretary of State Baker felt the coalition victory had increased U.S. prestige abroad and believed there was a window of opportunity to use the political capital generated by the coalition victory to revitalize the Arab-Israeli peace process. The administration immediately returned to Arab-Israeli peacemaking following the end of the Gulf War; this resulted in the Madrid Conference, later in 1991.[84]
Faced with a humanitarian disaster in Somalia, exacerbated by a complete breakdown in civil order, the United Nations had created the UNOSOM I mission in April 1992 to aid the situation through humanitarian efforts, though the mission failed.[85] The Bush administration proposed American aid to the region by assisting in creating a secure environment for humanitarian efforts and UN Resolution 794 was unanimously adopted by the Security Council on December 3, 1992.[86] A lame duck president, Bush launched Operation Restore Hope the following day under which the United States would assume command in accordance with Resolution 794.[87] Fighting would escalate and continue into the Clinton administration.[88]
From left to right: (standing) President Carlos Salinas, President Bush, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney; (seated) Jaime Serra Puche, Carla Hills, and Michael Wilson at the NAFTA Initialing Ceremony, October 1992
Bush's administration, along with the Progressive Conservative Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, spearheaded the negotiations of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which would eliminate the majority of tariffs on products traded among the United States, Canada, and Mexico, to encourage trade amongst the countries. The treaty also restricts patents, copyrights, and trademarks, and outlines the removal of investment restrictions among the three countries.[89]
The agreement came under heavy scrutiny amongst mainly Democrats, who charged that NAFTA resulted in a loss of American jobs.[15] NAFTA also contained no provisions for labor rights; according to the Bush administration, the trade agreement would generate economic resources necessary to enable Mexico's government to overcome problems of funding and enforcement of its labor laws. Bush needed a renewal of negotiating authority to move forward with the NAFTA trade talks. Such authority would enable the president to negotiate a trade accord that would be submitted to Congress for a vote, thereby avoiding a situation in which the president would be required to renegotiate with trading partners those parts of an agreement that Congress wished to change.[90] While initial signing was possible during his term, negotiations made slow, but steady, progress. President Clinton would go on to make the passage of NAFTA a priority for his administration, despite its conservative and Republican roots—with the addition of two side agreements—to achieve its passage in 1993.[91]
The treaty has since been defended as well as criticized further. The American economy has grown 54% since the adoption of NAFTA in 1993, with 25 million new jobs created; this was seen by some as evidence of NAFTA being beneficial to the United States.[92] With talk in early 2008 regarding a possible American withdrawal from the treaty, Carlos M. Gutierrez, current United States Secretary of Commerce, writes, "Quitting NAFTA would send economic shock waves throughout the world, and the damage would start here at home."[92] But John J. Sweeney, President of the AFL-CIO, wrote in The Boston Globe that "the U.S. trade deficit with Canada and Mexico ballooned to 12 times its pre-NAFTA size, reaching $111 billion in 2004."[93]
On January 8, 1992, around 8:20 p.m. JST, Bush fainted after vomiting at a banquet hosted by the then Prime Minister of Japan, Kiichi Miyazawa.[94] Bush had been attending a state event for 135 diplomats held at the home of the Japanese Prime Minister, near the end of his 12-day trade-oriented trip through Asia. Earlier that day Bush had played a doubles tennis match in which the Emperor of Japan Akihito and his son the Crown Prince Naruhito beat Bush and his partner, a former U.S. ambassador to Japan.[95] Bush later stated to the press that he had been afflicted with a 24-hour flu bug.
The incident was widely reported,[94] and quickly became fodder for the nation's comedians. Footage of the President vomiting was broadcast on the ABC network, and Saturday Night Live presented a parody skit of the incident in the form of an Oliver Stone conspiracy movie.[96] The incident was also satirized in an episode of The Simpsons, and an episode of King of the Hill. According to USA Today, the incident was one of the top "25 memorable public meltdowns that had us talking and laughing or cringing over the past quarter-century".[97]
As other presidents have done, Bush issued a series of pardons during his last days in office. On December 24, 1992, he granted executive clemency to six former government employees implicated in the Iran-Contra scandal of the late 1980s, most prominently former Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger.[98] Bush described Weinberger, who was scheduled to stand trial on January 5, 1993, for criminal charges related to Iran-Contra, as a "true American patriot".[98]
In addition to Weinberger, Bush pardoned Duane R. Clarridge, Clair E. George, Robert C. McFarlane, Elliott Abrams, and Alan G. Fiers Jr., all of whom had been indicted and/or convicted of criminal charges by an Independent Counsel headed by Lawrence Walsh.[99]
In 1990 Time magazine named him TimeMan of the Year. In 1991 the U.S. Navy Memorial Foundation awarded Bush its Lone Sailor award for his naval service and his subsequent government service. In 1993, he was made an Honorary Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath by Queen Elizabeth II.[102]
Bush announced his reelection bid in early 1992; with a coalition victory in the Persian Gulf War and high approval ratings, reelection initially looked likely. As a result, many leading Democrats declined to seek their party's presidential nomination. But an economic recession, and doubts of whether Bush ended the Gulf War properly, reduced his popularity.
Conservative political columnist Pat Buchanan challenged Bush for the Republican nomination, and shocked political pundits by finishing second, with 37% of the vote, in the New Hampshire primary. Bush responded by adopting more conservative positions on issues, in an attempt to undermine Buchanan's base.[15] Once he had secured the nomination, Bush faced his challenger, Democrat and Governor of Arkansas William Jefferson "Bill" Clinton. Clinton attacked Bush as not doing enough to assist the working middle-class and being "out of touch" with the common man, a notion reinforced by reporter Andrew Rosenthal's false report that Bush was "astonished" to see a demonstration of a supermarket scanner.[103]
In early 1992, the race took an unexpected twist when Texas billionaire H. Ross Perot launched a third party bid, claiming that neither Republicans nor Democrats could eliminate the deficit and make government more efficient. His message appealed to voters across the political spectrum disappointed with both parties' perceived fiscal irresponsibility.[104] Perot later bowed out of the race for a short time, then reentered.[105]
Clinton had originally been in the lead, until Perot reentered, tightening the race significantly.[106] Nearing election day, polls suggested that the race was a dead-heat,[12] but Clinton pulled out on top, defeating Bush in a 43% to 38% popular vote margin. Perot won 19% of the popular vote, one of the highest totals for a third party candidate in U.S. history, drawing equally from both major candidates, according to exit polls.[15][107] Bush received 168 electoral votes to Clinton's 370.[108]
Several factors were key in Bush's defeat. The ailing economy which arose from recession may have been the main factor in Bush's loss, as 7 in 10 voters said on election day that the economy was either "not so good" or "poor".[109][110] On the eve of the 1992 election against these factors, Bush's approval rating stood at just 37%[111] after suffering low ratings throughout the year.[112]
Conservative Republicans point to Bush's 1990 agreement to raise taxes in contradiction of his famous "Read my lips: no new taxes" pledge. In doing so, Bush alienated many members of his conservative base, losing their support for his re-election. According to one survey, of the voters who cited Bush's broken "No New Taxes" pledge as "very important", two thirds voted for Bill Clinton.[113] Bush had raised taxes in an attempt to address an increasing budget deficit, which has largely been attributed to the Reagan tax cuts and military spending of the 1980s. The tax revenue increase had not hurt his approval ratings to the extent that it prevented it from reaching 89% during the Gulf War, four months after the tax vote.[114] By February 1991 his approval rating rose to its highest level—89%.[115]
Bush is visiting NAS JRB, New Orleans personnel before receiving briefs on the status of Joint Task Force Katrina relief efforts, October 2005
George Bush was widely seen as a "pragmatic caretaker" president who lacked a unified and compelling long-term theme in his efforts.[116][117][118] Indeed, Bush's sound bite where he refers to the issue of overarching purpose as "the vision thing" has become a metonym applied to other political figures accused of similar difficulties.[119][120][121][122][123][124] "He does not say why he wants to be there", wrote columnist George Will, "so the public does not know why it should care if he gets his way".[125]
His Ivy League and prep school education led to warnings by advisors that his image was too "preppy" in 1980, which resulted in deliberate efforts in his 1988 campaign to shed the image, including meeting voters at factories and shopping malls, abandoning set speeches.[125]
His ability to gain broad international support for the Gulf War and the war's result were seen as both a diplomatic and military triumph,[126] rousing bipartisan approval,[127] though his decision to withdraw without removing Saddam Hussein left mixed feelings, and attention returned to the domestic front and a souring economy.[128] A New York Times article mistakenly depicted Bush as being surprised to see a supermarket barcode reader; the report of his reaction exacerbated the notion that he was "out of touch". Amid the early 1990s recession, his image shifted from "conquering hero" to "politician befuddled by economic matters".[103]
Although Bush became the first elected Republican president since Hoover in 1932 to lose a reelection bid (facing a 34% approval rating leading up to the 1992 election), the mood did not last. Despite his defeat, Bush climbed back from election day approval levels to leave office in 1993 with a 56% job approval rating.[129] By December 2008, 60% of Americans gave Bush's presidency a positive rating.[130]
Upon leaving office, Bush retired with his wife, Barbara, and temporarily moved into a friend's house near the Tanglewood community of Houston as they prepared to build a permanent retirement house nearby.[131] Ultimately they built their retirement house in the community of West Oaks, near Tanglewood.[21] They had a presidential office within the Park Laureate Building on Memorial Drive.[132] Mimi Swartz of National Geographic wrote that "The Bushes are too studiously sedate to live in River Oaks".[133] They spend the summer at Walker's Point in Kennebunkport, Maine. On January 10, 1999, the Bushes became the longest-married Presidential couple in history, outlasting John and Abigail Adams, who were married for 54 years and 3 days. At 68 years as of January 2013,[134] they still hold the record, by a year and a half, over Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter. Bush holds his own fishing tournament in Islamorada, an island in the Florida Keys.[citation needed]
In 1993, Bush was awarded an honorary knighthood (GCB) by Queen Elizabeth II. He was the third American president to receive the honor, the others being Dwight D. Eisenhower and Ronald Reagan.[102]
In 1993, Bush visited Kuwait to commemorate the coalition's victory over Iraq in the Gulf War, where he was targeted in an assassination plot. Kuwaiti authorities arrested 17 people allegedly involved in using a car bomb to kill Bush. Through interviews with the suspects and examinations of the bomb's circuitry and wiring, the FBI established that the plot had been directed by the Iraqi Intelligence Service. A Kuwaiti court later convicted all but one of the defendants. Two months later, in retaliation, Clinton ordered the firing of 23 cruise missiles at Iraqi Intelligence Service headquarters in Baghdad. The day before the strike, U.S. Ambassador to the UN Madeleine Albright went before the Security Council to present evidence of the Iraqi plot. After the missiles were fired, Vice President Al Gore said the attack "was intended to be a proportionate response at the place where this plot" to assassinate Bush "was hatched and implemented".[135]
President Bush is Honorary Chairman of Points of Light, an international nonprofit dedicated to engaging more people and resources in solving serious social problems through voluntary service.[136]
His eldest son, George W. Bush, was inaugurated as the 43rd President of the United States on January 20, 2001, and re-elected in 2004. Through previous administrations, the elder Bush had ubiquitously been known as "George Bush" or "President Bush", but following his son's election the need to distinguish between them has made retronymic forms such as "George H. W. Bush" and "George Bush senior"—and colloquialisms such as "Bush 41" and "Bush the Elder" much more common.
The George Bush Presidential Library is the presidential library named for Bush. This tenth presidential library was built between 1995 and 1997 and contains the presidential and vice-presidential papers of Bush and the vice-presidential papers of Dan Quayle.[137] It was dedicated on November 6, 1997, and opened to the public shortly thereafter; the architectural firm of Hellmuth, Obata and Kassabaum designed the complex.
The George Bush Presidential Library and Museum is located on a 90-acre (360,000 m2) site on the west campus of Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas, on a plaza adjoining the Presidential Conference Center and the Texas A&M Academic Center. The Library operates under NARA's administration and the Presidential Libraries Act of 1955's provisions.
The George Bush School of Government and Public Service is a graduate public policy school at Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas. The graduate school is part of the presidential library complex, and offers four programs: two master's degree programs (Public Service Administration and International Affairs) and two certificate programs (Advanced International Affairs and Homeland Security). The master's program in International Affairs (MPIA) program offers concentration on either National Security Affairs or International Economics and Development.
Bush continues to make many public appearances. He and Mrs. Bush attended the state funeral of Ronald Reagan in June 2004, and of Gerald Ford in January 2007. One month later, he was awarded the Ronald Reagan Freedom Award in Beverly Hills, California, by former First Lady Nancy Reagan. Despite his political differences with Bill Clinton, it has been acknowledged that the two former presidents have become friends.[138] He and Clinton appeared together in television ads in 2005, encouraging aid for victims of Hurricane Katrina and the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami.[139]
In October 2006, Bush was honored by the National Italian American Foundation (NIAF) with the NIAF One America Award for fundraising, with Bill Clinton, for the victims of the 2004 tsunami and Hurricane Katrina.[140]
Upon the death of Gerald Ford, Bush became the oldest living president, 111 days older than Jimmy Carter. Bush and Carter are the fourth pair of Presidents born in the same year, and their birthdays are the third closest among presidents, behind Andrew Johnson and Abraham Lincoln (45 days apart) and Bush's immediate successors, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush (44 days).
On February 18, 2008, Bush formally endorsed Senator John McCain for the presidency of the United States.[141] The endorsement offered a boost to McCain's campaign, as the Arizona Senator had been facing criticism among many conservatives.[142]
On January 10, 2009, both George H. W. and George W. Bush were present at the commissioning of the USS George H.W. Bush (CVN-77), the tenth and last Nimitz-class supercarrier of the United States Navy.[143][144] Bush paid a visit to the carrier again on May 26, 2009.[145]
On February 15, 2011, he was awarded the Medal of Freedom—the highest civilian honor in the United States—by President Barack Obama.[146]
On November 23, 2012, he had a bronchitis-like cough that initially brought him to Methodist Hospital in Houston for treatment. He was supposed to be released before Christmas, but was kept in and over the holiday because he got worse with a high fever. He was moved to the Intensive-care unit on December 23.[147] and after his condition improved, he was moved to a regular patient's room on December 29, 2012.[148] He was discharged on January 14, 2013.[149]
Bush suffers from a form of Parkinson's disease which has forced him to use a motorized scooter or wheelchair since at least 2012.[150][151]
In July 2013, Bush had his head shaved in a show of support for the two-year-old son of a member of his security detail, who had leukemia.[152]
In April 2014, Frederick D. McClure, chief executive of the Bush library foundation, organized a three-day gathering in College Park, TX, to mark the 25th anniversary of the Bush administration. Also in early 2014, the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation presented the Profile in Courage Award to Bush and Mount Vernon awarded him its first Cyrus A. Ansary Prize.[153] The Kennedy foundation award was presented by Jack Schlossberg, the late president's grandson, to Lauren Bush Lauren, who accepted on her grandfather's behalf.[154] The Ansary prize was presented in Houston with Ansary, Barbara Lucas, Ryan C. Crocker, dean of the Bush school since January 2010, Barbara Bush, and Curt Viebranz in attendance with the former president. Fifty thousand dollars of the prize was directed by Bush to the Bush school at Texas A&M and $25,000 will fund an animation about the Siege of Yorktown for Mt. Vernon.[155] Several books about Bush including one by Jon Meacham -- a biography called The Last Gentleman -- and one about the two Bush presidents by Mark K. Updegrove, director of the Lyndon Johnson presidential library, were reportedly also in the works at the time.[153]
Bush, along with George W. Bush, Laura Bush, Bill Clinton, Condoleezza Rice, and Andrew Card pay their respects to Pope John Paul II before the pope's funeral, 2005
George H. W. Bush with son George W. Bush and China's President Hu Jintao in Beijing, People's Republic of China, August 10, 2008
Capt. Kevin E. O'Flaherty, commanding officer of the aircraft carrier USS George H.W. Bush, escorts former President George H. W. Bush, 2009
Barilleaux, Ryan J.; Stuckey, Mary E. (1992). Leadership and the Bush Presidency: Prudence or Drift in an Era of Change. New York: Praeger. ISBN 0-275-94418-2. 
Bush, George H. W. (1999). All the Best, George Bush: My Life in Letters and Other Writings. New York: Scribner. ISBN 0-684-83958-X. 
Bush, George H. W.; Scowcroft, Brent (1998). A World Transformed. New York: Knopf. ISBN 0-679-43248-5. 
Ducat, Stephen J. (2004). The Wimp Factor: Gender Gaps, Holy Wars, and the Politics of Anxious Masculinity. Boston: Beacon Press. ISBN 0-8070-4344-3. 
Duffy, Michael; Goodgame, Dan (1992). Marching in Place : The Status Quo Presidency of George Bush. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-671-73720-1. 
Green, John Robert (2000). The Presidency of George Bush. Lawrence: University Press of Kansas. ISBN 0-7006-0993-8. 
Hyams, Joe (1991). Flight of the Avenger: George Bush at War. San Diego: Harcourt Brace Jovanovic. ISBN 0-15-131469-1. 
Kelley, Kitty (2004). The Family: The True Story of the Bush Dynasty. London: Doubleday. ISBN 0-385-50324-5. 
Podhoretz, John (1993). Hell of a Ride: Backstage at the White House Follies, 1989–1993. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-671-79648-8. 
Tarpley, Webster G.; Chaitkin, Anton (1991, reprinted 2004). George Bush: The Unauthorized Biography. Washington: Executive Intelligence Review. ISBN 0-930852-92-3.  Check date values in: |date= (help)
This audio file was created from a revision of the "George H. W. Bush" article dated 2012-12-17, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help)
Photographs of President George H. W. Bush shaking hands with Philip G. Hoffman at a University of Houston commencement ceremony.
Bush, George H. W. and Jim McGrath. George H. W. Bush Oral History (Directory entry), Houston Oral History Project, July 2009. Houston Public Library Digital Archives.
1982: Silver Anniversary Awards (NCAA) - All Honored Jim Brown, Willie Davis, Jack Kemp, Ron Kramer, Jim Swink
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=George_H._W._Bush&oldid=611463694"					
Categories: George H. W. Bush1924 birthsAmbassadors of the United States to ChinaAmerican businesspeople in the oil industryAmerican people of Scottish descentAmerican EpiscopaliansAmerican aviatorsBush familyAmerican businesspeopleCold War CIA chiefsCold War leadersEli Lilly and CompanyLiving peopleMembers of the United States House of Representatives from TexasPeople from Greenwich, ConnecticutPeople from Midland, TexasPeople from Milton, MassachusettsPeople from York County, MainePermanent Representatives of the United States to the United NationsPhillips Academy alumniPresidents of the United Nations Security CouncilPresidents of the United StatesReagan administration cabinet membersRecipients of the Air MedalRecipients of the Distinguished Flying Cross (United States)Recipients of the Order of the Cross of Terra Mariana, 1st ClassRecipients of the Order of the White LionRepublican National Committee chairmenRepublican Party Presidents of the United StatesRepublican Party Vice Presidents of the United StatesRice University staffShot-down aviatorsTexas RepublicansVice Presidents of the United StatesUnited States Navy pilots of World War IIUnited States presidential candidates, 1980United States presidential candidates, 1988United States presidential candidates, 1992United States vice-presidential candidates, 1980United States vice-presidential candidates, 1984World Golf Hall of Fame inducteesYale Bulldogs baseball players20th-century American writersHonorary Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the BathMilitary People from ConnecticutHidden categories: CS1 errors: datesWikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesUse mdy dates from June 2011All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from October 2012Spoken articlesArticles with hAudio microformatsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2012Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersGood articles 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
George Bush brought to the White House a dedication to traditional American values and a determination to direct them toward making the United States "a kinder and gentler nation." In his Inaugural Address he pledged in "a moment rich with promise" to use American strength as "a force for good."
Coming from a family with a tradition of public service, George Herbert Walker Bush felt the responsibility to make his contribution both in time of war and in peace. Born in Milton, Massachusetts, on June 12, 1924, he became a student leader at Phillips Academy in Andover. On his 18th birthday he enlisted in the armed forces. The youngest pilot in the Navy when he received his wings, he flew 58 combat missions during World War II. On one mission over the Pacific as a torpedo bomber pilot he was shot down by Japanese antiaircraft fire and was rescued from the water by a U. S. submarine. He was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for bravery in action.
Bush next turned his energies toward completing his education and raising a family. In January 1945 he married Barbara Pierce. They had six children-- George, Robin (who died as a child), John (known as Jeb), Neil, Marvin, and Dorothy.
At Yale University he excelled both in sports and in his studies; he was captain of the baseball team and a member of Phi Beta Kappa. After graduation Bush embarked on a career in the oil industry of West Texas.
Like his father, Prescott Bush, who was elected a Senator from Connecticut in 1952, George became interested in public service and politics. He served two terms as a Representative to Congress from Texas. Twice he ran unsuccessfully for the Senate. Then he was appointed to a series of high-level positions: Ambassador to the United Nations, Chairman of the Republican National Committee, Chief of the U. S. Liaison Office in the People's Republic of China, and Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
In 1980 Bush campaigned for the Republican nomination for President. He lost, but was chosen as a running mate by Ronald Reagan. As Vice President, Bush had responsibility in several domestic areas, including Federal deregulation and anti-drug programs, and visited scores of foreign countries. In 1988 Bush won the Republican nomination for President and, with Senator Dan Quayle of Indiana as his running mate, he defeated Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis in the general election.
Bush faced a dramatically changing world, as the Cold War ended after 40 bitter years, the Communist empire broke up, and the Berlin Wall fell. The Soviet Union ceased to exist; and reformist President Mikhail Gorbachev, whom Bush had supported, resigned. While Bush hailed the march of democracy, he insisted on restraint in U. S. policy toward the group of new nations.
In other areas of foreign policy, President Bush sent American troops into Panama to overthrow the corrupt regime of General Manuel Noriega, who was threatening the security of the canal and the Americans living there. Noriega was brought to the United States for trial as a drug trafficker.
Bush's greatest test came when Iraqi President Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait, then threatened to move into Saudi Arabia. Vowing to free Kuwait, Bush rallied the United Nations, the U. S. people, and Congress and sent 425,000 American troops. They were joined by 118,000 troops from allied nations. After weeks of air and missile bombardment, the 100-hour land battle dubbed Desert Storm routed Iraq's million-man army.
Despite unprecedented popularity from this military and diplomatic triumph, Bush was unable to withstand discontent at home from a faltering economy, rising violence in inner cities, and continued high deficit spending. In 1992 he lost his bid for reelection to Democrat William Clinton.
The Presidential biographies on WhiteHouse.gov are from “The Presidents of the United States of America,” by Frank Freidel and Hugh Sidey. Copyright 2006 by the White House Historical Association.
			President Barack Obama awarded George H.W. Bush the 2010 Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor, for his commitment to service and ability to inspire volunteerism throughout the country, encouraging citizens to be “a thousand points of light.” The administration continues to promote service and civic engagement, honoring heroes of local communities as “Champions of Change” and fostering civic participation.
background: url(http://www.whitehouse.gov/files/images/tout/feedback_tout_long.png) no-repeat 0px 0px;
=======================================================
George Herbert Walker Bush was born in Milton, Massachusetts and raised in Greenwich, Connecticut, an affluent suburb of New York City.  His father, Prescott Bush, was managing partner of the international investment banking house of Brown Brothers, Harriman and Company. The senior Bush later entered Republican politics and served as United States Senator from Connecticut from 1962 to 1972.
In Greenwich, George Bush attended Greenwich Country Day School before entering Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts.  At Andover, he played varsity baseball, was captain of the basketball and soccer teams, and president of the senior class.
When George Bush graduated from Andover, he had already been admitted to Yale University, but the United States had entered World War II, and he enlisted in the U.S. Navy Reserve instead. At age 18, he became the youngest pilot in the Navy. During the war, he was shot down in combat over the Pacific and earned the Distinguished Flying Cross.
A few months before the end of the war, while on rotation home, he married Barbara Pierce, whose father published the magazines Redbook   and McCall's.  After the war, Bush entered Yale, where in only three years he earned a B.A. in economics and a Phi Beta Kappa key.
Although he was offered a job at his father's firm, Brown Brothers, Harriman and Company, Bush moved, with his wife and infant son, to West Texas, where he worked for Dresser Industries, an oilfield supply company. He started at the bottom, sweeping warehouses and painting machinery, but soon became a salesman of drilling bits.
By 1950, he had gone into business for himself, forming the Bush-Overbey Company with partner John Overbey in Midland, Texas.  This company, which dealt in oil and gas properties, grew and took on more partners. In 1954, George Bush co-founded and became the president of Zapata Offshore Company.
Having earned a fortune of his own, Bush became active in Republican Party politics. By 1964, he become chairman of the Republican Party of Harris County.  That same year, he ran for the U.S. Senate, but was defeated in the Democratic landslide that returned Lyndon Johnson to the White House.
Bush had better luck in the election of 1966, when he became the first Republican ever to represent Houston in Congress.  Bush was easily re-elected in 1968. By 1970 he was ready to try for the Senate again, but was defeated by Lloyd Bentsen.
Presidents Nixon and Ford selected Bush for a series of high-profile appointments: Ambassador to the United Nations in 1971, Chairman of the Republican National Committee in 1973, envoy to China in 1974 and Director of Central Intelligence in 1976. When Jimmy Carter was elected President in 1976, he appointed a new Director and George Bush returned to private life.
In 1980, Bush made his own run for the Presidency. In early primaries that year, George Bush made a strong showing, but by the time the Republicans met for their convention in Detroit, it was clear that Ronald Reagan would be the nominee, and George Bush had dropped out of the race.  Many Republicans were surprised when Reagan selected Bush as his running mate.  At the time, they were considered leaders of opposite wings of the Party, Reagan a conservative and Bush a moderate, but Bush campaigned effectively for the ticket.  The pair won handily and were re-elected by a landslide in 1984.
George Bush sought the Presidency again in 1988, and won the Republican nomination over a large field of candidates.  His election that November was a decisive one, though not the landslide he and Reagan had enjoyed in 1984.
The two proudest accomplishments of Bush's presidency were the passage of the landmark Americans With Disabilities Act (the ADA) and the successful prosecution of the war to liberate Kuwait from Iraqi occupation. This effort saw the U.S. leading a grand coalition, including Arab countries which had long distrusted the United States.  This experience of cooperation led to a renewal of the stalled Mideast peace process.
A sluggish economy undermined President Bush's chances for re-election in 1992. The third-party candidacy of businessman H. Ross Perot, Jr. split off a fragment of the Reagan-Bush electoral coalition, and President Bush was defeated by the Democratic candidate, Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton. After leaving office, George Bush avoided criticizing his successor, and lent his support to the controversial North American Free Trade Agreement, which was initially drafted during his own administration.
After being defeated for re-election in 1992, George Bush had the pleasure of seeing two of his sons achieve high office. George W. Bush was elected Governor of Texas in 1994, and Jeb Bush won election as Governor of Florida in 1998, but the political achievements of the Bush family did not end there. Only once before in U.S. history had the son of a former U.S. president succeeded to the presidency. The second President of the United States, John Adams, was not well enough to travel to Washington for his son John Quincy Adams's inaugural in 1825. But in 2001, former President George H.W. Bush was still in vigorous good health, and sat proudly by as his son, George W. Bush, was sworn in as 43rd President of the United States.
The elder President Bush surprised almost everyone when he fulfilled an old ambition and parachuted from an airplane for the first time since his wartime service. He was 72 years old at the time, and has repeated the feat to celebrate his 75th, 80th and 85th birthdays. On his 80th birthday, he parachuted -- not once, but twice -- onto the grounds of his presidential library.  
During his son's presidency, George H.W. Bush forged a highly visible partnership with a one-time political rival, former President Clinton, joining forces to mobilize international support for disaster relief after the 2005 tsunami in Indonesia. In 2011, President Barack Obama recognized George Herbert Walker Bush's lifetime of service, awarding him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, in a ceremony at the White House.
Sponsors | Privacy Policy | Technical Questions | Editorial Questions | Usage Policy | Directors & Staff | Site Map  | RSS Feeds 
=======================================================
The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.
6/02 “Leadership in American Politics”	Jeffery A. Jenkins.  9:30AM 5/09 “2014 National Fellowship Conference”	The annual spring conference brings the fellows together with their mentors to present the fruits of their fellowship year.  9:15AM 5/07 “Stokely Carmichael and the Freedom Summer That Changed History”	Peniel E. Joseph.  11:00AM 5/02 “The Life of the Law”	A Symposium Commemorating the 50th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  9:00AM 
↑ George H. W. Bush Front PageA Life in BriefLife Before the PresidencyCampaigns and ElectionsDomestic AffairsForeign AffairsLife After the PresidencyFamily LifeImpact and LegacyView All PagesLife Before the PresidencyGeorge Herbert Walker Bush was born in Milton, Massachusetts, on June 12, 1924. His parents, Prescott Sheldon Bush and Dorothy Walker Bush, moved the family to Greenwich, Connecticut, when George was a young boy. His family was wealthy but his parents raised their children to be modest, stressing the importance of public service and giving back to society. An investment banker, Prescott Bush later became a Republican senator from Connecticut, serving from 1952 until 1963.
Bush left home as a teenager to attend Phillips Academy Andover, an exclusive boarding school in Massachusetts. At Andover, Bush was captain of the baseball and soccer teams, and the senior class president. He graduated on his eighteenth birthday in 1942. That same day, he enlisted in the United States Navy.
He served in the Navy during World War II from 1942 until September 1945. When he became a pilot in July 1943, he was the youngest pilot in the Navy. He flew torpedo bombers in the Pacific theater and went on fifty-eight combat missions during the war. On September 2, 1944, while flying a mission to bomb an enemy radio site, his plane was shot down by Japanese fire; Bush bailed out over the ocean. He was rescued by a submarine a short time later and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for heroism under fire.
While still in the Navy, Bush married Barbara Pierce on January 6, 1945, in Rye, New York. He met her in 1941 during the Christmas holidays at a country club dance in Greenwich. They went on to have six children: George Walker (1946- ); Robin, who was born in 1949 and died in 1953 of leukemia; John Ellis "Jeb" (1953- ); Neil (1955- ); Marvin (1956- ); and Dorothy "Doro" (1959- ). 
Bush was discharged from the Navy in September 1945 and enrolled at Yale University. He was part of a surge of World War II veterans who flooded colleges and universities after the war. He completed an undergraduate degree in economics on an accelerated program that allowed him to graduate by 1948. At Yale, he was active and involved on campus, playing baseball and eventually becoming captain of the team. He was also a member of the Skull and Bones society, an exclusive secret society on campus.
After graduation, Bush chose to go out on his own. Rather than stay in the Northeast, Bush moved with his wife and young son to Midland, Texas, where he began working in the oil industry as a salesperson for Dresser Industries, which was owned by an old family friend. In 1950, Bush and a friend formed an oil development company in Midland. Three years later, they merged with another company to create Zapata Petroleum. In 1954, Bush became president of a subsidiary, Zapata Off-Shore Company, which developed offshore drilling equipment. He soon relocated the company and his family to Houston, Texas.
Bush began his political career when he became the Republican Party chairman in Harris County, Texas. He developed grassroots connections as chairman and worked hard to strengthen his image as a conservative. Bush had always been good with people, and as chairman he was able to cultivate relationships in the Republican Party that helped him throughout his political career. In 1964, Bush ran for a U.S. Senate seat against incumbent Democratic Senator Ralph Yarborough. Bush ran a hard campaign but struggled against charges of being a carpetbagger from the North. He also faced an uphill battle running as a Republican in Texas because of the strength of the local Democratic Party. In November, Democrat Lyndon Johnson of Texas was overwhelmingly elected President, and Yarborough defeated Bush by a margin of 1,463,958 to 1,134,337.
In 1966, Bush ran for a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives from Houston's Seventh district. Running as a moderate Republican, he won the election with more than fifty percent of the vote. He was reelected in 1968. In Congress, Bush gained a seat on the coveted Ways and Means Committee, which was rare for a freshman congressman. He supported the Vietnam War and voted for parts of President Johnson's Great Society program, including the Civil Rights Bill of 1968 to outlaw discrimination in housing, a courageous vote for a congressman from Texas.
After serving two terms in the House, Bush eyed another run for the Senate in 1970. Ralph Yarborough, who had defeated Bush in 1964, was a liberal Democrat from Texas at a time when the state was becoming increasingly conservative. Bush believed that he could defeat Yarborough in the 1970 election. But Yarborough did not win the Democratic primary. Instead, Bush ran against Lloyd Bentsen, a conservative Democrat. Since the Democratic Party was still very strong in Texas and Bush and Bentsen did not differ greatly on the issues, Bush again lost the election. 
In December 1970, President Richard Nixon nominated Bush as the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. Critics opposed the nomination because Bush lacked foreign policy experience but the Senate confirmed him. Bush was not part of the Nixon administration's inner circle, which undercut his effectiveness at the United Nations. Nonetheless, he used his tenure to continue to make influential friends within the U.S. government and throughout the foreign policy establishment. The ambassador relished his person-to-person contacts with foreign envoys and began assembling his legendary rolodex that would serve him well in the years to come.
President Nixon removed Bush from the United Nations in 1973 and asked him to serve instead as chairman of the Republican National Committee (RNC). The administration turned to Bush to head the RNC because of his reputation for respectability and integrity. During the Watergate scandal, Bush was a tireless supporter of President Nixon until the release of the White House tapes. Bush then informed the President that he had lost the support of the Republican Party. After listening to key Republican congressional leaders who told him that he would be impeached by the House and convicted by the Senate, Nixon resigned the presidency in August 1974.
Bush stepped down as head of the RNC after Gerald Ford became President. The new President appointed Bush as the U.S. envoy to the People's Republic of China. Because the United States did not yet have full diplomatic relations with China, Bush served as chief of the U.S. Liaison's Office instead of as ambassador. China offered the Bushes a respite from Washington, but they stayed only two years. They returned to the United States in 1975 when President Ford asked Bush to serve as the new director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). The CIA was emerging from a controversial period in its history and needed a strong, effective leader to improve morale and reform the agency. By most accounts, Bush was a popular director and able administrator. After Ford lost the 1976 presidential election to Jimmy Carter, Bush offered to stay on as director of the CIA but Carter declined his offer. The Bushes left Washington, D.C., and returned to Houston.
Bush rejoined the corporate world back in Houston and started planning for the 1980 presidential campaign soon after he returned. He began with reestablishing his Texas contacts and fundraising. On May 1, 1979, Bush announced his candidacy for the Republican nomination for President.
During the Republican primaries in the 1980 campaign, the conservative wing of the party was drawn to Ronald Reagan, the former actor and governor of California. Bush was considered more moderate and less dogmatic than Reagan, who was anointed as the frontrunner early on. The other Republican candidates included Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, Representative John Anderson of Illinois, Senator Howard Baker of Tennessee, Representative Philip Crane of Illinois, and John Connally, former governor of Texas.
Bush surprised most observers when he won the Iowa caucus. He campaigned throughout the state with great determination and energy, and raised concerns about Reagan's economic plan to lower taxes and increase military spending while balancing the federal budget. Bush derisively labeled Reagan's plan "voodoo economics".
Once the campaign turned to New Hampshire, Bush became embroiled in an incident that has become part of the lore of American political history. The Telegraph newspaper in Nashua proposed a debate between just Reagan and Bush. When Senator Dole complained about his exclusion, Reagan's campaign agreed to fund the debate and invited the other candidates, unbeknownst to Bush. Bush was caught by surprise when he arrived at the debate and saw the other candidates on the stage with Reagan. As the candidates argued about the debate's format, the moderator of the debate ordered Reagan's microphone turned off, and Reagan responded, "I paid for this microphone!" The incident seemed to highlight Reagan's strength and stature and reflected badly on Bush, who seemed bewildered.
After Bush lost to Reagan in New Hampshire, he was no match for the Reagan juggernaut. Reagan clinched the nomination and moved to consolidate the Republican Party behind a popular ticket., Reagan initially considered selecting former President Gerald Ford as his running mate in a "co-presidency" arrangement, but that unusual proposal went nowhere. Ultimately, Bush emerged as the consensus choice for the second spot, in part due to his appeal to the more moderate wing of the party. After accepting Reagan's offer, Bush was criticized by some for changing his previous positions on issues such as abortion and the economy to become more consistent with Reagan's conservative views.
Bush worked hard during the campaign of 1980, traveling throughout the country promoting the Reagan-Bush ticket and attacking their Democratic opponents, incumbent President Jimmy Carter and Vice President Walter Mondale. On election day, Reagan and Bush won the election with 51 percent of the vote, and Reagan won 489 Electoral College votes to Carter's 49. As an added bonus, the Republican Party took control of the United States Senate for the first time since 1954. The Reagan-Bush ticket swept into the White House with a mandate for changing the direction of the country. Many conservative Republicans touted the "Reagan Revolution" as an opportunity to limit government intrusion into the lives of Americans, reduce taxes, and turn the country toward more traditional social values, such as supporting prayer in school and opposing abortion.
As vice president, Bush worked hard to win the trust of Reagan's advisers in the administration by proving his loyalty and devotion to the President. Reagan loyalists were suspicious of Bush's New England upbringing and his upper-class background, which stood in stark contrast with Reagan's humble beginnings and his ability to connect with the average American. They also suspected that Bush was too moderate and not a true devotee of Reagan's conservatism. However, Reagan and Bush seemed to grow genuinely fond of each other during their two terms in office. They met for lunch on a weekly basis and enjoyed each other's company, although according to some reports the Bushes resented the fact that they were never invited as guests to the President's private quarters.
Bush chaired a number of task forces for the administration, including one on regulatory reform and one on drugs and drug smuggling. He traveled widely as vice president and frequently represented the administration in international affairs, making many contacts that would become useful when he became President. The vice president was often involved in the administration's foreign policy discussions and occasionally influenced its decisions.
However, his ties to the administration's foreign policy almost damaged his career irreversibly. In November 1986, the Iran-Contra affair broke. The scandal involved the administration selling arms to Iran to free hostages held by a terrorist organization in Lebanon and then using some of the money from the arms sales to buy weapons for the Contras, a rebel group fighting against the Sandinista government in Nicaragua. Selling arms to Iran violated U.S. policy, and buying weapons for the Contras was against the law. A number of officials in Reagan's administration resigned over the scandal. Bush was hit hard by speculation of his involvement in the whole affair. Did he knowingly support the plan? Or was he "out of the loop" as he claimed? Although questions still remain about the Iran-Contra affair, most sources believe that Bush was neither involved in crafting the policy nor knowledgeable about its implementation.
=======================================================
The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.
6/02 “Leadership in American Politics”	Jeffery A. Jenkins.  9:30AM 5/09 “2014 National Fellowship Conference”	The annual spring conference brings the fellows together with their mentors to present the fruits of their fellowship year.  9:15AM 5/07 “Stokely Carmichael and the Freedom Summer That Changed History”	Peniel E. Joseph.  11:00AM 5/02 “The Life of the Law”	A Symposium Commemorating the 50th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  9:00AM 
On October 14th, the Miller Center opened its Oral History project on President Bush. Explore the interviews of James Baker III, Dick Cheney, Dan Quayle, Brent Scowcroft, John Sununu, Dick Thornburgh and many more. 
A Life in BriefLife Before the PresidencyCampaigns and ElectionsDomestic AffairsForeign AffairsLife After the PresidencyFamily LifeImpact and LegacyKey EventsFirst Lady
Barbara BushVice PresidentJ. Danforth QuayleSecretary of StateJames A. Baker (1989–1992)Lawrence Eagleburger (1992–1993)Secretary of DefenseRichard B. Cheney (1989–1993)Secretary of the InteriorManuel Lujan (1989–1993)Secretary of CommerceRobert A. Mosbacher (1989–1992)Barbara Hackman Franklin (1992–1993)Secretary of LaborElizabeth Hanford Dole (1989–1991)Lynn Martin (1991–1993)Secretary of TransportationSamuel Knox Skinner (1989–1992)Andrew Card Jr. (1992–1993)Secretary of EducationLauro F. Cavazos Jr. (1989–1991)Lamar Alexander (1991–1993)Secretary of the TreasuryNicholas F. Brady (1989–1993)Attorney GeneralRichard L. Thornburgh (1989–1991)William P. Barr (1991–1993)Secretary of AgricultureClayton K. Yeutter (1989–1991)Edward Madigan (1991–1993)Secretary of Health and Human ServicesLouis Wade Sullivan (1989–1993)Secretary of Housing and Urban DevelopmentJack French Kemp (1989–1993)Secretary of EnergyJames D. Watkins (1989–1993)Secretary of Veterans' AffairsEdward J. Derwinski (1989–1992) 
=======================================================
The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.
6/02 “Leadership in American Politics”	Jeffery A. Jenkins.  9:30AM 5/09 “2014 National Fellowship Conference”	The annual spring conference brings the fellows together with their mentors to present the fruits of their fellowship year.  9:15AM 5/07 “Stokely Carmichael and the Freedom Summer That Changed History”	Peniel E. Joseph.  11:00AM 5/02 “The Life of the Law”	A Symposium Commemorating the 50th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  9:00AM 
↑ George H. W. Bush Front PageGeorge H. W. BushGeorge Herbert Walker Bush belongs to a political dynasty; he sits in the middle of three generations of politicians, including his father Prescott, a senator from Connecticut; his son Jeb, former governor of Florida; and his son, George Walker, the 43rd President of the United States. In fact, George H. W. and George W. are only the second set of father and son to become President. (John Adams and John Quincy Adams were the first.)
Bush was born and raised in New England in a wealthy family. His parents valued hard work and public service and were strong influences in his life. He was educated at Phillips Academy Andover before joining the U.S. Navy and becoming a pilot, the youngest in the Navy, during World War II. After he left the Navy, he attended Yale University and received a degree in economics.
Bush decided to head out on his own after college and moved his young family to Texas, where he began to work in the oil business. He eventually relocated to Houston, Texas, and became involved in Republican Party politics, first serving as party chairman in Harris County, Texas, and then serving two terms in the U.S. House of Representatives from Houston's Seventh District.
After losing an election for a U.S. Senate seat in 1970, Bush was appointed the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations by President Richard Nixon. He went on to hold a number of positions within the presidential administrations of Nixon and Gerald Ford, including chairman of the Republican National Committee, U.S. envoy to China, and director of Central Intelligence. Bush thrived in the DCI position, and he made it clear to the incoming President, Jimmy Carter, that he would like to remain as director. Carter chose to replace him with his own nominee, so Bush reluctantly returned to Houston.
In the 1980 Republican presidential primaries, Bush ran as a moderate candidate with years of experience. However, he was quickly overwhelmed by Ronald Reagan, the former governor of California. Reagan asked Bush to be his vice president to help attract moderates and bring foreign policy experience to the ticket. The Reagan-Bush ticket won handily in both 1980 and 1984. As vice president, Bush continued to expand his foreign policy experience and traveled widely. He also became good friends with President Reagan, although he never became a close political confidant. Bush was somewhat awestruck by Reagan's political skills, and according to some observers, was mystified by the latter's hold on the public imagination.
In the 1988 presidential election, Bush's candidacy offered a continuation of the Reagan years. He wanted to soften some of Reagan's programs and promised "a kinder and gentler nation" but he did not advocate radical change or propose sweeping new legislation. Bush was the first President since Martin Van Buren to move directly from the vice presidency to the presidency through his own election, although oddly the transition was a strained one. A number of people from the Reagan administration later commented on the poor treatment they felt they had received from the incoming Bush team. Bush was sworn in as President on January 20, 1989, and with a strong team of foreign policy advisers, he helped the United States navigate the end of the Cold War and a new era in U.S.-Soviet relations. He also led an international coalition of countries which successfully forced Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait in the Persian Gulf War. Despite these successes, Bush lost reelection in 1992 when the American people, concerned about the economy, voted for change.
George Herbert Walker Bush was born in Milton, Massachusetts, on June 12, 1924. His parents, Prescott Sheldon Bush and Dorothy Walker Bush, moved the family to Greenwich, Connecticut, when George was a young boy. His family was wealthy but his parents raised their children to be modest, stressing the importance of public service and giving back to society. An investment banker, Prescott Bush later became a Republican senator from Connecticut, serving from 1952 until 1963.
Bush left home as a teenager to attend Phillips Academy Andover, an exclusive boarding school in Massachusetts. At Andover, Bush was captain of the baseball and soccer teams, and the senior class president. He graduated on his eighteenth birthday in 1942. That same day, he enlisted in the United States Navy.
He served in the Navy during World War II from 1942 until September 1945. When he became a pilot in July 1943, he was the youngest pilot in the Navy. He flew torpedo bombers in the Pacific theater and went on fifty-eight combat missions during the war. On September 2, 1944, while flying a mission to bomb an enemy radio site, his plane was shot down by Japanese fire; Bush bailed out over the ocean. He was rescued by a submarine a short time later and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for heroism under fire.
While still in the Navy, Bush married Barbara Pierce on January 6, 1945, in Rye, New York. He met her in 1941 during the Christmas holidays at a country club dance in Greenwich. They went on to have six children: George Walker (1946- ); Robin, who was born in 1949 and died in 1953 of leukemia; John Ellis "Jeb" (1953- ); Neil (1955- ); Marvin (1956- ); and Dorothy "Doro" (1959- ). 
Bush was discharged from the Navy in September 1945 and enrolled at Yale University. He was part of a surge of World War II veterans who flooded colleges and universities after the war. He completed an undergraduate degree in economics on an accelerated program that allowed him to graduate by 1948. At Yale, he was active and involved on campus, playing baseball and eventually becoming captain of the team. He was also a member of the Skull and Bones society, an exclusive secret society on campus.
After graduation, Bush chose to go out on his own. Rather than stay in the Northeast, Bush moved with his wife and young son to Midland, Texas, where he began working in the oil industry as a salesperson for Dresser Industries, which was owned by an old family friend. In 1950, Bush and a friend formed an oil development company in Midland. Three years later, they merged with another company to create Zapata Petroleum. In 1954, Bush became president of a subsidiary, Zapata Off-Shore Company, which developed offshore drilling equipment. He soon relocated the company and his family to Houston, Texas.
Bush began his political career when he became the Republican Party chairman in Harris County, Texas. He developed grassroots connections as chairman and worked hard to strengthen his image as a conservative. Bush had always been good with people, and as chairman he was able to cultivate relationships in the Republican Party that helped him throughout his political career. In 1964, Bush ran for a U.S. Senate seat against incumbent Democratic Senator Ralph Yarborough. Bush ran a hard campaign but struggled against charges of being a carpetbagger from the North. He also faced an uphill battle running as a Republican in Texas because of the strength of the local Democratic Party. In November, Democrat Lyndon Johnson of Texas was overwhelmingly elected President, and Yarborough defeated Bush by a margin of 1,463,958 to 1,134,337.
In 1966, Bush ran for a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives from Houston's Seventh district. Running as a moderate Republican, he won the election with more than fifty percent of the vote. He was reelected in 1968. In Congress, Bush gained a seat on the coveted Ways and Means Committee, which was rare for a freshman congressman. He supported the Vietnam War and voted for parts of President Johnson's Great Society program, including the Civil Rights Bill of 1968 to outlaw discrimination in housing, a courageous vote for a congressman from Texas.
After serving two terms in the House, Bush eyed another run for the Senate in 1970. Ralph Yarborough, who had defeated Bush in 1964, was a liberal Democrat from Texas at a time when the state was becoming increasingly conservative. Bush believed that he could defeat Yarborough in the 1970 election. But Yarborough did not win the Democratic primary. Instead, Bush ran against Lloyd Bentsen, a conservative Democrat. Since the Democratic Party was still very strong in Texas and Bush and Bentsen did not differ greatly on the issues, Bush again lost the election. 
In December 1970, President Richard Nixon nominated Bush as the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. Critics opposed the nomination because Bush lacked foreign policy experience but the Senate confirmed him. Bush was not part of the Nixon administration's inner circle, which undercut his effectiveness at the United Nations. Nonetheless, he used his tenure to continue to make influential friends within the U.S. government and throughout the foreign policy establishment. The ambassador relished his person-to-person contacts with foreign envoys and began assembling his legendary rolodex that would serve him well in the years to come.
President Nixon removed Bush from the United Nations in 1973 and asked him to serve instead as chairman of the Republican National Committee (RNC). The administration turned to Bush to head the RNC because of his reputation for respectability and integrity. During the Watergate scandal, Bush was a tireless supporter of President Nixon until the release of the White House tapes. Bush then informed the President that he had lost the support of the Republican Party. After listening to key Republican congressional leaders who told him that he would be impeached by the House and convicted by the Senate, Nixon resigned the presidency in August 1974.
Bush stepped down as head of the RNC after Gerald Ford became President. The new President appointed Bush as the U.S. envoy to the People's Republic of China. Because the United States did not yet have full diplomatic relations with China, Bush served as chief of the U.S. Liaison's Office instead of as ambassador. China offered the Bushes a respite from Washington, but they stayed only two years. They returned to the United States in 1975 when President Ford asked Bush to serve as the new director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). The CIA was emerging from a controversial period in its history and needed a strong, effective leader to improve morale and reform the agency. By most accounts, Bush was a popular director and able administrator. After Ford lost the 1976 presidential election to Jimmy Carter, Bush offered to stay on as director of the CIA but Carter declined his offer. The Bushes left Washington, D.C., and returned to Houston.
Bush rejoined the corporate world back in Houston and started planning for the 1980 presidential campaign soon after he returned. He began with reestablishing his Texas contacts and fundraising. On May 1, 1979, Bush announced his candidacy for the Republican nomination for President.
During the Republican primaries in the 1980 campaign, the conservative wing of the party was drawn to Ronald Reagan, the former actor and governor of California. Bush was considered more moderate and less dogmatic than Reagan, who was anointed as the frontrunner early on. The other Republican candidates included Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, Representative John Anderson of Illinois, Senator Howard Baker of Tennessee, Representative Philip Crane of Illinois, and John Connally, former governor of Texas.
Bush surprised most observers when he won the Iowa caucus. He campaigned throughout the state with great determination and energy, and raised concerns about Reagan's economic plan to lower taxes and increase military spending while balancing the federal budget. Bush derisively labeled Reagan's plan "voodoo economics".
Once the campaign turned to New Hampshire, Bush became embroiled in an incident that has become part of the lore of American political history. The Telegraph newspaper in Nashua proposed a debate between just Reagan and Bush. When Senator Dole complained about his exclusion, Reagan's campaign agreed to fund the debate and invited the other candidates, unbeknownst to Bush. Bush was caught by surprise when he arrived at the debate and saw the other candidates on the stage with Reagan. As the candidates argued about the debate's format, the moderator of the debate ordered Reagan's microphone turned off, and Reagan responded, "I paid for this microphone!" The incident seemed to highlight Reagan's strength and stature and reflected badly on Bush, who seemed bewildered.
After Bush lost to Reagan in New Hampshire, he was no match for the Reagan juggernaut. Reagan clinched the nomination and moved to consolidate the Republican Party behind a popular ticket., Reagan initially considered selecting former President Gerald Ford as his running mate in a "co-presidency" arrangement, but that unusual proposal went nowhere. Ultimately, Bush emerged as the consensus choice for the second spot, in part due to his appeal to the more moderate wing of the party. After accepting Reagan's offer, Bush was criticized by some for changing his previous positions on issues such as abortion and the economy to become more consistent with Reagan's conservative views.
Bush worked hard during the campaign of 1980, traveling throughout the country promoting the Reagan-Bush ticket and attacking their Democratic opponents, incumbent President Jimmy Carter and Vice President Walter Mondale. On election day, Reagan and Bush won the election with 51 percent of the vote, and Reagan won 489 Electoral College votes to Carter's 49. As an added bonus, the Republican Party took control of the United States Senate for the first time since 1954. The Reagan-Bush ticket swept into the White House with a mandate for changing the direction of the country. Many conservative Republicans touted the "Reagan Revolution" as an opportunity to limit government intrusion into the lives of Americans, reduce taxes, and turn the country toward more traditional social values, such as supporting prayer in school and opposing abortion.
As vice president, Bush worked hard to win the trust of Reagan's advisers in the administration by proving his loyalty and devotion to the President. Reagan loyalists were suspicious of Bush's New England upbringing and his upper-class background, which stood in stark contrast with Reagan's humble beginnings and his ability to connect with the average American. They also suspected that Bush was too moderate and not a true devotee of Reagan's conservatism. However, Reagan and Bush seemed to grow genuinely fond of each other during their two terms in office. They met for lunch on a weekly basis and enjoyed each other's company, although according to some reports the Bushes resented the fact that they were never invited as guests to the President's private quarters.
Bush chaired a number of task forces for the administration, including one on regulatory reform and one on drugs and drug smuggling. He traveled widely as vice president and frequently represented the administration in international affairs, making many contacts that would become useful when he became President. The vice president was often involved in the administration's foreign policy discussions and occasionally influenced its decisions.
However, his ties to the administration's foreign policy almost damaged his career irreversibly. In November 1986, the Iran-Contra affair broke. The scandal involved the administration selling arms to Iran to free hostages held by a terrorist organization in Lebanon and then using some of the money from the arms sales to buy weapons for the Contras, a rebel group fighting against the Sandinista government in Nicaragua. Selling arms to Iran violated U.S. policy, and buying weapons for the Contras was against the law. A number of officials in Reagan's administration resigned over the scandal. Bush was hit hard by speculation of his involvement in the whole affair. Did he knowingly support the plan? Or was he "out of the loop" as he claimed? Although questions still remain about the Iran-Contra affair, most sources believe that Bush was neither involved in crafting the policy nor knowledgeable about its implementation.
On October 13, 1987, George H. W. Bush announced his candidacy for the Republican nomination for President. He faced three main opponents for the nomination—Senator Robert Dole of Kansas; Pat Robertson, an evangelical leader; and Representative Jack Kemp from New York. Bush stressed his service as vice president in the Reagan administration, his government experience, and his commitment to continuity. To run his campaign, Bush depended on two allies: James Baker, an old friend from Texas who had served as Reagan's chief of staff and as secretary of the Treasury; and Lee Atwater, a hard-hitting political consultant.
 Acceptance Speech at the Republican National Convention (August 18, 1988) Presidential Speech Archive
Bush lost the Iowa caucus badly, finishing third behind Dole and Robertson. Bush had long struggled with an image of being soft or "wimpy," and not tough enough to get down and dirty in the trenches of electoral politics. The campaign of 1988, however, disproved that perception. After Iowa, Bush came back to run a strong campaign and hit his opponents hard. He won the New Hampshire primary and then went on to dominate the Super Tuesday races.
The Republican National Convention was held in New Orleans, Louisiana, in August 1988. After Bush clinched the nomination, he began to consider his choice for vice president. Eventually, he selected Dan Quayle, the junior senator from Indiana. Bush was attracted to Quayle because of his youth and his conservative credentials. He was more conservative than Bush, and some advisers thought that he would appeal to the conservative base of the party as well as to women voters. However, Quayle became a controversial choice and a problematic running mate because many considered him too young and inexperienced to be vice president.
In his acceptance speech at the convention, Bush stressed the successes of the Reagan years and his ability to continue to build on them. He pointed to his military service in World War II and his years of public service. He pledged to round out some of the harsher edges of the previous administration, stating that he wanted "a kinder and gentler nation." And famously, he promised not to raise taxes: "Read my lips: no new taxes."
The Bush team launched an aggressive campaign against Democratic nominee Michael Dukakis and running mate Lloyd Bentsen. The Bush campaign went after Dukakis, who was the governor of Massachusetts, as extremely liberal and out of touch with most Americans. Bush accused Dukakis of being "a card-carrying member of the ACLU (the American Civil Liberties Union)." In one of the most famous incidents in the campaign, the Bush team accused Dukakis of being soft on crime by allowing prisoners serving life sentences to have furloughs away from prison; one such felon, Willie Horton, attacked a couple while out on furlough. Supporters of Bush created a television advertisement that featured men walking through a revolving door to illustrate the Massachusetts furlough program. The Willie Horton advertisement became synonymous with negative campaign attacks.
Because Bush was campaigning to continue the Reagan legacy, he did not propose radical changes. He opposed flag burning and abortion, supported free trade and community volunteerism, and wanted to be remembered as the education President. Bush and Dukakis debated twice before election day, and Dan Quayle had one debate against Lloyd Bentsen. It was during this debate that Bentsen eviscerated Quayle after the latter argued that his youth and experience was comparable to that of President Kennedy. Bentsen retorted, "Senator, I served with Jack Kennedy: I knew Jack Kennedy; Jack Kennedy was a friend of mine. Senator, you're no Jack Kennedy."
Nonetheless, on election day, the electorate supported staying the course, and the Bush-Quayle ticket won the election with 53 percent of the vote and 426 Electoral College votes. Although Bush won the election, the Democratic Party gained seats in both houses of Congress. Bush began his presidency with the Democrats controlling both the House of Representatives and the Senate.
When the Persian Gulf War ended in March 1991, President George H. W. Bush had very high approval ratings, some even approaching 90 percent. Few people imagined that in just a year, his political fortunes could change so dramatically. But the American people were less concerned with his foreign policy successes than with the changing economic situation at home. The U.S. economy had slowed down, and middle-class Americans had grown increasingly upset about the President's inaction on the economic recession. Many people, especially Republican die-hards, had also never forgiven the President for breaking his 1988 campaign promise not to raise taxes.
Changes in personnel also hindered the Bush campaign. In March 1990, Lee Atwater, who had helped run Bush's 1988 campaign and was now head of the Republican National Committee, collapsed during a speech; he died a year later of a brain tumor. Without Atwater's leadership, the RNC was less effective and short on money, and dissolved into factional infighting. The Bush team also lost John Sununu when he resigned as chief of staff in December 1991 after a controversy involving his personal use of government transportation. Without the hard-hitting Sununu running the White House, President Bush lost a polarizing but effective adviser.
Within the Republican Party, President Bush easily won the nomination. But his Republican primary opponent, conservative pundit Patrick Buchanan, personified the dissatisfaction of the right wing of the party. Bush had lost the support of many conservative Republicans for a variety of reasons, including raising taxes and cutting defense spending. Buchanan's challenge forced Bush to move further right during the primaries, especially with regard to social issues. To appease the right wing of the party, the Bush team asked Buchanan to give the keynote address during the Republican convention. Buchanan's speech alienated many moderates and was roundly criticized in the media. In his address, Buchanan offered a gloomy view of America's health, noting that this election was "about what we stand for as Americans. There is a religious war going on in our country for the soul of America. It is a cultural war, as critical to the kind of nation we will one day be as was the Cold War itself. And in that struggle for the soul of America, Clinton and Clinton are on the other side, and George Bush is on our side."
Early in 1992, New Jersey senator Bill Bradley and New York governor Mario Cuomo, Democrats who were widely considered to be front-runners, decided not to run. The Democratic candidate who gradually emerged as the party's standard-bearer was Arkansas governor Bill Clinton. Clinton had an everyman appeal that made Bush appear out of touch with the average American. Bush's reelection campaign was also hurt when a third-party candidate, Texas billionaire Ross Perot, decided to enter the race. His "United We Stand, America" citizens group promised a White House dedicated to patriotism, candor, honesty, and a balanced budget.
The 1992 presidential campaign focused primarily on domestic issues, specifically the economy. Clinton's unofficial campaign slogan was "It's the economy, stupid," which highlighted the hard times many Americans were enduring economically. As the economy slowed down, Bush did not enact any major legislation that might have proved to the voters that he was responding to their concerns. The President was also damaged by charges that his domestic policy lacked vision, and he gained little among the electorate by pointing to his foreign policy accomplishments.
Bush ran a lifeless campaign that seemed to lack focus and energy; many observers felt he was ineffective at communicating to the public about his achievements. Some have suggested that Bush had health problems that prevented him from conducting a vigorous campaign, while others blamed the absence of Lee Atwater as the main reason for Bush's lackluster performance. Bush's campaign was directed by a troika composed of Robert Mosbacher, Fred Malek, and Robert Teeter, and many longtime GOP operatives argued that this team never provided a rationale for the American voter to keep their man in office for four more years. In the end, the responsibility for the defeat rests with Bush himself, who seemed to be repeatedly caught off guard by the energetic Clinton-Gore campaign. (It did not help the President's cause when he was seen checking his watch in the middle of a televised presidential debate, as if he preferred to be anywhere else but debating the issues of the day.)
Clinton proved to be an expert campaigner who overcame personal foibles to win over voters. Perot complicated the campaign and capitalized on public discontent, winning over many conservative Republicans and independents. Bush lost his reelection bid to Clinton, who gained 43 percent of the popular vote, while Bush received 38 percent and Perot took 19 percent. Clinton, however, won 370 Electoral College votes to Bush's 168. Although Clinton did not win a clear mandate, the combined Clinton and Perot vote indicated that the American public was sending a strong message for change. Bush left the White House somewhat embittered, convinced that the media had slanted its coverage in favor of his opponent in the 1992 election.
When George H. W. Bush was sworn in as President on January 20, 1989, he took over from the very popular Ronald Reagan. In his inaugural address, Bush spoke about the plight of homelessness, crime, and drug addiction. He advocated volunteerism and community involvement, pledging to support "a thousand points of light, of all the community organizations that are spread like stars throughout the Nation, doing good." He talked about working with the Democratic Congress and tackling tough issues such as the budget. He pledged to begin a new chapter with "unity, diversity, and generosity." Despite his initial promise to work with Congress, however, President Bush often depended on the veto power (he vetoed forty-four bills during his tenure, and Congress only overrode one), and he occasionally used the threat of a veto to shape legislation. The President would go on to have a particularly acrimonious relationship with Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, whom he viewed as excessively partisan.
Bush began to assemble his administration by turning to old friends. He appointed James Baker as secretary of state and Lee Atwater as the chairman of the Republican National Committee. He kept on some of President Reagan's staffers, including Marlin Fitzwater as his press secretary, and he hired John Sununu, former governor of New Hampshire who helped orchestrate Bush's primary win there, as chief of staff. Brent Scowcroft became national security adviser. Bush initially nominated John Tower as his secretary of defense but the Senate voted against his confirmation due to charges of inappropriate behavior, including excessive drinking and "womanizing". Bush loyally stuck with Tower's nomination through to the end; he then turned to Dick Cheney to serve as defense secretary.
When Bush took office in 1989, the federal budget debt stood at $2.8 trillion, three times larger than it had been in 1980. This financial situation severely limited the President's ability to enact major domestic programs. The federal government did not have the revenues for any large, new domestic ventures, nor did the political climate lend itself to enacting them. To compensate for these constraints, Bush stressed "a limited agenda," that included volunteerism, education reform, and anti-drug efforts. President Bush did not come into office promising to preside over an era of great change; he won the presidency basically vowing to maintain the status quo and preserve the legacy of his predecessor.
Having pledged during the campaign not to raise taxes, the President found himself in the difficult position of trying to balance the budget and reduce the deficit without imposing additional taxes on the American people. He also faced a Congress controlled by the Democrats. Although Republicans thought that the government should approach the budget deficit by drastically cutting domestic spending, the Democrats wanted to raise taxes on the richest Americans.
Budget negotiations for the 1991 fiscal year proved especially contentious and problematic. Bush had no choice but to compromise with Congress, and his administration entered into lengthy talks with congressional leaders. The President had Chief of Staff John Sununu, Director of the Office of Management and Budget Richard Darman, and Secretary of the Treasury Nicholas Brady lead the discussions. In June 1990, Bush issued a written statement to the press, reneging on his "no taxes" pledge made during the campaign, noting that tax increases might be necessary to solve the deficit problem. In October, after a brief government shutdown that occurred when Bush vetoed the budget Congress delivered to him, the President and Congress reached a compromise with the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990. The budget included measures to reduce the deficit by cutting government expenditures and raising taxes. Many conservative Republicans felt betrayed when Bush agreed to raise taxes, or to include "revenue increases" as he called them in his statement after signing the bill.
On top of the budget crisis, Bush started his presidential tenure as the Savings and Loans industry was collapsing. The federal and state governments had deregulated the industry in the late 1970s and early 1980s, and the S&L industry ventured into riskier investments that destabilized it. In February 1989, with many S&Ls failing, Bush proposed a plan to help bail out the industry. The President reached a compromise with Congress that ended up costing taxpayers more than $100 billion. The collapse of the Savings and Loans and the subsequent government bailout only added to the difficult financial environment that Bush confronted during his presidency.
 Remarks on the Signing of the Americans with Disabilities Act (July 26, 1990) Presidential Speech Archive
President Bush signed two significant pieces of domestic legislation during his tenure. The first was the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, which forbade discrimination based on disability in employment, public accommodations, and transportation. For several years, Congress had been working on a bill for disabled Americans based on the 1964 Civil Rights Act, and Bush indicated in his acceptance speech at the Republican Convention that he supported such a bill, stating, "I am going to do whatever it takes to make sure the disabled are included in the mainstream."
The bill made it illegal for employers to discriminate against the disabled, guaranteed the disabled adequate access to places of business and public venues, expanded access to transportation, and provided for equivalent access to telecommunications. The President saw the bill as allowing people with disabilities more independence. When conservatives complained about the intrusion of the federal government into the private sector, the Bush administration countered that the ADA made it possible for disabled people to be less dependent on the government by giving them the chance to hold jobs and leave welfare rolls. The bill was a bipartisan effort with Democrats and Republicans joining together in Congress to pass it. Bush signed the ADA on July 26, 1990, to great fanfare. Although critics of the bill thought it was too expensive, supporters generally point to it as one of Bush's major domestic accomplishments. To this day, however, conservatives cite the ADA as an example of Bush's "betrayal" of the Reagan Revolution.
Bush took the lead with the other significant piece of domestic legislation he signed while in office: the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. Ironically, an environmental disaster aided his efforts; in March 1989, the Exxon Valdez oil tanker ran aground, and more than 10 million gallons of oil spilled into Prince William Sound in Alaska. The Exxon Valdez disaster made the public more receptive to the need for environmental protection. Bush also showed his support for the environment by appointing the first professional environmentalist to lead the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) when he chose William Reilly as its head in 1989. 
The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 built on the first bill passed in 1963 and subsequent bills in 1970 and 1977. The 1990 amendments focused on three aspects of clean air: reducing urban smog, curbing acid rain, and eliminating industrial emissions of toxic chemicals. Although critics were concerned about the cost of the act and its effect on an already weakened economy, President Bush was deeply committed to environmental issues and claimed that by working with the business community to find innovative ways to improve the environment, the economy and the American people could both benefit. Congress passed the bill with significant support, and on November 15, 1990, President Bush signed the act.
During his presidency, President Bush devoted much of his time to foreign affairs, an area over which Presidents generally have more latitude than they do with domestic affairs. In his first inaugural address, Bush spoke of unity between the executive and legislative branches in foreign affairs, presenting a united front to the rest of the world and referring to a time when "our differences ended at the water's edge." He also put together a team of advisers, including National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft, Secretary of State James Baker, Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney, and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Colin Powell, who generally worked well together. 
President Bush approached foreign affairs with his characteristic conservatism and pragmatism. He did not rush into new actions or policy changes but gave himself time to consider the administration's policies. When he acted, he did so with firm conviction and determination. His past experiences gave him significant experience in foreign affairs, and he relied on the many contacts within the international community he formed as ambassador to the United Nations, U.S. envoy to China, director of Central Intelligence, and Vice President.
One example of Bush's conservative and pragmatic approach to foreign affairs occurred early in his administration. In June 1989, the Chinese military suppressed a pro-democracy movement demonstrating in Beijing's Tiananmen Square. Using tanks and armored cars, the military crushed the demonstrations and fired into the crowd, killing hundreds of protestors. Although Bush abhorred the Chinese government's violent crackdown in Tiananmen Square, he did not want to jettison improved U.S.-Sino relations by overreacting to events. Many in Congress cried out for a harsh, punitive response to the Chinese government's killing of peaceful protestors, but the Bush administration imposed only limited sanctions. Later in his administration, Bush sent Brent Scowcroft and Lawrence Eagleburger, deputy secretary of state, to China to try to repair the damaged, but not destroyed, relationship. In the end, U.S.-Sino relations, while always somewhat fragile, have generally thrived, particularly in the economic realm, where both nations have benefitted from a robust trading partnership.
Throughout the Cold War, the United States had been involved in trying to stop the spread of Communism in Latin America and had established contacts throughout the area. One U.S. informant was Manuel Noriega, a Panamanian who began to work for the CIA as early as the late 1960s. Bush first encountered Noriega as director of the CIA when the agency relied on the Panamanian for intelligence. The Reagan administration initially saw Noriega as an ally because he opposed the Sandinista government in Nicaragua. When Noriega began to aid the Sandinistas and became increasingly involved in the international drug trade, the U.S. government tried to cut its ties with him. But Noriega continued to increase his power within Panama; in 1983 he assumed control of the Panamanian military, becoming a military dictator who essentially ruled the country. After Noriega was indicted by a federal grand jury in 1988 on drug trafficking charges, his relationship with American military and intelligence agencies came increasingly under fire by congressional Democrats. Members of Congress demanded that the Reagan administration and later the Bush administration bring the Panamanian strongman to justice.
Following the loss of Noriega's puppet candidate in the May 1989 Panamanian presidential election, Noriega nullified the results and his supporters attacked the opposition candidates. President Bush was appalled by Noriega's thwarting of democracy and began to focus on removing him from power. In October, information about an internal coup reached the U.S. military in Panama but the Bush administration chose not to get involved because the plan seemed sketchy and unorganized. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, recounted that, "The whole affair sounded like amateur night." The coup failed, and Noriega's forces executed the coup leader. Reaction in the United States was harsh, and many critics took the President to task for missing an opportunity to remove Noriega. After the attempted coup, President Bush and his advisers realized that they had to do something definite about Noriega. He then ordered his foreign affairs team to put together a plan to remove the dictator from power.
In December 1989, the Bush administration was notified that Noriega's military forces had killed a U.S. serviceman and attacked another serviceman and his wife. The administration now believed that it had the justification it needed to remove Noriega from power. On December 20, the U.S. military launched "Operation Just Cause" with about 10,000 forces landing in Panama and joining the 13,000 already there to quickly overtake the Panamanian military. Noriega went underground and eventually took refuge at the Vatican's embassy in Panama City. He surrendered to U.S. forces in early January and was taken to Miami, Florida, where he was eventually convicted on drug charges and sent to prison.
"Operation Just Cause" was generally hailed as a success and bolstered Bush's reputation as a strong, decisive leader. It was the largest military troop deployment since the Vietnam War and resulted in few causalities and a U.S. victory. Although it violated international law and was denounced by the Organization of American States and the United Nations, polls indicated that a large majority of Panamanians supported the U.S. invasion. The operation also gave the administration the unintended benefit of improving its crisis management, which helped the Bush team months later when Iraq invaded Kuwait.
When Bush became President in 1989, the United States had already begun to see a thawing of relations with the Soviet Union. As vice president, he attended the December 1988 summit between President Ronald Reagan and Soviet Premier Mikhail Gorbachev. Bush spoke of softening relations in his inaugural address, claiming that "a new breeze is blowing," and adding that "great nations of the world are moving toward democracy through the door to freedom."
Bush's relationship with Gorbachev began with what the Soviets called the pauza (pause). With his instinctual caution, the President wanted time to study the situation before moving forward with his own policy. Although the Soviets were concerned that Bush's pauza indicated a new direction in U.S. foreign policy, it actually helped consolidate the improved U.S.-Soviet relations.
When East Germany opened its borders and Germans tore down the Berlin Wall separating East and West Berlin in early November 1989, it marked a symbolic end to Communist rule in Eastern Europe. In the minds of many, the Cold War was over. Bush offered a muted response at a press conference on November 9: "I'm very pleased." When the press questioned his lack of enthusiasm over the collapse of the Berlin Wall, Bush responded by stating, "I am not an emotional kind of guy." In retrospect, many people recognized that by refusing to gloat or declare victory over the Soviet Union, Bush probably helped avoid a backlash by hardliners in Eastern Europe. He also did not want to endanger future negotiations with the Soviet Union. Still, Bush's restrained response to the collapse of Communism in Europe, while diplomatically deft, cost him dearly at home among his conservative supporters who argued that Ronald Reagan would have celebrated this historic development with some type of public address.
In a December 1989 summit between Bush and Gorbachev in Malta, the two leaders discussed arms reductions and strengthening their relations. At a summit in Washington, D.C., in June 1990, the two men signed a broad arms reduction agreement in which the United States and Soviet Union consented to decreasing their nuclear arsenals. Bush and his secretary of state, James Baker, worked hard to establish a meaningful relationship with Gorbachev and Eduard Shevardnadze, the Soviet foreign minister. By most accounts, they were very successful in redefining relations with the Soviet Union in a post-Cold War environment. In July 1991, Bush met Gorbachev in Moscow and signed the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as START.
When Gorbachev's opponents attempted a coup to oust him from power the next month, the Bush administration waited anxiously for the outcome. The coup failed, and Gorbachev resumed his position but the Soviet Union was in evident decline. Throughout the fall, the Soviet Republics began to declare their independence from the Soviet Union, and in December, Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus announced they were forming a new confederation of states. Gorbachev resigned as the President of the Soviet Union on December 25, 1991.
The efforts of Bush, Gorbachev, Baker, and Shevardnadze achieved results in improving U.S.-Soviet relations in ways that would have been unthinkable ten years earlier. Critics of the Bush administration faulted it for being aligned too closely with Gorbachev and too willing to compromise; many thought that Bush should have made more overtures to Boris Yeltsin, the President of Russia who often wanted reforms to proceed more quickly than Gorbachev and eventually oversaw much of Russia's transition away from Communism. Nonetheless, Bush's relationship with Gorbachev helped facilitate improved U.S.-Soviet relations. 
Events in 1989 moved along at such a rapid pace that President Bush's natural inclination toward gradual change was severely challenged. After the Berlin Wall fell in November of that year, members of the Bush administration discussed German reunification as some future reality, perhaps even five years in the future. Very few people imagined that a unified Germany would exist in less than a year. Even more surprising was that a united Germany would become a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).
After the Berlin Wall came down, a remarkable number of challenges confronted the Bush administration. At first, there were three main proposals on how to proceed with German reunification. One was just to let the two Germanys determine the process, but because of agreements at the end of World War II, the four victors—the United States, Soviet Union, Britain, and France—still had input into Germany's situation. Another approach was to let the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and its thirty-five members hammer out the details. However, this plan was not widely supported because of the likelihood that the process would bog down due to input from so many countries. A third suggestion was to involve the two Germanys with the World War II victors in a framework that became known as "Two-plus-Four."
In February 1990, the "Two-plus-Four" approach was formally approved. East and West Germany dealt with the internal details while the four victors of World War II worked with the two Germanys on external issues. The talks began in May and finally concluded in September 1990. The main sticking point to German reunification was whether the country would be part of NATO. The Soviets initially opposed having a united Germany as part of NATO, preferring it to be part of the Warsaw Pact or exist as a neutral, non-aligned country. In the end, the Bush administration helped broker a compromise: Germany would be part of NATO but no NATO troops would be stationed in East Germany. In addition, Soviet troops would have three to four years to withdraw from East Germany, and Germany agreed to provide economic assistance to the Soviet Union.
On August 2, 1990, Iraq invaded its neighbor Kuwait. Saddam Hussein, the President of Iraq, had long held designs on Kuwait's land, wealth, and oil. Although intelligence agencies had watched Iraq's military buildup along its border with Kuwait, both the United States and Iraq's Arab neighbors did not believe that Hussein had plans to invade the small country to its south. But they misread Hussein's intentions. The invasion violated international law, and the Bush administration was alarmed at the prospect of Iraq controlling Kuwait's oil resources.
Despite being somewhat caught off guard, the Bush administration went to work immediately trying to assemble a coalition to oppose Iraq. One fortunate turn of events for the administration was that, at the time of the invasion, President Bush was with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain at a conference, and Secretary of State Baker was in Siberia with Eduard Shevardnadze, the Soviet foreign minister. This allowed the United States to issue strong condemnations against Iraq with Britain, and most surprisingly, the Soviet Union. James Baker credited this moment, when the United States and Soviet Union issued a joint statement condemning Iraq's actions, as the end of the Cold War because it marked the beginning of unprecedented cooperation between the United States and the Soviet Union.
When the invasion began, Arab countries joined with the United States to form a coalition to convince Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait or face the consequences. When Saudi Arabia became concerned about a possible invasion after Iraqi troops began to mass on the border, President Bush announced the deployment of U.S. troops to the desert kingdom. He also articulated the four principles that guided "Operation Desert Shield": the immediate and complete withdrawal of Iraq from Kuwait; the restoration of the legitimate Kuwaiti government; the stability and security of the Middle East; and the protection of Americans abroad.
On the day of the invasion, the United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 660, which condemned the invasion and demanded that Iraq withdraw "immediately and unconditionally". The United States also quickly moved to freeze Kuwaiti and Iraqi assets. Shortly thereafter, the UN imposed economic sanctions on Iraq designed to try to convince Iraq to withdraw. The Iraqi invasion allowed President Bush to emphasize one of his greatest strengths—personal diplomacy. He had many international contacts, and he personally telephoned world leaders and U.S. allies to start building the coalition that would force Iraq to withdraw. However, the administration did not want Israel to join the coalition because it feared that Israel's involvement would alienate the Arab countries that had already agreed to join the alliance. Israel agreed to stay out of the coalition and not retaliate if attacked in order to allow the coalition's greater resources to deal with Hussein.
After months of resolutions and diplomatic efforts, the situation still had not changed. Iraq seemed unwilling to withdraw from Kuwait, and the Bush administration was not convinced that the economic sanctions could convince Hussein otherwise. In November, the UN Security Council passed Resolution 678, which authorized member states "to use all necessary means" to make Iraq withdraw from Kuwait if it had not done so by January 15. As the deadline loomed, the President often spoke of the situation in moral terms and cast Saddam Hussein as the embodiment of evil, highlighting the dictator's human rights violations.
 Address Before a Joint Session of Congress on the End of the Gulf War (March 6, 1991) Presidential Speech Archive
In December, President Bush put forth a proposal to ensure that the administration had exhausted all diplomatic efforts; he wanted war to be the last resort. Bush proposed sending Secretary of State Baker to meet with Hussein in Iraq to try to reach a solution. However, the President made it clear that there was no alternative to a complete and unconditional Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait. Although Baker eventually met with Iraqi foreign minister Tariq Aziz in Geneva, Switzerland, the negotiations went nowhere with Hussein rebuffing Bush's efforts. The administration also wanted to shore up support domestically for the impending military action so it turned to Congress for congressional authorization. Although some in the administration argued that it was unnecessary, others felt it was important to have Congress's support. On January 12, Congress narrowly voted to authorize the use of military force against Iraq. The vote was an important victory for President Bush.
"Operation Desert Storm" began on January 17, 1991, when U.S.-led coalition forces began massive air strikes against Iraq. The coalition launched the ground war on February 24 and quickly overwhelmed the Iraqi forces. Coalition troops reached Kuwait City by February 27, and a ceasefire was declared the next day. On March 3, General Norman Schwarzkopf, commander in chief of the U.S. forces, met with the Iraqi leadership to dictate the terms of the ceasefire. The war had ended in less than two months, and the Bush administration had successfully committed to the largest military action since the Vietnam War without getting bogged down or suffering high casualties. (One hundred and forty eight U.S. soldiers were killed in the Persian Gulf War.) On March 6, President Bush addressed a joint session of Congress and declared, "tonight Kuwait is free."
The Persian Gulf War helped restore the morale of the U.S. military and dampened memories of the Vietnam War. It also showed the possibility of what Bush referred to as the "New World Order," breaking down Cold War alliances and using peaceful nations to stand united against rogue states. The President successfully held together the coalition and even succeeded in having many of the coalition countries provide manpower (including France, Britain, Saudi Arabia, and Egypt) and financial support (including Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Japan, and Germany). Critics argued, however, that the victory was hollow because Saddam Hussein remained in power. They faulted Bush for not pursuing Hussein and his army into Iraq and removing him from power. However, President Bush and his team had been clear from the beginning that their primary war aim was to make Iraq withdraw from Kuwait, and they achieved that goal. The removal of Hussein from power had never been one of the administration's war aims. Many in the administration argued that pursuing Hussein into Iraq and attempting to topple him from power would destabilize the region and lead to a lengthy military engagement.
On September 11, 1990, President Bush addressed a joint session of Congress regarding the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, and he discussed "an historic period of cooperation," which he called the New World Order. Bush claimed this new order would be:
Freer from the threat of terror, stronger in the pursuit of justice, and more secure in the quest for peace. An era in which nations of the world, East and West, North and South, can prosper and live in harmony.
Again, on January 16, 1991, in an address to the nation about the start of the Persian Gulf War, President Bush used the term in explaining the motivations and justifications for using force against Iraq:
We have before us the opportunity to forge for ourselves and for future generations a new world order—a world where the rule of law, not the law of the jungle, governs the conduct of nations. When we are successful—and we will be—we have a real chance at this new world order, an order in which a credible United Nations can use its peacekeeping role to fulfill the promise and vision of the U.N.'s founders.
President Bush's New World Order involved collective security with multinational cooperation, and it broke down Cold War conceptions and created new allies. Many people debated whether the New World Order was a realistic foreign policy tenet or simply an idealistic approach to the future. Critics claimed that the Bush administration did not fully articulate the goals of the New World Order and how it hoped to accomplish them. Some were unsure whether the term was meant as a new approach or simply a catchphrase. Realists complained that it was hard to justify U.S. involvement in situations without a clear national interest. But others felt that once the Cold War ended, the United States had to take on a large role as a world leader to guard against human rights abuses, defend democratic regimes, and lead humanitarian efforts.
One example of the changing landscape of foreign policy was evident in the Middle East Peace process. In October 1991, the Bush administration, together with the Soviet Union and Spain, cosponsored a conference in Madrid, to try to reach consensus on moving the peace process forward. The United States had gained new legitimacy within the Middle East after the Persian Gulf War. Arab nations were more willing to work with the United States, and the thwarting of the Iraqi invasion had shown all participants the futility of force. After the Soviet Union joined with the United States in opposing Hussein, countries in the Middle East could no longer rely on the Soviet Union to counterbalance the United States. Once the Arab countries could not depend on the Soviet Union to support them to block Israeli-U.S. initiatives, they had little choice but to try to resolve the situation. Although the Madrid conference did not result in any lasting agreements, it was an important step toward future peace agreements.
In Somalia and the former Yugoslavia, the Bush administration encountered some of the first challenges to the New World Order. Near the end of his term, President Bush committed U.S. troops to Somalia to help ease a humanitarian crisis after the breakdown of civil society and the onset of mass famine and starvation. Although the operation was initially successful in helping to feed the Somali people, President Bill Clinton ordered the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Somalia after eighteen U.S. soldiers were killed in Mogadishu, the country's capital, in October 1993. "Operation Restore Hope" left many people wondering whether the United States should intervene in other countries when U.S. interests were not clearly at stake.
When Yugoslavia began to break apart, the Bush administration had hoped to persuade the various players to avoid violence and bloodshed and proceed with the breakup using a democratic process. The administration also hoped to see the European Community take the lead in resolving a conflict occurring in its own backyard, especially because some European countries seemed to chaff under U.S. leadership during the Persian Gulf War. And although the United States worked with the EC and the UN to take political, diplomatic, and economic steps to try to stop the conflict from escalating, they were unsuccessful. Many of President Bush's advisers felt that military action in the former Yugoslavia would more likely resemble the morass of Vietnam rather than the success of the Persian Gulf War. When President Bush left office, the former Yugoslavia republics were in the midst of wars that would continue for years to come. 
Few argued that President Bush was solely responsible for preventing the violence in the former Yugoslavia; it was a complicated situation with many ethnic groups, divided factions, and long histories. But some people believed that if the United States had launched a strong military action, it could have prevented some of the atrocities that occurred. Others, however, contended that the U.S. military would have gotten bogged down in the area. The situation showed some of the weaknesses in the New World Order. James Baker wrote in his memoir that after the Cold War ended, the international community needed to create new institutions and processes to fill the void in the post-Cold War era; without them, no effective means existed to stop the onset of violence in the former Yugoslavia.
When George H. W. Bush left the presidency, he and his wife returned to Houston, Texas. There, they settled back into private life and reclaimed their lives as active citizens in their community. The former President volunteered at their church and sat on various boards, including one for a local hospital. The Bushes divided their time between Houston, Texas, and Kennebunkport, Maine, where the Bush family had long had a residence.
Bush also threw himself into preserving his legacy through his presidential library. The George Bush Presidential Library and Museum was dedicated in 1997 on the west campus of Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas. The library and museum holds the official documents and private papers from Bush's career including his presidential years. Bush also joined with former President Bill Clinton after a tsunami from the Indian Ocean struck Southeast Asia in December 2004. The two former Presidents created the Bush-Clinton Houston Tsunami Fund, a national fundraising campaign to provide assistance to damaged communities throughout the region.
Bush became enmeshed in politics again through the careers of his sons, Jeb Bush and George W. Bush. Both sons held elected office: George was governor of Texas (1995-2000) and Jeb was governor of Florida (1999-2007). When George W. was elected President in 2000, the Bushes became the first father and son to be elected President since John Quincy Adams was elected in 1824. Within the Bush clan, the first President Bush was often referred to as "Forty-One," and the second as "Forty-Three." 
George H. W. Bush was known throughout his career as a decent and generous man who tried to do what he thought was right. He was very loyal and known for his ability to connect with people on a personal level. He had more difficulty connecting with large audiences and was generally considered a poor public speaker. He was also an energetic and competitive sportsman throughout his life, and he continued that tradition as President. He often went running in Washington, D.C., and played golf and tennis in Maine. He always enjoyed a game of horseshoes and had courts built at both the White House and Camp David. 
Bush married Barbara Pierce in January 1945, while he was on leave from the Navy during World War II. The Bushes have had a strong marriage, and they seemed to be true partners, although Barbara decided not to speak publicly about policy during her husband's tenure as President. Her comfort with her grandmotherly image, her graciousness, and her ability to poke fun at herself endeared her to the nation and the press corps.
The Bushes have five children: George Walker, John Ellis "Jeb", Neil, Marvin, and Dorothy "Doro". Their second child, Robin, died in 1953 of leukemia when she was four years old. George and Barbara are very family-oriented, often gathering for family get-togethers, and they usually spend some time in August with children, grandchildren, and extended family in Kennebunkport, Maine. 
George Herbert Walker Bush came into the presidency as one of the most qualified candidates to assume the office. He had a long career in both domestic politics and foreign affairs, knew the government bureaucracy, and had eight years of hands-on training as vice president. Still, if presidential success is determined by winning reelection, Bush was unsuccessful because he failed to convince the American public to give him another four years in office. Generally the Bush presidency is viewed as successful in foreign affairs but a disappointment in domestic affairs. In the minds of voters, his achievements in foreign policy were not enough to overshadow the economic recession, and in 1992, the American public voted for change.
Bush came into office promising continuity with the Reagan years and proceeded cautiously; he did not advocate radical change or announce sweeping domestic programs. He was constrained by a large budget deficit, limited federal revenue to fund programs, and a Democratic-controlled Congress. Critics charged that his administration lacked vision and did not communicate its approach effectively to the public. Although Bush had some notable domestic achievements, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments, he focused much of his attention on foreign affairs.
Presidents generally have more control over foreign policy than domestic policy, and this was markedly the case during the Bush presidency. Bush put together a strong team of advisers, including James Baker, Dick Cheney, Brent Scowcroft, and Colin Powell, and together they oversaw significant accomplishments. Bush had a conservative nature and was uncomfortable with bold, dramatic change, preferring stability and calm. These characteristics helped him lead the United States through a period of geopolitical transition. Although the Bush administration often had little control over the unfolding of world events, its responses helped avoid chaos. His refusal to gloat or declare victory during the collapse of the Soviet empire helped Mikhail Gorbachev and diffused a possible backlash from the hardliners in the Soviet government. President Bush showed that he could act unilaterally (such as in Panama) but he was also able to form a large, diverse coalition (such as in the Persian Gulf War).
Still American voters did not perceive that President Bush cared enough about domestic issues. Some observers have criticized Bush for not "selling" his achievements more successfully and running an inept campaign in 1992. He alienated the more conservative wing of the Republican Party in a variety of ways including breaking his promise not to raise taxes and cutting military spending. Conservatives felt he had betrayed the Reagan Revolution. He was also not helped by his unfair image as a rich Ivy Leaguer who was out of touch with average Americans; despite living much of his adult life in Texas, he could not overcome the stereotypes associated with his privileged New England background.
The passage of time is essential in formulating a true understanding of any presidency—only after the partisan battles have cooled and a policy legacy is fully matured can an honest assessment be made of President George H. W. Bush's place in history. The historical assessment of "Bush 41" is still evolving, and fairly or not, when a father and son both serve as President of the United States, comparisons are inevitable. And since both Presidents spent considerable time during their administrations dealing with Iraq, historians will take notice of their respective skills at conducting foreign affairs. For example, Bush 41's efforts to build an international coalition before embarking on the Persian Gulf War differed greatly from his son's unilateral approach, and will likely serve him well in the assessments of future generations of historians and political scientists. Perhaps the only thing one can say with certainty is that when the archives of the two Bush presidencies are finally opened, they will provide a fascinating glimpse into a unique father and son relationship in American history.
=======================================================
George Herbert Walker Bush (1924-) < Biographies < American History From Revolution To Reconstruction and beyond
America's 41st President, George Bush, was born on June 12, 1924, in Milton, Massachusetts, into a wealthy family as George Herbert Walker Bush.
 After graduating from Phillips Academy, Andover, MA in 1942  he served as the youngest U.S. naval carrier pilot in the Pacific till 1945, winning the 'Distinguished Flying Cross', and three Air Medals.
    On January 6, 1945 George married Barbara Pierce, of Rye, New York. Bush studied economics at Yale University.
    After graduating he moved to Texas where he started working in the oil-drilling business. He co-founded the Bush-Overbey Company,  Zapata Petroleum Corporation and Zapata Off-Shore, of which he also became president in 1954.
 In 1966 he sold his interests to concentrate on politics. He became active in the Republican Party. After running unsuccesfully as a Republican candidate for the Senate in 1964,
    he entered the House of Representatives in 1967. This was the beginning of an extensive political career.
 Bush served as ambassador to the United Nations from 1971-1972, was chairman of the Republican National Committee from 1972-1973, chief of the U.S. liaison office in Peking from
    1974-1976, and director of the C.I.A. from 1976-1977. In 1980 Bush campaigned for the Republican nomination for the U.S. presidency but withdrew later to support Reagan, who chose Bush
    as his running mate. Bush became vice-president during Reagan's two terms in the White House, from 1981-1989. In 1988 Bush ran for the presidency again and this time succesfully.
 This made him the first president since Martin van Buren in 1836 to be elected directly to the presidency.
    Bush beat his Democratic opponent Michael Dukakis from Massachusetts with 54 percent of the popular vote (to Dukakis'49%) and 426 of the electoral votes (to Dukakis' 111).
    During his presidency the Democrats did however retain secure majorities in both houses of Congress.
 Bush promised in his campaign a partial continuation of Reagan's politics. He followed Reagan on social issues, such as a strong stand against abortion, but thereby did call for a softer
    approach by calling for a "kinder, gentler nation". In his State of the Union in 1990 he stressed his commitment to being the "educational president". As for the domestic issues, Bush was not very succesful.
 During his campaign Bush stated not to bring on new taxes: "Read my lips...NO new taxes". But due to a continuing rising federal budget deficit he had to agree in 1990 to a significant tax increase.
 Bush's interest lay particularly in the area of foreign politics. The time of his presidency was one of great changes within the world. The collapse of communism in 1989 in Eastern Europe
    left the United States as virtually the only "superpower" in the world. Bush negotiated a continuation of arms reduction with the Soviet Union (including unprecedented cuts in Nuclear arms).
    In 1989 Bush ordered the U.S. invasion of Panama to depose the dictator Manuel Noriega, who was thereafter brought to the United States where he was accused of drugs trafficing.
 In 1990 Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait. Bush answered to this invasion by ordering troops to Saudi Arabia and forming an international alliance with the backing of the United Nations;
    "Operation Desert Storm". The liberation of Kuwait went reasonably swift without the loss of many lives on the side of the allied forces. This certainly contributed to Bush's popularity.
    After the Gulf War about 90% of the people, asked in polls, claimed to approve of the way Bush was handling his office.
 It did not take long before the economic situation in the United States made Bush's popularity decline rapidly. The recession, already begun in 1990, continued in 1991 and the American
    public began to blame Bush for neglecting domestic issues. This most likely gave cause to Bush's defeat in the 1992 presidential elections. The Democrat Bill Clinton was elected the 42nd President of the U.S.A.
About - Disclaimer - Copyright - Contact - © 1994-2012 GMW - University of Groningen - Humanities Computing
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesCash for College! 54 Scholarships Worth $10&#044;000 or MoreErikson's Psychosocial Stages Summary ChartHow to Control Carpenter BeesQuiz - What's Your Leadership Style? [About Psychology]College Interview Questions
Top Related Searchesjeb bush governor of floridapresdient bushdoro bushrepublican national committeeprescott bushjonathan bush
Born on June 12, 1924 in Milton, Massachusetts, George Bush's family moved to a suburb of New York City where he was raised. His family was very wealthy, having numerous servants. Bush attended private schools. After high school he joined the military to fight in World War II before going to Yale University. He graduated with honors in 1948 with a degree in economics.
Father: Prescott S. Bush - Wealthy businessman and Senator.Mother: Dorothy Walker BushSiblings: Three brothers - Prescott Bush, Jonathan Bush, and William "Buck" Bush and one sister - Nancy Ellis.Wife: Barbara Pierce.Children: Four sons and one daughter - George W. Bush: 43rd President of the U.S.; John F. "Jeb" Bush - Governor of Florida; Neil M. Bush; Marvin P. Bush; Dorothy W. "Doro" Bush.
Before going to college, Bush signed up to join the navy and fight in World War II. He rose to the level of lieutenant. He was a navy pilot flying 58 combat missions in the Pacific. He was injured bailing out of his burning aircraft during a mission and was rescued by a submarine.
Bush began his career in 1948 working in the oil industry in Texas and created a lucrative career for himself. He became active in the Republican party. In 1967, he won a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives. In 1971, he was U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. He served as the chairman of the Republican National Committee (1973-4). He was the Chief Liaison to China under Ford. From 1976-77, he served as the Director of the CIA. From 1981-89, he served as Vice President under Reagan.
Bush gained the nomination in 1988 to run for president. Bush chose Dan Quayle to run as Vice President. He was opposed by Democrat Michael Dukakis. The campaign was extremely negative and centered around attacks instead of plans for the future. Bush won with 54% of the popular vote and 426 out of 537 electoral votes.
When Bush lost in the 1992 election to Bill Clinton, he retired from public service. He has joined with Bill Clinton since the latter's retirement from the presidency to raise money for victims of the tsunami that hit in Thailand (2004) and Hurricane Katrina (2005).
Bush was president when the Berlin Wall fell, and the Soviet Union fell apart. He sent troops into Kuwait to help fight Iraq and Saddam Hussein in the First Persian Gulf War. In 1989, he also ordered the removal of General Noriega from power in Panama by sending troops in.
Much of George Bush's attention was focussed on foreign policies. In December, 1989, Bush sent troops into Panama to depose General Manuel Noriega. Noriega was heavily involved in drug trafficking. The attack was a success with Noriega removed from power.
From 1990-91, the U.S. and a United Nations Coalition were sent to Kuwait to remove Iraqi invading forces. This action was given the name Desert Storm. When the Iraqi forces were removed from Kuwait, Bush stopped all military activity and did not pursue deposing Saddam Hussein.
From 1990-91, the Soviet Union began breaking up as the Communist Party let go of its stranglehold on the country. The Berlin Wall came done in 1990.
Economically, Bush had boxed himself into a corner with his campaign promise, "Read my lips: No new taxes." However, he was required to sign a bill into law to raise taxes to try and reduce the deficit.
In 1989, many savings and loans were failing. Bush signed into law a bail out plan paid for by taxpayers.
Suggested ReadingGeorge H. W. Bush QuotesGeorge H. W. Bush Fast FactsTop Ten Most Influential PresidentsSuggested ReadingSuggested ReadingChart of the PresidentsPresidential Guru Quiz
Related ArticlesTop 10 Things to Know About George H. W. BushBush Takes Iraq Case to American PeopleChina NewsBush and Cheney on FatherhoodSaddam Hussein Parodies - Iraq War Political Satire 
13 Original ColoniesTop Causes of the Civil WarPresidents of the USWhat Caused the Great Depression?What Happened Today?
The Top 5 Causes That Led to World War I. Could...Top 5 Causes of the Great Depression5 Things That Caused the U.S. Civil WarWhat Caused the American Revolution?Chart of the Thirteen Original Colonies - Basic...
Civil War - History of the Civil WarColonial AmericaIndustrial RevolutionWorld War IIEras of American HistoryAmerican CultureEconomic HistoryGovernment and PoliticsHistorical FiguresWars and DiplomacyStates and TerritoriesSocial HistoryScience and TechnologyHistorical Fun & ResourcesScandals and CrimeBlog
American HistoryAbout.comEducationAmerican HistoryHistorical FiguresUS PresidentsGeorge H  W  BushGeorge H. W. Bush - Forty-first President of the United StatesAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite-mini._V192240838_.gif) 0 -51px no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/graycornerbox._V143785493_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/sprite-best-flag._V338513549_.png);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, whitesmoke), color-stop(100%, #e3e3e3));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='whitesmoke', endColorstr='#e3e3e3',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #e8e8e8), color-stop(100%, #d6d6d6));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#e8e8e8', endColorstr='#d6d6d6',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f6f6c8), color-stop(100%, #cdcda1));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f6f6c8', endColorstr='#cdcda1',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f2f2b2), color-stop(100%, #c4c490));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f2f2b2', endColorstr='#c4c490',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #fee6b0), color-stop(100%, #eeba37));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#fee6b0', endColorstr='#eeba37',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #fede97), color-stop(100%, #ecb21f));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#fede97', endColorstr='#ecb21f',GradientType=0);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll -143px -821px;
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll -132px -821px;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
More to ExploreSummer ReadingEditors' PicksBlockbustersBeach ReadsChildren's BooksSee moreBooks for Kids & TeensBaby-Age 2Ages 3-5Ages 6-8Ages 9-12TeensComing to the Big Screen
This Friday The Fault in Our Stars movie adaptation opens nationwide. We share our thoughts on an early screening plus exclusive set photos of John Green on the Amazon Books blog.Best Books of the MonthTop Picks for JuneLiterature & FictionMystery, Thriller & SuspenseBiographies & MemoirsBest Books for Kids & TeensTextbooks Trade-InGet up to 80% back when you sell us your books, even if you didn’t buy them at Amazon. Search for books you own.
Popular Features100 Mysteries & Thrillers to Read in a Lifetime100 Books to Read in a LifetimeSummer ReadingBest Books of the MonthBest Books of 2013Award WinnersChildren's BooksDeals in BooksStart a New SeriesBook Club PicksFrom the EditorsEditors' Picks, Interviews, and MoreGreat American Eats150 Love StoriesThe Amazon Books BlogAmazon Books on FacebookAmazon Books on TwitterTextbooksTextbooks StoreTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksKindle eTextbooksAmazon KindleKindle eBooksKindle Daily DealsAll-New Kindle PaperwhiteFree Kindle Reading Apps 
More to ExploreBook DealsDeals in BooksBooks CouponsFeatured StoresAmazon PublishingAward WinnersRare & Collectible BooksLibros en EspañolChina BooksMoney & MarketsStationery, Journals & Notebooks2014 Calendarstech.book(store)Disney BookstorePopular FeaturesAmazon Breakthrough Novel AwardThe New York Times®  Bestsellers ListSpecial FormatsAudiobooksAudible AudiobooksLarge PrintMore to DiscoverAmazon Credit OfferingsAmazon GreenAuthor CentralGift CardsLibrarians: Order in BulkMagazines & NewspapersSell Your BooksInternational ShoppingChinese-Language Books at Amazon.cnFrench-Language Books at Amazon.frGerman-Language Books at Amazon.deJapanese-Language Books at Amazon.co.jpFind Foreign-Language Books, Movies, and Music 
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
html,body{font-size:100%;height:100%;font-family:arial,verdana,sans-serif;}html,body,form,h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6,p,ul{margin:0;padding:0;}body{-ms-text-size-adjust:100%;-webkit-text-size-adjust:100%;-moz-text-size-adjust:100%;text-size-adjust:100%;}img{border:0;display:block;}ul{list-style-type:none;}a{color:#0000cc;}a:hover{text-decoration:;}a:visited{color:;}#p{font-size:0.813em;margin:0 auto;width:1024px;}.landing #p{height:100%;margin:0 auto;}.landing #CHROME,.landing #IE,.landing #IE6,.landing #IE7,.landing #IE8,.landing #IE9,.landing #SAFARI,.landing #isMacOS,.landing #AOL,.landing #AOL91,.landing #AOL95,.landing #AOL96{height:100%;}.landing #h{min-height:275px;max-height:456px;height:60%;position:relative;width:716px;margin:0 auto 0 auto;background:none;}.landing #IE7 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:455px;}.landing #IE8 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:456px;}.landing #IE9 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:456px;}#h{padding-top:0px;margin-bottom:12px;background:none;}#IE #h{position:relative;z-index:1;zoom:100%;}.landing #IE6 #h{height:550px;}.landing #AOL #h{height:555px;}#l{width:92px;float:left;padding-left:0px;padding-right:43px;clear:both;margin-top:;}#p.r #w{padding-right:325px;}#p.l #w{padding-left:135px;}#c{float:left;width:100%;background-color:#fff;margin-top:;}#IE6 #c{width:98%;}.cw{margin-left:;padding-left:;padding-right:10px;width:auto;}#p.r .cw{margin-right:;}#r{width:308px;float:left;border-left:1px solid #e5e5e5;padding-left:8px;padding-right:8px;margin-top:;}#IE6 #r{position:relative;}.rw{margin:10px;}#f{clear:both;background:none;min-width:650px;}.landing #f{background:none;}#hw,#center_wrap,#fw{margin:0 auto;width:auto;max-width:;min-width:650px;}.landing #hw,.landing #center_wrap,.landing #fw{margin:auto;min-width:100%;}.clear{clear:both;height:0;overflow:hidden;}.lr-sep{border-top:1px solid #e5e5e5;margin:10px 0 0;width:149px;height:0;overflow:hidden;}.lhrgt,.lhrlt{display:block;cursor:pointer;text-decoration:none;outline:none;}.lhrgt:hover,.lhrlt:hover,.lhrgt span:hover,.lhrlt span:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.lhrgt .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat -1px -8px;margin:4px 0 0 5px;height:7px;width:7px;}#IE .lhrgt .sprite{margin-top:5px;}.lhrlt .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat 0 0;margin:5px 5px 0 0;height:7px;width:7px;}.lhrgt span,.lhrlt span{float:left;}.acc{position:absolute;text-indent:-1000em;overflow:hidden;}.hac{display:inline;margin:0;font-size:1em;font-weight:normal;}.obscure{position:absolute!important;clip:rect(1px 1px 1px 1px);clip:rect(1px,1px,1px,1px);}.sprite{text-indent:-9999px;display:block;overflow:hidden;}#h .cntr{padding-left:10px;float:left;}#h .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:8px;}#f .cntr{padding-left:10px;float:left;}#f .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:8px;}#isMobile #c{float:none;padding-left:10px;padding-right:10px;width:auto;}#isMobile #h{height:auto;margin:0;max-height:none;min-height:0;padding-top:0;}.landing #isMobile #c,.landing #isMobile .cw{padding:0;}.landing #isMobile #h{padding-top:0px;}.article #p{font-size:;margin:;width:;}.article #p.r #w{padding-right:332px;}.article #p.l #w{padding-left:;}.article #h{padding-top:;margin-bottom:;background:;}.article #c{margin-top:;}.article .cw{margin-left:15px;padding-left:;padding-right:;width:;}.article #p.r .cw{margin-right:5px;}.article #r{width:;padding-left:15px;padding-right:;margin-top:;}.article #f{background:;min-width:;}.article #hw,.article #center_wrap,.article #fw{margin:;width:;max-width:;min-width:;}.article #h .cntr{padding-left:;}.article #h .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:;}.article #f .cntr{padding-left:;}.article #f .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:;}.landing{background-color:#ffffff;;;}.CSB{position:relative;width:653px;float:left;}.CSB .csbtds{padding-top:0px;padding-right:0px;padding-bottom:0px;padding-left:0px;background:transparent;}.csbs{background-color:#fff;border:1px solid black;color:#000000;font-size:1.308em;font-weight:normal;font-family:arial,verdana,sans-serif;height:28px;width:100%;position:relative;padding:5px 3px 4px 6px;}.landing .csbs{border:;}.ghost{color:#b9b9b9;}.csbb{background:url("http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites2/wow-search-button.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;cursor:pointer;font-weight:normal;font-size:1.462em;margin:0 0 0 10px;padding:0;display:block;white-space:nowrap;line-height:40px;height:40px;position:relative;text-shadow:0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.7);border:none;width:80px;}.csbb:hover{background:url("http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites2/wow-search-button.png") no-repeat scroll -80px 0 transparent;}.CSB td{vertical-align:top;}.CSB a,.CSB a:hover,.CSB a:active,.CSB a:visited{text-decoration:none;color:#fff;}#IE6 .CSB form{zoom:100%;}#IE6 .csbs,#IE7 .csbs,#IE8 .csbs{line-height:28px;}.landing .CSB{position:absolute;bottom:187px;left:33px;width:622px;}.landing #IE7 .CSB{bottom:184px;}.landing #ACC{width:529px;}.landing #ACC .acs.sel{background:#CFECFF;}.landing #IE7 .GLOG{background-position:-43px -23px;}.GLOG{background:transparent url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat -43px -23px;width:96px;height:16px;bottom:0;right:0;top:-18px;position:absolute;}.GLOG.bgnone{background:none;}.leftBrandLogo{background:transparent url() no-repeat ;width:185px;height:115px;left:-185px;top:-35px;position:absolute;text-indent:-9999px;}.rightBrandLogo{background:transparent url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/logos/2-a_google_logo_right.png) no-repeat 0px 0px;width:185px;height:115px;right:-184px;top:-35px;position:absolute;text-indent:-9999px;}#ACC{position:absolute;display:none;background:white;border:1px solid #CFECFF;padding:0 9px 0 0;width:561px;z-index:3;font-size:1.308em;top:-1px;left:1px;margin-left:-1px;}#ACC .acs{color:#3c3c3c;display:block;text-decoration:none;padding:3px 3px 4px 6px;width:100%;}#ACC .acs.sel{background:#CFECFF;}#IE6 #ACC .acs{zoom:100%;}.ACPAR{position:relative;z-index:2;}#ACC .CSERD{color:#00c;display:inline-block;padding:1px 0;margin-left:4px;}#ACC .sel .CSERD{color:#fff;}#IE .CSB td{vertical-align:middle;}#IE7 .ACPAR{clear:both;}#IE7 #ACC .acs,#IE8 #ACC .acs{padding-left:6px;}.csbSearchBox{border:1px solid transparent;}.csbSearchBox:hover{border-color:transparent;}.landing .csbSearchBox{border:1px solid transparent;}.landing .csbSearchBox:hover{border-color:transparent;}body #h .cntr,body #f .cntr{padding-top:25px;}body .leftBrandLogo{display:none;}body .GLOG{display:none;}span.clearbutton{position:relative;}span.clearbutton input{padding-right:26px;-webkit-user-modify:read-write-plaintext-only;}span.clearbutton span{position:absolute;display:block;top:-2px;right:5px;width:20px;height:19px;background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) 0 -59px;cursor:pointer;visibility:visible;}span.clearbutton span.show{visibility:visible;}span.clearbutton span.hide{visibility:hidden;}#isMobile #ACC{-webkit-tap-highlight-color:rgba(255,255,255,0);}#isMobile .CSB{padding-right:10px;position:absolute;}#isMobile .GLOG.bgnone{display:none;}.landing #isMobile .CSB{float:none;margin:;padding:0;position:static;}.landing #isMobile .CSB #inner{margin:0 auto;max-width:;padding:;}.PS{clear:both;position:absolute;left:33px;bottom:-26px;font-weight:bold;width:622px;}.PS .popSites .psHead{font-size:1.2308em;color:;text-align:;margin-bottom:11px;}.PS .furl{background-color:transparent;height:100px;margin:6px 9px 0 0;width:60px;display:block;float:left;}.PS .furl2{margin-bottom:-57px;}.PS .popSites{display:inline-block;}.PS a{color:#00F;text-decoration:none;outline:0;}.PS a.furl{background-position:0 0;background-repeat:no-repeat;}.PS .popSites ul li{float:left;}.PS a.furl .iconText{bottom:23px;color:#3B3B3B;font-size:12px;padding-top:62px;text-shadow:0px 1px 1px #FFF;text-align:center;}#IE6 .PS,#IE7 .PS{z-index:-1;}#IE7 .PS .popSites{display:inline;}#CHROME .PS .furl{margin:5px 9px 0 0;}#IE7 .PS .popSites>ul{display:inline-block;}.flogo{bottom:30px;float:right;}.flogo .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/logos/2-a_wow_logo_bottom.png) no-repeat 0 0;height:89px;width:107px;}.generror .flogo .sprite,.landing .flogo .sprite{background-position:0px 0px;height:125px;width:200px;text-indent:-9999px;}#f{bottom:0;vertical-align:bottom;position:absolute;width:100%;left:0;}.flanding{height:21.5px;padding:8.5px 16px 0 16px;display:block;clear:both;color:#5B5A5A;font-size:0.923em;background-color:#eeeeee;}.flanding ul,.flanding .extraL{float:right;}.flanding ul a{color:#5B5A5A;}.flanding ul a:visited{color:#5B5A5A;}.flanding ul a:hover{color:;}.flanding .copy{float:left;}
=======================================================
Sponsors | Privacy Policy | Technical Questions | Editorial Questions | Usage Policy | Directors & Staff | Site Map  | RSS Feeds 
=======================================================
Dear Visitor: We are an independent, ad-free daily news program that serves millions of viewers and listeners each month. Our show is special because we make it our priority to go where the silence is. We put a spotlight on corporate and government abuses of power and lift up the stories of ordinary people working to make change in extraordinary times. We do all of this with just a fraction of the budget and staff of a commercial news show. We do it without ads, corporate sponsorship or government funding. How is this possible? Only with your support. If every visitor to this site for the next week gave just $10, we could cover our operating costs for the next year. Pretty exciting, right? Please do your part today. It takes just a couple of minutes to make sure that Democracy Now! is there for you and everybody in the year to come. 
        The romantic comedy "Obvious Child" was one of the most talked-about films at this year’s Sundance Film Festival in Utah. It is opening in theaters today. "Obvious Child" has been hailed as the first romantic comedy about abortion, but it is much more than that. Watch our interview with "Obvious...
        The Supreme Court has refused to hear an appeal from James Risen of The New York Times, who faces prison for protecting the identity of his confidential source. Watch our interview with Eric Lichtblau, who won a Pulitzer Prize with Risen for their reporting on the NSA despite White House pressure to kill the story.
Seattle’s Socialist City Council Member Kshama Sawant Hails Historic Vote For $15/Hour Minimum Wage
        We air part two of our interview with famed essayist Ta-Nehisi Coates about his cover article in The Atlantic,...
        An explosive new cover story in the June issue of The Atlantic magazine by the famed essayist Ta-Nehisi...
        At least 30 pro-Russian rebels have reportedly died in fierce fighting at the airport in the eastern Ukrainian...
        Pro-Russian groups have claimed a landslide victory for a hastily organized referendum on self-rule in...
When Bowe Bergdahl was reported missing in Afghanistan on the morning of June 30, 2009, a crack formed in the U.S. narrative about the longest war in our nation’s history. Bergdahl’s release this week, as part of a prisoner-of-war swap with the Taliban, has provoked the partisan pundits to hurl invective at the American POW, his family, and at President Barack Obama.
The romantic comedy "Obvious Child" was one of the most talked-about films at this year’s Sundance Film Festival in Utah. It is opening in theaters today. "Obvious Child" has been hailed as the first romantic comedy about abortion, but it is much more than that. Watch our interview with "Obvious Child" director Gillian Robespierre.
 Yuri Kochiyama on her Internment in  WWII  Japanese American Detention Camp & Malcolm X Assassination 
  [{"link":"/topics/1953_iran_coup","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"1953 Iran Coup","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/1973_chilean_coup","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"1973 Chilean Coup","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/2012_election","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"2012 Election","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/9-11","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"9/11","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/9-11_anniversary","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"9/11 anniversary","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/aaron_swartz","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Aaron Swartz","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/abortion","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Abortion","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/abu_ghraib","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Abu Ghraib","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/academic_freedom","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Academic Freedom","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/academy_awards","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Academy Awards","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/aclu","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"ACLU","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/acorn","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"ACORN","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/addiction","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Addiction","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/afghanistan","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Afghanistan","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/africa","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Africa","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/african_american_history","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"African-American History","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/agriculture","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Agriculture","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/aids","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"AIDS","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/alabama","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Alabama","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/alec","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"ALEC","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/algeria","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Algeria","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/aminatou_haidar","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Aminatou Haidar","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/angola_3","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Angola 3","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/animal_rights","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Animal Rights","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/anjali_kamat","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Anjali Kamat","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/anonymous","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Anonymous","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/anthony_shadid","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Anthony Shadid","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/apartheid","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Apartheid","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/arab_spring","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Arab Spring","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/arabs_and_muslims_in_america","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Arabs and Muslims in America","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/archive","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Archive","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/arctic","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Arctic","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/argentina","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Argentina","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/arizona","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Arizona","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/arizona_shooting","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Arizona shooting","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/arkansas","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Arkansas","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/arms_trade","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Arms Trade","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/army","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Army","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/art_politics","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Art & Politics","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/asmaa_mahfouz","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Asmaa Mahfouz","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/atomic","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Atomic","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/atomic_bomb","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Atomic Bomb","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/aurora_shooting","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Aurora Shooting","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/author_interviews","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Author Interviews","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/bahrain","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Bahrain","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/bainport","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Bainport","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/bangladesh","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Bangladesh","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/bank_of_america","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Bank of America","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/barbara_ehrenreich","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Barbara Ehrenreich","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/bart","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"BART","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/bhopal_disaster","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Bhopal Disaster","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/birth_control","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Birth Control","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/black_panthers","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Black Panthers","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/blackwater","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Blackwater","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/bolivia","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Bolivia","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/books","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Books","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/border_patrol","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Border Patrol","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/boston_marathon_bombing","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Boston Marathon Bombing","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/bp_oil_spill","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"BP Oil Spill","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/bradley_manning","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Bradley Manning","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/britain","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Britain","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/burma","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Burma","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/bush","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Bush","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/cafta","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"CAFTA","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/california","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"California","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/campaign_finance","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Campaign Finance","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/canada","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Canada","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/cancn_climate_summit","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Canc\u00fan Climate Summit","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/catholic_church","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Catholic Church","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/central_park_five","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Central Park Five","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/chad","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Chad","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/chalmers_johnson","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Chalmers Johnson","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/charter_schools","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Charter Schools","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/chelsea_manning","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Chelsea Manning","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/chicago","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Chicago","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/chile","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Chile","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/china","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"China","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/citizens_united","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Citizens United","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/civil_rights","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Civil Rights","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/climate_change","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Climate Change","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/cmus","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"CMUs","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/coal","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Coal","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/cointelpro","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"COINTELPRO","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/colombia","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Colombia","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/colorado","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Colorado","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/columbus_day","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Columbus Day","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/congo","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Congo","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/connecticut","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Connecticut","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/copenhagen_climate_summit","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Copenhagen Climate Summit 2009","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/corporate_power","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Corporate Power","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/cuba","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Cuba","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/cuban_five","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Cuban Five","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/cyprus","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Cyprus","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/dadt","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"DADT","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/dalai_lama","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Dalai Lama","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/danny_chen","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Danny Chen","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/danziger_bridge","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Danziger Bridge","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/darfur","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Darfur","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/david_cay_johnston","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"David Cay Johnston","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/death_penalty","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Death Penalty","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/debt","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Debt","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/defense_of_marriage_act","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Defense of Marriage Act","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/deficit","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Deficit","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/democracy","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Democracy","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/democratic_party","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Democratic Party","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/dennis_brutus","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Dennis Brutus","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/detroit","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Detroit","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/dick_cheney","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Dick Cheney","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/disability_rights","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Disability Rights","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/dixie_chicks","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Dixie Chicks","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/dnc_2012","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"DNC 2012","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/qatar_climate_summit_2012","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Doha Climate Summit 2012","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/domestic_spying","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Domestic Spying","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/domestic_surveillance","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Domestic Surveillance","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/domestic_violence","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Domestic Violence","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/domestic_workers","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Domestic Workers","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/dont_ask_dont_tell","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Don't Ask Don't Tell Policy","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/donald_rumsfeld","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Donald Rumsfeld","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/dr_george_tiller","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Dr. George Tiller","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/dream_act","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"DREAM Act","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/drone_attacks","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Drone Attacks","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/drones","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Drones","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/drug_war","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Drug War","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/durban_climate_summit_2011","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Durban Climate Summit 2011","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/earth_day","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Earth Day","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/east_timor","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"East Timor","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/economy","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Economy","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/ecuador","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Ecuador","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/eddie_vedder","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Eddie Vedder","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/education","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Education","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/edward_snowden","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Edward Snowden","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/egypt","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Egypt","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/el_nino","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"El Nino","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/el_salvador","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"El Salvador","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/elections_2010","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Election 2010","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/election_2011","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Election 2011","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/election_2012","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Election 2012","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/elena_kagan","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Elena Kagan","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/environment","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Environment","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/ethiopia","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Ethiopia","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/expanding_the_debate","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Expanding The Debate","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/extraordinary_rendition","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Extraordinary Rendition","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/extreme_weather","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Extreme Weather","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/exxon_valdez_disaster","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Exxon Valdez Disaster","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/famine","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Famine","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/fbi","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"FBI","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/fcc","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"FCC","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/fda","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"FDA","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/fema","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"FEMA","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/film","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Film","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/financial_meltdown","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Financial Meltdown","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/florida","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Florida","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/food","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Food","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/foodstamps","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Food Stamps","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/france","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"France","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/freedom_of_the_press","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Freedom of the Press","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/fukushima","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Fukushima","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/gay_marriage","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Gay Marriage","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/gay_rights","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Gay Rights","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/gaza","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Gaza","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/flotilla","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Gaza Flotilla","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/georgia","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Georgia","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/global_warming","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Global Warming","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/goldman_sachs","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Goldman Sachs","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/goldstone","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Goldstone","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/greece","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Greece","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/green_party","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Green Party","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/green_scare","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Green Scare","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/green_zone","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Green Zone","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/ground_zero_workers","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Ground Zero workers","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/guam","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Guam","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/guantanamo","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Guantanamo","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/guatemala","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Guatemala","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/gun_control","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Gun Control","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/hacking","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Hacking","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/hacktivism","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Hacktivism","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/haiti","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Haiti","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/haiti_earthquake","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Haiti Earthquake","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/hamas","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Hamas","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/harry_belafonte","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Harry Belafonte","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/healthcare","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Healthcare","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/hiroshima","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Hiroshima","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/hiroshima_nagasaki","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Hiroshima Nagasaki","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/hiv","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"HIV","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/honduras","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Honduras","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/howard_zinn","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Howard Zinn","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/hugo_chavez","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Hugo Chavez","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/human_rights","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Human Rights","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/hunger_strike","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Hunger Strike","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/hurricane","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Hurricane","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/hurricane_katrina","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Hurricane Katrina","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/hurricane_sandy","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Hurricane Sandy","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/idaho","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Idaho","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/idle_no_more","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Idle No More","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/illinois","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Illinois","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/immigrant_rights","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Immigrant Rights","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/immigration","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Immigration","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/india","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"India","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/indiana","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Indiana","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/indigenous","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Indigenous","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/indonesia","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Indonesia","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/internet","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Internet","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/iowa","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Iowa","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/iran","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Iran","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/iraq","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Iraq","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/ireland","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Ireland","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/islam","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Islam","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/israel","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Israel","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/israel_and_palestine","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Israel & Palestine","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/italy","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Italy","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/ivory_coast","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Ivory Coast","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/japan","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Japan","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/jean_bertrand_aristide","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Jean-Bertrand Aristide","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/jeff_luers","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Jeff \"Free\" Luers","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/jeff_biggers","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Jeff Biggers","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/jeremy_hammond","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Jeremy Hammond","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/jeremy_scahill","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Jeremy Scahill","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/john_brennan","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"John Brennan","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/john_walker_lindh","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"John Walker Lindh","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/journalism","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Journalism","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/juan_cole","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Juan Cole","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/juan_gonzalez","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Juan Gonzalez","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/juan_manuel_garca_passalacqua","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Juan Manuel Garc\u00eda-Passalacqua","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/julian_assange","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Julian Assange","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/karl_rove","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Karl Rove","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/kashmir","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Kashmir","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/kenneth_chamberlain","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Kenneth Chamberlain","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/kenya","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Kenya","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/keystone_xl","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Keystone XL","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/koch_brothers","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Koch Brothers","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/labor","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Labor","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/laos","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Laos","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/latin_america","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Latin America","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/lebanon","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Lebanon","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/legistlation","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Legistlation","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/leonard_peltier","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Leonard Peltier","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/lgbt","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"LGBT","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/liberia","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Liberia","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/library","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Library","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/libya","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Libya","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/lobbying","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Lobbying","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/lobbyists","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Lobbyists","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/london","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"London","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/lori_berenson","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Lori Berenson","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/lou_dobbs","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Lou Dobbs","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/lpfm","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"LPFM","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/luis_posada_carriles","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Luis Posada Carriles","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/lynne_stewart","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Lynne Stewart","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/malcolm_x","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Malcolm X","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/maldives","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Maldives","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/mali","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Mali","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/manning_marable","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Manning Marable","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/march_on_washington","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"March on Washington","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/marijuana","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Marijuana","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/marriage_equality","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Marriage Equality","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/martin_luther_king","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Martin Luther King","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/media_analysis","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Media Analysis","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/media_consolidation","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Media Consolidation","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/media_policy","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Media Policy","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/medicaid","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Medicaid","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/medical_experimentation","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Medical Experimentation","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/medicare","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Medicare","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/mexico","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Mexico","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/michael_moore","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Michael Moore","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/michelle_bachmann","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Michele Bachmann","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/michigan","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Michigan","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/middle_class","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Middle Class","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/middle_east","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Middle East","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/military","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Military","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/military_industrial_complex","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Military Industrial Complex","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/military_industrial_complex","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Military-industrial complex","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/minnesota","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Minnesota","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/mississippi","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Mississippi","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/mitt_romney","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Mitt Romney","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/money_politics","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Money & Politics","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/monsanto","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Monsanto","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/montana","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Montana","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/mountaintop_removal","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Mountaintop Removal","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/muammar_gaddafi","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Muammar Gaddafi","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/mubarak","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Mubarak","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/mumia_abu_jamal","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Mumia Abu-Jamal","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/murdoch_media_scandal","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Murdoch Media Scandal","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/music","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Music","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/muslim","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Muslim","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/nagasaki","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Nagasaki","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/naomi_klein","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Naomi Klein","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/nasa","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"NASA","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/national_conference_for_media_reform","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"National Conference for Media Reform","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/nsa","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"National Security Agency","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/native_american","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Native American","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/nato","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"NATO","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/natural_gas_and_oil","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Natural Gas & Oil Drilling","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/ndaa","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"NDAA","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/nelson_mandela","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Nelson Mandela","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/net_neutrality","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Net Neutrality","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/nevada","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Nevada","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/new_jersey","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"New Jersey","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/new_mexico","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"New Mexico","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/new_orleans","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"New Orleans","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/new_york","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"New York","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/newtown_shooting","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Newtown Shooting","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/nigeria","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Nigeria","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/no_child_left_behind","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"No Child Left Behind","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/nobel_peace_prize","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Nobel Peace Prize","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/north_carolina","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"North Carolina","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/north_korea","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"North Korea","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/norway","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Norway","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/nra","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"NRA","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/nuclear_power","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Nuclear Power","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/nuclear_proliferation","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Nuclear Weapons","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/nypd_muslim_spy_program","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"NYPD Muslim Spy Program","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/obama","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Obama","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/occupy_wall_street","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Occupy Wall Street","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/ocean","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Ocean","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/offshore_drilling","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Offshore Drilling","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/ohio","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Ohio","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/olympics","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Olympics","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/open_source","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Open Source","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/osama_bin_laden","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Osama bin Laden","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/oscar_grant","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Oscar Grant","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/oscars_2010","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Oscars","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/osha","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"OSHA","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/pakistan","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Pakistan","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/palestine","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Palestine","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/paraguay","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Paraguay","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/paul_ryan","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Paul Ryan","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/peace","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Peace","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/pennsylvania","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Pennsylvania","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/pentagon","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Pentagon","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/peru","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Peru","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/pete_seeger","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Pete Seeger","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/philippines","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Philippines","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/pipeline","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Pipeline","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/police","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Police","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/police_brutality","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Police Brutality","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/poverty","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Poverty","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/pr_industry","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"PR Industry","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/prison","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Prison","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/privacy","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Privacy","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/private_contractors","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Private Contractors","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/privatization","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Privatization","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/protests","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Protests","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/psychology_and_justice","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Psychology and Justice","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/ptsd","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"PTSD","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/puerto_rico","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Puerto Rico","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/pussy_riot","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Pussy Riot","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/qatar","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Qatar","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/race_in_america","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Race in America","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/rachel_corrie","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Rachel Corrie","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/racism","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Racism","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/rape","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Rape","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/red_cross","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Red Cross","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/regulation","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Regulation","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/religion","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Religion","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/republican","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Republican","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/republican_party","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Republican Party","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/rick_perry","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Rick Perry","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/right_livelihood_award","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Right Livelihood Award","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/right_wing_militias","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Right-wing Militias","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/rio_20","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Rio+20","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/rnc_2008","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"RNC 2008","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/rnc_2012","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"RNC 2012","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/robert_redford","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Robert Redford","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/ronald_reagan","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Ronald Reagan","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/russia","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Russia","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/rwanda","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Rwanda","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/saudi_arabia","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Saudi Arabia","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/school_of_the_americas","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"School of the Americas","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/sec","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"SEC","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/secure_communities","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Secure Communities","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/september_11","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"September 11","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/sex_workers","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Sex Workers","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/sexual_assault","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Sexual Assault","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/sharif_kouddous","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Sharif Abdel Kouddous","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/shirley_sherrod","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Shirley Sherrod","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/sikh","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Sikh","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/social_media","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Social Media","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/social_security","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Social Security","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/soldier_suicides","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Soldier Suicides","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/solitary_confinement","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Solitary Confinement","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/somalia","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Somalia","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/south_africa","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"South Africa","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/south_korea","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"South Korea","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/spain","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Spain","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/sports","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Sports & Politics","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/state_of_the_union","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"State of the Union","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/steubenville","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Steubenville","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/stop_frisk","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Stop-and-Frisk","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/student_loans","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Student Loans","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/students","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Students","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/sudan","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Sudan","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/suicide","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Suicide","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/sundance_film_festival","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Sundance Film Festival","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/supreme_court","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Supreme Court","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/syria","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Syria","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/tar_sands","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Tar Sands","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/tax_havens","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Tax Havens","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/tax_protest","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Tax Protest","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/tax_reform","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Tax Reform","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/taxes","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Taxes","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/tea_party","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Tea Party","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/telecommunications","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Telecommunications","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/texas","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Texas","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/thailand","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Thailand","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/tibet","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Tibet","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/torture","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Torture","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/trans_pacific_partnership","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Trans-Pacific Partnership","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/trayvon_martin","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Trayvon Martin","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/troy_davis","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Troy Davis","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/tuition","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Tuition","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/tunisia","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Tunisia","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/turkey","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Turkey","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/us_economy","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"U.S. Economy","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/us_hikers","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"U.S. Hikers Freed from Iran","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/us_labor_protests","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"U.S. Labor Protests","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/us_social_forum","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"U.S. Social Forum","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/uganda","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Uganda","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/ukraine","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Ukraine","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/undocumented","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Undocumented","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/unemployment","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Unemployment","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/unions","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Unions","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/united_nations","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"United Nations","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/uranium","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Uranium","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/uraguay","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Uruguay","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/usa_patriot_act","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"USA PATRIOT Act","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/usps","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"USPS","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/utah","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Utah","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/venezuela","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Venezuela","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/verizon","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Verizon","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/vermont","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Vermont","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/vermont_yankee","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Vermont Yankee","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/veterans","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Veterans","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/vietnam","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Vietnam","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/voting","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Voting","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/wall_street","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Wall Street","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/walmart","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Walmart","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/wangari_maathai","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Wangari Maathai","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/war","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"War","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/war_on_terror","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"War on Terror","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/warsaw_climate_summit_2013","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Warsaw Climate Summit 2013","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/water","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Water","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/wells_fargo","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Wells Fargo","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/west_memphis_three","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"West Memphis Three","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/west_papua","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"West Papua","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/western_sahara","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Western Sahara","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/whistleblowers","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Whistleblowers","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/white_power","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"White Power","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/wikileaks","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Wikileaks","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/wiretapping","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Wiretapping","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/wisconsin","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Wisconsin","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/wisconsin_sikh_temple_shooting","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Wisconsin Sikh Temple Shooting","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/womens_health","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Women's Health","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/womens_rights","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Women's Rights ","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/womens_rights","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Women\u2019s Rights","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/working_class","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Working Class","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/world_peoples_summit_on_climate_change","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"World Peoples' Summit on Climate Change","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/wto","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"WTO","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"},{"link":"/topics/yemen","data-clicky-title":"Widget: Find A Topic","label":"Yemen","data-clicky-href":"#widget/topics/find"}]
