=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
George Armstrong Custer (December 5, 1839 – June 25, 1876) was a United States Army officer and cavalry commander in the American Civil War and the American Indian Wars. Raised in Michigan and Ohio, Custer was admitted to West Point in 1858, where he graduated last in his class. With the outbreak of the Civil War, Custer was called to serve with the Union Army.
Custer developed a strong reputation during the Civil War. He fought in the first major engagement, the First Battle of Bull Run. His association with several important officers helped his career, as did his success as a highly effective cavalry commander. Custer was eventually promoted to the temporary rank (brevet) of major general and promoted major general of Volunteers. (At war's end, he reverted to his permanent rank of captain.) At the conclusion of the Appomattox Campaign, in which he and his troops played a decisive role, Custer was present at General Robert E. Lee's surrender.
After the Civil War, Custer was dispatched to the west to fight in the American Indian Wars. Custer and all the men with him were killed at the Battle of the Little Bighorn in 1876, fighting against a coalition of Native American tribes in a battle that has come to be popularly known in American history as "Custer's Last Stand." Custer and his men were defeated so decisively in this battle that the Battle of the Little Bighorn has overshadowed all his prior achievements.
Custer's ancestors, Paulus and Gertrude Küster, emigrated to North America around 1693 from the Rhineland in Germany, probably among thousands of Palatine refugees whose passage was arranged by the English government to gain settlers.[1][2]
According to family letters, Custer was named after George Armstrong, a minister, in his devout father's hope that his son might join the clergy.[3]
Custer was born in New Rumley, Ohio, to Emanuel Henry Custer (1806–1892), a farmer and blacksmith, and Marie Ward Kirkpatrick (1807–1882).[4] He had two younger brothers, Thomas Custer and Boston Custer, who both died with him on the battlefield at Little Bighorn. His other full siblings were the family's youngest child, Margaret Custer, and Nevin Custer, who suffered from asthma and rheumatism. Custer also had several older half-siblings.[5]
Throughout his life Custer was known by a variety of nicknames. He was called "Autie" (his early attempt to pronounce his middle name) and Armstrong. During the Civil War, Custer was frequently termed "The Boy General" in the press, reflecting his promotion to brigadier general at the age of 23; during his years on the Great Plains in the American Indian Wars, his troopers often referred to him with grudging admiration as "Iron Butt" and "Hard Ass" for his physical stamina in the saddle and his strict discipline, as well as with the more derisive "Ringlets" for his vanity about his appearance in general and his long, curling blond hair in particular.[6]
Custer spent much of his boyhood living with his half-sister and brother-in-law in Monroe, Michigan, where he attended school. Before entering the United States Military Academy, Custer attended the McNeely Normal School, later known as Hopedale Normal College, in Hopedale, Ohio. While attending Hopedale, Custer, together with classmate William Enos Emery, was known to have carried coal to help pay for their room and board. After graduating from McNeely Normal School in 1856, Custer taught school in Cadiz, Ohio.[7]
Custer graduated as the last of 34 cadets[8] Custer had entered the U.S. Military Academy in June 1857, a member of the class of 1862 (subsequently graduated out as a class one year early, due to the outbreak of the American Civil War). His cadetship remains renowned (to the layman, almost apocryphal) in West Point history. As practiced throughout his life, Custer tested boundaries and rules. In his four years, he amassed a record-total of 726 demerits, one of the worst conduct records in the academy’s annals. A fellow cadet recalled Custer as declaring there were only two places in a class, the head and the foot, and since he had no desire to be the head, he aspired to be the foot. A roommate noted, It was all right with George Custer, whether he knew his lesson or not: he simply did not allow it to trouble him.[9] Under ordinary national conditions, Custer's low class rank would represent a ticket to an obscure posting, but Custer had the ironic fortune to graduate as the Civil War broke out. Custer's tenure at the Academy had been rocky, as he came close to expulsion in each of his three years due to excessive demerits, many from pulling pranks on fellow cadets.[citation needed]
Second Lieutenant George A. Custer had his photo taken with ex-classmate, friend, and captured Confederate prisoner, Lt. J.B. Washington, an aide to General Johnston, at Fair Oaks, Virginia, 1862
Custer was commissioned a second lieutenant in the 2nd U.S. Cavalry and immediately joined his regiment at the First Battle of Bull Run, where Army commander Winfield Scott detailed him to carry messages to Major General Irvin McDowell. After the battle, he was assigned to the 5th U.S. Cavalry, with which he served through the early days of the Peninsula Campaign in 1862.
It was as a staff officer for Major General George B. McClellan that Custer was promoted to the rank of captain. On May 24, 1862, during the pursuit of Confederate General Joseph E. Johnston up the Peninsula, when General Barnard and his staff were reconnoitering a potential crossing point on the Chickahominy River, they stopped, and Custer overheard his commander mutter to himself, "I wish I knew how deep it is." Custer dashed forward on his horse out to the middle of the river and turned to the astonished officers of the staff and shouted triumphantly, "That's how deep it is, Mr General!" Custer then was allowed to lead an attack with four companies of the 4th Michigan Infantry across the Chickahominy River above New Bridge. The attack was successful, resulting in the capture of 50 Confederate soldiers and the seizing of the first Confederate battle flag of the war. Major General McClellan, commander of the Army of the Potomac, termed it a "very gallant affair", congratulated Custer personally, and brought him onto his staff as an aide-de-camp with the temporary rank of captain. In this role, Custer began his life-long pursuit of publicity.[10]
Custer (extreme right) with President Lincoln, George B. McClellan and other officers at the Battle of Antietam, 1862
When McClellan was relieved of command in November 1862, Custer reverted to the rank of first lieutenant. Custer fell into the orbit of Major General Alfred Pleasonton, who was commanding a cavalry division. The general was Custer's introduction to the world of extravagant uniforms and political maneuvering, and the young lieutenant became his protégé, serving on Pleasonton's staff while continuing his assignment with his regiment. Custer was quoted as saying that "no father could love his son more than General Pleasonton loves me." After the Battle of Chancellorsville, Pleasonton became the commander of the Cavalry Corps of the Army of the Potomac and his first assignment was to locate the army of Robert E. Lee, moving north through the Shenandoah Valley in the beginning of the Gettysburg Campaign. In his first command, Custer affected a showy, personalized uniform style that alienated his men, but he won them over with his readiness to lead attacks (a contrast to the many officers who would hang back, hoping to avoid being hit); his men began to adopt elements of his uniform, especially the red neckerchief. Custer distinguished himself by fearless, aggressive actions in some of the numerous cavalry engagements that started off the campaign, including Brandy Station and Aldie.
On June 28, 1863, three days prior to the Battle of Gettysburg, General Pleasonton promoted Custer from captain to brigadier general of volunteers.[8] Despite having no direct command experience, he became one of the youngest generals in the Union Army at age 23. Two other captains—Wesley Merritt and Elon J. Farnsworth—were promoted along with Custer, although they did have command experience. Custer lost no time in implanting his aggressive character on his brigade, part of the division of Brigadier General Judson Kilpatrick. He fought against the Confederate cavalry of Major General J.E.B. Stuart at Hanover and Hunterstown, on the way to the main event at Gettysburg.[citation needed]
Custer's style of battle was often claimed to be reckless or foolhardy, but military planning was always the basis of every Custer "dash". As Marguerite Merrington explains in The Custer Story in Letters, "George Custer meticulously scouted every battlefield, gauged the enemies [sic] weak points and strengths, ascertained the best line of attack and only after he was satisfied was the 'Custer Dash' with a Michigan yell focused with complete surprise on the enemy in routing them every time."[11] One of his greatest attributes during the Civil War was what Custer wrote of as "luck" and he needed it to survive some of these charges.[citation needed]
Custer established a reputation as an aggressive cavalry brigade commander willing to take personal risks by leading his Michigan Brigade into battle, such as the mounted charges at Hunterstown and East Cavalry Field at the Battle of Gettysburg. At Hunterstown, in an ill-considered charge ordered by Kilpatrick against the brigade of Wade Hampton, Custer fell from his wounded horse directly before the enemy and became the target of numerous enemy rifles. He was rescued by Norville Churchill of the 1st Michigan Cavalry, who galloped up, shot Custer's nearest assailant, and allowed Custer to mount behind him for a dash to safety.[citation needed]
One of Custer's finest hours in the Civil War occurred just east of Gettysburg on July 3, 1863. In conjunction with Pickett's Charge to the west, Robert E. Lee had dispatched Stuart's cavalry on a mission into the rear of the Union Army. Custer encountered the Union cavalry division of Brigadier General David McMurtrie Gregg directly in the path of Stuart's horsemen. He convinced Gregg to allow him to stay and fight, while his own division was stationed to the south out of the action. At East Cavalry Field, hours of charges and hand-to-hand combat ensued. Custer led a mounted charge of the 1st Michigan Cavalry, breaking the back of the Confederate assault. Custer's brigade lost 257 men at Gettysburg, the highest loss of any Union cavalry brigade.[12] "I challenge the annals of warfare to produce a more brilliant or successful charge of cavalry", Custer wrote in his report.[13]
Custer married Elizabeth Clift Bacon (1842–1933) (whom he first saw when he was ten years old)[14] on February 9, 1864. He had been socially introduced to her in November 1862, when home in Monroe on leave. She was not initially impressed with him,[15] and her father, Judge Daniel Bacon, disapproved of Custer as a match because he was the son of a blacksmith. It was not until well after Custer had been promoted to the rank of brevet brigadier general that he gained the approval of Judge Bacon. He married Elizabeth Bacon fourteen months after they formally met.[16]
Following the Battle of Washita River in November 1868, Custer was alleged (by Captain Frederick Benteen, chief of scouts Ben Clark, and Cheyenne oral tradition) to have unofficially married Mo-nah-se-tah, daughter of the Cheyenne chief Little Rock in the winter or early spring of 1868–1869. (Little Rock was killed in the Washita battle.)[17] Mo-nah-se-tah gave birth to a child in January 1869, two months after the Washita battle. Cheyenne oral history tells that she also bore a second child, fathered by Custer in late 1869. Some historians, however, believe that Custer had become sterile after contracting gonorrhea while at West Point and that the father was, in actuality, his brother Thomas.[18]
In 1864, with the Cavalry Corps of the Army of the Potomac reorganized under the command of Major General Philip Sheridan, Custer (now commanding the 3rd Division) led his "Wolverines" to the Shenandoah Valley where by the year's end they defeated the army of Confederate Lieutenant General Jubal A. Early in the Valley Campaigns of 1864. During May and June, Sheridan and Custer took part in cavalry actions supporting the Overland Campaign, including the Battle of the Wilderness (after which Custer ascended to division command), and the Battle of Yellow Tavern (where J.E.B. Stuart was mortally wounded). In the largest all-cavalry engagement of the war, the Battle of Trevilian Station, in which Sheridan sought to destroy the Virginia Central Railroad and the Confederates' western resupply route, Custer captured Hampton's divisional train, but was then cut off and suffered heavy losses (including having his division's trains overrun and his personal baggage captured by the enemy) before being relieved. When Lieutenant General Early was then ordered to move down the Shenandoah Valley and threaten Washington, D.C., Custer's division was again dispatched under Sheridan. In the Valley Campaigns of 1864, they pursued the Confederates at the Third Battle of Winchester and effectively destroyed Early's army during Sheridan's counterattack at Cedar Creek.
Sheridan and Custer, having defeated Early, returned to the main Union Army lines at the Siege of Petersburg, where they spent the winter. In April 1865 the Confederate lines finally broke, and Robert E. Lee began his retreat to Appomattox Court House, pursued by the Union cavalry. Custer distinguished himself by his actions at Waynesboro, Dinwiddie Court House, and Five Forks. His division blocked Lee's retreat on its final day and received the first flag of truce from the Confederate force. Custer was present at the surrender at Appomattox Court House and the table upon which the surrender was signed was presented to him as a gift for his wife by General Sheridan, who included a note to her praising Custer's gallantry. She treasured the gift of the historical table, which is now in the Smithsonian Institution.[19]
Before the close of the war Custer received brevet promotions to brigadier general and major general in the regular army (March 13, 1865) and major general of volunteers (April 15, 1865).[8] As with most wartime promotions, even when issued under the regular army, these senior ranks were only temporary.
In June 1865, at Sheridan's behest, Custer accepted command of the 2nd Division of Cavalry, Military Division of the Southwest, to march from Alexandria, Louisiana, to Hempstead, Texas, as part of the Union occupation forces. Custer arrived at Alexandria on June 27 and began assembling his units, which took more than a month to gather and remount. Accompanied by his wife, he led the division (five regiments of veteran Western Theater cavalrymen) to Texas on an arduous 18-day march in August. In October he moved the division to Austin, when he became Chief of Cavalry for the Department of Texas, succeeding Major General Wesley Merritt.
During his entire period of command of the division, Custer encountered considerable friction and near mutiny from the volunteer cavalry regiments who had campaigned along the Gulf coast. They desired to be mustered out of Federal service rather than continue campaigning, resented imposition of discipline (particularly from an Eastern Theater general), and considered Custer nothing more than a vain dandy.[20][21]
Custer's division was mustered out beginning in November 1865, replaced by the regulars of the U.S. 6th Cavalry Regiment. Although their occupation of Austin had apparently been pleasant, many veterans harbored deep resentments against Custer, particularly in the 2nd Wisconsin Cavalry, because of his attempts to maintain discipline. Upon its mustering out, several members planned to ambush Custer, but he was warned the night before and the attempt thwarted.[22]
On February 1, 1866, Custer was mustered out of the volunteer service and returned to his permanent rank of captain in the 5th Cavalry. Custer took an extended leave, exploring options in New York City,[23] where he considered careers in railroads and mining.[24] Offered a position (and $10,000 in gold) as adjutant general of the army of Benito Juárez of Mexico, who was then in a struggle with the Mexican Emperor Maximilian I (a satellite ruler of French Emperor Napoleon III), Custer applied for a one-year leave of absence from the U.S. Army, which was endorsed by Grant and Secretary of War Stanton. Sheridan and Mrs. Custer disapproved, however, and when his request for leave was opposed by U.S. Secretary of State William H. Seward, who was against having an American officer commanding foreign troops, Custer refused the alternative of resignation from the Army to take the lucrative post.[24][25]
Following the death of his father-in-law in May 1866, Custer returned to Monroe, Michigan, where he considered running for Congress. He took part in public discussion over the treatment of the American South in the aftermath of the Civil War, advocating a policy of moderation.[24] He was named head of the Soldiers and Sailors Union, regarded as a response to the hyper-partisan Grand Army of the Republic (GAR). Also formed in 1866, it was led by Republican activist John Alexander Logan. In September 1866 Custer accompanied President Andrew Johnson on a journey by train known as the "Swing Around the Circle" to build up public support for Johnson's policies towards the South. Custer denied a charge by the newspapers that Johnson had promised him a colonel's commission in return for his support, but Custer had written to Johnson some weeks before seeking such a commission. Custer and his wife stayed with the president during most of the trip. At one point Custer confronted a small group of Ohio men who repeatedly jeered Johnson, saying to them: "I was born two miles and a half from here, but I am ashamed of you."[26]
Custer was appointed lieutenant colonel of the newly created U.S. 7th Cavalry Regiment,[27] headquartered at Fort Riley, Kansas.[28] As a result of a plea by his patron General Philip Sheridan, Custer was also appointed brevet major general.[27] He took part in Major General Winfield Scott Hancock's expedition against the Cheyenne in 1867. On June 26, 1867 Lt. Lyman Kidder's party, made up of ten troopers and one scout, were massacred while in route to Fort Wallace. Lt. Kidder was to deliver dispatches to Custer from General William Sherman, but his party was attacked by Lakota Sioux and Cheyenne (see Kidder massacre). Days later, Custer and a search party found the bodies of Kidder's patrol.
Following the Hancock campaign, Custer was court-martialed at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas for being AWOL, after having abandoned his post to see his wife. He was suspended from duty for one year. At the request of Major General Philip Sheridan, who wanted Custer for his planned winter campaign against the Cheyenne, Custer was allowed to return to duty in 1868, before his term of suspension had expired.
Under Sheridan's orders, Custer took part in establishing Camp Supply in Indian Territory in early November 1868 as a supply base for the winter campaign. Custer led the 7th U.S. Cavalry in an attack on the Cheyenne encampment of Black Kettle—the Battle of Washita River on November 27, 1868. Custer reported killing 103 warriors; estimates by the Cheyenne of their casualties were substantially lower (11 warriors plus 19 women and children);[29] some women and children were also killed, and US troops took 53 women and children prisoner. Custer had his men shoot most of the 875 Indian ponies they had captured. The Battle of Washita River was regarded as the first substantial U.S. victory in the Southern Plains War, and it helped force a significant portion of the Southern Cheyennes onto a U.S.-assigned reservation.
In 1873, Custer was sent to the Dakota Territory to protect a railroad survey party against the Lakota. On August 4, 1873, near the Tongue River, Custer and the 7th U.S. Cavalry clashed for the first time with the Lakota. Only one man on each side was killed. In 1874, Custer led an expedition into the Black Hills and announced the discovery of gold on French Creek near present-day Custer, South Dakota. Custer's announcement triggered the Black Hills Gold Rush. Among the towns that immediately grew up was Deadwood, South Dakota, notorious for lawlessness.
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2013)
The expedition against the Sioux was originally scheduled to leave Fort Abraham Lincoln on April 6, 1876, but on March 15, Custer was summoned to Washington to testify at Congressional hearings regarding the kickback scandal involving U.S. Secretary of War William W. Belknap (who had resigned March 2), President Grant's brother Orville, and traders at Army posts in Indian Country who were charging troops double what they would have paid for the same goods in Bismarck. Soldiers were required by regulations to purchase goods from the traders. Belknap sold trading post positions for kickbacks.[30] After Custer testified on March 29 and April 4 before the Clymer Committee, Belknap was impeached and sent to the Senate for trial. Custer left Washington on April 20, but instead of immediately returning to Fort Lincoln, he visited the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia and planned to travel to New York to meet with publishers.[citation needed]
Custer's testimony was a sensation because of what he said and because he was the one saying it. Custer was sharply criticized by the Republican press and praised by Democratic editors.[31] President Grant held up Custer's departure from Washington. Grant and Custer did not get along. Earlier Custer had arrested Grant's son, Fred Grant, for drunkenness. Now Custer was accusing Grant's brother and Secretary of War of corruption. Custer was writing magazine articles criticizing Grant's peace policy towards the Indians. Brigadier General Alfred Terry determined there were no available officers of rank to take command, but Sherman refused to intercede. Stunned that he would not be in command, Custer approached the impeachment managers and secured his release. General Sherman advised Custer not to leave Washington before meeting personally with President Grant. Three times Custer requested meetings with Grant, but was always turned down. Custer gave up and took a train to Chicago on May 2, planning to rejoin his regiment.[32]
On May 3 a member of Sheridan's staff greeted Custer in Chicago. President Grant had ordered Custer's arrest for leaving Washington without permission. President Grant had designated General Terry to command the expedition in Custer's place. Custer took a train to St. Paul to meet General Terry.[31]
Brigadier General Terry met Custer in Fort Snelling, Minnesota on May 6. He later recalled, "(Custer) with tears in his eyes, begged for my aid. How could I resist it?"[citation needed]. Terry wrote to Grant attesting to the advantages of Custer's leading the expedition. Sheridan endorsed his effort, accepting Custer's "guilt" and suggesting his restraint in future. Grant was already under pressure for his treatment of Custer. His administration worried that if the "Sioux campaign" failed without Custer, Grant would be blamed for ignoring the recommendations of senior Army officers. On May 8 Custer was informed at Fort Snelling that he was to lead the 7th Cavalry, but under Terry's direct supervision.
Before leaving Fort Snelling, Custer spoke to General Terry's chief engineer, Captain Ludlow, saying he would "cut loose" from Terry and operate independently from him. Custer presented Bloody Knife, his Rhee scout with several gifts. Custer told Bloody Knife and some Arikara scouts that this would be his last Indian campaign. Custer further stated that if the scouts helped him win a victory, he would become president and look after the Arikaras from the White House.[33]
By the time of Custer's expedition to the Black Hills in 1874, the level of conflict and tension between the U.S. and many of the Plains Indians tribes (including the Lakota Sioux and the Cheyenne) had become exceedingly high. Americans continually broke treaty agreements and advanced further westward, resulting in violence and acts of depredation by both sides. To take possession of the Black Hills (and thus the gold deposits), and to stop Indian attacks, the U.S. decided to corral all remaining free Plains Indians. The Grant government set a deadline of January 31, 1876 for all Lakota and Arapaho wintering in the "unceded territory" to report to their designated agencies (reservations) or be considered "hostile".[34]
The 7th Cavalry departed from Fort Lincoln on May 17, 1876, part of a larger army force planning to round up remaining free Indians. Meanwhile, in the spring and summer of 1876, the Hunkpapa Lakota holy man Sitting Bull had called together the largest ever gathering of Plains Indians at Ash Creek, Montana (later moved to the Little Bighorn River) to discuss what to do about the whites.[35] It was this united encampment of Lakota, Northern Cheyenne, and Arapaho Indians that the 7th met at the Battle of the Little Bighorn.
On June 25, some of Custer's Crow Indian scouts identified what they claimed was a large Indian encampment along the Little Bighorn River. Custer divided his forces into three battalions: one led by Major Marcus Reno, one by Captain Frederick Benteen, and one by himself. Captain Thomas M. McDougall and Company B were with the pack train. Benteen was sent south and west, to cut off any attempted escape by the Indians, Reno was sent north to charge the southern end of the encampment, and Custer rode north, hidden to the east of the encampment by bluffs, and planning to circle around and attack from the north.[36][37]
Reno began a charge on the southern end of the village, but halted some 500–600 yards short of the camp, and had his men dismount and form a skirmish line.[38] They were soon overcome by mounted Lakota and Cheyenne warriors who counterattacked en masse against Reno's exposed left flank,[39] forcing Reno and his men to take cover in the trees along the river. Eventually, however, this position became untenable and the troopers were forced into a bloody retreat up onto the bluffs above the river, where they made their own stand.[40][41] This, the opening action of the battle, cost Reno a quarter of his command.
Custer may have seen Reno stop and form a skirmish line as Custer led his command to the northern end of the main encampment, where he apparently planned to sandwich the Indians between his attacking troopers and Reno's command in a "hammer and anvil" maneuver.[42] According to Grinnell's account, based on the testimony of the Cheyenne warriors who survived the fight,[43] at least part of Custer's command attempted to ford the river at the north end of the camp but were driven off by stiff resistance from Indian sharpshooters firing from the brush along the west bank of the river. From that point the soldiers were pursued by hundreds of warriors onto a ridge north of the encampment. Custer and his command were prevented from digging in by Crazy Horse, however, whose warriors had outflanked him and were now to his north, at the crest of the ridge.[44] Traditional white accounts attribute to Gall the attack that drove Custer up onto the ridge, but Indian witnesses have disputed that account.[45]
For a time, Custer's men appear to have been deployed by company, in standard cavalry fighting formation—the skirmish line, with every fourth man holding the horses, though this arrangement would have robbed Custer of a quarter of his firepower. Worse, as the fight intensified, many soldiers could have taken to holding their own horses or hobbling them, further reducing the 7th's effective fire. When Crazy Horse and White Bull mounted the charge that broke through the center of Custer's lines, pandemonium may have broken out among the soldiers of Calhoun's command,[47] though Myles Keogh's men seem to have fought and died where they stood. According to some Lakota accounts, many of the panicking soldiers threw down their weapons[48] and either rode or ran towards the knoll where Custer, the other officers, and about 40 men were making a stand. Along the way, the warriors rode them down, counting coup by striking the fleeing troopers with their quirts or lances.[49]
Initially, Custer had 208 officers and men under his command, with an additional 142 under Reno, just over 100 under Benteen, 50 soldiers with Captain McDougall's rearguard, and 84 soldiers under 1st Lieutenant Edward Gustave Mathey with the pack train. The Lakota-Cheyenne coalition may have fielded over 1800 warriors.[50] Historian Gregory Michno settles on a low number around 1000 based on contemporary Lakota testimony, but other sources place the number at 1800 or 2000, especially in the works by Utley and Fox. The 1800–2000 figure is substantially lower than the higher numbers of 3000 or more postulated by Ambrose, Gray, Scott, and others. Some of the other participants in the battle gave these estimates:
As the troopers were cut down, the native warriors stripped the dead of their firearms and ammunition, with the result that the return fire from the cavalry steadily decreased, while the fire from the Indians constantly increased. The surviving troopers apparently shot their remaining horses to use as breastworks for a final stand on the knoll at the north end of the ridge. The warriors closed in for the final attack and killed every man in Custer's command. As a result, the Battle of the Little Bighorn has come to be popularly known as "Custer's Last Stand".
Some eyewitness reports state that Custer was not identified until after his death by the Indians who killed him.[citation needed] Several individuals claimed personal responsibility for the killing, including White Bull of the Miniconjous, Rain-in-the-Face, Flat Lip and Brave Bear.[52] In June 2005 at a public meeting, the Northern Cheyenne broke more than 100 years of silence about the battle. Storytellers said that according to their oral tradition, Buffalo Calf Road Woman, a Northern Cheyenne heroine of the Battle of the Rosebud, struck the final blow against Custer, which knocked him off his horse before he died.[53]
A contrasting version of Custer's death is suggested by the testimony of an Oglala named Joseph White Cow Bull, according to novelist and Custer biographer Evan Connell, who relates that Joseph White Bull stated he had shot a rider at the riverside wearing a buckskin jacket and big hat when the soldiers first approached the village from the east. The initial force facing the soldiers, according to this version, was quite small (possibly as few as four warriors) yet challenged Custer's command. The rider who was hit, mounted next to a rider who bore a flag, had shouted orders that prompted the soldiers to attack, but when the buckskin-clad rider fell off his horse after being shot, many of the attackers reined up. The allegation that the buckskin-clad officer was Custer, if accurate, might explain the supposed rapid disintegration of Custer's forces.[54] However, several other officers of the Seventh, including William Cooke and Tom Custer, were also dressed in buckskin on the day of the battle, and the fact that each of the non-mutilation wounds to Custer's body (a bullet wound below the heart and a shot to the left temple) would have been instantly fatal casts doubt on his being wounded or killed at the ford, more than a mile from where his body was found.[55] The circumstances are, however, consistent with David Humphreys Miller's suggestion that Custer's attendants would not have left his dead body behind to be desecrated.[56]
During the 1920s, two elderly Cheyenne women spoke briefly with oral historians about their having recognized Custer's body on the battlefield, and had stopped a Sioux warrior from desecrating the body. The women were relatives of Mo-nah-se-tah, who was alleged to have been Custer's one-time lover. In the Cheyenne culture of the time, such a relationship was considered a marriage. The women allegedly told the warrior to "Stop, he is a relative of ours," and then shooed him away. The two women then shoved their sewing awls into his ears, to permit Custer's corpse to 'hear better in the afterlife' because he had broken his promise to Chief Stone Forehead never to fight against Native Americans again.[57]
When the main column under General Terry arrived two days later, the army found most of the soldiers' corpses stripped, scalped, and mutilated.[58] Custer's body had two bullet holes, one in the left temple and one just above the heart.[59] Capt. Benteen, who inspected the body, stated that in his opinion the fatal injuries had not been the result of .45 caliber ammunition, which implies the bullet holes had been caused by ranged rifle fire.[60]
Following the recovery of Custer's body and that of his brother Tom, the remains were buried on the battlefield side by side in a shallow grave, after being covered by pieces of tent canvas and blankets.[61] One year later, Custer's remains and those of many of his officers were recovered and sent back east for reinterment in more formal burials. Custer was buried again with full military honors at West Point Cemetery on October 10, 1877. The battle site was designated a National Cemetery in 1876.
After his death, Custer achieved the lasting fame that he had sought on the battlefield. The public saw him as a tragic military hero and exemplary gentleman who sacrificed his life for his country. Custer's wife, Elizabeth, who had accompanied him in many of his frontier expeditions, did much to advance this view with the publication of several books about her late husband: Boots and Saddles, Life with General Custer in Dakota (1885), Tenting on the Plains (1887), and Following the Guidon (1891). Lt. Col. Custer wrote about the American Indian Wars in My Life on the Plains (1874).
The deaths of Custer and his troops became the best-known episode in the history of the American Indian Wars, due in part to a painting commissioned by the brewery Anheuser-Busch as part of an advertising campaign. The enterprising company ordered reprints of a dramatic work that depicted “Custer's Last Stand” and had them framed and hung in many United States saloons. This created lasting impressions of the battle and the brewery’s products in the minds of many bar patrons.[62]
Custer has been called a "media personality",[63][64] and he did value good public relations in addition to leveraging the print media of his era effectively. He frequently invited journalists to accompany his campaigns (one, Associated Press reporter Mark Kellogg, died at the Little Bighorn), and their favorable reporting contributed to his high reputation, which lasted well into the 20th century. He paid attention to his image; after being promoted to brigadier general in the Civil War, Custer sported a uniform that included shiny cavalry boots, tight olive-colored corduroy trousers, a wide-brimmed slouch hat, tight hussar jacket of black velveteen with silver piping on the sleeves, a sailor shirt with silver stars on his collar, and a red cravat. He wore his hair in long ringlets liberally sprinkled with cinnamon-scented hair oil. Later, in his campaigns against the Indians, Custer wore a buckskins outfit, along with his familiar red tie.[65]
The assessment of Custer's actions during the American Indian Wars has undergone substantial reconsideration in modern times. Documenting the arc of popular perception in his 1984 biography Son of the Morning Star, author Evan Connell notes the reverential tone of Custer's first biographer Frederick Whittaker (whose book was rushed out the year of Custer's death.)[66] Henry Wadsworth Longfellow wrote an adoring (and often erroneous) poem.[67] President Theodore Roosevelt's lavish praise pleased Custer's widow.[68] Connell concludes:
"These days it is stylish to denigrate the general, whose stock sells for nothing. Nineteenth-century Americans thought differently. At that time he was a cavalier without fear and beyond reproach."[61]
President Grant, a highly successful general, bluntly criticized Custer's actions in the battle of the Little Bighorn. Quoted in the New York Herald on September 2, 1876, Grant said, "I regard Custer's Massacre as a sacrifice of troops, brought on by Custer himself, that was wholly unnecessary – wholly unnecessary."[69] General Phillip Sheridan likewise took a harsh view of Custer's final military actions. General Nelson Miles (who inherited Custer's mantle of famed Indian fighter) and others praised him as a fallen hero betrayed by the incompetence of subordinate officers. Miles noted the difficulty of winning a fight "with seven-twelfths of the command remaining out of the engagement when within sound of his rifle shots."[70] The controversy over blame for the disaster at Little Bighorn continues to this day. Major Marcus Reno's failure to press his attack on the south end of the Lakota/Cheyenne village and his flight to the timber along the river after a single casualty have been cited as a causal factor in the destruction of Custer's battalion, as has Captain Frederick Benteen's allegedly tardy arrival on the field and the failure of the two officers' combined forces to move toward the relief of Custer.
"When writing about Custer, neutral ground is elusive. What should Custer have done at any of the critical junctures that rapidly presented themselves, each now the subject of endless speculation and rumination? There will always be a variety of opinions based upon what Custer knew, what he did not know, and what he could not have known..."
—from Touched by Fire: The Life, Death, and Mythic Afterlife of George Armstrong Custer by Louise Barnett.[69]
In contrast, some of Custer's critics, including General Sheridan, have asserted several clear tactical errors.[citation needed]
While camped at Powder River, Custer refused the support offered by General Terry on June 21, of an additional four companies of the Second Cavalry. Custer stated that he "could whip any Indian village on the Plains" with his own regiment, and that extra troops would simply be a burden.
At the same time, he left behind at the steamer Far West on the Yellowstone a battery of Gatling guns, knowing he was facing superior numbers. Before leaving the camp all the troops, including the officers, also boxed their sabers and sent them back with the wagons.[71]
On the day of the battle, Custer divided his 600-man command, despite being faced with vastly superior numbers of Sioux and Cheyenne.
The refusal of an extra battalion reduced the size of his force by at least a sixth, and rejecting the firepower offered by the Gatling guns played into the events of June 25 to the disadvantage of his regiment.[72]
Custer's defenders, however, including historian Charles K. Hofling, have asserted that Gatling guns would have been slow and cumbersome as the troops crossed the rough country between the Yellowstone and the Little Bighorn.[73] Custer rated speed in gaining the battlefield as essential and more important. The additional firepower had the potential of turning the tide of the fight, given the Indians' propensity for withdrawing in the face of new military technology.[citation needed] Other Custer supporters[who?] have claimed that splitting the forces was a standard tactic, so as to demoralize the enemy with the appearance of the cavalry in different places all at once, especially when a contingent threatened the line of retreat.
Monroe, Michigan, Custer's childhood home, unveiled the George Armstrong Custer Equestrian Monument in 1910
Counties are named in Custer's honor in six states: Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nebraska, Oklahoma, and South Dakota. Custer County, Idaho, is named for the General Custer Mine, which was named for Custer. Townships in Michigan and Minnesota were named for Custer. There are also the villages of Custer, Michigan and Custar, Ohio, the city of Custer, South Dakota, and the unincorporated town of Custer, Wisconsin. A portion of Monroe County, Michigan, is informally referred to as "Custerville".[74]
Custer National Cemetery is within Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument, the site of Custer's death.
An equestrian statue of Custer by Edward Clark Potter was erected in Monroe, Michigan, his boyhood home, in 1910.
Fort Custer National Military Reservation, near Augusta, Michigan, was built in 1917 on 130 parcels of land, as part of the military mobilization for World War I. During the war, some 90,000 troops passed through Camp Custer.
The establishment of Fort Custer National Cemetery (originally Fort Custer Post Cemetery) took place on September 18, 1943, with the first interment. On Memorial Day 1982, more than 33 years after the first resolution had been introduced in Congress, impressive ceremonies marked the official opening of the cemetery.[75]
Custer Hill is the main troop billeting area at Fort Riley, Kansas.  Custer's 1866 residence on the post has been preserved and is currently maintained as the Custer House Museum and meeting space (also sometimes referred to as Custer Home).
The Black Hills of South Dakota is full of evidence of Custer, with a county, town, and the Custer State Park all located in the area.
The Custer house at Fort Lincoln, near present-day Mandan, North Dakota has been reconstructed as it was in Custer's day, along with the soldiers' barracks, block houses, etc. Annual re-enactments are held of Custer's 7th Cavalry's leaving for the Little Bighorn.[76]
On July 2, 2008, a marble monument to Brigadier General Custer was dedicated at the site of the 1863 Civil War Battle of Hunterstown in Adams County, Pennsylvania.
Custer Monument at the United States Military Academy was first unveiled in 1879. It now stands next to his grave in the West Point Cemetery.
Ambrose, Stephen E. (1996 [1975]). Crazy Horse and Custer: The Parallel Lives of Two American Warriors. New York: Anchor Books. ISBN 0-385-47966-2.
Barnett, Louise Touched by Fire: The Life, Death, and Mythic Afterlife of George Armstrong Custer (1996) New York, Henry Holt and Company, Inc.
Boulard, Garry "The Swing Around the Circle – Andrew Johnson and the Train Ride that Destroyed a Presidency" (2006) isbn=978-1-4401-0239-4
Connell, Evan S. (1984). Son Of The Morning Star. San Francisco, California: North Point Press. ISBN 0-86547-160-6. 
Eicher, John H. and David J. Eicher. (2001). Civil War High Commands. Stanford, California: Stanford University Press. ISBN 0-8047-3641-3. 
Goodrich, Thomas. Scalp Dance: Indian Warfare on the High Plains, 1865–1879. Mechanicsburg, PA: Stackpole Books, 1997.
Gray, John S. (1993). Custer's Last Campaign: Mitch Boyer and the Little Bighorn Remembered. University of Nebraska Press. ISBN 0-8032-7040-2. 
Grinnell, George Bird (1915). The Fighting Cheyennes. The University of Oklahoma Press reprint 1956. pp. 296–307. ISBN 0-7394-0373-7. 
Longacre, Edward G. (2000). Lincoln's Cavalrymen: A History of the Mounted Forces of the Army of the Potomac. Stackpole Books. ISBN 0-8117-1049-1.
Marshall, Joseph M. III. (2007). The Day the World Ended at Little Bighorn: A Lakota History. New York: Viking Press.
Merington, Marguerite, Ed. The Custer Story: The Life and Intimate Letters of General Custer and his Wife Elizabeth. (1950)
Michno, Gregory F. (1997). Lakota Noon: The Indian Narrative of Custer's Defeat. Mountain Press Publishing Company. ISBN 0-87842-349-4.
Scott, Douglas D., Richard A. Fox, Melissa A. Connor, and Dick Harmon. (1989). Archaeological Perspectives on the Battle of the Little Bighorn. University of Oklahoma Press. ISBN 0-8061-3292-2. 
Punke, Michael, "Last Stand: George Bird Grinnell, the Battle to Save the Buffalo, and the Birth of the New West", Smithsonian Books, 2007, ISBN 978-0-06-089782-6
Utley, Robert M. (2001). Cavalier in Buckskin: George Armstrong Custer and the Western Military Frontier, revised edition. Norman, OK: University of Oklahoma Press. ISBN 0-8061-3387-2.
Vestal, Stanley. Warpath: The True Story of the Fighting Sioux Told in a Biography of Chief White Bull. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1934.
Warner, Ezra J. (1964). Generals in Blue: Lives of the Union Commanders. Louisiana State University Press. ISBN 0-8071-0822-7. 
Welch, James, with Paul Stekler. (2007 [1994]). Killing Custer: The Battle of Little Bighorn and the Fate of the Plains Indians. New York: W.W. Norton & Company.
Wert, Jeffry D. Custer: The Controversial Life of George Armstrong Custer. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1996. ISBN 0-684-83275-5.
Wittenberg, Eric J. (2001). Glory Enough for All : Sheridan's Second Raid and the Battle of Trevilian Station. Brassey's Inc. ISBN 1-57488-353-4. 
Kenneth M Hammer Collection on Custer and the Battle of the Little Big Horn, Harold G. Andersen Library, University of Wisconsin-Whitewater
 Elizabeth Bacon Custer (1900). "Custer, George Armstrong". Appletons' Cyclopædia of American Biography. 
Elizabeth Bacon Custer (1999-05-19). Boots and Saddles: Or, Life in Dakota with General Custer. Harper & Brothers, NY., 1885. ISBN 978-1-58218-126-4. Retrieved 2010-11-04. 
Elizabeth Bacon Custer (1999-06-19). Tenting on the Plains: General Custer in Kansas and Texas. Charles I.Webster & Co, 1887. ISBN 978-1-58218-051-9. Retrieved 2010-11-04. 
Finerty JF (1890). War-path and bivouac: or, The conquest of the Sioux: a narrative of stirring personal experiences and adventures in the Big Horn and Yellowstone expedition of 1876, and in the campaign on the British border, in 1879. Donohue Brothers. Retrieved 2008-03-09. 
Kraft, Louis (2008). "Custer: The Truth Behind the Silver Screen Myth". American History (Feb): 26–33. 
Newsom TM (2007). Thrilling scenes among the Indians. With a graphic description of Custer's last fight with Sitting Bull. Kessinger Publishing, LLC. ISBN 978-0-548-62988-8. Retrieved 2012-07-17. 
Victor FF (1877). Eleven years in the Rocky Mountains and life on the frontier also a history of the Sioux war, and a life Gen. George A. Custer, with a full account of his last battle. Columbian book company. Retrieved 2012-07-17. 
Whittaker F (1876). A complete life of Gen. George A. Custer : Major-General of Volunteers; Brevet Major-General, U.S. Army; and Lieutenant-Colonel, Seventh U.S. Cavalry. Sheldon and Company. Retrieved 2008-03-09. 
Donovan, J (2009). A Terrible Glory: Custer and the Little Bighorn – The Last Great Battle of the American West. Little, Brown & Company. ISBN 978-0-316-06747-8. 
Booknotes interview with Louise Barnett on Touched by Fire: The Life, Death, and Mythic Afterlife of George Armstrong Custer, October 13, 1996.
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=George_Armstrong_Custer&oldid=611571056"					
Categories: 1839 births1876 deathsPeople from Harrison County, OhioAmerican people of German descentAmerican people of English descentUnited States Army generalsUnion Army generalsPeople of Ohio in the American Civil WarPeople of Michigan in the American Civil WarPeople of the Great Sioux War of 1876Comanche CampaignUnited States Military Academy alumniPeople from Monroe, MichiganMichigan BrigadeAmerican military personnel killed in the American Indian WarsDeaths by firearm in MontanaBurials at West Point CemeteryHidden categories: Infobox military person image param needs updatingAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2012Articles needing additional references from June 2013All articles needing additional referencesArticles with unsourced statements from June 2013Articles with unsourced statements from November 2010Articles with unsourced statements from April 2010Articles with unsourced statements from July 2010Articles with unsourced statements from December 2008All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from April 2009Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource referenceWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Flamboyant in life, George Armstrong Custer has remained one of the best-known figures in American history and popular mythology long after his death at the hands of Lakota and Cheyenne warriors at the Battle of the Little Bighorn.
Custer was born in New Rumley, Ohio, and spent much of his childhood with a half-sister in Monroe, Michigan. Immediately after high school he enrolled in West Point, where he utterly failed to distinguish himself in any positive way. Several days after graduating last in his class, he failed in his duty as officer of the guard to stop a fight between two cadets. He was court-martialed and saved from punishment only by the huge need for officers with the outbreak of the Civil War.
Custer was sent to the Northern Plains in 1873, where he soon participated in a few small skirmishes with the Lakota in the Yellowstone area. The following year, he lead a 1,200 person expedition to the Black Hills, whose possession the United States had guaranteed the Lakota just six years before.
Custer's blunders cost him his life but gained him everlasting fame. His defeat at the Little Bighorn made the life of what would have been an obscure 19th century military figure into the subject of countless songs, books and paintings. His widow, Elizabeth Bacon Custer, did what she could to further his reputation, writing laudatory accounts of his life that portrayed him as not only a military genius but also a refined and cultivated man, a patron of the arts, and a budding statesman.
Countless paintings of "Custer's Last Stand" were made, including one mass-distributed by the Anheuser-Busch brewing company. All of these paintings -- as did the misnomer "the Custer massacre" -- depicted Custer as a gallant victim, surrounded by bloodthirsty savages intent upon his annihilation. Forgotten were the facts that he had started the battle by attacking the Indian village, and that most of Indians present were forced to surrender within a year of their greatest battlefield triumph.
=======================================================
George Armstrong Custer, a U.S. cavalry officer who served with distinction in the American Civil War, is better known for leading more than 200 of his men to their deaths in the notorious Battle of the Little Bighorn in June 1876. The battle, also known as “Custer’s Last Stand,” was part of the Black Hills War against a confederation of Plains Indians, including the Cheyenne and Dakota Sioux. It remains one of the most controversial battles in U.S. history.
(1839-1876), Civil War cavalry commander and Indian fighter. Born in New Rumley, Ohio, Custer entered West Point in 1857. Upon graduation in 1861 he was assigned immediately to duty as an aide to Gen. George McClellan. Next he drew a cavalry assignment, and his boldness in battle brought rapid promotions. At twenty-three he was the youngest brevet brigadier general in the Union army. While on furlough he met and soon married Elizabeth Bacon, who was to play a significant role in shaping his career and perpetuating his memory.
Did You Know? George Armstrong Custer graduated last in his 1861 West Point class. Today, that position is known as the "Goat."When the war ended, Custer was returned to the permanent rank of captain. After serving several months in Texas, he was commissioned a lieutenant colonel and assigned to the Seventh Cavalry Regiment based at Fort Riley, Kansas. Accompanied by Elizabeth, he reported for duty early in 1867. Under Gen. Winfield Hancock’s command, Custer led the Seventh Cavalry in several skirmishes against Indians in Kansas and Nebraska. Soon after the campaign closed, his uxoriousness came near to ending his career. Instead of remaining with his troops at Fort Wallace as ordered, he made a hasty journey to Fort Riley to see Elizabeth. As a result he was suspended for one year.
In 1868 Gen. Philip Sheridan replaced Hancock and soon arranged for Custer’s reinstatement. That November, after raiding Black Kettle’s Cheyenne village, he was in trouble again for leaving the field without searching for a missing reconnaissance unit that had been ambushed and slain. Among other activities during the next six years, Custer wrote My Life on the Plains in which he attempted to justify his actions, and in 1874 he violated the treaty of 1868 by taking an expedition into the Indians’ sacred Black Hills where gold was discovered. The gold rush that followed created intense Indian hostility and precipitated the government’s decision to confine all northern Plains tribes to reservations.
In 1876, under command of Gen. Alfred Terry, Custer led the Seventh Cavalry as one force in a three-pronged campaign against Sitting Bull’s alliance of Sioux and Cheyenne camps in Montana. During the morning of June 25, Custer’s scouts reported spotting smoke from cooking fires and other signs of Indians in the valley of the Little Bighorn. Disregarding Terry’s orders, Custer decided to attack before infantry and other support arrived. Although scouts warned that he was facing superior numbers (perhaps 2,500 warriors), Custer divided his regiment of 647 men, ordering Capt. Frederick Benteen’s battalion to scout along a ridge to the left and sending Maj. Marcus Reno’s battalion up the valley of the Little Bighorn to attack the Indian encampment. With the remainder of the regiment, Custer continued along high ground on the right side of the valley. In the resulting battle, he and about 250 of his men, outnumbered by the warriors of Crazy Horse and Gall, were surrounded and annihilated. Reno and Benteen suffered heavy casualties but managed to escape to a defensive position. Since that day, ‘Custer’s Last Stand’ has become an American legend. The battle site attracts thousands of visitors yearly.
Throughout his career, Custer exhibited a reckless temperament that kept him in almost constant trouble with superior officers. Yet his courage has rarely been questioned. In life he was a flamboyant man who attracted ardent admirers and severe critics. In death it has been the same. His wife, Elizabeth, through her publications and lectures during the half century she survived him, did much to create the image of a beau sabreur that still persists. Probably more words, pro and con, have been written about George Armstrong Custer than any of his military contemporaries of comparable rank.
The Reader’s Companion to American History. Eric Foner and John A. Garraty, Editors. Copyright © 1991 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Fact Check We strive for accuracy and fairness. But if you see something that doesn't look right, contact us!
=======================================================
	background-image: url('http://www.historynet.com/wp-content/plugins/wp-polls/images/default/pollbg.gif');
Facts, information and articles about George Custer, a  Civil War General during the American Civil War
George Custer summary: George Armstrong Custer was a United States Army officer who, after finishing last in his class at West Point, was still called to serve in the union army at the start of the The Civil War. After serving in the American Civil War, he then served in the Indian Wars, meeting his end at the battle of Little Bighorn.
Custer was from the first thirteen German immigrant families. They arrived in North America about 1693 from Krefeld and The Rhineland area in Germany. He had older-half siblings, a younger sister and unhealthy brother as well as two healthy younger brothers who served and died with him at Little Bighorn. He had a wide range of nicknames: Autie, Armstrong, Boy General, Iron Butt, Hard Ass, Ringlets.
Much of Custer’s childhood was spent in Monroe, Michigan and he attended college in Hopedale, Ohio. Even without command experience he was one of the Union Army’s youngest generals. He was promoted to general at 23 for daring and because of the people he knew. It was because he was such a young general that he earned the title ‘Boy General.’
He was known to be very fastidious in scouting out an area before any battle, thoroughly gauging enemies and discussing battle tactics, the enemy strength and their weak points. From this information he would come up with the best way to engage in battle. In opposite to this his style for battle was often referred to as foolhardy. 
A cavalry commander in the United States Army, Custer fought in both the Indian Wars as well as the Civil War. He was raised in Ohio and Michigan and West Point admitted in 1858. During the Civil War he gained a reputation that was strong because of whom he associated with. The Battle of Bull Run was his first major engagement. He had a temporary promotion to major general but returned to captain at the end of the war. He played an important role at Appomattox and was there when Robert E. Lee surrendered.
He left for the west and the Indian Wars after the Civil War. He led the 7th Cavalry in the battle of Washita River. Later, in 1873, he was sent to the Dakota Territory to help protect a railroad survey crew from attacks by the Lakota Indians.  
By 1876, still in the Black Hills, tensions had risen between the United States and the Plains Indian Tribes, leading to a battle on June 25-26 by the Little Bighorn River between Custer’s 7th Cavalry and the Lakota and Cheyenne Tribes led by Crazy Horse and White Bull. Around 500 U.S. soldiers met an estimated 3,500 Indian warriors. All the U.S. troops were killed in what is often referred to as, “Custer’s Last Stand.”
George Armstrong Custer stalks America’s past with a disturbing presence. His popular image has been painted in the darkest tones — executioner of Confederate prisoners at Front Royal, Virginia; destroyer of homes and barns in the Shenandoah Valley; Indian killer for his attack on a Cheyenne village on the Washita River; and vainglorious fool who led himself and 262 men to their deaths at the Little Bighorn. Historians, novelists and screenwriters have engraved an indelible portrait of Custer upon the nation’s conscience.
However, the popular Custer overshadows, if not belies, the historic Custer. During the Civil War, his exploits and youth earned him the nickname ‘Boy General. He earned a major generalcy when he was 25 years old, the youngest man to hold that rank in the annals of the American military. By the conflict’s end, Custer had become a household name and a Northern hero. Controversy never left him, for he was a flawed and complex man encased in a compelling personality. But the measurement of the man extends beyond Front Royal, Washita and Little Bighorn to Hunterstown, Gettysburg, Yellow Tavern, Haw’s Shop, Tom’s Brook and Appomattox Station.
Born on December 5, 1839, in New Rumley, Ohio, Custer was the oldest surviving child of Emanuel and Maria Kirkpatrick Custer. His parents had been widowed before marrying each other and had lost two infant sons before the birth of their third boy, whom they called Armstrong. As he learned to talk, he garbled his name as Autie, and to his family he would be Autie for the rest of his life. Eventually, three more sons and a daughter were born to the Custers, all of whom survived into adulthood.
From the outset, Autie was special in the family, spoiled by his parents and later worshipped by his siblings. He reveled in mischief. George was a wide awake boy, recalled a schoolmate, full of all kinds of pranks and willing to take all kinds of chances. A teacher described him as irrepressible, while another childhood friend asserted, He was rather a bad boy in school. Autie was bright, but he hated homework, preferring to read novels, biographies and military history. His efforts in school centered upon creating mayhem.
At the age of 10, Autie joined Lydia Ann Reed, his mother’s daughter from her first marriage, in Monroe, Mich. His parents sent him there for schooling, and Monroe became his adopted hometown. He lived with his sister and brother-in-law for six years before accepting a teaching position in Ohio. He failed miserably, however, in various assignments. An acquaintance at the time remembered: Custer was what he appeared. There was nothing hidden in his nature. He was kind and generous to his friends; bitter and implacable towards his enemies.
It seemed, however, that fate or circumstances conspired at timely moments to favor Custer. He had aspired to an appointment to West Point, but his father was a staunch Democrat in the congressional district of Republican John A. Bingham. Custer, meanwhile, had begun a fervid courtship of Mary Jane, or Mollie, Holland. Her father discovered a note to her from Custer that mentioned a rendezvous on a trundle bed. Determined to rid the family of Mollie’s suitor, it would appear that Holland requested of Bingham — an old friend — that Custer be given the West Point appointment. Others may also have interceded with the congressman, who ended up nominating the 17-year-old Custer.
After George Custer’s death in 1876, his wife Libbie  would dedicate her life to preserving, if not embellishing, the memory of his military exploits. (U.S. Army)
Custer entered the U.S. Military Academy in June 1857, a member of the class of 1862. His cadetship remains renowned in the institution’s history. As he had as a boy, Custer tested boundaries and rules. In four years, he amassed a total of 726 demerits, one of the worst conduct records in the academy’s annals. He told a fellow cadet that there were only two places in a class, head and foot, and since he had no desire to be the head, he aspired to be the foot. A roommate noted, It was all right with him whether he knew his lesson or not: he did not allow it to trouble him.
Like their fellow Americans, the cadets divided by region over the events of the 1850s. With the election of Republican Abraham Lincoln in November 1860 and the secession of states, Southern cadets began leaving the academy in the winter and spring of 1861. The firing on Fort Sumter increased the number of resignations. Ironically for Custer, all his roommates except one had been Southerners.
The advent of war forced academy officials to graduate the class of 1861 in May. But with the demand for trained officers, the War Department compressed the class of 1862′s final year into six weeks. The second class of 1861 was graduated on June 24, with Custer ranking last among the 34 members. He would be the final member to be assigned to a command, his departure delayed by his court-martial for another infraction. Weeks prior to his graduation, he had written to his sister, If it is my lot to fall in the defence of my country’s rights, I will lay down my life as freely as if I had a thousand lives at my disposal. On July 18, Custer left West Point.
Second Lieutenant Custer arrived in Washington, D.C., two days later. By happenstance or good fortune, he secured one of the last, if not the last, available government horses in the capital and carried War Department dispatches to Brig. Gen. Irvin McDowell at Centreville, Va. Assigned to Company G, 2nd U.S. Cavalry, Custer reached his regiment in time to participate in the First Battle of Bull Run. His regiment covered the retreat of the routed Federals. One trooper later wrote, Though famished, exhausted, spent, Custer never let up, never slackened control.
For nearly the next two years, Custer served in various staff assignments, rising to the rank of brevet captain. He gained a reputation for fearlessness, if not recklessness. He ascended in a balloon to survey Confederate works, led reconnaissance parties and was cited for gallant and spirited conduct. By the end of May 1862, Custer had joined the staff of Maj. Gen. George B. McClellan, serving under the Army of the Potomac commander during the Seven Days and Antietam campaigns. When McClellan was relieved of command in November, Custer accompanied the general and later assisted in the preparation of McClellan’s reports.
Custer had written a revealing letter to a cousin on October 3, 1862, after he witnessed the terrible carnage of Antietam. You ask me if I will not be glad when the last battle is fought, he stated, so far as the country is concerned I, of course, must wish for peace, and will be glad when the war is ended, but if I answer for myself alone, I must say that I shall regret to see the war end. I would be willing, yes glad, to see a battle every day during my life. Now do not misunderstand me. I speak only of my own interests and desires…but as I said before, when I think of the pain & misery produced to individuals as well as the miserable sorrow caused throughout the land I cannot but earnestly hope for peace, and at an early date.
Since youth, Custer had read stories of past warriors and had dreamed of martial glory. While he understood war’s fearful costs, he saw in it an opportunity for personal fame and advancement. His ambition was inordinate, and perhaps it impelled his fearlessness. Although he assured his family that he would not risk his life, Custer led men from the front, whether in command of a company or later of a division. Combat inflamed his soul and held incalculable opportunity for glory. Devoted to the Union cause, Custer saw the conflict as a trumpet calling.
His coveted opportunity came in June 1863, when Lincoln replaced Joseph Hooker as army commander with George G. Meade. The president granted Meade authority to replace any officers he chose. Cavalry Corps commander Maj. Gen. Alfred Pleasonton recommended to Meade the promotion of three of his staff officers — Custer, Wesley Merritt and Elon Farnsworth — to brigadiers. On June 29 Custer received a general’s star and command of the Michigan Brigade of cavalry, comprising the 1st, 5th, 6th and 7th regiments. At 23, he was the youngest general in the Union Army.
Starting with the Overland campaign in the spring of 1864, Custer (seated, far right) served under Maj. Gen. Philip Sheridan (far left), along with (from left) Colonel George Forsyth, Brig. Gen. Wesley Merritt and Brig. Gen. Thomas Devin. (Library  of Congress)
On the day of his promotion, Custer joined two of his regiments as the army marched north into Pennsylvania. To the Michiganders, he was a sight to behold. He wore a uniform of black velveteen, with gold lace that extended from his wrist to his elbow, a wide-collared blue sailor shirt with silver stars sewn on and a red necktie around his throat. He had apparently had the uniform made by a tailor at an earlier date. Custer said later that he wanted a distinctive uniform so his men could see him during combat. Superior officers and newspapermen could also see such striking attire, unlike any other in the army.
Whatever doubts the Michiganders had about their new brigadier, Custer removed them within days. At Hanover, Pa., on June 30, he directed them in dismounted fighting. Two days later, at Hunterstown, he personally led a company in an attack down a narrow road, and his horse was killed under him. Custer had been deploying skirmishers to test the Confederate position and numbers when his superior, Brig. Gen. Judson Kilpatrick, ordered the mounted charge. When Custer rode to the front of the company, he evidently wanted to demonstrate his personal bravery to the men.
The renown that he had sought for so long came a day later, on the John Rummel farm east of Gettysburg. In an engagement with Maj. Gen. J.E.B. Stuart’s Confederate horsemen, Custer led the 7th Michigan and then the 1st Michigan in mounted counterattacks. Riding in the van of each regiment, Custer shouted to the men, Come on, you Wolverines! The charges blunted Stuart’s thrusts, and the Yankees held the field.
During the Southern retreat from Gettysburg, clashes occurred almost daily between the mounted opponents. Custer’s Wolverines were often in the forefront of the action. On July 14, at Falling Waters, Md., Custer encountered the final contingent of the Confederate army as it prepared to cross the Potomac River. As he had done at Hunterstown, Custer deployed dismounted skirmishers. But Kilpatrick joined him and without knowledge of the enemy’s strength or disposition ordered a mounted assault. Two companies of the 6th Michigan ascended a ridge and plunged into the Rebel works, held by infantrymen. In the ensuing melee, the Federals lost more than half their numbers and were routed. It had not been Custer who had acted rashly, but Kilpatrick.
After Gettysburg, a lieutenant in the 6th Michigan claimed: The command perfectly idolized Custer. The old Michigan Brigade adored its Brigadier, and all felt as if he weighed about a ton. A private declared that Custer had put the very devil into the regiments. They had called him at first the boy General of the Golden Lock. But he had shown them, in the estimation of one Wolverine, that he was not afraid to fight like a private soldier…and that he was ever in front and would never ask them to go where he would not lead. An officer told his mother in a letter, It is an honor to belong to Mich Cavalry.
Never camera-shy, Captain Custer posed for photographer James F. Gibson in 1862 with Confederate prisoner Lieutenant James B. Washington and his slave at Fair Oaks, Va. (Library of Congress).
Praise for Custer’s bearing and leadership in action continued during the numerous cavalry clashes in the summer and fall. A captain in the 2nd New York Cavalry, after seeing Custer in an engagement, later said: It seemed to be the general impression that he would not have the nerve to `Face the music’ with his bandbox equipment, but he soon proved himself equal to the occasion….No soldier who saw him on that day…ever questioned his right to wear a star, or all the gold lace he felt inclined to wear. One of his aides confided in a letter: To say that General Custer is a brave man is unnecessary. He has proved himself to be not only that but also a very cool and self possessed man. It is indeed difficult to disturb his mental Equilibrium. A Michigander put it bluntly to his wife, He is a very odd man but he understand his business.
Custer’s emergence as an outstanding brigade commander coincided with the increasing prowess of the Federal mounted arm. He, Merritt and others brought aggressiveness to Federal cavalry tactics. Jeb Stuart’s vaunted Confederate horsemen, plagued by shortages of men and mounts, no longer dominated the battlefields. Union troopers had achieved parity, which eventually became superiority. The troopers’ confidence in Custer reflected a confidence in themselves.
In February 1864, Custer secured a leave, returning to Monroe for his wedding. For much of the previous year, he and Elizabeth Libbie Bacon had conducted a clandestine courtship through letters. Her father, Judge Daniel Bacon, had vehemently objected to Custer’s attentions toward Libbie. By the fall of 1863, however, Judge Bacon had relented to her wishes, and on February 9, 1864, the couple was married. Autie and Libbie’s marriage was one of love and passion. After Custer’s death, Libbie devoted her remaining 57 years to molding and guarding his image as an American hero.
Custer and Libbie enjoyed a honeymoon and another extended leave together before he rejoined the army for its spring operations. By then, General-in-Chief Ulysses S. Grant had appointed Maj. Gen. Philip H. Sheridan as commander of the army’s Cavalry Corps. Thirty-three years old, Sheridan was a barrel-chested man with unusually short legs. Lincoln wryly described him as a brown, chunky little chap, with a long body, short legs, not enough neck to hang him, and such long arms that if his ankles itch he can scratch them without stooping. His men called him Little Phil.
Sheridan possessed, however, a combativeness that Grant wanted instilled into the mounted arm. With Sheridan’s appointment, additional leadership changes occurred, and Custer believed that he himself deserved promotion to division command. Although disappointed, Custer told his sister, Gen Sheridan from what I learn and see is an able and good commander and I like him very much. In time, Custer became more closely identified with Sheridan than any other officer in the Cavalry Corps. Their personal and professional relationship was destined to endure until Little Bighorn.
As the Michiganders prepared for the forthcoming campaign, their writings revealed their abiding respect for and devotion to Custer. They now called him Old Curley for his long, flowing blond hair. We swear by him, asserted Major James H. Kidd of Custer in a letter to his father. His move is our battle cry. He can get twice the fight out of this brigade than any other man can possibly do. A member of the 5th Michigan Cavalry believed that he is the best cavalry officer left in the Army of the Potomac. Another officer in the brigade explained: His men were always at the front, and were always on the best of terms with him. A private could talk to him as freely as an officer. If he had any complaint to make, Custer was always ready to listen.
During the Overland campaign in May-June 1864, under the leadership of Custer and his regimental commanders, the Michiganders — fighting mounted and dismounted — showed time and again that they were arguably the finest cavalry brigade in the Union Army. On May 11 at Yellow Tavern, a Wolverine mortally wounded Jeb Stuart. Seventeen days later at Haw’s Shop, the brigade routed a Confederate force. Writing after the engagement, Major Kidd declared: For all this Brigade has accomplished all praise is due to Gen Custer. So brave a man I never saw and as competent as brave. Under him a man is ashamed to be cowardly. Under him our men can achieve wonders.
A fierce test came for the Michiganders on June 11 at Trevilian Station. When the 5th Michigan surged ahead into a Rebel wagon train, Southern horsemen counterattacked. Custer hurried forward the rest of the brigade as additional Confederate regiments charged. The Federals were trapped on the inside of a living triangle, according to a scout from Merritt’s division who witnessed the fight from a distance. For three hours the Wolverines repulsed enemy attacks from three directions. Custer was everywhere present, recalled Kidd, giving directions to his subordinate commanders. Finally, their comrades in the other brigades punched through the Rebel lines and relieved the Michiganders.
The Confederates had captured 309 members of the Michigan Brigade and Custer’s headquarters wagon, which contained his personal belongings and letters from Libbie. A Richmond newspaper received the letters and published them, embarrassing the Custers. At the campaign’s end, the War Department promoted Custer to a brevet lieutenant colonel in the Regular Army. Custer, one of Sheridan’s aides contended, was a man of boundless confidence in himself and great faith in his lucky star.
In August Grant assigned Sheridan to command of the Union forces in the Shenandoah Valley. By midmonth, two cavalry divisions from the Army of the Potomac, including the Michigan Brigade, joined the command in the region. Sheridan’s Federals opposed Lt. Gen. Jubal A. Early’s Confederate Army of the Valley in a campaign that resulted in four Union battlefield victories and the destruction of hundreds of barns, mills and stockpiles of supplies and foodstuffs.
Custer distinguished himself throughout the operations. On September 26, with the transfer of Brig. Gen. James Harrison Wilson to the West, Custer assumed command of the 3rd Cavalry Division. His successor in command of the Michigan Brigade stated in his report that with Custer’s promotion the four regiments suffered the most severe loss of the campaign. A Vermonter in the division claimed that its members welcomed the change, though they knew it meant mounted charges, instead of dismounted skirmishes, and a foremost place in every fight.
Custer led the division in the cavalry engagement at Tom’s Brook and in the Battle of Cedar Creek. At 25 he was promoted to brevet major general, to date from Cedar Creek, October 19. In a ceremony at the War Department, Custer and a detail of troopers presented captured battle flags to Secretary of War Edwin Stanton. One of the cavalrymen told Stanton, the 3rd Division wouldn’t be worth a cent if it wasn’t for [Custer].
Sheridan and the two cavalry divisions spent the winter of 1865 in the Shenandoah Valley before marching south in late February. On March 2 at Waynesborough, the 3rd Cavalry Division routed the remnants of Early’s Army of the Valley. By the end of the month, Sheridan’s command had rejoined the Army of the Potomac at Petersburg. When the Federals broke through General Robert E. Lee’s defensive works on April 2, the Union cavalry led the pursuit of Lee’s retreating army. It was Custer’s men on the evening of April 8 who interdicted the Confederate flight at Appomattox Station and cut off the Rebel army’s retreat route. During that final week, Custer’s men captured more than 30 enemy flags. His brother, Tom, seized a pair and received two Medals of Honor.
The end came at Appomattox on April 9. During a truce between the armies, before Grant and Lee met, Custer rode into the Confederate lines and demanded the surrender of the army from Lee’s senior officer, James Longstreet. It was a brazen act, and Longstreet evidently berated the young Union general. After the surrender ceremony, however, Sheridan confiscated the table Grant had used and had it delivered to Libbie Custer. In an accompanying note, Sheridan wrote in part, permit me to say, Madam, that there is scarcely an individual in our service who has contributed more to bring about this desirable result than your gallant husband.
On May 23, the Army of the Potomac marched through the streets of Washington in the Grand Review. Earlier in the morning as Custer joined his command, every member of the 3rd Cavalry Division was wearing a red necktie in his honor. The Michigan Brigade had adopted it as its badge, and now so had the 3rd Division. During the review, a woman stepped from the crowd and tossed a wreath of flowers and evergreens at Custer. His horse bolted toward the reviewing stand, and he lost his sword and hat. Whether deliberately or not, Custer had dramatically seized the moment.
Sheridan later wrote of Custer, If there ever was poetry or romance in war, he could develop it. He was perhaps the Civil War’s last knight. He had dreamed of glory and had found it in the terrible confines of combat. The words of the men he led testified to his abilities, bravery and leadership. He had been a superb cavalry commander. But ahead of him lay a rendezvous on a Montana ridge that has darkened his achievements as the Union’s Boy General. He craved greatness for himself, and this ambition earned him immortality.
This article was written by  Jeffry D. Wert and originally published in the March/April 2006 issue of Civil War Times  Magazine.  For more great articles, be sure to subscribe to Civil War Times magazine today!
 Wild West - June 2012 - Table of ContentsThe June 2012 issue of Wild West features stories about Libbie Custer's enduring love for her "Boy General," the "Arapaho Five" at the Little Bighorn, plural marriage among the Plains Indians, Kansas' lethal innkeepers the Bloody Benders, and the long-gone California grizzlies.
Interview With Historian Paul HedrenIn his new book After Custer, Paul Hedren draws on his extensive knowledge of the Great Sioux War to paint a picture of changing life on the Prairie in the wake of the Little Bighorn.
Book Review: Ned Wynkoop and the Lonely Road from Sand Creek, by Louis KraftWith this new biography Louis Kraft establishes himself as the authority on Indian wars figure Ned Wynkoop.
Letter from Wild West - April 2012Red Cloud often gets third billing—behind Sitting Bull and Crazy Horse—in the annals of Sioux history, but that is selling short his historic contributions, says R. Eli Paul, editor of the great chief's autobiography
Wild West - February 2012 - Table of ContentsThe February 2012 issue of Wild West features stories about the Homestead Act of 1862, Prohibition cowboy Richard "Two-Gun" Hart, Arizona's and New Mexico's respective statehood centennials, the conflicting stories of a Fort Laramie hanging, and the Battle of the Hot Springs (Ark.) Gamblers.
Wild West - December 2011 - Table of ContentsThe December 2011 issue of Wild West features stories about the iconic photo of the infamous Fort Worth Five, the aftermath of Lt. Col. George Custer's 1868 victory over Cheyenne Chief Black Kettle, Wounded Knee reporter Teresa Dean, the controversial 1886 death of black Mormon sheepherder Gobo Fango, and West Pointer turned white renegade Thomas Twiss.
Wild West Discussion - December 2011How do you rate the performance of Lt. Col. George Armstrong Custer at the November 27, 1868, Battle of the Washita (near present-day Cheyenne, Okla.), including the way he handled the loss of Major Joel Elliott and his small party …
Wounds from the Washita: The Major Elliott AffairThe death of popular 7th U.S. Cavalry officer Major Joel Elliott at the 1868 Battle of the Washita—and Lt. Col. George Custer's response to it—spawned disunity within the ill-starred unit
Book Review: Historic Photos of Heroes of the Old West, by Mike Cox, and Historic Photos of Outlaws of the Old West, by Larry JohnsonMike Cox honors the heroes of the Old West and Larry Johnson the outlaws of the Old West in these two entries from Turner Publishing's Historic Photos series.
Misrepresented 'Monster' Major Marcus RenoThe major is often badmouthed as the villain of the Little Bighorn, but eyewitnesses insisted Reno was no coward—and he was in fact exonerated
Wild West - June 2011 - Table of ContentsThe June 2011 issue of Wild West features stories about Major Marcus Reno's role at the Little Bighorn, baseball in the West, jailbreak artist William "Idaho Bill" Sloan, Colorado huntress and taxidermist Martha Maxwell, and a low-down dirty shooting at Fort Worth's Palais Royal Saloon.
Baseball in the WestNew Yorker Alexander Cartwright brought the game to the frontier during the California Gold Rush, making it truly the national pastime.
Interview With Author John KosterNo survivors with George Armstrong Custer at the Little Bighorn in June 1876? John Koster, author of Custer Survivor, says otherwise.
The Calamities of Calamity JaneLate in life Calamity Jane, the legendary frontierswoman, lived in a world of saloons, dance halls and brothels. Actually, it wasn't so different from her younger days.
Wild West Discussion - October 2010George Custer and David Crockett each died dramatically in battle—exactly how remains open to debate—at the Little Bighorn and the Alamo, respectively. Those might be the two most memorable deaths in the West, but what other Western endings do you …
Glen Swanson - Art of the WestGlen Swanson, sculptor and avid Custeriana collector, has created a sculpture of Custer as he appeared on the eve of his Last Stand on the Little Bighorn.
Letter from Wild West - August 2010Cheyenne Indians are often overlooked in the chronicles of the 19th century Indian wars, despite having engaged in almost as many fights as the heralded Sioux warriors.
Wild West Discussion - June 2010How do you grade the Battle of the Little Bighorn performances of Lt. Col. George Custer, Major Marcus Reno and Captain Frederick Benteen on the following grading scale: A-plus (superhero), A (hero), B (almost a hero), C (half hero, half …
Interview with Author Mark Lee GardnerMark Lee Gardner, author, historian and general renaissance man of the West, has written a dual biography of Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid.
Interview with Author-Playwright Louis KraftAuthor/Playwright Louis Kraft turns his attention to Indian agent Ned Wynkoop, portraying him onstage.
The Cowboy Brigade's Roosevelt Inaugural InvasionIn March 1905, Seth Bullock, onetime Deadwood sheriff, brought rough-and-ready Westerners to Washington, D.C., to ride in Teddy Roosevelt's inaugural parade.
Medicine Bill Comstock - Saga of the Leatherstocking ScoutMedicine Bill Comstock, descendant of James Fenimore Cooper, brought his uncle's mythical Natty Bumppo to life on the Great Plains as a hunter, trapper and cultural go-between.
Interview with George Custer Expert James DonovanJames Donovan, author and George Custer expert, covers new ground in the story of the 1876 Battle of the Little Bighorn in his new book A Terrible Glory.
Survivor Frank Finkel's Lasting StandMany men claimed to have been survivors of Custer's command at the Battle of the Little Bighorn, but Frank Finkel was the genuine article.
Custer's Last Stand Still Stands UpThe Battle of the Little Bighorn is like a 10,000-piece jigsaw puzzle on the south-central Montana landscape - the stuff of legend and historical gamesmanship.
  The Real Men of DeadwoodThe 1870s Western mining town was chock-full of rough-and-tumble characters, many of whom -- like Wild Bill Hickok and Al Swearengen -- reappear in fine fettle on the hit HBO television series Deadwood.By Mary Franz
Sioux Chief GallSoldiers gave the Hunkpapa leader his nickname because he was a dashing warrior who effectively teamed up with Sitting Bull in the 1870s. But after his surrender in 1881, Gall stood up for cooperation and peace at Standing Rock.
Kiowa Chief SatantaKiowa chief Satanta was one of the most complicated men ever to rise from the Great Plains--a diplomat and orator of his people who did his share of killing.
The Battle of White Bird Canyon: First Fight of the Nez PerceAfter young warriors killed some settlers in Idaho Territory, General O.O. Howard ordered Captain David Perry at Fort Lapwai to go get them, telling him, 'You must not get whipped.'
Brulé Sioux Chief Spotted TailSpotted Tail, chief of the Brulés, fought well, but his diplomatic skills were even better.
America's Civil War: Images of Peace at AppomattoxEvery picture tells a different story about Lee's surrender.
Battle at Sand Creek: The Military Perspective (Book Review)Reviewed by Alexander CookBy Gregory F. MichnoUpton and Sons, El Segundo, Calif., 2004
If you want to read another retelling of the Sand Creek tale (traditionally referred to as a "massacre") in which the blood-thirsty Coloradoans led by …
The 7th U.S. Cavalry Regiment Fought in the Battle of the Little BighornAmong the troopers advancing with Lt. Col. George Armstrong Custer on the Little Bighorn in June 1876 were 1st Lt. Charles DeRudio and Privates John Martin and Augustus De Voto.
Frederick W. BenteenBenteen, though he displayed daring and audacity during his military career, would probably not be remembered today if not for his supporting role at the Little Bighorn more than 125 years ago.
Battle of Little Bighorn CoverupConcerned that the Indians in the village would escape, George Armstrong Custer ordered his force forward to the attack. Did Reno and Benteen try to hide the true nature of the attack?
Battle of Little Bighorn: Were the Weapons the Deciding FactorGeorge A. Custer's 7th Cavalry had Springfield carbines and Colt .45 revolvers; the Lakota and Cheyenne Indians had a variety of long arms, including repeaters. But were the weapons used on June 25, 1876, the deciding factor in the famous battle?
America's Civil War Comes to West PointThough the Corps of Cadets was forced apart by political differences in 1860-61, and passions grew intense, there were more tears than hurrahs among the Northerners when their Southern friends resigned. The last institution to divide, the Academy was one of the first to reunite.
The Last Stand of Crazy HorseAfter helping his people win the Battle of the Little Bighorn, the daring Oglala leader fought thesoldiers again at Slim Buttes in September 1876 and the Wolf Mountains in January 1877 before finally surrendering at Camp Robinson that May.
African American Troops of Company K, 9th Cavalry Fought in the Battle of Fort LancasterCaptain William Frohock, Lieutenant Frederick Smith and the black troopers of Company K, 9th Cavalry, received an after-Christmas surprise from Kickapoo raiders in 1867.
Lakotas: Feared Fighters of the PlainsThe Teton Sioux, or Lakotas, battled other tribes to become the dominant force on the Northern Plains and then took on the U.S. Army in an effort to maintain their way of life.
America's Civil War: George Custer and Stephen RamseurGeorge Custer and Dodson Ramseur had a friendship that survived the Civil War -- until the Battle of Cedar Creek.
America's Civil War: Union General Phil Sheridan's ScoutsCivil War Union General Phil Sheridan put together a group of daring scouts who wore Rebel uniforms and captured Confederate irregulars, dispatches and generals.
America's Civil War: John Mosby and George Custer Clash in the Shenandoah ValleyWhen Civil War's John Singleton Mosby's Partisan Rangers clashed with George A. Custer's Union Cavalry, the niceties of war were the first casualty. Reprisal and counter reprisal became the order of the day.
Cheyenne Chief Tall BullTall Bull led the Dog Soldiers in battle, but his death at Summit Springs ended Southern Cheyenne power.
The Dodge City WarWhen saloon owner Luke Short was told to get out of Dodge in 1883, he went. But he soon came back, and he was joined by the likes of Wyatt Earp, Bat Masterson and Doc Holliday.
Death at Summit Springs: Susanna Alderdice and the CheyennesIn May 1869, Tall Bull's Cheyenne Dog Soldiers carried out a series of brutal raids in north-central Kansas, and though the white soldiers later caught up with them, vengeance could not make everything right.
Wild Bill HickokIn the wild west, few men could match colorful Wild Bill, whose exploits as a well-dressed but deadly frontiersman, peace officer and gambler have made him an enduring legend.
Tecumseh, Red Cloud and Sitting Bull: Three Great Indian LeadersDiplomacy, courage and charisma were among the attributes of this trio of great Indian leaders.
George Crook: Indian FighterAgainst the Apaches in Arizona Territory and the Sioux and Cheyenne in the northern Plains, Crook did his job more effectively than most Army leaders on the Plains.
  Nez Perce WarWhen a white settler killed a Nez Perce warrior in 1876, the incident set off a chain of events that led to war.
Philip Wells: Wounded at Wounded KneeThe son of a white father and a half-blood mother, Wells nearly lost his nose in the tragic 1890 affair but still managed to be merciful.
Wild Bill Hickok: Pistoleer, Peace Officer and Folk HeroA legend in his own time,James Butler ('Wild Bill') Hickok was no average Joe when he went head-to-head with his enemies--he reportedly could 'draw and discharge his pistols with a rapidity that was truly wonderful.'
Buffalo Soldiers in Utah TerritoryAt Fort Duchesne, black 9th Cavalry troops served alongside white infantrymen while dealing with the sometimes restless Ute Indians and the wild and woolly Duchesne Strip.
The Fatal Fetterman FightCalled a massacre at the time, the December 1866 clash near Fort Phil Kearny was, in fact, a military triumph by the Plains Indians and the Army's greatest blunder in the West until the Battle of the Little Bighorn 10 years later.
Book Review: Crazy Horse: The Life Behind the Legend (Mike Sajna) : WW			Crazy Horse: The Life Behind the Legend, by Mike Sajna, John Wiley & Sons, New York, 2000, $27.95.He was quiet, shy, and avoided attention off the battlefield, but on it, he was bold, brave and successful–as William Fetterman, George …
Book Review:  Little Big Horn Trading Cards (Martin G. Lord) : WWLITTLE BIG HORN TRADING CARDSI can just see it now: Two kids from Hardin, Mont.–or New Rumley, Ohio, for that matter–are doing some card trading. Firstkid: "I'll give you a Captain Frederick Benteen, a Lieutenant J.J. Crittenden and a …
Legends and Lies: Great Mysteries of the American West, by Dale L. Walker, Forge Books, New York, 1997, $22.95.
When we read history, we like to believe we are reading truth. But as Dale Walker so adroitly points out, individuals …
Book Review: Custer: The Controversial Life of George Armstrong Custer (Jeffry D. Wert.) : WWCuster: The Controversial Life of George Armstrong Custer, by Jeffry D. Wert, Simon & Schuster, New York, 1996, $27.50 hardback. Will the real George Armstrong Custer please stand up? The man who died in a "Last Stand" at the Little …
Book Review: Little Bighorn Remembered: The Untold Indian Story of Custer's Last Stand (by Herman J. Viola) : WWLittle Bighorn Remembered: The Untold Indian Story of Custer's Last Stand, by Herman J. Viola, Times Books (a division of Random House), New York, 1999, $45.Indian accounts of the Battle of the Little Bighorn are fascinating and add much …
Book Review: The Black Infantry in the West  (Arlen L. Fowler) : WWThe Black Infantry in the West, 1869-1891, by Arlen L. Fowler, University of Oklahoma Press, Norman, 1996, $12.95 paperback.Arlen Fowler's interest in the "buffalo soldiers" grew out of his 1952 assignment as a white officer in the 25th Armored …
Book Review: To Hell With Honor (Larry Sklenar) : WW			To Hell With Honor: Custer and the Little Bighorn, by Larry Sklenar, University of Oklahoma Press, Norman, 2000, $29.95.Almost 125 years since George Armstrong Custer and members of his 7th Cavalry were hurtled intoeternity and mythology, the Battle of …
Book Review: Custer and the Battle of the Little Bighorn: An Encyclopedia (Thom Hatch) : WWCuster and the Battle of the Little Bighorn: An Encyclopedia, by Thom Hatch, McFarland & Company, Inc., Jefferson, N.C., 1997, $45 hardback.If all the different published perspectives on the Little Bighorn were stacked up under the big sky of …
Book Review:  Custer, Cody & The Last Indian Wars: A Pictorial History (Jay Kimmel) : WWCUSTER, CODY & THE LAST INDIAN WARS: A PICTORIAL HISTORYTwo of the most famous figures of the Old West, George Armstrong Custer and William F. ("Buffalo Bill") Cody, were alsotwo of the most photographed individuals of their time. So …
Book Review:  Men With Custer: Biographies of the 7th Cavalry (Kenneth Hammer with Ronald H. Nichols) : WWMEN WITH CUSTER: BIOGRAPHIES OF THE 7TH CAVALRYWhen it comes to the Little Bighorn, far more ink than blood has been spilled. How and when some 210 soldiers under George Armstrong Custer's direct command died remains a mystery because …
Book Review: A Dispatch to Custer (Randy Johnson and Nancy Allan) : WW			A Dispatch to Custer: The Tragedy of Lieutenant Kidder,  by Randy Johnson and Nancy Allan,Mountain Press Publishing Co., Missoula, Mont., 1999, $15 paperback.The mission seemed simple enough. Lieutenant Lyman Kidder, with 10 soldiers and a friendly Siouxguide, was to …
Book Review: A Frontier Army Christmas (compiled and annotated by Lori A. Cox-Paul and Dr. James W. Wengert) : WWA Frontier Army Christmas, compiled and annotated by Lori A. Cox-Paul and Dr. James W. Wengert, Nebraska State Historical Society, Lincoln, 1998, $12.95 paperback.Christmas on Army posts between 1865 and 1900 often brought the only real relief from the …
Book Review:  Little Big Horn (Robert Nightengale) : WWLITTLE BIG HORN"The easiest way to start an argument is to bring up religion, politics, or Custer's Last Stand," writes longtime Custerania student Thomas E. O'Neil in his introduction to a book that, if it doesn't start arguments, will …
Book Review: The Great West: A Treasury of Firsthand Accounts (Charles Neider) : WWThe Great West: A Treasury of Firsthand Accounts, edited by Charles Neider, Da Capo Press, New York, 1997, $22.95 paperback.The almost 60 accounts and nearly 100 black-and-white illustrations selected by editor Charles Neider fill 457 pages–enough to give the …
Book Review: Lakota: An Illustrated History (  Sergio Macedo) : WWLakota: An Illustrated History,  by Sergio Macedo,  Treasure Chest Books, Tucson, Ariz., 1996,$18.95. The Lakota, or Teton Sioux, were prominent in the Indian wars, with such leaders as Red Cloud, Crazy Horse and Sitting Bull, and their courageous deeds as …
Book Review: Inventing Wyatt Earp: His Life and Many Legends (by Allen Barra) : WW'Inventing Wyatt Earp: His Life and Many Legends, by Allen Barra, Carroll & Graf, New York, 1998, $27.On the heels of Casey Tefertiller's big (403 pages to be exact) 1997 biography Wyatt Earp: The Life Behind the Legend …
Book Review: Best of the Wild West  (Cowles HIstory Group) : WWBest of the Wild Westfrom the publisher of Wild West Magazine, CowlesHistory Group, Leesburg, Va., 1996, $16.95 hardback. Wild West the magazine is plenty colorful for three reasons. First, it chronicles a frontier full of exciting characters. Second, it displays …
Book Review: Legacy: New Perspectives on the Battle of the Little Bighorn (Charles E. Rankin) : WWLegacy: New Perspectives on the Battle of the Little Bighorn, edited by Charles E. Rankin, Montana Historical Society Press, Helena, 1996, $45 cloth, $19.95 paper.For readers who can't get enough of the Battle of the Little Bighorn, this 382-page …
Book Review:  Lakota and Cheyenne: Indian Views of the Great Sioux War, 1876-1877 (Jerome A. Greene) : WWLAKOTA AND CHEYENNE: INDIAN VIEWS OF THE GREAT SIOUX WAR, 1876-1877THE BATTLE OF the Little Bighorn and the annihilation of Lieutenant Colonel George Armstrong Custer and his command inJune 1876 has been recounted in numerous books, articles and motion …
Book Review: The Dahlgren Affair: Terror and Conspiracy in the Civil War (By Duane Schultz) : ACWJudson Kilpatrick's failed raid on Richmond opened the way for a new and decidedly nasty kind of warfare.
By Phil NoblittIn the winter of 1864, Union cavalry commander Hugh Judson Kilpatrick visited the White House to propose a daring …
  When a white settler killed a Nez Perce warrior in 1876, the incident set off a chain of events that led to war.
The HistoryNet.com is brought to you by Weider History, the world's largest publisher of history magazines. HistoryNet.com contains daily features, photo galleries and over 5,000 articles originally published in our various magazines. If you are interested in a specific history subject, try searching our archives, you are bound to find something to pique your interest.
Copyright © 2014 Weider History. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.Advertise With Us | Subscription Help | Privacy Policy
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesCash for College! 54 Scholarships Worth $10&#044;000 or MoreErikson's Psychosocial Stages Summary ChartHow to Control Carpenter BeesQuiz - What's Your Leadership Style? [About Psychology]College Interview Questions
Top Related Searchesgeorge armstrong custernew rumley ohgeneral george mcclellangeneral irvin mcdowellhenry custerus military academy
Second Lieutenant George Custer (right) with captured Confederate Lieutenant Washington, at Fair Oaks, 1862.Photograph Courtesy of the Library of CongressGeorge Custer and his wife Libbie, 1864.Photograph Courtesy of the Library of Congress
The son of Emanuel Henry Custer and Marie Ward Kirkpatrick, George Armstrong Custer was born at New Rumley, OH on December 5, 1839. A large family, the Custers had five children of their own as well as several from Marie's earlier marriage. At a young age, George was sent to live with his half-sister and brother-in-law in Monroe, MI. While living there, he attended McNeely Normal School and did menial jobs around the campus to help pay for his room and board. After graduating in 1856, he returned to Ohio and taught school.
Deciding that teaching did not suit him, Custer enrolled at the US Military Academy. A weak student, his time at West Point was plagued by near expulsion each term for excessive demerits. These were usually earned through his penchant for pulling pranks on fellow cadets. Graduating in June 1861, Custer finished last in his class. While such a performance normally would have landed him an obscure posting and a short career, Custer benefited from the outbreak of the Civil War and the US Army's desperate need for trained officers. Commissioned a second lieutenant, Custer was assigned to the 2nd US Cavalry.
Reporting for duty, he saw service at the First Battle of Bull Run (July 21, 1861) where he acted as a runner between General Winfield Scott and Major General Irvin McDowell. After the battle, Custer was reassigned to the 5th Cavalry and was sent south to participate in Major General George McClellan's Peninsula Campaign. On May 24, 1862, Custer convinced a colonel to allow him to attack a Confederate position across the Chickahominy River with four companies of Michigan infantry. The attack was a success and 50 Confederates were captured. Impressed, McClellan took Custer onto his staff as an aide-de-camp.
While serving on McClellan's staff, Custer developed his love of publicity and began working to attract attention to himself. Following McClellan's removal from command in the fall of 1862, Custer joined the staff Major General Alfred Pleasonton, who was then commanding a cavalry division. Quickly becoming his commander's protégé, Custer became enamored with flashy uniforms and was schooled in military politics. In May 1863, Pleasonton was promoted to command the Cavalry Corps of the Army of the Potomac. Though many of his men were alienated by Custer's showy ways, they were impressed by his coolness under fire.
After distinguishing himself as bold and aggressive commander at Brandy Station and Aldie, Pleasonton promoted him to brevet brigadier general despite his lack of command experience. With this promotion, Custer was assigned to lead a brigade of Michigan cavalry in the division of Major General Judson Kilpatrick. After fighting the Confederate cavalry at Hanover and Hunterstown, Custer and his brigade, which he nicknamed the "Wolverines," played a key role in the cavalry battle east of Gettysburg on July 3.
As Union troops south of the town were repulsing Longstreet's Assault (Pickett's Charge), Custer was fighting with Brigadier General David Gregg's division against Major General J.E.B. Stuart's Confederate cavalry. Personally leading his regiments into the fray on several occasions, Custer had two horses shot out from under him. The climax of the fight came when Custer led a mounted charge of the 1st Michigan which stopped the Confederate attack. His triumph as Gettysburg marked the high point of his career. The following winter, Custer married Elizabeth Clift Bacon on February 9, 1864.
In the spring, Custer retained his command after the Cavalry Corps was reorganized by its new commander Major General Philip Sheridan. Participating in Lt. General Ulysses S. Grant's Overland Campaign, Custer saw action at the Wilderness, Yellow Tavern, and Trevilian Station. In August, he traveled west with Sheridan as part of the forces sent to deal with Lt. General Jubal Early in the Shenandoah Valley. After pursuing Early's forces after the victory at Opequon, he was promoted to divisional command. In this role he aided in destroying Early's army at Cedar Creek that October.
Returning to Petersburg after the campaign in the Valley, Custer's division saw action at Waynesboro, Dinwiddie Court House, and Five Forks. After this final battle, it pursued General Robert E. Lee's retreating Army of Northern Virginia after Petersburg fell on April 2/3, 1865. Blocking Lee's retreat from Appomattox, Custer's men were the first to receive a flag of truce from the Confederates. Custer was present at Lee's surrender on April 9, and was given the table on which it was signed in recognition of his gallantry.
After the war, Custer reverted back to the rank of captain and briefly considered leaving the military. He was offered the position of adjutant general in the Mexican army of Benito Juárez, who was then battling Emperor Maximilian, but was blocked from accepting it by the State Department. An advocate of President Andrew Johnson's reconstruction policy, he was criticized by hardliners who believed he was attempting to curry favor with the goal of receiving a promotion. In 1866, he turned down the colonelcy of the all-black 10th Cavalry (Buffalo Soldiers) in favor of the lieutenant colonelcy of the 7th Cavalry.
In addition, he was given the brevet rank of major general at the behest of Sheridan. After serving in Major General Winfield Scott Hancock's 1867 campaign against the Cheyenne, Custer was suspended for a year for leaving his post to see his wife. Returning to the regiment in 1868, Custer won the Battle of Washita River against Black Kettle and the Cheyenne that November.
Six years later, in 1874, the Custer and the 7th Cavalry scouted the Black Hills of South Dakota and confirmed the discovery of gold at French Creek. This announcement touched off the Black Hills gold rush and further heightened tensions with the Lakota Sioux and Cheyenne. In an effort to secure the hills, Custer was dispatched as part of a larger force with orders to round up the remaining Indians in the area and relocate them to reservations. Departing Ft. Lincoln, ND with Brigadier General Alfred Terry and a large force of infantry, the column moved west with the goal of linking up with forces coming from the west and south under Colonel John Gibbon and Brigadier General George Crook.
Encountering the Sioux and Cheyenne at the Battle of the Rosebud on June 17, 1876, Crook's column was delayed. Gibbon, Terry, and Custer met later that month and, based on a large Indian trail, decided to have Custer circle around the Indians while the other two approached with the main force. After refusing reinforcements, including Gatling guns, Custer and the approximately 650 men of the 7th Cavalry moved out. On June 25, Custer's scouts reported sighting the large camp (900-1,800 warriors) of Sitting Bull and Crazy Horse along the Little Bighorn River.
Concerned that the Sioux and Cheyenne might escape, Custer recklessly decided to attack the camp with only the men on hand. Dividing his force, he ordered Major Marcus Reno to take one battalion and attack from the south, while he took another and circled around to the north end of the camp. Captain Frederick Benteen was sent southwest with a blocking force to prevent any escape. Charging up the valley, Reno's attack was stopped and he was forced to retreat, with Benteen's arrival saving his force. To the north, Custer too was stopped and superior numbers forced him to retreat. With his line broken, the retreat became disorganized and his entire 208-man force was killed while making their "last stand."
Civil War LinksAmerican Civil War 101Battle of ChattanoogaPhoto Gallery: Civil War WeaponsCivil War LinksMajor General Joshua L. ChamberlainColonel Robert Gould ShawAdmiral David G. FarragutCivil War LinksPhoto Gallery: Civil War WarshipsPhoto Gallery: Union GeneralsPhoto Gallery: Confederate Generals
Related ArticlesGeorge Armstrong Custer Civil War Facts and PhotosBattle of the Little Bighorn - The Battle of the Little Bighorn 1876George Thomas - Civil War General George Thomas BiographyIrvin McDowell - American Civil War - Major General - First Battle of Bull ...Alfred Pleasonton - Civil War - Army of the Potomac - Cavalry 
Vietnam: The 10,000-Day WarWorld War II: The Globe AfireThe Civil War: A Nation DividedAmerican Revolution OverviewMilitary History Timelines
A Beginner's Guide to the D-Day InvasionEverything You Need to Know About the Events...World History 101: A Brief Overview of World...How The Battle of Ia Drang Changed the Vietnam...What Were the Origins of the Vietnam War?
Conflicts & BattlesNaval WarfareArms & EquipmentAviationBiographiesShare Your StoryHome FrontStrategy & TacticsCurrent ConflictsGlossary of TermsBlog
Military HistoryAbout.comEducationMilitary HistoryBiographiesArmy1800s Army BiographiesIndian Wars: Lt. Colonel George A. CusterAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesCash for College! 54 Scholarships Worth $10&#044;000 or MoreErikson's Psychosocial Stages Summary ChartHow to Control Carpenter BeesQuiz - What's Your Leadership Style? [About Psychology]College Interview Questions
George Armstrong Custer holds a unique place in American history. A hero to some, a villain to others, he was controversial in life and even in death. And Americans have never tired of reading or talking about Custer.
Presented here are some facts and photos pertaining to Custer's early life and career in the Civil War, when he first achieved fame as a dashing cavalry commander.Custer's Early Life
Getty ImagesGeorge Armstrong Custer was born in New Rumley, Ohio, on December 5, 1839. His childhood ambition was to be a soldier. According to family stories, Custer's father, a member of a local militia group, would dress him in a small soldier's uniform at the age of four. Custer's half-sister Lydia married and moved to Monroe, Michigan, and young "Autie," as Custer was known, was sent to live with her. Determined to join the military, Custer secured an appointment to the US Military Academy at West Point at the age of 18. Custer was not a stellar student at West Point, and graduated at the bottom of his class in 1861. In ordinary times, his military career might not have flourished, but his class immediately entered the Civil War. For this 1861 photograph Custer posed in his West Point cadet's uniform.
Library of CongressCuster's West Point class graduated early and was ordered to Washington, DC in June 1861. Typically, Custer was detained, ordered to stay at West Point, because of a disciplinary infraction. With the intercession of friends he was released, and he reported to Washington in July 1861. Custer was offered a chance to help train recruits, and reportedly said he'd rather report to a combat unit. So, as a new second lieutenant, he soon found himself at the First Battle of Bull Run, assigned to a cavalry unit. The battle turned into a rout and Custer joined the long column of Union troops who retreated from the battlefield. The following spring, a young Custer was photographed in Virginia. He is seated at left, cradling a cavalry saber and sporting impressive whiskers.Custer as a Staff Officer
Library of CongressIn early 1862, Custer served on the staff of General George McClellan, who led the Union Army into Virginia for the Peninsula Campaign. At one point Custer was ordered to ascend in the basket of a tethered balloon with pioneering "aeronaut" Thaddeus Lowe to make observations of enemy positions. After some initial trepidation, Custer took to the daring practice and made many other ascents in the observation balloon. In a photograph of Union staff officers taken in 1862, a 22-year-old Custer can be spotted in the left foreground, beside a dog.The Photogenic Custer Emerged
Library of CongressDuring the Peninsula Campaign in the spring and early summer of 1862 Custer found himself in front of the camera several times. In this photograph, taken in Virginia, Custer sits beside a camp dog. It has been said that Custer was the most photographed officer in the Union Army during the Civil War.A Pose with a Rebel Prisoner
Library of CongressWhile in Virginia in 1862 Custer posed for this photograph by James Gibson, Custer poses with a captured Confederate, Lt. James B. Washington. It's probable that the Confederate, rather than being incarcerated, had been put "on parole," meaning he was essentially free but had promised not to take up arms against the Union in the future.Photographed After Antietam
Library of CongressIn September 1862 Custer would be present at the epic Battle of Antietam, though in a reserve unit which did not see action. In a photograph Alexander Gardner took of General McClellan and Abraham Lincoln, Custer can be spotted as a member of McClellan's staff. It's interesting that Custer stood at the far right of the photograph. It appears that he did not want to blend in with McClellan's other staff officers, and he's essentially posing for his own portrait within the larger photograph. A few months later, Custer returned for a time to Michigan, where he began courting his future wife, Elizabeth Bacon.Cavalry Commander
Library of CongressIn early June 1863 Custer, assigned to a cavalry unit, showed particular bravery when confronting a Confederate force near Aldie, Virginia. Wearing a wide-brimmed straw hat, Custer led a cavalry charge that put him, at one point, in the midst of the Confederate force. Legend has it that the enemy, seeing Custer's distinctive hat, took him for one of their own, and in the confusion he was able to spur his horse and escape. As reward for his bravery, Custer was appointed a brigadier general, and given command of the Michigan Cavalry Brigade. He was only 23 years old. Custer was known for natty uniforms, and for having portraits taken of himself, but his flair for showmanship was matched by brave action on the battlefield.The Custer Legend Was Born
Library of CongressCuster fought at Gettysburg, and showed initiative in capturing Confederates fleeing back to Virginia after the battle. At times Custer was described as "reckless," and he was known to lead men into dangerous situations to test their own courage. Despite any flaws, Custer's skill as a cavalryman made him a noteworthy figure, and he appeared on the cover of the country's most popular magazine, Harper's Weekly on March 19, 1864. A month earlier, on February 9, 1864, Custer had married Elizabeth Bacon. She was very devoted to him, and after his death she would keep his legend alive by writing about him.
Library of CongressCuster's daring on the battlefield garnered continued press coverage in late 1864 and early 1865. In late October 1864, in a battle called the Woodstock Races, Custer was sketched by the noted battlefield artist Alfred Waud. In the pencil sketch, Custer is saluting the Confederate General Ramseur. Waud noted on the sketch that Custer had known the Confederate at West Point.A Glorious Cavalry Raid
Library of CongressIn early April 1865, as the Civil War was coming to its conclusion, Custer was involved in a cavalry raid that was written up in the New York Times. A headline declared, "Another Brilliant Affair by General Custer." The article described how Custer and the Third Cavalry Division captured three locomotives as well as artillery and many Confederate prisoners. Battlefield artist Alfred Waud sketched Custer just prior to that action. To provide a title, Waud had written below his sketch, "April 6. Custer ready for his 3rd charge at Sailors Creek 1865." On the back of the pencil sketch, Waud wrote, "Custer charged and charged again here capturing and destroying trains and making many prisoners. On the left are his guns engaging the enemy."Custer's Role in the Confederate Surrender
Library of CongressOn April 8, 1865, Alfred Waud sketched General Custer as he received a flag of truce from a Confederate officer. That first truce flag would lead to the parley that brought General Robert E. Lee and General Ulysses S. Grant together at Appomatox Courthouse for the Confederate surrender.Custer's Uncertain Future at War's End
Library of CongressAs the Civil War ended, George Armstrong Custer was a 25-year-old with the battlefield rank of general. As he posed for this formal portrait in 1865, he may well have been contemplating his future in a nation at peace. Custer, like many other officers, would have his rank reduced after the end of the war. And his career in the Army would continue. He would, as a colonel, go on to command the 7th Cavalry on the western plains. And in June 1876 Custer would become an American icon when he led an attack on a large Indian village near a river called the Little Bighorn in the Montana Territory.
George Armstrong CusterThe Cavalry Fight at GettsyburgCuster and the Little BighornCivil War BattlesBattle of Bull RunBattle of AntietamBattle of Gettysburg
Related ArticlesLieutenant Colonel George A. Custer BiographyGhost of Little Big Horn - Your True Tales - June 2009Battle of the Little Bighorn - The Battle of the Little Bighorn 1876Destination Little Bighorn BattlefieldBattle of Brandy Station - Civil War Battle of Brandy Station 
Top Related Searchesgeorge armstrong custernew rumley ohious military academycavalry commandersmall soldierchildhood ambition
Why Gettysburg Matters1860: Lincoln ElectedBuffalo Bill's Wild West ShowDarwin Aboard H.M.S. BeagleThe Raj: British India
Charles Darwin's Five Years Circling the Globe...Learn About the 19th Century's Largest Volcanic...How Colonial Rule Defined India in the 1800sHow the Indian Removal Policy Led to the Trail...Significance of the Battle of Gettysburg
Timelines of the 1800s1800s GlossaryMajor FiguresTransportationWar & DiplomacyExploration & AdventureScience & CultureIndustry and InventionSlaveryImmigrationEntertainment & SportExpansion & ColonialismThe Gilded AgeCrimes and DisastersBlog
19th Century HistoryAbout.comEducation19th Century HistoryMajor FiguresAmerican OriginalsGeorge Armstrong Custer Civil War Facts and PhotosAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
=======================================================
  Lt Col George Armstrong Custer - Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument (U.S. National Park Service) 
	.mw { color:#000000;font-family:Verdana,Arial,Helvetica;font-weight:bold;font-size:xx-small;text-decoration:none; }
	a.mw:link	{color:#000000;font-family:Verdana,Arial,Helvetica;font-weight:bold;font-size:xx-small;text-decoration:none;}
	a.mw:visited	{color:#000000;font-family:Verdana,Arial,Helvetica;font-weight:bold;font-size:xx-small;text-decoration:none;}
	a.mw:hover	{color:#0000FF;font-family:Verdana,Arial,Helvetica;font-weight:bold;font-size:xx-small;text-decoration:none;}
George Armstrong Custer was born in New Rumley, Ohio on December 5, 1839.  For his entire life he would be called "Autie" by his loved ones; stemming from his own mispronunciation of his middle name.  As a boy, he was always distracted by other pursuits and rarely, if ever, established himself from the pack as a student.  In 1855 he attended a Normal School and by the following year had his teaching certificate to instruct grammar school. It was not long before he grew tired of his profession, and soon applied to attend West Point the U.S. Military Academy. It was not long before Custer's appointment was secured.
Custer entered the academy in the fall of 1857. He graduated last in a class of 34 in June of 1861. As the Civil War broke out, Custer emerged from the academy. He chose the Cavalry as the branch he wished to serve in. Initially Custer was assigned staff duty with the Army of the Potomac. He soon distinguished himself as a man quick to volunteer and easily relied upon. 
In November of 1862, Custer was introduced to a sought-after young woman, the daughter of a judge named Elizabeth "Libbie" Bacon. Initially Libbie fended off the confident young officer's advances, but soon the two soon became sweethearts. Libbie's father, Judge Daniel Bacon, did not approve of his daughter courting someone beneath her station. Nevertheless, the two soon began to court; writing letters to one another frequently.
In the two years since the war had broken out, he had been promoted several times all the way to the rank of Brigadier General of Volunteers, commanding the Michigan Cavalry Brigade. Now a General, Libbie's father began to cool his objections to the young couple. In February 1864, the two were married in Monroe.  After the honeymoon, Custer again returned to his obligations as an officer, but the two corresponded incessantly, and spent time together whenever the opportunity presented itself.  
Through the rest of the war he steadily advanced in responsibility and rank.  By war's end in 1865, Custer commanded an entire Cavalry Division holding the rank of Major General. In many cases, Generals led their troops on the battlefield by commanding movements from the rear. Custer, however, distinguished himself as a leader who commanded his troops from the front.  Oftentimes in a charge he was the very first soldier to engage the enemy. In one instance he extended so far ahead of his own men that the enemy cut him off from the rest of his command.  Men found in Custer a gallant leader worthy of following into battle. In the majority of the battles he fought against Confederate forces he was victorious. On many occasions, he narrowly escaped harm in battle; having 11 horses shot from under him and incurring only one wound from a Confederate artillery shell during the Battle of Culpepper Courthouse. As a result he became known for his legendary "Custer Luck." After the Civil War ended on April 9, 1865, the huge Volunteer Army was demobilized and Custer assumed his regular army rank as Captain.
In 1866, when the U.S. 7th Cavalry Regiment was created at Fort Riley Kansas, Custer was promoted to the position of Lt. Colonel of the regiment. The first Colonel of the 7th was Col. Andrew Smith, (1866-1869) and the second Colonel was Col. Samuel Sturgis (1869-1886). Col. Smith and Col. Sturgis were usually on detached service which placed Custer in command of the Regiment until his death on June 25th, 1876.
In 1867, serving under General Winfield Hancock, Custer would see his first real experience in the west. Ostensibly, the campaign was to enter into peace negotiations with the Southern Cheyennes and Kiowas along the Arkansas River.  Hancock's men and Custer set out "to confer with them to ascertain if they want to fight, in which case he [Hancock] will indulge them."  While he scarcely saw combat during his Kansas/Colorado campaign, school was in session, and Custer had begun to learn the nuances of Indian fighting.
At the end of the campaign, he was promptly placed under arrest and charged with: absence without leave from his command, conduct to the prejudice of good order and military discipline, as well as for ordering deserters shot without trial and refusing them medical attention. The court-martial found him guilty of all charges and he was sentenced to one year of suspension from rank without pay. A dishonored Custer was now plagued with a very different reputation from the venerable one he enjoyed during the Civil War.   
In 1868, conflict between Cheyennes and homesteaders raged. The U.S. Army dispatched a winter campaign in response to Indian raids along the Arkansas valley. Custer, now reinstated, was to command the 7th for the campaign which culminated with the Battle of the Washita on November 27th, 1868. At dawn, Custer's 7th attacked an unsuspecting village of Southern Cheyennes led by Chief Black Kettle. Killing all warriors, as per his orders, Custer's men spared women and children whenever possible.
In 1873 the 7th would be called into action again. This time, they were charged with protecting the Northern Pacific Railroad Survey as it moved along the Yellowstone investigating sites to lay rail. The Lakota, among other tribes, took particular issue with the construction of the railroad. Soon, the Lakotas were attacking survey sites regularly. While neither party realized it at the time, this would be the first contact between Sitting Bull, Crazy Horse, Gall and other notable Lakota figures and their famous opponent; Custer.
The following summer of 1874, the 7th was sent to survey the Lakota's Black Hills. In a time of economic depression, rumors had begun circulating that the Black Hill's were ripe with gold. Opportunistic men began to enter the hills in search of riches. Meanwhile, homesteaders had been frequently raided by Lakota war-parties. The army sought to establish a fort in the Black Hills to deter mining invasions, and protect Lakota land, as well as have a site within the Sioux lands for the purposes of preventing further raiding. The 7th was charged with finding a proper site for a fort to be built. Along for the expedition, at the behest of General Custer, were two professional miners. During the summer expedition, gold was discovered, and accompanying journalists quickly sent word back east of pay dirt. The rumors of gold in the Black Hills which had been circulating for over fifty years had now been confirmed, and a new gold rush was on.
By late 1875, information had become public that high ranking officials in Washington were involved in a scandal that involved the selling of exclusive trading rights at forts and posts along the upper Missouri region.  The licenses needed to trade at military forts were issued by the Secretary of War, William Belknap.  In March and April of 1876, Custer testified before a congressional committee that Secretary Belknap was involved in the graft.  In addition, Custer's testimony attached President Grant's own brother Orville to the corruption. This put Custer in a precarious situation with the Commander and Chief, who was presently overseeing the final planning stages of an offensive on non-treaty Lakotas and Cheyennes for the upcoming spring.
Custer was eventually allowed to command his 7th Cavalry for the upcoming campaign.  In the spring of 1876, the U.S. Army dispatched 3 massive columns comprising multiple regiments of Cavalry, Infantry, and Artillery. Their objective was to clear the area of Lakota and Cheyenne's and force them onto the Great Sioux Reservation. Custer's regiment was part of the largest column coming from Fort Abraham Lincoln. General Alfred Terry commanded the campaign, and Custer was Terry's subordinate. On June 22nd, under orders from Terry, Custer's 7th was sent ahead of the rest of the column in hopes that they could be the striking force for what was most assuredly a large collection of Lakotas not far ahead of them.
On the morning of June 25th, based on intelligence suggesting that the Lakotas and Cheyennes were about to flee, Custer ordered his 7th Cavalry to attack. By the end of the day, 263 soldiers and approximately 80 Lakotas and Cheyennes lay dead. Custer was among them. Less than two weeks later on July 4th, Philadelphia was bursting at the seams with pride and nationalism. On the 100th birthday of the United States people had come from all over the world to share in the theme of "100 Years of Progress." On that day, they would receive word that their famous Civil War hero had been killed along a narrow stream in the Montana Territory.  Americans were confounded in shock and stricken with grief.
Americans were devastated, but none more than the wife of the fallen General, Libbie. Libbie lived on another 57 years after her beloved husband's death. For the rest of her days, she tirelessly lobbied public opinion; portraying her husband as a brave, gallant, and noble figure struck down before his time. In spite of his early death, Custer's name would continue to live on in dime novels, art, music and film. Thanks in large part to Libbie, her husband achieved in death the infamy he sought in life. Since the day of his death in 1876, Custer has and will forever remain a lightning-rod of controversy. Regardless of its merit, Custer has been and will forever remain at the forefront of American historical discourse.  
				More than half of the 7th Cavalry survived the Battle of the Little Bighorn. About 350 soldiers under the command of Major Reno and Captain Benteen survived five miles south of where Custer and five companies were annihilated. 
=======================================================
color="#ffffff" default="#111111 url(//themes.googleusercontent.com/image?id=1OACCYOE0-eoTRTfsBuX1NMN9nz599ufI1Jh0CggPFA_sK80AGkIr8pLtYRpNUKPmwtEa) repeat-x fixed top center"/>
<Variable name="body.background.color" description="Outer Background" type="color" default="#296695"/>
<Variable name="header.background.color" description="Header Background" type="color" default="transparent"/>
<Variable name="post.background.color" description="Post Background" type="color" default="#ffffff"/>
<Variable name="tabs.selected.text.color" description="Selected Color" type="color" default="#336699"/>
<Variable name="tabs.background.color" description="Background Color" type="color" default="transparent"/>
<Variable name="tabs.selected.background.color" description="Selected Color" type="color" default="transparent"/>
<Variable name="tabs.separator.color" description="Separator Color" type="color" default="transparent"/>
<Variable name="post.footer.text.color" description="Footer Text Color" type="color" default="#999999"/>
<Variable name="footer.widget.title.text.color" description="Gadget Title Color" type="color" default="#aaaaaa"/>
<Variable name="footer.link.visited.color" description="Visited Color" type="color" default="#77aaee"/>
<Variable name="content.border.radius" description="Content Border Radius" type="length" default="0"/>
<Variable name="content.shadow.spread" description="Content Shadow Spread" type="length" default="0"/>
<Variable name="main.border.radius.top" description="Main Border Radius" type="length" default="20px"/>
<Variable name="footer.border.radius.top" description="Footer Border Radius Top" type="length" default="0"/>
<Variable name="footer.border.radius.bottom" description="Footer Border Radius Bottom" type="length" default="20px"/>
<Variable name="region.shadow.spread" description="Main and Footer Shadow Spread" type="length" default="3px"/>
<Variable name="region.shadow.offset" description="Main and Footer Shadow Offset" type="length" default="1px"/>
<Variable name="tabs.background.gradient" description="Tab Background Gradient" type="url" default="none"/>
<Variable name="tab.first.border.radius" description="First Tab Border Radius" type="length" default="10px" />
<Variable name="widget.title.text.transform" description="Widget Title Text Transform" type="string" default="uppercase"/>
<Variable name="startSide" description="Side where text starts in blog language" type="automatic" default="left"/>
<Variable name="endSide" description="Side where text ends in blog language" type="automatic" default="right"/>
background: #ffffff url(http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-EWj8gm9IuyE/Unagv2qTDxI/AAAAAAAAChg/S9HFgsqvXrM/s0/Custer2b.jpg) repeat fixed top center;
background-image: url(data:image/png;base64,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);
was a West Point graduate who attained brevet promotions to brigadier general and major general in the regular army on March 13, 1865 and major general of volunteers April 15, 1865 during the American Civil War. Custer, in the 1870’s, was dispatched to the west to fight in the Indian Wars. His disastrous defeat at the Battle of the Little Bighorn in 1876 resulted in his death along with his entire detachment. 
George Armstrong Custer was a West Point graduate who attained brevet promotions to brigadier general and major general in the regular army on March 13, 1865 and major general of volunteers April 15, 1865 during the American Civil War. Custer, in the 1870’s, was dispatched to the west to fight in the Indian Wars. His disastrous defeat at the Battle of the Little Bighorn in 1876 resulted in his death along with his entire detachment.
First United American Republic: United Colonies of North America: 13 British Colonies United in Congress was founded by 12 colonies on September 5th, 1774 (Georgia joined in 1775)  and governed through a British Colonial Continental Congress.  Peyton Randolph and George Washington served, respectively, as the Republic's first President and Commander-in-Chief;
Second United American Republic: The United States of America: 13 Independent States United in Congress was founded by 12 states on July 2nd, 1776 (New York abstained until July 8th), and governed through the United States Continental Congress. John Hancock and George Washington served, respectively, as the Republic's first President and Commander-in-Chief; 
Third United American Republic: The United States of America: A Perpetual Union was founded by 13 States on March 1st, 1781, with the enactment of the first U.S. Constitution, the Articles of Confederation, and governed through the United States in Congress Assembled.  Samuel Huntington and George Washington served, respectively, as the Republic's first President and Commander-in-Chief; 
Fourth United American Republic: The United States of America: We the People  was formed by 11 states on March 4th, 1789 (North Carolina and Rhode Island joined in November 1789 and May 1790, respectively), with the enactment of the U.S. Constitution of 1787. The fourth and current United States Republic governs through  the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate in Congress Assembled, the U.S. President and Commander-in-Chief, and the U.S. Supreme Court.  George Washington served as the Republic's first President and Commander-in-Chief.
CUSTER, George Armstrong, soldier, born in New Rumley, Harrison County, Ohio, 5 December 1839; died in Montana, 25 June, 1876. He was graduated at the U. S. military academy in June, 1861, and reported for duty at Washington. General Winfield Scott gave him dispatches to carry to General Irwin McDowell, then in command of the Army of the Potomac, he was assigned to duty as lieutenant in the 5th cavalry, and participated, on the day of his arrival at tile front, in the first battle of Bull Run. General Philip Kearny selected him as his first aide-de-camp, and he afterward served on the staff of General William F. Smith. While on this duty he was given charge of the balloon ascensions, to make reconnaissances.  
In May, 1862, General George B. McClellan was so impressed with the energy and perseverance that he showed in wading the Chickahominy alone, to ascertain what would be a safe ford for the army to cross, and with his courage in reconnoitering the enemy's position while on the other side, that he was appointed aide-de-camp, with the rank of captain, to date from 15 June, 1862. Capt. Custer applied at once for permission to attack the picket-post he had just discovered, and at daylight the next morning surprised the enemy, drove them back, capturing some prisoners and the first colors that were taken by the Army of the Potomac. After General McClellan's retirement from command of the army, Capt. Custer was discharged from his volunteer appoint-merit and returned to his regiment as lieutenant. He had served there but a short time when General Alfred Pleasonton, on 15 May, 1863, made him aide-de-camp on his staff. For daring gallantry in a skirmish at Aldie and in the action at Brandy Station, as well as in the closing operations of the Rappahannock campaign, he was appointed brigadier-general of volunteers, dating from 29 June, 1863, and assigned to duty as commander of the Michigan brigade.  
Lt. George A. Custer has photo taken with ex-classmate, friend and captured Confederate prisoner, Lt. J.B. Washington, aide to Gen. Johnston at Fair Oaks 
At Gettysburg his brigade, together with those of Gregg and McIntosh, defeated General Stuart's efforts to turn the left flank.  For this action was brevetted major in the U.S. army, to date from 3 July 1863.  At Culpepper Court-House he was wounded by a spent ball, which killed his horse, he took part in General Sheridan's cavalry raid toward Richmond, in May, 1864, and was brevetted lieutenant colonel for gallant and meritorious services in the battle of Yellow Tavern, 11 May. In General Sheridan's second raid on Richmond the Michigan brigade made a most gallant fight at Trevillion Station; but so great was their peril that the colors of the brigade were only saved from capture by General Custer's tearing them from the standard, held in the grasp of a dying color-sergeant, and concealing the flag in his bosom.
 On 19 September, 1864, he was made brevet-colonel, U. S. army, for gallantry at the Bat­tle of Winchester, and on 19 Oct. he was brevetted major-general of volunteers for gallantry and meritorious services at Winchester and Fisher's Hill. On 30 Sept. he assumed command of the 3d division of cavalry, with which he fought the brilliant battle of Woodstock on 9 Oct., where his former classmate at West Point, the Confederate General Rosser, confronted him. He drove the enemy twenty-six miles, capturing everything they had on wheels except one gun. At Cedar Creek he confronted the enemy from the first attack in the morning until the battle ended. The 3d division recaptured, before the day was over, guns and colors that had been taken from the army earlier in the fight, together with Confederate flags and cannon. After this brilliant success General Custer was sent to Washington in charge of the captured colors, and recommended for promotion.  
In the spring of 1865, when General Sheridan moved his cavalry toward Richmond again, the 3rd division fought alone the battle of Waynesboro. The enemy's works were carried, and 11 guns, 200 wagons, 1,600 prisoners, and 17 battle-flags were captured. On reaching Fred-Rickshall Station, General Custer found that General Early had rallied from his retreat at Waynesboro and was preparing for another attack. He therefore sent a regiment to meet him at once. General Early was nearly captured, his command destroyed, and a campaign ended in which he lost his army, every piece of artillery, and all his trains. For gallant and meritorious services at the battles of Five Forks and Dinwiddie Court-House, General Cus­ter was brevetted brigadier-general, U. S. army, to date from 13 March, 1865. In a general order addressed to his troops, dated at Appomattox Court­ House, 9 April, 1865, General Custer said: 
"During the past six months, though in most instances con­fronted by superior numbers, you have captured from the enemy in open battle 111 pieces of field artillery, 65 battle-flags, and upward of 10,000 prisoners of war, including seven general officers. Within the past ten days, and included in the above, you have captured 46 field-pieces of artil­lery, and 37 battle-flags. You have never lost a gun, never lost a color, and never been defeated; and, notwithstanding the numerous engagements in which you have borne a prominent part, includ­ing those memorable battles of the Shenandoah, you have captured every piece of artillery which the enemy has dared to open upon you." 
General Custer received the first flag of truce from the Army of Northern Virginia, and was present at the surrender at Appomattox Court-House. He was brevetted major-general for his services in the last campaign, and appointed major-general of volunteers, to date from 15 April, 1865." He par­ticipated in all but one of the battles of the Army of the Potomac. After the grand review he was ordered to Texas, to command a division of cavalry. In November, 1865, he was made chief of cavalry, and remained on this duty until March, 1866, when he was mustered out of the volunteer service, to date from February, 1866. He then applied to the government for permission to accept from President Juarez the place of chief of Mexi­can cavalry in the struggle against Maximilian. 
President Johnson declined to give the necessary leave of absence, and General Custer decided to accept the lieutenant-colonelcy of the 7th cavalry, his appointment dating from 28 July, 1866. He joined his regiment at Fort Riley, Kansas, in November, 1866, and served on the plains until 1871. 
On 27 November he fought the battle of the Washita, in Indian Territory, and inflicted such a defeat upon the In­dians that the entire tribe of Cheyennes were compelled to return to their reservation. He was ordered  with his regiment, to Kentucky, in 1871, where he remained until 1873. In the spring of that year he was sent, with the 7th, to Fort Rice, Dakota, and from there accompanied an expedition to the Yellowstone. On 4 Aug. he fought the Sioux, with his regiment, on the Yellowstone, near the mouth of Tongue River, and on the 11th had another engagement three miles below the mouth of the Big Horn.  
In July, 1874, the government ordered an expedition, commanded by General Custer, into the Black Hills, which resulted in an unexplored region being opened to miners and frontiersmen. On 15 May, 1876, General Custer commanded his regiment in a campaign against the confederated Sioux tribes. The Indians were discovered encamped on the Little Big Horn River, in a region almost unknown. Eleven tribes, numbering nearly 9,000, had their villages on and in the vicinity of the Little Big Horn. The government expedition consisted of 1,100 men. The strength of the enemy not being known, General Custer was ordered to take his regiment and pursue a trail. He arrived at what was supposed to be the only Indian village on 25 June, and an attack was made by a portion of the regiment numbering fewer than 200 cavalry, while General Custer, with 277 troopers, charged on the village from another direction. Overwhelming numbers met them, and General Custer, with his entire command, was slain. The officers and men were interred upon the battle-field, and in 1879 it was made a national cemetery. A monument recording the name and rank of all who fell was erected by the U. S. government on the spot where General Custer made his last stand. In 1877 his remains were removed to the cemetery at West Point, N. Y. 
Library of Congress Photograph from the main eastern theater of the war, Battle of Antietam, September–October 1862 - left to right. 1. Col. Delos B. Sackett, I.G. 2. Capt. George Monteith. 3. Lt. Col. Nelson B. Sweitzer. 4. Gen. George W. Morell. 5. Col. Alexander S. Webb, Chief of Staff, 5th Corps. 6. Gen. George B. McClellan. 7. Scout Adams. 8. Dr. Jonathan Letterman, Army Medical Director. 9. Unknown. 10. President Lincoln. 11. Gen. Henry J. Hunt. 12. Gen. Fitz-John Porter. 13. Unknown. 14. Col. Frederick T. Locke, A.A.G. 15. Gen. Andrew A. Humphreys. 16. Capt. George Armstrong Custer.  
He was nearly six feet in height, broad-shouldered, lithe, and active, with a weight never above 170 pounds. His eyes were blue, his hair and mustache of golden tint. He was a man of immense strength and endurance, and, as he used neither liquors nor tobacco, his physical condition was perfect through all the hardships of his life. Eleven horses were shot under him in battle. At the age of twenty-three he was made a brigadier-general, at twenty-five a major-general. The close of the war reduced his command from thousands to hun­dreds; but his enthusiastic devotion to duty was not diminished, and his form was seen at the head of his men in his Indian service just as it had been during the civil war. He reverenced religion, he showed deference to the aged, he honored womankind, he was fond of children, and devoted to animals. His domestic life was characterized by a simplicity, joyous contentment, and fondness for home that was surprising when it is remem­bered that, out of the thirty-seven years of his brief life, fourteen were spent in active warfare. One of his friends wrote his history under his name in one sentence, "This was a man." 
In 1871 General Custer began to contribute articles on frontier life to the "Galaxy," which were published in book-form un­der the title "My Life on the Plains" (New York, 1874). He was engaged on a series of "War Me­moirs" for the "Galaxy" at the time of his death. He occasionally contributed articles on hunting to "Turf, Field, and Farm" and "Forest and Stream." His life has been written by Frederick Whittaker (New York, 1878). 
George Armstrong Custer and Elizabeth Bacon Custer Library of Congress description: "Gen. George Custer & Wife" Date, between 1864 and 1865
--His wife, Elizabeth Bacon Custer, whom he married in February, 1864, was with him at the front during the last year of the war, and also accompanied him in his nine years' service on the western frontier. She has pub­lished "Boots and Saddles, or Life with General Custer in Dakota" (New York, 1885), and is now (1887) at work upon a volume of reminiscences of the general's service in Texas and Kansas. 
--His brother, Thomas Ward Custer, soldier, born in New Rumley, Harrison co., Ohio, 15 March, 1845; died in Montana, 25 June, 1876. After repeated attempts, which failed on account of his youth, he succeeded in enlisting as a private in an Ohio regiment, and served in the west until he was made aide-de-camp on his brother's staff, then with the Army of the Potomac. His appointment as second lieutenant in the 6th Michigan cavalry dated from 8 November, 1864. His horse was often neck and neck with that of his brother in the famous cavalry charges, and in tile fight at Namozine Church, 2 April, 1865, he captured a Confederate flag. At Sailor's Creek, 6 April, he captured a second flag, but was shot by the standard-bearer and severely wounded in the face. He was preparing to charge again, when stopped by his brother and told to go to the rear and have his wound dressed. As he paid no at­tention to this request, it became necessary for General Custer to order him under arrest before he could check his ardor. He received a medal from congress for the capture of the colors at Sailor's Creek.  
In the spring of 1865 he accompanied Gem Custer to Texas and served on the staff until mustered out of service in November. He re­ceived the brevets of captain, major, and lieuten­ant-colonel. On 23 Feb., 1866, he was appointed second lieutenant in the 1st infantry of the regu­lar army, and on 28 July was promoted to a first lieutenancy in his brother's regiment, the 7th cav­alry, with which he served on frontier duty until he fell beside his brother in the battle of the Little Big Horn. When he was asked his opinion of his brother, just before the final campaign, General Cus­ter said: 
"If you want to know my opinion of Tom, I can only say that I think he should be the general and I the captain." 
George A. Custer, autograph letter signed, to Ely S. Parker, Commissioner of Indian Affairs dated  June 18th, 1871, Monroe, Michigan:
 "My purpose is to make my narrative as truthful as possible."  Custer was commissioned by the Galaxy to write a series of articles "descriptive of life on the Plains embracing personal sketches, marches and campaigns." 
Ely Parker, a Seneca sachem, was an engineer who became acquainted with Ulysses S. Grant in the late 1850's, later serving as his military secretary at Appomattox. One of Grant's first presidential acts was to appoint Parker as commissioner of Indian affairs.  In this letter Custer asks General Parker for:
"Dept copies of the reports of Indian agents relating to the Sioux, Cheyenne, Arapahos, Apaches (plains) or Comanches."
He especially was keen to have reports concerning General Winfield Hancock's expedition, which had resulted in Custer being court-martialed.  The very tribes which Custer was researching and writing about in these rather authoritative essays were those that annihilated his troops at Little Big Hor.  Custer's articles on the Plains Indians were first published in the Galaxy, volumes 13-18, 1872-1874, then in his book My Life on the Plains, or, Personal Experiences with Indians two years before his death in 1876.
Book a primary source exhibit and a professional speaker for your next event by contacting Historic.us today. Our Clients include many Fortune 500 companies, associations, non-profits, colleges, universities, national conventions, pr and advertising agencies. As the leading exhibitor of primary sources, many of our clients have benefited from our historic displays that are designed to entertain and educate your target audience. Contact us to learn how you can join our "roster" of satisfied clientele today!
Primary Source exhibits are available for display in your community. The costs range from $1,000 to $35,000 depending on length of time on loan and the rarity of artifacts chosen. 
Historic Documents Articles of Association Articles of Confederation 1775 Articles of Confederation  Article the First  Coin Act Declaration of Independence  Declaration of Independence  Emancipation Proclamation  Gettysburg Address Monroe Doctrine Northwest Ordinance No Taxation Without Representation Thanksgiving Proclamations Mayflower Compact  Treaty of Paris 1763 Treaty of Paris 1783  Treaty of Versailles United Nations Charter United States In Congress Assembled  US Bill of Rights United States Constitution  US Continental Congress US Constitution of 1777 US Constitution of 1787  Virginia Declaration of Rights      Historic Events Battle of New Orleans Battle of Yorktown Cabinet Room Civil Rights Movement Federalist Papers  Fort Duquesne Fort Necessity Fort Pitt French and Indian War Jumonville Glen Manhattan Project  Stamp Act Congress Underground Railroad US Hospitality  US Presidency  Vietnam War War of 1812 West Virginia Statehood Woman Suffrage World War I World War II © Stan Klos We Appraise Historic Documents  
America’s Four RepublicsThe More or Less United States   Continental CongressU.C. Presidents Peyton Randolph Henry Middleton Peyton RandolphJohn Hancock       Continental CongressU.S. Presidents John Hancock Henry Laurens John Jay Samuel Huntington       Constitution of 1777U.S. Presidents Samuel Huntington Samuel JohnstonElected but declined the office Thomas McKean John Hanson Elias Boudinot Thomas Mifflin Richard Henry Lee John Hancock[Chairman David Ramsay] Nathaniel Gorham Arthur St. Clair Cyrus Griffin       Constitution of 1787U.S. PresidentsGeorge Washington John AdamsFederalist PartyThomas JeffersonRepublican* PartyJames Madison Republican* PartyJames MonroeRepublican* PartyJohn Quincy AdamsRepublican* PartyWhig Party Andrew JacksonRepublican* PartyDemocratic PartyMartin Van BurenDemocratic PartyWilliam H. HarrisonWhig Party John TylerWhig PartyJames K. PolkDemocratic PartyDavid Atchison**Democratic PartyZachary TaylorWhig Party Millard FillmoreWhig Party Franklin PierceDemocratic Party James BuchananDemocratic PartyAbraham Lincoln Republican PartyJefferson Davis***Democratic PartyAndrew JohnsonRepublican PartyUlysses S. Grant Republican Party Rutherford B. HayesRepublican PartyJames A. GarfieldRepublican PartyChester Arthur Republican Party Grover ClevelandDemocratic PartyBenjamin HarrisonRepublican Party Grover Cleveland Democratic Party William McKinleyRepublican Party Theodore RooseveltRepublican Party William H. Taft Republican Party Woodrow WilsonDemocratic Party Warren G. Harding Republican PartyCalvin CoolidgeRepublican Party Herbert C. HooverRepublican PartyFranklin D. RooseveltDemocratic Party Harry S. TrumanDemocratic Party Dwight D. EisenhowerRepublican Party John F. KennedyDemocratic Party Lyndon B. Johnson Democratic Party Richard M. Nixon Republican Party Gerald R. Ford Republican Party James Earl Carter, Jr. Democratic Party Ronald Wilson Reagan Republican PartyGeorge H. W. BushRepublican Party William Jefferson ClintonDemocratic PartyGeorge W. Bush Republican Party Barack H. ObamaDemocratic Party Please Visit Forgotten FoundersNorwich, CT Annapolis ContinentalCongress SocietyU.S. Presidency& Hospitality *Republican Party - - is a defunct  political party organized by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison in 1791.  The Party  went out of existence over the schism between John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson (both Republican candidates)  over  the Presidential election of 1824. Today, for the sake of expediency, political scientists incorrectly refer to it as the Democratic-Republican Party. Party members throughout its existence never utilized the name “Democratic-Republican.”   ** Acting US President - David Atchison never claimed that he was the President of the United States for one day on March 4, 1849. Political Scientists who make the assertion claim that because Zachary Taylor refused to be sworn in on a Sunday, March 4, 1849, and both the President and Vice President's term ended on that date the President pro-tempore of the U.S. Senate, David Atchison, therefore became the President under 1849 Presidential succession law. *** President of the Confederate States of America  
Historic WomenAbigail AdamsSofonisba AnguissolaSusan B. AnthonyCatherine The GreatClara BartonCleopatra VIIVittoria ColonnaQueen Elizabeth IHYPERLINK "http://www.isabelladeste.net" Isabella d’EsteJulia Ward HoweQueen IsabellaSarah Livingston JayDaisy LowDolley MadisonMary Queen of ScotsCatherine de’ MediciElizabeth MonroeChristine de PizanEleanor RooseveltBetsy RossSojourner TruthBianca Maria ViscontiMartha WashingtonLady Mary WrothWoman Suffrage Historic MenJohn James AudubonBenedict ArnoldAlexander Graham BellKarl BenzDaniel BooneAaron BurrAlphonse CaponeGeorge Washington CarverSamuel de ChamplainGeorge A. CusterGottlieb DaimlerDemosthenesWalter E. DisneyThomas A. EdisonThomas Alva EdisonEdward VIRobert FultonAlexander HamiltonRobert F. KennedyFrancis Scott KeyRobert R. LivingstonJohn A MacdonaldFerdinand MagellanGeorge MasonJohn MarshallClement C. MooreFrancis H Peirpoint William PennJoseph PulitzerEdmund RandolphJohn D. RockefellerHaym SalomonArthur St. ClairBooker T. Washington25,000 Biographies SpiritualAllahFrancis of AssisiIgnatius of LoyolaMosesPope Pius XFrancis Xavier Military NotablesNapoleon BonaparteSitting BullGaius Julius CaesarGeorge Armstrong CusterJohn Paul JonesMarquis de LafayetteRobert E LeeVladimir LeninGeorge MarshallJoseph Warren  Male ArtistsJohn AudubonLudwig Van BeethovenSamuel ClemensWolfgang MozartPierre RenoirAndy Warhol Egyptian Mummy© Stan Klos        
Declaration of Independence Commander in ChiefGeorge Washington PresidentJohn Hancock SecretaryCharles Thomson New HampshireJosiah BartlettMatthew ThorntonWilliam Whipple MassachusettsJohn AdamsSamuel AdamsElbridge Gerry John HancockRobert Treat Paine ConnecticutSamuel HuntingtonRoger ShermanWilliam WilliamsOliver Wolcott Rhode Island William ElleryStephen Hopkins New York William FloydFrancis Lewis Philip LivingstonLewisMorris.com New Jersey Abraham ClarkJohnHart.netFrancis HopkinsonRichard StocktonJohn Witherspoon Pennsylvania George ClymerBenjamin Franklin Robert Morris John MortonGeorge RossBenjamin RushJames SmithGeorge TaylorJames Wilson Delaware Thomas McKeanGeorge ReadCaesar Rodney Maryland Charles Carroll of CarrolltonSamuel ChaseWilliam PacaThomas Stone Virginia Carter Braxton Benjamin Harrison Thomas JeffersonFrancis Lightfoot LeeRichard Henry LeeThomas Nelson, Jr.George Wythe North Carolina Joseph Hewes William HooperJohn Penn South Carolina Thomas Heyward Jr. Thomas Lynch Jr.Arthur MiddletonEdward Rutledge Georgia Button GwinnettLyman HallGeorge Walton Printed - July 4, 1776John Dunlap EngrossedAug. 2, 1776Timothy Matlack Printed - January 1777Mary Katherine Goddard Wet Ink Transfer -1820William J. Stone    
Copyright © 1999-2013 by Stan Klos, All Rights Reserved. Picture Window template. Powered by Blogger.
