=======================================================
Naomi Ellen Watts (born 28 September 1968)[1] is a British actress and film producer.[2] She began her career in Australia, making her screen debut in the drama film For Love Alone (1986) and then appeared in the television series Hey Dad..! (1990), Brides of Christ (1991) and Home and Away (1991) and alongside Nicole Kidman and Thandie Newton in the coming-of-age comedy-drama film Flirting (1991). After moving to America, Watts appeared in films, including Tank Girl (1995), Children of the Corn IV: The Gathering (1996) and Dangerous Beauty (1998) and had the lead role in the television series Sleepwalkers (1997–1998).
After years as a struggling actress,[3] Watts gained critical acclaim for her work in David Lynch's psychological thriller Mulholland Drive (2001). The following year, she received public recognition for her role in the box office hit horror film The Ring (2002). She then received nominations for the Academy Award and the Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actress for her portrayal of Cristina Peck in Alejandro González Iñárritu's neo-noir 21 Grams (2003). Her subsequent films include David O. Russell's comedy I Heart Huckabees (2004), the 2005 remake of King Kong, the crime-thriller Eastern Promises (2007) and the thriller The International (2009). Since then, Watts has portrayed Valerie Plame Wilson in the biographical drama Fair Game (2010) and Helen Gandy in Clint Eastwood's biographical drama J. Edgar (2011). For her leading role as Maria Bennett in the disaster film The Impossible (2012), she received second nominations for the Academy Award and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actress and a nomination for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress.
In 2002, Watts was included in People Magazine's 50 Most Beautiful People. In 2006, she became a goodwill ambassador for Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, which helps to raise awareness of AIDS-related issues. She has participated in several fundraisers for the cause, and she is presented as an inaugural member of AIDS Red Ribbon Awards.
Watts was born in Shoreham, Kent, England.[4] She is the daughter of Myfanwy Edwards (née Roberts), a Welsh antiques dealer and costume and set designer,[1] and Peter Watts, an English road manager and sound engineer who worked with Pink Floyd.[5][6] Her parents divorced when she was four years old.[6][7] After the divorce, Watts and her elder brother, Ben Watts, moved several times across South East England with their mother.[8] Peter Watts left Pink Floyd in 1974, and he and Myfanwy were later reconciled. Two years later, in August 1976, he was found dead in a flat in Notting Hill, of an apparent heroin overdose.[3][9]
Following his death, Watts' mother moved the family to Llanfawr Farm in Llangefni, on Anglesey in North Wales, where they lived with Watts' maternal grandparents, Nikki and Hugh Roberts, for three years, while Myfanwy moved between there and London in search of a career. During this time, Watts attended a Welsh language school, Ysgol Gyfun Llangefni, where she carried out her studies.[10] She later said of her time in Wales: "We took Welsh lessons in a school in the middle of nowhere while everyone else was taking English. Wherever we moved, I would adapt and pick up the regional accent. It's obviously significant now, my being an actress. Anyway, there was quite a lot of sadness in my childhood, but no lack of love."[10] In 1978, her mother remarried (though she would later be divorced again)[11] and Watts and her brother then moved to Suffolk where she attended Thomas Mills High School.[8] Watts has stated that she wanted to become an actress after seeing her mother performing on stage and from the time she watched the 1980 film Fame.[6][12]
In 1982, when Watts was 14, she moved to Sydney, New South Wales in Australia (her maternal grandmother was Australian) with her mother, brother and stepfather.[6][13] Myfanwy established a career in the burgeoning film business, working as a stylist for television commercials, then turning to costume design, ultimately working for the soap opera Return to Eden.[3] After emigrating, Watts was enrolled in acting lessons by her mother, where she met and befriended actress Nicole Kidman.[6] She also auditioned for and starred in numerous television advertisements.[3]
In Australia, Watts attended Mosman High School and North Sydney Girls High School.[14] She failed to graduate from school, afterwards working as a papergirl, a negative cutter, and managing a Delicacies store in Sydney's affluent North Shore.[3] She decided to become a model when she was 18. She signed with a models agency that sent her to Japan, but after several failed auditions, she returned to Sydney.[6] There, she was hired to work in advertising for a department store, that exposed her to the attention of Follow Me, a magazine which hired her as an assistant fashion editor.[3][6] A casual invitation to participate in a drama workshop returned Watts to acting, and prompted her to quit her job and to seek success as an actress.[15] Watts obtained her first role in the 1986 drama film For Love Alone, based on the novel of the same name by Christina Stead, and produced by Margaret Fink. Her mother was a set dresser on this production.
Regarding her nationality, Watts has stated: "I consider myself British and have very happy memories of the UK. I spent the first 14 years of my life in England and Wales and never wanted to leave. When I was in Australia I went back to England a lot."[16] She also has expressed her ties to Australia, declaring: "I consider myself very connected to Australia, in fact when people say where is home, I say Australia, because those are my most powerful memories."[17]
Watts' career began in television, where she made brief appearances in commercials.[13] The 1986 film For Love Alone, set in the 1930s and based on Christina Stead's 1945 best-selling novel of the same name, marked her debut in film.[18] She then appeared in two episodes of the fourth season of the Australian sitcom Hey Dad..! in 1990. After a five-year absence from films, Watts met director John Duigan during the 1989 premiere of her friend Nicole Kidman's film Dead Calm and he invited her to take a supporting role in his 1991 indie film Flirting.[13][19] She starred opposite future Hollywood up-and-comers Kidman and Thandie Newton. The film received critical acclaim and was featured on Roger Ebert's list of the 10 best films of 1992.[20] Also in 1991, she took the part of Frances Heffernan, a girl who struggles to find friends behind the walls of a Sydney Catholic school,[21] in the award winning mini-series Brides of Christ[22] and had a recurring role in the soap opera Home and Away as the handicapped Julie Gibson.[23] Watts was then offered a role in the drama series A Country Practice but turned it down, not wanting to "get stuck on a soap for two or three years", a decision she later called "naïve".[13][15]
Watts then took a year off to travel, visiting Los Angeles and being introduced to agents through Kidman.[8] Encouraged, Watts decided to move to America, to pursue her career further. In 1993 she had a small role in the John Goodman film Matinee and temporarily returned to Australia to star in three Australian films: another of Duigan's pictures, Wide Sargasso Sea; the drama The Custodian; and had her first leading role in the film Gross Misconduct, as a student who accuses one of her teachers (played by Jimmy Smits) of raping her.[13] Watts then moved back to America for good but the difficulty of finding agents, producers and directors willing to hire her during that period frustrated her initial efforts.
When I came to America there was so much promise of good stuff and I thought, I've got it made here. I'm going to kick ass. Then I went back to Australia and did one or two more jobs. When I returned to Hollywood, all those people who'd been so encouraging before weren't interested. You take all their flattery seriously when you don't know any better. I basically had to start all over again. I get offered some things without auditioning today, but back then they wouldn't even fax me the pages of a script because it was too much of an inconvenience. I had to drive for hours into the Valley to pick up three bits of paper for some horrendous piece of shit, then go back the next day and line up for two hours to meet the casting director who would barely give me eye contact. It was humiliating.[15]
Though her financial situation never led her to taking a job out of the film industry, she experienced problems like being unable to pay the rent of her apartment and losing her medical insurance.[3][24] "At first, everything was fantastic and doors were opened to me. But some people who I met through Nicole [Kidman], who had been all over me, had difficulty remembering my name when we next met. There were a lot of promises, but nothing actually came off. I ran out of money and became quite lonely, but Nic gave me company and encouragement to carry on."[25]
She then won a supporting role in the futuristic 1995 film Tank Girl, winning the role of "Jet Girl" after nine auditions.[6] While the film was met with mixed reviews, it flopped at the box office, although it has gone on to become something of a cult classic.[26] Throughout the rest of the decade, she took mostly supporting roles in films[27] and occasionally considered leaving the business, but: "there were always little bites. Whenever I felt I was at the end of my rope, something would come up. Something bad. But for me it was 'work begets work'; that was my motto."[8][24]
In 1996, she starred alongside Joe Mantegna, Kelly Lynch and J.T. Walsh in George Hickenlooper's action-thriller Persons Unknown; alongside James Earl Jones, Kevin Kilner and Ellen Burstyn in the period drama Timepiece; in Bermuda Triangle, a TV pilot that was not picked up for a full series, where she played a former documentary filmmaker who disappears in the Bermuda Triangle;[28] and as the lead role in Children of the Corn IV: The Gathering, in which children in a small town become possessed under the command of a wrongfully murdered child preacher.[6]
In 1997, she starred in the Australian ensemble romantic drama Under the Lighthouse Dancing and also played the lead role in the short-lived television series Sleepwalkers. In 1998, she starred alongside Neil Patrick Harris and Debbie Reynolds in the TV film The Christmas Wish, played the supporting role of Giulia De Lezze in Dangerous Beauty,[13] and provided some voice work for Babe: Pig in the City. She said in an interview in 2012, "That really should not be on my résumé! I think that was early on in the day, when I was trying to beef up my résumé. I came in and did a couple days' work of voiceovers and we had to suck on [helium] and then do a little mouse voice. But I was one in a hundred, so I'm sure you would never be able to identify my voice. I probably couldn't either!"[29]
In 1999, she played Alice in the romantic comedy Strange Planet and the Texan student Holly Maddux in The Hunt for the Unicorn Killer, which was based on the real life effort to capture Ira Einhorn, who was charged with Maddux's murder.[30][31] In 2000, while David Lynch was expanding the rejected pilot of Mulholland Drive into a feature film, Watts starred alongside Derek Jacobi, Jack Davenport and Iain Glen in the BBC TV film The Wyvern Mystery, an adaptation of the novel of the same name by Sheridan Le Fanu that was broadcast in March of that year.[3]
Much of her early career is filled with near misses in casting, as she was up for significant roles in films such as 1997's The Postman and The Devil's Advocate and 2000's Meet the Parents, which eventually went to other actresses.[32] In an interview in 2012, Watts said, "I came to New York and auditioned at least five times for Meet the Parents. I think the director liked me but the studio didn't. I heard every piece of feedback you could imagine, and in this case, it was 'not sexy enough'."[33] Watts recalled her early career in an interview in 2002, saying, "It is a tough town. I think my spirit has taken a beating. The most painful thing has been the endless auditions. Knowing that you have something to offer, but not being able to show it, is so frustrating. As an unknown, you get treated badly. I auditioned and waited for things I did not have any belief in, but I needed the work and had to accept horrendous pieces of shit."[25]
Naomi Watts studied the Meisner Technique. In 1999, director David Lynch began casting for his psychological thriller Mulholland Drive. He interviewed Watts after looking at her headshot,[33] without having seen any of her previous work,[34] and offered her the lead role.[33] Lynch later said about his selection of Watts, "I saw someone that I felt had a tremendous talent, and I saw someone who had a beautiful soul, an intelligence—possibilities for a lot of different roles, so it was a beautiful full package."[35] Conceived as a pilot for a television series, Lynch shot a large portion of it in February 1999, planning to keep it open-ended for a potential series. However, the pilot was rejected. Watts recalled thinking at the time, "just my dumb luck, that I'm in the only David Lynch programme that never sees the light of day."[8] Instead, Lynch filmed an ending in October 2000, turning it into a feature film which was picked up for distribution. The film, which also starred Laura Harring and Justin Theroux, was highly acclaimed by critics and would become Watts' breakthrough. She was praised by critics, including Peter Bradshaw from The Guardian, who said, "Watts's face metamorphoses miraculously from fresh-faced beauty to a frenzied, teary scowl of ugliness."[36] and Emanuel Levy, who wrote, "[...]Naomi Watts, in a brilliant performance, a young, wide-eyed and grotesquely cheerful blonde, full of high hopes to make it big in Hollywood."[37] The film premiered at the 2001 Cannes Film Festival and received a large number of awards and nominations, including the Best Actress Award for Watts from the National Society of Film Critics and a nomination for Best Actress from the American Film Institute.[38] The surrealist film following the story of the aspiring actress Betty Elms, played by Watts, attracted controversy with its strong lesbian theme.[39][40]
Also in 2001, she starred in two short films, Never Date an Actress and Ellie Parker, and the horror film Down, director Dick Maas' remake of his 1983 film De Lift. In 2002, she starred in one of the biggest box office hits of that year, The Ring, the English language remake of the Japanese horror film Ringu. Directed by Gore Verbinski, the film, which also starred Martin Henderson and Brian Cox, received favourable reviews and grossed around US$129 million domestically (equivalent to US$169.1 million in 2014).[41] Watts portrayed Rachel Keller, a journalist investigating the strange deaths of her niece and other teenagers after watching a mysterious videotape, and receiving a phone call announcing their deaths in seven days.[42] Her performance was praised by critics, including Paul Clinton of CNN.com, who stated that she "is excellent in this leading role, which proves that her stellar performance in Mulholland Drive was not a fluke. She strikes a perfect balance between scepticism and the slow realisation of the truth in regard to the deadly power of the videotape."[43] That year, she also starred in Rabbits, a series of short films directed by David Lynch; alongside several other famous British actors in the black comedy Plots with a View; and with Tim Daly in the western The Outsider.
The following year, she took the part of Julia Cook in Gregor Jordan's Australian film Ned Kelly opposite Heath Ledger, Orlando Bloom and Geoffrey Rush;[44] as well as starring in the Merchant-Ivory film Le Divorce, portraying Roxeanne de Persand, a poet who is abandoned by her husband Charles-Henri de Persand at the time she is pregnant. Roxeanne and her sister Isabel (Kate Hudson) dispute the ownership of a painting by Georges de La Tour with the family of Henri's lover. Entertainment Weekly gave the film a "C" rating and lamented Watts' performance: "I'm disappointed to report that Hudson and Watts have no chemistry as sisters, perhaps because Watts never seems like the expatriate artiste she's supposed to be playing".[45]
Her performance opposite Sean Penn and Benicio del Toro in director Alejandro González Iñárritu's 2003 drama 21 Grams earned Watts an Academy Award nomination as Best Actress later that year.[46] In the story, told in a non-lineal manner, she portrayed Cristina Peck, a grief-stricken woman living a suburban life after the killing of her husband and two children by Jack Jordan (Benicio del Toro), who started a relationship with the critically ill academic mathematician Paul Rivers (Sean Penn). She said of the nomination, "It's far beyond what I ever dreamed for – that would have been too far fetched".[47] She also was nominated for Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role, as well as many other nominations and acclaim.[48] The New York Times praised her: "Because Ms. Watts reinvents herself with each performance, it's easy to forget how brilliant she is. She has a boldness that comes from a lack of overemphasis, something actresses sometimes do to keep up with Mr. Penn".[49] The San Francisco Chronicle wrote: "Watts is riveting, but she's much better in scenes of extreme emotion than in those requiring subtlety."[50]
She then co-produced and starred alongside Mark Ruffalo in the well-received 2004 independent film We Don't Live Here Anymore, directed by John Curran. The film is a drama which was based on the short stories We Don't Live Here Anymore and Adultery by Andre Dubus, and depicts the crisis of two married couples.[51] She reunited with Sean Penn in The Assassination of Richard Nixon, which was set in 1974. She played Marie Andersen Bicke, the wife of the would-be presidential assassin Samuel Byck (Penn).[52] Finally in 2004, she teamed up with Jude Law and Dustin Hoffman in David O. Russell's ensemble comedy I Heart Huckabees.[53]
In 2005, Watts starred and co-produced with director/screenwriter Scott Coffey her next film, the semi-autobiographical drama Ellie Parker, which depicted the struggle of an Australian actress in Hollywood.[54] The film began as a short film that was screened at the Sundance Film Festival in 2001 and was expanded into a feature-length production over the next four years. Film critic Roger Ebert praised Watts' performance: "The character is played by Watts with courage, fearless observation, and a gift for timing that is so uncanny it can make points all by itself."[55]
Watts returned in the lead role in the sequel to The Ring, The Ring Two. The film received several negative reviews,[56] but was a major success at the box office, with an over US$161 million worldwide gross (equivalent to US$194.4 million in 2014) and Watts was once again praised for her performance.[57] Her third film of the year was Marc Forster's psychological thriller Stay. Written by David Benioff, it also starred Ewan McGregor, Ryan Gosling and Bob Hoskins.[3]
Watts then starred in the 2005 remake of King Kong as Ann Darrow. Watts was the first choice for the role, portrayed by Fay Wray in the original film, with no other actors considered.[58] In preparation for her role, Watts met with Wray,[59] who was to make a cameo appearance and say the final line of dialogue, but she died during pre-production at the age of 96.[60] King Kong proved to be Watts' most commercially successful film yet. Helmed by The Lord of the Rings director Peter Jackson, the film won high praise and grossed US$550 million worldwide (equivalent to US$664.1 million in 2014).[61][62] The Seattle Post-Intelligencer praised her performance: "The third act becomes a star-crossed, "Beauty and the Beast" parable far more operatic and tragic than anything the original filmmakers could have imagined, exquisitely pantomimed by Watts with a poignancy and passion that rates Oscar consideration."[63]
About the evolution of her portrayals, Watts stated: "You'd better know why you're here as an actor ... I'm here to work out my shit, what my problems are and know who I am, so by cracking open these characters perhaps that shines a light on it a little bit better ... I know myself. I mean, of course I know myself better but the journey and search continue because hopefully we're evolving and growing all the time."[64]
Her next film was The Painted Veil with Edward Norton and Liev Schreiber. Watts played Kitty Garstin, the daughter of a lawyer, who marries Walter Fane (Norton) for his reputation as a physician and bacteriologist. The film centres on the relationship of the couple at the time they move to China, where Fane is stationed to study infectious diseases.[65] Comparing her portrayal with Greta Garbo's in the original movie, The San Francisco Chronicle wrote "Watts makes the role work on her own terms – her Kitty is more desperate, more foolish, more miserable and more driven ... and her spiritual journey is greater.[66]
For her only other film of that year, she provided the voice of a small role, Suzie Rabbit, in David Lynch's psychological thriller film Inland Empire.[67] Also that year, she was announced as the new face of the jewellers David Yurman and completed a photoshoot which was featured in the 2007 Pirelli Calendar.[12]
The following year, she appeared in David Cronenberg's crime thriller Eastern Promises with Viggo Mortensen. The film was released to critical acclaim for the film itself and for her performance.[68] A moderate box office success, it grossed US$56 million worldwide (equivalent to US$67.6 million in 2014).[69]
In 2007, Variety reported that Watts and George Clooney would star in the remake of Alfred Hitchcock's 1963 film The Birds, which would be directed by Casino Royale director Martin Campbell.[70] On 16 June 2009, Brad Fuller of Dimension Films stated that no further developments had taken place, commenting, "We keep trying, but I don't know."[71] Martin Campbell was eventually replaced as director by Dennis Iliadis in December 2009.[72][73] In an interview in December 2010, Watts said, "It sounded like a good idea, but the script's not there yet. I'd love to have been a Hitchcock blonde. A few directors I've worked with have been heavily influenced by Hitchcock, so I feel like I've gotten close."[74]
In 2007, she appeared in Michael Haneke's Funny Games, a remake of Haneke's 1997 film of the same name, alongside Tim Roth. In the film, she portrayed Ann Farber, who with her husband and son are held hostage by a pair of sociopathic teenagers. The film opened on 20 October 2007 at the London Film Festival.[75]
After a short hiatus from acting following the birth of her two children, Watts returned to acting in 2009, starring alongside Clive Owen in the political thriller The International. She played a Manhattan assistant district attorney who partners with the titular agent to take down a bank.[76] During an interview, Watts commented on her role: "She was operating in this fast-moving world and was a great bouncing board for her colleague, Salinger, but also trying to balance that with motherhood as well, and I think I definitely relate to that now and hopefully other career mothers will too."[77] The International was well received by critics,[78] and grossed over US$60 million (equivalent to $66 million in 2014) worldwide.[79]
The same year, she appeared in the American drama Mother and Child, which was screened at the Sundance Film Festival.[80] She portrayed the role of Elizabeth, a lawyer who never knew her biological mother. Watts co-starred the film along with Annette Bening, Kerry Washington and Samuel L. Jackson.[81] Mother and Child received several favourable reviews, and Watts' performance was praised by Tom Long of Detroit News, who stated that she "has the ability to make such a ragged transition somehow work."[82] She was nominated for the Best Actress award at the Australian Film Institute Awards[83] and was also nominated for an Independent Spirit Award in the category of Best Supporting Female.[84]
Her next film, the Woody Allen comedy You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger, opened at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival on 15 May 2010.[85] She portrayed Sally, a woman who has a troubled marriage with author Roy, played by Josh Brolin. Antonio Banderas, Freida Pinto, Lucy Punch and Anthony Hopkins also co-starred in the film, which received mixed reviews from critics[86] and grossed over US$26 million (equivalent to $28.1 million in 2014).[87]
Also in 2010, she starred as Valerie Plame in the film Fair Game, which opened at the Cannes Film Festival in 2010, and was later released in the United States on 5 November 2010.[88] Based on Plame's memoir, Fair Game: My Life as a Spy, My Betrayal by the White House, it also marked the third pairing of Watts with Sean Penn after 21 Grams and The Assassination of Richard Nixon.[89] Watts was nominated for the Satellite Award for Best Actress for her performance in the film.[90] Boxoffice magazine wrote: "Watts doesn't get the big emotional scenes that have characterized much of her past work, instead she plays Valerie as a woman suddenly in a corner when her identity goes public. It's brilliantly understated and admirable work."[91] In July of that year, she was announced as the new face of clothing retailer Ann Taylor.[92]
In January 2010, she was cast in the thriller film Dream House, which was released in September 2011. Directed by Jim Sheridan, Watts starred in the film along with Daniel Craig and Rachel Weisz.[93] In October 2010, it was announced that Watts had landed the role of Marilyn Monroe in the film Blonde, which was set to start shooting in January 2011, but has been delayed.[94] In early 2011, Watts was cast in Clint Eastwood's J. Edgar, alongside Leonardo DiCaprio in the starring role. Watts played Edgar's secretary Helen Gandy.[95]
In 2012, Watts starred in The Impossible, a disaster drama based on the true story of María Belón and her family's experience of the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, with Watts playing the lead role. The film received very positive reviews, with critics praising Watts' performance.[96] Deborah Young of The Hollywood Reporter said that "Watts packs a huge charge of emotion as the battered, ever-weakening Maria whose tears of pain and fear never appear fake or idealized."[97] Justin Chang of Variety magazine noted that "Watts has few equals at conveying physical and emotional extremis, something she again demonstrates in a mostly bedridden role."[98] Damon Wise of The Guardian said that "Watts is both brave and vulnerable, and her scenes with the young Lucas... are among the film's best."[99] Watts went on to be nominated for the Academy Award, Golden Globe and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actress.
Watts has upcoming roles in the Australian drama film Two Mothers, in Laurie Collyer's Sunlight Jr. and as Diana, Princess of Wales in director Oliver Hirschbiegel's film Diana. She will also appear in filmmaker Gracie Otto's upcoming documentary film Chalky about British film and theatre producer Michael White, who is a close friend of Watts'.[100] All of the films are due for release in 2013.
Her father's manic laugh can be heard in the Pink Floyd songs "Speak to Me" and "Brain Damage" from their 1973 album The Dark Side of the Moon.[101] Watts is pictured in her mother's arms with her father, brother, the band, and other crew members, in the hardback/softcover edition of drummer Nick Mason's autobiography of the band Inside Out.[102]
Watts was in a relationship with director Stephen Hopkins[101] in the 1990s and actor Heath Ledger[103] from August 2002 to May 2004. Since the spring of 2005, Watts has been in a relationship with actor Liev Schreiber. She confirmed in an interview in late January 2009 that Schreiber had in fact given her a ring (which she was not wearing at the time) but that neither of them wanted to rush into marriage.[104] Schreiber, known to play tricks on the media, had once before called her his wife in 2007, but later revealed that it was a joke.[105] The couple's first son, Alexander "Sasha" Pete, was born in July 2007 in Los Angeles, and their second son, Samuel "Sammy" Kai, in December 2008 in New York City.[106] After a temporary hiatus from acting, she returned to work with The International, her first project since becoming a mother.[107] Watts stated in April 2010 that she would have a third child if she could guarantee a baby girl.[108]
She considered converting to Buddhism after having gained interest for that religion during the shooting of The Painted Veil. She said of her religious beliefs, "I have some belief but I am not a strict Buddhist or anything yet".[109] She practices the Transcendental Meditation technique.[110] In 2002, she was featured in People Magazine's 50 Most Beautiful People.[111]
In 2006, Watts became a goodwill ambassador for Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, it helps to raise awareness of AIDS issues. She has used her high profile and celebrity to call attention to the needs of people living with this disease.[112] Watts participated in events and activities, including the 21st Annual AIDS Walk.[113] She is presented as an inaugural member of AIDS Red Ribbon Awards. She has participated in campaigns for fundraising. On 1 December 2009, Watts was meeting with United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and joined the AIDS response at a dramatic public event commemorating World AIDS Day 2009.[114] During the event, she said: "It has been both unfortunate and unfair for HIV infection to be considered a shameful disease, for people living with HIV to be judged as blameworthy, and for AIDS to be equated with certain death. I have personally seen that dignity and hope have been strongest among those whose lives were changed by HIV."[115]
In 2011, she attended a charity polo match in New York City along with Australian actors Hugh Jackman and Isla Fisher, which was intended to raise money to help victims of the 2010 Haiti earthquake.[116]
Categories: 1968 births20th-century Australian actresses20th-century British actresses21st-century Australian actresses21st-century British actressesEnglish emigrants to AustraliaAustralian expatriates in the United StatesAustralian film actressesAustralian film producersAustralian people of Welsh descentAustralian stage actressesAustralian television actressesBritish film actressesBritish film producersBritish people of Welsh descentBritish stage actressesBritish television actressesHIV/AIDS activistsLiving peoplePeople educated at North Sydney Girls High SchoolPeople educated at Ysgol Gyfun LlangefniPeople from Shoreham, KentTranscendental Meditation practitionersHidden categories: CS1 errors: datesAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from April 2012Use British English from March 2013Use dmy dates from March 2013Articles with hCardsCommons category with local link same as on WikidataArticles with dead external links from August 2013Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersGood articles 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Naomi Watts was born in Shoreham, England on September 28, 1968 to Peter and Miv Watts. Peter Watts, the road manager to Pink Floyd, died when Naomi was seven and she began to follow her mother and her brother around England until they settled in Australia when she was fourteen. She coaxed her mother into letting her take acting class when they arrived. After bit parts in commercials, she landed her first role in For Love Alone (1986). Naomi met her best friend, Nicole Kidman, when they both auditioned for a bikini commercial and they shared a taxi ride home. In 1991, Naomi starred along Kidman in the sleeper-hit Flirting (1991) directed by John Duigan. Naomi continued her career by starring in the Australian Brides of Christ (1991) co-starring Oscar-winners Russell Crowe and Brenda Fricker. In 1993, she worked with John Duigan again in Wide Sargasso Sea (1993) and director George Miller in Gross Misconduct (1993). Tank Girl (1995), in 1995, an adaptation of the comic book was a cult hit, starred Naomi as "Jet Girl", but it didn't fare well at the box-office and didn't do much for her career as a whole. Watts continued to take insignificant parts in movies including the much forgotten film Children of the Corn: The Gathering (1996). It wasn't until David Lynch cast her in the critically acclaimed film Mulholland Dr. (2001) that she began to become noticed. Her part as an aspiring actress showed her strong acting ability and wide range and earned her much respect, as much as to say by some that she was overlooked for a Oscar nomination that year. Stardom finally came to Naomi in the surprise hit The Ring (2002), which grossed over $100,000,000 at the box-office and starred Watts as a investigative reporter hunting down the truth behind several mysterious deaths seemingly caused by a video tape. While the movie did not fare well with the critics, it launched her into the spotlight. In 2003, she starred in Alejandro González Iñárritu's 21 Grams (2003) which earned her - what some say is a much overdue Oscar nomination and brought others to call her one of the best in her generation of actors. The same year, she was nominated for 21 Grams (2003), Naomi was chosen to play "Ann Darrow" in director Peter Jackson's King Kong (2005) which took her to New Zealand for a five month shoot. Watts completed her first comedy in I Heart Huckabees (2004) for director David O. Russell, playing a superficial spokes model - a break from her usual intense and dramatic roles she is known for. In 2005, she reprized her role as the protective-mother-reporter "Rachel Keller" in The Ring Two (2005). The movie, released in March, opened to $35,000,000 at the box office in the first weekend and established her as a box-office draw. Also in 2005, it was decided that her independent movie Ellie Parker (2001) would be re-released in late 2005 after its success at resurfacing at the Sundance Film Festival. The movie, which Naomi also produced, features her in the title role and is a bit biographical, but yet exaggerated take of the life of a struggling actress as she comes to Hollywood and encounters nightmares of the profession (it also features Watts' own beat-up Honda which she travels around in). In 2006, she starred with Edward Norton in The Painted Veil (2006). In July of 2007, Naomi gave birth to a boy, Alexander Pete in Los Angeles with Liev Schreiber. Since then her career choices have gathered even more critical acclaim with starring roles roles in German director Michael Haneke's American remake of his thriller Funny Games U.S. (2007), David Cronenberg's Eastern Promises (2007), and the action-thriller, The International (2009), released in February 2009. In mid-2008, Watts announced she was expecting her second child with Schreiber and gave birth to another boy, Samuel Kai in New York on December 13.
      She once appeared in an Australian television commercial turning down a date with Tom Cruise for her mum's lamb roast.
      Director David Lynch asked her to be in the movie Mulholland Dr. (2001) after picking out her headshot from a stack of actors.
      Starred in and produced 2001's Ellie Parker (2001), which was made into a kind of cult classic about a struggling actress in Hollywood and the nightmares she encountered. The movie resurfaced in 2005 at the SunDance Film Festival and is set to be re-released in December of 2005.
      Had an horrific fall on the New Zealand set of King Kong (2005). She fell from a height into a ditch, to the shock of the cast and crew. She thanked her rigorous practice of yoga for saving her from any permanent damage.
      When she was 20 years old, she was an assistant editor at "Follow Me" magazine in Australia. After a friend begged her to try acting, she quit her job instead and never looked back.
      Was accompanied by her boyfriend Liev Schreiber to the King Kong (2005) US-premiere. It was their first public appearance together.
      Was Fernando Meirelles's first choice for the role of Tessa Quayle in The Constant Gardener (2005), but she declined due to her commitment to King Kong (2005). Rachel Weisz was then given the role.
      Played a struggling actress living in L.A. twice: in Mulholland Dr. (2001) and in Ellie Parker (2005).
      Turned down the role of "Susan Storm" (Invisible Girl) in Fantastic Four (2005). Jessica Alba later got the part.
      Enjoys martial arts and trained Judo for a long time. She participated in amateur Judo championships through the early 90s, from 1989 to 1992. Nowadays, she trains in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu.
      In 2007, a rumor circulated that she had been cast as Narcissa Malfoy in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2009). The day after the rumor appeared, her PR reps claimed it wasn't true.
      The maniacal laughter heard in the Pink Floyd song, "Money", is her father's, Peter Watts, the band's then-road manager.
      Returned to work two months after giving birth to her son Alexander in order to begin filming The International (2009).
      Was in contention for the role of Hanna Schmiz in The Reader (2008), along with Marion Cotillard, after Nicole Kidman dropped out due to pregnancy. However due to scheduling conflicts she had to back out and the part was eventually given to Kate Winslet.
      Was cast in a King Lear adaptation as Goneril alongside Keira Knightley (as Cordelia), Gwyneth Paltrow (as Regan) and Anthony Hopkins (as King Lear). The movie was shelved.
      Has been in at least seven remakes/revisions: Down (2001), The Ring (2002), Ned Kelly (2003), Ellie Parker (2005), King Kong (2005), The Painted Veil (2006) and Funny Games U.S. (2007).
      Returned to work one month after giving birth to her son Samuel in order to begin filming Mother and Child (2009).
      Before finally accepting a lead role in You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger (2010), she was forced to turn down roles by Woody Allen in both Melinda and Melinda (2004) and Cassandra's Dream (2007) due to scheduling conflicts.
      It is often assumed that she met fiancé Liev Schreiber on the set of The Painted Veil (2006), but they actually met at the New York Met ball in 2005.
      Was three months pregnant with her son Alexander when she completed filming on Eastern Promises (2007).
      Wanted to play Catwoman in The Dark Knight Rises (2012), but was considered too old for the part, and the 14-years-younger Anne Hathaway was cast instead.
      Gave birth to her 1st child at age 38, a son Alexander Pete Schreiber on July 25, 2007. Child's father is her fiancé, Liev Schreiber.
      Gave birth to her 2nd child at age 40, a son Samuel Kai Schreiber on December 13, 2008. Child's father is her fiancé, Liev Schreiber.
      Has a fear of swimming in deep water. Was caught in an ocean current, when she was age 14, and was rescued by her brother, Ben Watts, who was age 15.
      Has played four characters with the name Ann - Dream House (2011), Funny Games (2007), Eastern Promises (2007) and King Kong (2005).
      She is currently filming in London for Woody Allen in You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger (2010) opposite Anthony Hopkins, Antonio Banderas and Josh Brolin, among others. [August 2009]
      Turned down the role of Narcissa Malfoy on Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2009) and the role went to Helen McCrory.
      'Pain is such an important thing in life. I think that as an artist you have to experience suffering. It's not enough to have lived it once; you have to relive it. Darkness is not a pejorative thing."
      "There's a lot of skeletons in my closet, but I know what they're wearing. I'm not gonna act all ashamed of it" - on her early career.
      It was total naivety that got me to Hollywood. I thought it was going to happen straight away. I told myself 'give it 5 years, there's no way I'll be here after that if it doesn't happen'. Cut to ten years later!
      On set is where I feel comfortable. The red carpet stuff, talking about the film, explaining your own life, it doesn't come naturally. It's all necessary stuff I suppose but it's not my strength.
      I find myself gravitating towards drama. It interests me. In the books I read, the paintings I like, it's always the darker stuff.
      For the record, I am actually British as well as Australian. People always think I'm Australian but I'm happy for the Brits to claim me back. I'm offering myself up.
      Instead of thinking 'how can I slow the ageing process?' I think 'how can I bend the rules?' Every year you add to your life, you're going to add a different experience to your face.
      Whatever is said about roles drying up, I intend to keep working. Certainly now the roles couldn't be more interesting - playing mothers, divorcees. I think it's going to be exciting to play a mother of teenagers. The longer your life, the deeper it gets.
      My mum put me in drama classes when I was about 14. I'd been going on about it for some time, so maybe it was a way to shut me up.
      "We're so afraid of death in our culture, but I think if we understand it better, then we'll appreciate the life we have more." - in response to 21 Grams (2003).
      "I've had people who've seen 21 Grams (2003) say, 'Wow, you're so brave to be looking like that'. This shocks me. I think that's what an actor's job is, to lose yourself in a role".
      You have to make peace with yourself. The key is to find the harmony in what you have.quoted in the Feb 01, 2005 issue of WOMAN'S WORLD.
      If I have to produce movies, direct movies, whatever to change the way Hollywood treats older women, I'll do it. If I have to bend the rules, I will. If I have to break them, I will.
      Even during my most intense scenes with Sean Penn (in 21 Grams (2003)), we found ways to have fun. Sure, I have my dark moments, but I'm the girl you'll see driving down the highway singing to Blondie.
      It's always nerve-racking to take off your clothes on film. But doing it with a woman felt safer than with a man. You know you can say, 'Don't grab me there: That's where my cellulite is'! [after being asked if it was hard to do a love scene with a woman (Mulholland Dr. (2001)]
      "The consequences are that you fear and dread being abandoned. You get a little tougher, and it's more difficult for you to become intimate. The pros are that you can adapt to any situation and that you're open to new surroundings. A lot of people get stuck in their ways, but I embrace change." on moving frequently when she was younger.
      "The biggest place I look for validation is from my mother. That's the little girl in me that will never grow up." - on why not having an Oscar yet doesn't faze her.
      That ad recently turned up in a magazine in Australia. My head is in my hands as I'm sitting at as desk, thinking, 'When can I start using tampons?' I was quite old, but I was supposed to look 12". - on one of her first gigs.
      I'm a tomboy now. I always wanted to fit in with my brother's group, so I climbed trees and played with lead soldiers. But I'm a woman's woman. I never understood women who don't have woman friends.
      Yeah, I suppose I am ordinarily drawn to the darker stuff. You won't find me in a romantic comedy. Those movies don't speak to me. People don't come to talk to me about those scripts, because they probably think I'm this dark, twisted, miserable person.
      "Every time I dress up to go somewhere, I say this is who I am: like, I feel like a Russian hooker tonight. A long time ago, I put on a Stella McCartney top with a huge amount of feathers, and I had really black eye makeup and stringy hair. My mom was like, 'That top's not working'. But that's what I looked like, a Russian hooker".
      I keep saying to myself, Oh, God, I'm sick of playing these dark, harrowing roles. I want a big paycheck, so put me in some dumb romantic comedy any day.
      I had gotten to a place where I truly believed everything I was called: 'not sexy,' 'not funny,' 'too intense,' desperate.' All those labels they gave me, I took them because there wasn't a trace of my true self left. - on the struggles of her early career.
      To be appreciated or recognized is everything to an artist, but to be placed in a category where judgment occurs is awful, and yet we are all liars if we can't admit that we haven't all chased it or dreamed of it, even just a little bit.
      Every time I'd think to book a ticket to leave L.A., something would come up-even just a three day job or something. That was enough to keep me invested. I still pinch myself when a certain director calls and says, 'Would you like to read my script?' I don't take any of it for granted because I struggled for so long.
      Yes, I've had six great years of being in a position where I can pick and choose a bit, but it's not like I suddenly feel so calm and relaxed about that. Having spent a large portion of my life with a constant struggle and trying to find ways to make it work, that's what sticks with me.
      There's a set of rules out there somewhere that says it all ends by 40. I hope to be able to defy that because I truly love my work.
      I don't think I'm really the go-to girl for that sort of cheery popcorn movie. I've done that little bit of lightness in King Kong, and I Heart Huckabees was definitely goofy, but I just don't connect that well to romantic comedies because they're usually so formulaic and not really based in truth.
      I'm not this dark, twisted person. Yes, I have my demons and this is my way of exorcising them. It gets them out - and better out than in. Actually, I think that it's the comedians who are the darkest people on the planet, because they think life's just bloody hilarious. - on the usual dark roles that she is known for.
      To be a producer is not something that I look at as a position of power. I just think that I have these great connections, let's use them. I believe in it. You believe in it. Let's do it.
      People think of me as the go-to-girl for nervous breakdowns. (On the type of roles she's offered.)
      I've done a few remakes now, as you know. And my philosophy is, you see the original film once, and that's it. You have to do whatever you can to shut it out, because you don't want your performance to be tainted. You don't want to fall into the trap of comparisons, basically.
      Auditions are just so humiliating and degrading. You get a five-minute time slot for a part you've spent six hours or more studying for or thinking about, and you get into these rooms full of people who barely make eye contact. They're bored and frustrated that they can't find the right person, energy that is instantly crushing and which makes it hard to shine. Going through that process over and over, you become so wounded and guarded that it's impossible to give you best stuff away. That's why I will never forget what David Lynch did for me. When he cast me in Mulholland Dr. (2001), I was literally at the lowest place, and yet he managed to pull away all those masks.
      It was quite difficult to turn off during the end of the day. Most people will ask me, 'Was this scary to make, scary to watch?' Usually the answer is no, because in most films, you shoot out of sequence so everything's fragmented. But this film was shot very much in chronological order and it pretty much takes place all on one set. Michael doesn't cut a lot -- one shot is held for endless minutes. So it was hard. The set was at times a very tense place - On filming Funny Games U.S. (2007).
      They both had such difficult parts. Michael, particularly, had endless amounts of dialog, and Michael Haneke wanted to shoot long takes without angles, which meant both guys had to be very much on their game. I was so impressed with both of them. They're very fine actors and although they struggled with it -- playing these hideous, psychotic people -- I think there was some fun in it, too. Michael Pitt is also someone who works from a very organic place and Haneke had lots of instruction for him. You feel very trapped and confined. And the material is so heavy and it makes you so very tense. - on Funny Games U.S. (2007) co-stars Michael Pitt and Brady Corbet.
      Since this was a remake, there was the fear that you're going to be compared to the original actors. The fact that Michael was designing each shot the exact same way as the original meant that you had to do the same blocking and tread the same steps as those actors. And then you think, oh wow, how can I invent this character, how can I find this scene in my own organic way? Michael's way is so mapped out -- I'd go to the sink, go to the fridge, then back to the sink -- it became such a heady thing and it's not like I prefer to work. I like to feel it and surprise myself. - more on Funny Games U.S. (2007) writer/director Michael Haneke.
      Aside from the endless discussions and imagining various scenarios -- the 'what-ifs' -- I happen to know two people that had been held hostage in their home. To know even two people is scary; it reminds you that this sort of thing really can take place. - on preparing and relating to Funny Games U.S. (2007).
      It was the character that drew me to this project. It's a genre film, and you get all those moments that you get in a genre film, but you get a little bit more. I think it's more psychological. And the character has her own personal journey to go through, and I particularly liked it for that reason. Rachel starts out as a flawed person and not the greatest mother. She's not asking the questions, she's a little bit driven and focused on what she thinks is the right thing to do, which is work, work, work, survive, survive and provide for my child. But it's only after all the drama and the chaos happens that she realizes that it's not just about that. It's about spending time and asking the questions and recognizing what your child needs before he states it. -- On what drew her to The Ring (2002).
      Yes, I did. I saw it once. I read the script and I really liked the script. I got excited about it, and then I managed to get hold of the copy of the Japanese version. It was particularly difficult to find as I was shooting a film in the south of Wales. The video store people looked at me blankly.And when I got hold of it, I was in my hotel room alone and watching it on a very small TV monitor, and I remember being pretty freaked out. I just saw it the once, and that was enough to get me excited about doing it. But then, after that, I didn't want to look at it too much, because when you're doing a remake, I think it can be dangerous, because seeing how the other actor played the role could corrupt your own ideas or take you in a direction that's not exactly where you would have planned to go -- On watching "Ringu" before shooting The Ring (2002).
      I'd have to say when I found out that my son was watching the tape. And then again, when I was totally exasperated at the end. ... I really felt like I was touching on melodrama, and you're just going for it, and you're just like shrieking, and you're always afraid that it's too much, but it really warrants that in the story. It's really about trusting Gore, because we've got to make sure that everything is paced well up to that point so it isn't melodrama. Obviously, it's a very, very dramatic situation, and she's reached that point where she just can't take it anymore. So you're doing it on the day and you're just always concerned how it's going to play out in the structure of the story.And then also, I'd have to say that the horses on the boat was particularly difficult. I mean, I felt terrible for the horses, but we had the animal people there who were watching very closely and telling us what we could and couldn't do, and everyone on the set was incredibly quiet and respectful in order not to spook them anymore than they were already being spooked. ... But it was great. I think it's a pretty powerful scene. -- on what her most difficult scenes were in The Ring (2002).
      Well, in Mulholland Dr. (2001), I played these two characters that weren't based on any reality and they were very extreme people. I felt this character, "Rachel Keller", was very ordinary even though she's presented with extraordinary circumstances. She's a normal person who's just a mother and to her everything is OK. Life is just dandy.Then this horrible thing comes into her life. She's forced to question her sanity. It seems completely implausible and then the journalist part of her goes out the window and it becomes about survival for her and for her family. It's pretty intense -- On what attracted her to the role of "Rachel Keller" in The Ring (2002).
      It's a bunch of images that are really quite nasty. They don't exactly correlate but you work out what they mean later on in the story, and that alone is pretty scary -- On the videotape in The Ring (2002).
      I went straight from one movie to another. I had about a week of rehearsal and that was my preparation. It was a huge movie and I had like a billion costume, changes and things like that took precedence over any acting preparation. But really fear is a pretty simple emotion to play. It's a pretty good driving force, so imagination really was my key -- On preparing for The Ring (2002).
      [on her role in Fair Game (2010)] I'm probably one of the few people who can say I breastfed my baby while packing a loaded gun.
      I'm so not feeling in my best physical shape and there I am having to strip naked -- which I'd never even done before [on her role in Mother and Child (2009)].
      I'm incredibly grateful for being in a position where the phone still rings and the calls are still coming in from directors I respect. I feel like my intentions are the same as they have always been. I can't be seduced into doing (a film) for the wrong reason. The moment I do, I'll probably fail.
      [Woody Allen is] the best actor's director I've ever worked with. There's not as much free rein as we're led to believe, because he has a sense of how the scene's going to work and we need to move within those parameters. [But] he wants to empower us to find it ... and he'll do it in such a gentle fashion that we don't even understand it's being done.
      [on 'The Impossible'] Who knew I'd be swimming for six weeks? After 'King Kong' I swore to myself that I would never do anything action-driven again, because it just about killed me. But it's sort of like childbirth. You forget.
      [on undertaking the role of Diana, Princess of Wales] It's definitely risky. But having said that, it's a story that has to be told. We like to look back on big stories, and it's a little fresher, perhaps, than Henry VIII.
      I never get recognized on the street. I'm lucky that way. People see me as the dolled-up movie-star type on the red carpet, but in real life, I don't look anything like that. I blend easily into a crowd. My husband, Liev Schreiber, is really distinct, and quite often people push me aside to get to him. They'll say, "Isn't that the guy...?" and list off all his credits. They will then ask, "Can you take a photo of us?" They have no idea who I am.
      [on her Oscar nomination for Lo imposible (2012)] I just want to have a good time and then have a great party afterwards. Emmanuelle Riva was the performance of the year, but Jennifer Lawrence did a beautiful job too. And Jessica Chastain. They're all great performances. And - how do you pronounce it? - Quvenzhane [Wallis] was great too.
      Believe me. There's nothing natural about a red-carpet experience. People scream your name at the top of their voices, 100 of them at a time, and it just makes your heart leap out of your chest. I don't like being in loud places any more, all my friends call me Granny! My favorite thing is welcoming people in to my home.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Academy Award nominee, actress and producer Naomi Watts was born in the South of England to parents Peter, a sound engineer for Pink Floyd, and Myfanwy - known as Miv. Naomi’s brother, Ben is a famous photographer.
Miv split with Naomi's father and was left to bring up four-year-old Naomi and Ben alone, while Peter lived the rock 'n' roll lifestyle. A lack of money meant the family of three was forced to live with Naomi's relatives. Naomi's mother went on to have a succession of poor relationships with other men. There was talk at one time of Naomi's parents getting back together, but sadly Peter died when Naomi was only seven.The family settled in with the extended family in the north-east of Wales and Naomi and Ben took Welsh lessons at school. Wherever Naomi moved to she would pick up the local accent – something that went on to help her in her acting career.Eventually her mother remarried and the family uprooted and moved to Sydney, Australia in 1982. This time, Naomi found it hard to fit in at school. In the end her mother succumbed to Naomi's wishes and put her in a drama class when she was 14. Naomi went on to attend several acting schools in Sydney.After bit parts in adverts, Watts made her film debut in 'For Love Alone' (1986); a 1930s' romance. She was credited as "Leo's Girlfriend". Although this was a good but modest start, Naomi didn't put all her 'eggs in one basket'; she went on to take jobs in publishing and modelling before focusing solely on acting. In Japan, Naomi had a terrible accident whilst modelling - she swore she would never be in front of the camera again – but did go on to prove herself wrong.Whilst working on Australian magazine 'Follow Me' (an alternative to Vogue), a former acting friend invited her along to a workshop over a weekend. On Monday morning, Naomi quit her job to follow her dream.Only two weeks on, Naomi ran into the director John Duigan at the 1989 premiere of 'Dead Calm'. John invited Naomi to audition for 'Flirting' (1991) - and she got the part! Having made friends with Nicole Kidman previously at an audition, she was thrilled to work along side her on this high school coming-of-age film.At this stage in her career Naomi had various TV roles, including parts in 'Home and Away' and 'Sleepwalkers'. Feeling confident she was on the right track, and not wanting to get stuck in a soap opera, she turned down a part on 'A Country Practice'; although she later admitted this was probably a mistake.In 1993, Naomi took on the role of Louise in 'The Custodian', a cop drama about crooked police. That year she played a Shopping Cart Starlet in 'Matinee' starring John Goodman. Now in demand, Naomi again worked with director John Duigan in 'Wide Sargasso' and then director George Miller in 'Gross Misconduct'. This movie finally gave Naomi a leading role, as Jennifer Carter.Naomi moved onto play Jet Girl in the all action, sci-fi comedy, 'Tank Girl' (1995); a comic book adaptation set in 2033. Although the film didn't fare very well at the box office, it did go on to be a cult classic.Next on her schedule was a horror flick. Naomi took on the role of Grace Rhodes in the Australian sequel 'Children of the Corn IV: The Gathering' (1996). Her salary for this job was $5,000. The same year she played Molly in 'Persons Unknown' (1996), a film about a heist that went wrong.'Under the Lighthouse Dancing' (1997) was Naomi's next film. She played Louise, one of six friends on holiday on an Australian island. In it, the friends rallied round to ensure one of them, who announced they were dying, got married to the love of their life.Naomi's next role was in 'A House Divided' (1998), a short US drama where she is holed up in a house during rioting in LA. She then played Giulia De Lezze in 'Dangerous Beauty' - a true story set in sixteenth century Venice about a female writer.The following year Naomi played Alice, in the upbeat comedy, 'Strange Planet'. The film kicked off on New Year's Eve and concluded exactly one year later, after the group of twenty-somethings had struggled to fulfill their personal new millennium resolutions.Two years on she played a shallow girlfriend in another short, 'Never Date an Actress' (2001). Naomi teamed up with Scott Coffey (from Tank Girl) to make up the cast of two. Both actors demonstrated they were not afraid to send themselves up in this comedy and went on to work on a further four films together.By 2001, Naomi had a gathered a good understanding of the film industry and took on the role of producer as well as the lead role in 'Ellen Parker'. The film went on to be recognised in 2005's Sundance Film Festival. Shortly afterwards she played a New York tabloid journalist in the horror remake 'Down' (2001).David Lynch's controversial film 'Mulholland Drive' (2001) brought Naomi to the forefront of the public's eye after she played Betty Elms, an aspiring actress. She proved her strong acting ability, which was later qualified by way of gongs, picked up on the award circuit. David Lynch's direction was nominated for an Oscar, and he won ten other awards; the film picked up even more, while Naomi scooped nine awards for her own showcase. She was also named the Female Star of Tomorrow at the 2002 ShoWest Convention and received the Breakthrough Acting Award at the 2002 Hollywood Film Festival and from the National Board of Review.This was the moment in Naomi's career when the critics sat up and took notice of her talent.Confident with Lynch's ability, Naomi stayed with him and wore a rabbit's costume in 'Rabbits' (2002). The film, with a cast of only four, was a weird series of nine episodes. Naomi was back acting along side Scott Coffey, together with Rebekah Del Rio and Laura Harring.'The Ring' (2002) saw Naomi demonstrate she had box office appeal: it grossed over $100m. The Ring was a remake of a Japanese film 'Ringu' from 1998. In this horror Naomi played another journalist, who set out to uncover the truth behind a series of deaths. The Ring scooped five awards and four nominations. Naomi took home her first Best Actress gong, the Saturn Award from the US, Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films.'Plots with a View' (2002) saw Naomi play Meredith Mainwaring, back in Wales where her real-life mother Miv was from. The romantic comedy also starred Brenda Blethyn, Alfred Molina, Lee Evans and even Jerry Springer as himself. The film went on to win Best Film at the Welsh BAFTA Awards.The western and biography 'Ned Kelly' (2003) was her next film where she played Julia Cook, Ned's (Heath Leger) love interest; also starring Orlando Bloom. It was originally a novel by Robert Drew titled 'Our Sunshine' about the life of an Australian bushranger and icon. The film picked up three awards and 13 nominations. On set Naomi picked up Heath Ledger too, but their romance ended in 2004.In the Merchant-Ivory production 'Le Divorce' (2003); directed by James Ivory and produced by Ismail Merchant, Naomi played Roxeanne de Persand. For this role she won the Venice Film Festival 'Wella Prize. The romantic comedy observed the customs of Americans and the French during a family visit to Paris after Naomi's character was jilted by her French husband. Kate Hudson played her sister and the production also starred Glenn Close and Stockard Channing.Naomi then went on to win a staggering eight 'Best Actress' awards for her part as Rachel Keller, a young mother with a reckless past, in the crime thriller '21 Grams' (2003). This performance also earned Naomi her first Oscar nomination for 'Best Actress in a Leading Role' coupled with the view she was the best actress from her generation. 21 grams is the weight, which it is said, everyone loses at the moment of death.'We Don't Have to Live Anymore' (2004) saw Naomi play Edith Evans, a house wife who cheated on her husband Hank's best friend Jack. The film's tag line was: "Why do we want what we can't have?" Still in 2004 she took on the part of Marie Andersen Bicke in 'The Assassination of Richard Nixon', alongside Sean Penn. Set in 1974, the film was based on fact, where Penn's character hatched a plan to kill the then President.Naomi's career went from strength to strength, demonstrated in 'The Ring Two' (2005) after the box office took $35m in the first weekend. Returning to her protective-mother-reporter character, Rachel Keller, she investigated the mysterious deaths of those who had watched a video tape.On a roll, Naomi was chosen in the same year to play Ann Darrow in the 2005 version of 'King Kong', directed by Peter Jackson. She spent five months in New Zealand filming on location. Her salary for this job was $5m. The film won three Oscars and Naomi picked up three awards: 'Best Actress' Saturn Award, from Sci-fi, Fantasy and Horror Films, USA; London Critics' Circle Film Awards for 'Actress of the Year' and three other nominations for 'Best Actress'.During filming, Naomi started dating co-star Live Schreiber and in February 2007 the couple announced that they were expecting a baby.In December of 2005, cashing in on the films success at the Sundance Film Festival, Naomi's independent film 'Ellie Parker' (2001) was re-released. She also produced it, whilst playing a struggling actress in the lead role. It's a semi-autobiographical take on a struggling actress in Hollywood encountering the professions' nightmares.Possibly being type-cast by David Lynch, Naomi once again was given the part of a rabbit; but this time instead of donning a rabbit's costume, she just provided the voice for it, in 'Inland Empire' (2006).Following on from playing another rabbit, Naomi took on the role of Kitty in 'The Painted Veil' (2006) (released in the UK in April 2007). She also co-produced the tale about Kitty, an upper-class woman of the 1920s who relocated with her husband to Shanghai only to fall in love with someone else. It was based on the novel by W. Somerset Maugham.'Eastern Promises' (2007) saw Naomi team up with Viggo Mortensen and director David Cronenberg for the gangster thriller film, which received positive critical reception and landed her another honour, a nomination for a Saturn Award for Best Actress.This was quickly followed with a Fangoria Chainsaw Award nomination for best actress for her role in psychological horror-thriller remake 'Funny Games' (2008). After taking an atcing hiatus for a year to be a mother, she returned in the crime action film 'The International' with Clive Owen in 2009. With her star power growing, Naomi continued charming critics with her next character, Elizabeth Joyce, in 2010 drama 'Mother and Child'.The Australian Film Institute was impressed with her work in the film and rewarded her with a nomination for its international award for best actress. Another nomination came in the form of an Independent Spirit Award for Best Supporting Female. The same year saw her land the Satellite Award and St Louis Gateway Film Critics Association Award for Best Actress after she appeared in Doug Liman's thriller film 'Fair Game'.Naomi returned to the horror genre in the 2011 film 'Dream House' with Daniel Craig and Rachel Weisz before taking on a serious role in 'J Edgar' - a biopic about the head of the FBI portrayed by Leonardo DiCaprio.In 2012, Watts is having a busy year with turns in 'The Impossible', which is out in the UK in 2013, and 'Sunlight JR'. These will be followed by 'Two Mothers', 'Queen of the Desert' and an untitled project in 2013.She was pictured in July 2012 filming scenes for the 2013 film 'Caught In Flight', in which Naomi plays Princess Diana. It focuses on the last two years of the princess's life. In 2014, she will appear in 'Third Person', which is about three couples in three cities.Despite her busy schedule, Naomi dedicates time to charity and became a goodwill ambassador for Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS in 2006. She has used her star status to champion the cause of those affected by the disease.In July 2007, Naomi gave birth to her first child, a baby boy named Alexander Pete, with actor boyfriend Liev Schreiber.They had a second son called Samuel 'Sammy' Kai in 2008 in New York City. Watts has claimed she would have another child if she could guarantee it was a girl. Despite Schreiber giving Watts a ring in January 2009, they have not married as they do not want to rush into it.
=======================================================
1968September 28Welcome, NaomiWatts is born to Peter, a sound engineer and road manager for Pink Floyd, and Myfanwy, a stage actress and interior designer. After her parents divorce, Watts frequently moves around with her mother and younger brother, Ben, before finding a stable home with her maternal grandparents in Wales.  At seven, Watts' father dies. Although she has few memories of him, she tells Interview, "It was very sudden, and very shocking and upsetting."1982Sydney BoundAt 14, Watts and family move to Sydney, Australia, where she begins taking drama classes. At a casting call for girls in bikinis, she meets 15-year-old Nicole Kidman, with whom she shares a taxi. "I was inspired by her," Watts tells PEOPLE. 1986A Model EffortWatts makes her film debut in For Love Alone. Shortly after, she decides to try modeling, which takes her to Japan. Only there for four months, she describes it as the most depressing time of her life and moves back to Sydney. Watts decides she doesn't want to be in front of the camera ever again. A year later, Watts snags a job in advertising at a department store, producing fashion shoots. From there, she becomes an assistant fashion editor at Australian fashion magazine, Follow Me.1989SpringTwice BittenWhen Watts reluctantly agrees to attend a weekend acting workshop, the acting bug bites her again. She quits her magazine job the following Monday and never looks back.  Weeks later Watts is invited to the premiere of Kidman's Dead Calm and meets director John Duigan, who asks her to audition for a role in his upcoming film Flirting. She lands the part alongside Kidman and Thandie Newton. Watts will work with Duigan again in 1993's Wide Sargasso Sea.1993January 29Hollywood BoundAfter moving to L.A., Watts lands her first Hollywood film gig. It's a bit part as an aspiring actress in the period comedy Matinee, starring John Goodman.  She then stars as Jet Girl in the 1995 adaptation of the comic book Tank Girl. While the movie has a cult following, it barely makes a blip at the box office.1999It's a JobWatts portrays the murder victim in the NBC true crime movie The Hunt for the Unicorn Killer and costars in the Australian romantic comedy Strange Planet. "I think my spirit has taken a beating," Watts tells London's The Sunday Times. "The most painful thing has been the endless auditions. . .I auditioned and waited for things I did not have any belief in, but I needed the work and had to accept horrendous pieces of s---."2001OctoberWho's That Girl?After appearing in a long string of bit parts, Watts gives a breakthrough performance in David Lynch's Oscar-nominated noir-ish thriller Mulholland Drive, playing a troubled lesbian ingénue. Her performance establishes her as one of the most talented actresses nobody knew. Lynch tells the Los Angeles Times, "I saw someone that I felt had a tremendous talent, and I saw someone who had a beautiful soul, an intelligence, possibilities for a lot of different roles, so it was a beautiful package."2002MayA Late BloomerWatts is named one of PEOPLE's 50 Most Beautiful People. "I don't think I came into any attractiveness until I was in my late 20s," she tells PEOPLE. Her best friend Kidman also makes the list. 
SpringA Younger LoveWatts films Ned Kelly in Melbourne, Australia, opposite Heath Ledger; the two begin dating. While Ledger is 10 years younger, it doesn't bother Watts. "I think it's about life experience and not about age," she tells In Style. "I fell in love with a soul and a person, and his life experience was rich enough that it stimulated me." OctoberCash Registers RingWatts takes the lead in the American remake of the Japanese horror film The Ring. She plays Rachel Keller, a journalist trying to save herself and her young son from a killer videotape. The movie grosses $129 million domestically, making Watts a bankable star. She signs on for the 2005 sequel. 
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): Samuel Goldwyn/Everett; SUZANNE TENNER/UNITED ARTISTS; Universal/Everett; Vince Bucci/GETTY; VISUAL PRESS AGENCY; MERRICK MORTON/DREAMWORKS 
									Liev Schreiber, boyfriend (2005 to present)Heath Ledger, ex-boyfriend (2002 to 2004)Stephen Hopkins, ex-boyfriend (1999 to 2001) 
   Sep 25, 2013 YOUNG AT HEART  Who's this hand-holding twosome? It's Naomi Watts and Ben Stiller, who shoot a scene Tuesday for their… See Photo   Sep 23, 2013 ROLL WITH IT  It's scooter Sunday for Liev Schreiber and Naomi Watts's sons, 6-year-old Sasha and 4½-year-old… See Photo
=======================================================
  Apr 18, 2014 Gwyneth Paltrow Consciously Coupling with Her Famous BFFs   Feb 24, 2014 Brad Pitt, Angelina Jolie, John Travolta to Present at Oscars Jan 15, 2014 Razzies: Johnny Depp, Naomi Watts Among This Year's Nominees Dec 17, 2013 Naomi Watts, Liev Schreiber & Sons Hit the Beach in AustraliaSee All Naomi Watts News 
   May 27, 2014 IN BLOOM  A casual Naomi Watts picks up some pretty spring flowers Sunday while walking her dog in Brentwood, California.… See Photo
=======================================================
Biography:Born in Shoreham, England on Sept. 28, 1968, the young Watts suffered the trauma of losing her father when she was only seven years old. Four years later, she relocated to Australia with her mom and began to study acting. Eventually, she began going on auditions - it was at one where she would meet her best friend Nicole Kidman - and landed her fir... Continue Bio >>Photo Gallery:
