=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Annelies Marie "Anne" Frank (Dutch pronunciation: [ɑnəˈlis ˈɑnə maˈri frɑŋk], German pronunciation: [anəliːs ˈanə maˈʁiː fʁaŋk],  pronunciation (help·info); 12 June 1929 – early March 1945) is one of the most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust. Her wartime diary The Diary of a Young Girl has been the basis for several plays and films. Born in the city of Frankfurt in Weimar Germany, she lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. Born a German national, Frank lost her citizenship in 1941. She gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published. It documents her experiences hiding during the German occupation of the Netherlands in World War II.
The Frank family moved from Germany to Amsterdam in 1933, the year the Nazis gained control over Germany. By May 1940, they were trapped in Amsterdam by the German occupation of the Netherlands. As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942, the family went into hiding in some concealed rooms in the building where Anne's father worked. After two years, the group was betrayed and transported to concentration camps. Anne Frank and her sister, Margot Frank, were eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, where they died of typhus in March 1945.
Otto Frank, the only survivor of the family, returned to Amsterdam after the war to find that Anne's diary had been saved, and his efforts led to its publication in 1947. It has since been translated into many languages. It was translated from its original Dutch and first published in English in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl. The blank diary, which was given to Anne on her thirteenth birthday, chronicles her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944.
Frank was born Annelies[1] or Anneliese[2] Marie Frank on 12 June 1929 in Frankfurt, Germany, the second daughter of Otto Frank (1889–1980) and Edith Frank-Holländer (1900–45). Margot Frank (1926–45) was her elder sister.[3] The Franks were liberal Jews, did not observe all of the customs and traditions of Judaism,[4] and lived in an assimilated community of Jewish and non-Jewish citizens of various religions. Edith Frank was the more devout parent, while Otto Frank was interested in scholarly pursuits and had an extensive library; both parents encouraged the children to read.[5]
On 13 March 1933, elections were held in Frankfurt for the municipal council, and Adolf Hitler's Nazi Party won. Antisemitic demonstrations occurred almost immediately, and the Franks began to fear what would happen to them if they remained in Germany. Later that year, Edith and the children went to Aachen, where they stayed with Edith's mother, Rosa Holländer. Otto Frank remained in Frankfurt, but after receiving an offer to start a company in Amsterdam, he moved there to organise the business and to arrange accommodations for his family.[6] The Franks were among 300,000 Jews who fled Germany between 1933 and 1939.[7]
Otto Frank began working at the Opekta Works, a company that sold fruit extract pectin, and found an apartment on the Merwedeplein (Merwede Square) in Amsterdam. By February 1934, Edith and the children had arrived in Amsterdam, and the two girls were enrolled in school—Margot in public school and Anne in a Montessori school. Margot demonstrated ability in arithmetic, and Anne showed aptitude for reading and writing. Her friend Hanneli Goslar later recalled that from early childhood, Frank frequently wrote, although she shielded her work with her hands and refused to discuss the content of her writing. The Frank sisters had highly distinct personalities, Margot being well-mannered, reserved, and studious,[8] while Anne was outspoken, energetic, and extroverted.[9]
In 1938, Otto Frank started a second company, Pectacon, which was a wholesaler of herbs, pickling salts, and mixed spices, used in the production of sausages.[10][11] Hermann van Pels was employed by Pectacon as an advisor about spices. A Jewish butcher, he had fled Osnabrück in Germany with his family.[11] In 1939, Edith's mother came to live with the Franks, and remained with them until her death in January 1942.[12]
In May 1940, Germany invaded the Netherlands, and the occupation government began to persecute Jews by the implementation of restrictive and discriminatory laws; mandatory registration and segregation soon followed. The Frank sisters were excelling in their studies and had many friends, but with the introduction of a decree that Jewish children could attend only Jewish schools, they were enrolled at the Jewish Lyceum. Anne became a friend of Jacqueline van Maarsen in the Lyceum.[12] In April 1941, Otto Frank took action to prevent Pectacon from being confiscated as a Jewish-owned business. He transferred his shares in Pectacon to Johannes Kleiman and resigned as director. The company was liquidated and all assets transferred to Gies and Company, headed by Jan Gies. In December 1941, Frank followed a similar process to save Opekta. The businesses continued with little obvious change and their survival allowed Frank to earn a minimal income, but sufficient to provide for his family.[13]
For her thirteenth birthday on 12 June 1942, Anne Frank received a book she had shown her father in a shop window a few days earlier. Although it was an autograph book, bound with red-and-white checkered cloth[14] and with a small lock on the front, Frank decided she would use it as a diary,[15] and began writing in it almost immediately. While many of her early entries relate the mundane aspects of her life, she also discusses some of the changes that had taken place in the Netherlands since the German occupation. In her entry dated 20 June 1942, she lists many of the restrictions that had been placed upon the lives of the Dutch Jewish population, and also notes her sorrow at the death of her grandmother earlier in the year.[16] Frank dreamed about becoming an actress. She loved watching movies, but the Dutch Jews were forbidden access to movie theaters from 8 January 1941 onwards.[17]
In July 1942, Margot Frank received a call-up notice from the Zentralstelle für jüdische Auswanderung (Central Office for Jewish Emigration) ordering her to report for relocation to a work camp. Otto Frank told his family that they would go into hiding in rooms above and behind Opekta's premises on the Prinsengracht, a street along one of Amsterdam's canals, where some of his most trusted employees would help them. The call-up notice forced them to relocate several weeks earlier than had been anticipated.[18]
Shortly before going into hiding, Anne gave her friend and neighbor, Toosje Kupers, a book, a tea set, a tin of marbles, and the family cat for safekeeping. As the Associated Press reports: "'I'm worried about my marbles, because I'm scared they might fall into the wrong hands,' Kupers said Anne told her. 'Could you keep them for me for a little while?'"[19]
Reconstruction of the bookcase that covered the entrance to the Secret Annex, in the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam
On the morning of Monday, 6 July 1942,[20] the family moved into their hiding place, a secret annex. Their apartment was left in a state of disarray to create the impression that they had left suddenly, and Otto Frank left a note that hinted they were going to Switzerland. The need for secrecy forced them to leave behind Anne's cat, Moortje. As Jews were not allowed to use public transport, they walked several kilometers from their home, with each of them wearing several layers of clothing as they did not dare be seen carrying luggage.[21] The Achterhuis (a Dutch word denoting the rear part of a house, translated as the "Secret Annexe" in English editions of the diary) was a three-story space entered from a landing above the Opekta offices. Two small rooms, with an adjoining bathroom and toilet, were on the first level, and above that a larger open room, with a small room beside it. From this smaller room, a ladder led to the attic. The door to the Achterhuis was later covered by a bookcase to ensure it remained undiscovered. The main building, situated a block from the Westerkerk, was nondescript, old, and typical of buildings in the western quarters of Amsterdam.[22]
Victor Kugler, Johannes Kleiman, Miep Gies, and Bep Voskuijl were the only employees who knew of the people in hiding. Along with Gies' husband Jan Gies and Voskuijl's father Johannes Hendrik Voskuijl, they were the "helpers" for the duration of their confinement. The only connection between the outside world and the occupants of the house, they kept the occupants informed of war news and political developments. They catered to all of their needs, ensured their safety, and supplied them with food, a task that grew more difficult with the passage of time. Frank wrote of their dedication and of their efforts to boost morale within the household during the most dangerous of times. All were aware that, if caught, they could face the death penalty for sheltering Jews.[23]
On 13 July 1942, the Franks were joined by the van Pels family: Hermann, Auguste, and 16-year-old Peter, and then in November by Fritz Pfeffer, a dentist and friend of the family. Frank wrote of her pleasure at having new people to talk to, but tensions quickly developed within the group forced to live in such confined conditions. After sharing her room with Pfeffer, she found him to be insufferable and resented his intrusion,[24] and she clashed with Auguste van Pels, whom she regarded as foolish. She regarded Hermann van Pels and Fritz Pfeffer as selfish, particularly in regard to the amount of food they consumed.[25] Some time later, after first dismissing the shy and awkward Peter van Pels, she recognised a kinship with him and the two entered a romance. She received her first kiss from him, but her infatuation with him began to wane as she questioned whether her feelings for him were genuine, or resulted from their shared confinement.[26] Anne Frank formed a close bond with each of the helpers, and Otto Frank later recalled that she had anticipated their daily visits with impatient enthusiasm. He observed that Anne's closest friendship was with Bep Voskuijl, "the young typist ... the two of them often stood whispering in the corner."[27]
In her writing, Frank examined her relationships with the members of her family, and the strong differences in each of their personalities. She considered herself to be closest emotionally to her father, who later commented, "I got on better with Anne than with Margot, who was more attached to her mother. The reason for that may have been that Margot rarely showed her feelings and didn't need as much support because she didn't suffer from mood swings as much as Anne did."[28] The Frank sisters formed a closer relationship than had existed before they went into hiding, although Anne sometimes expressed jealousy towards Margot, particularly when members of the household criticised Anne for lacking Margot's gentle and placid nature. As Anne began to mature, the sisters were able to confide in each other. In her entry of 12 January 1944, Frank wrote, "Margot's much nicer ... She's not nearly so catty these days and is becoming a real friend. She no longer thinks of me as a little baby who doesn't count."[29]
The Secret Annexe with its light-coloured walls and orange roof (bottom) and the Anne Frank tree in the garden behind the house (bottom right), seen from the Westerkerk in 2004
Frank frequently wrote of her difficult relationship with her mother, and of her ambivalence towards her. On 7 November 1942 she described her "contempt" for her mother and her inability to "confront her with her carelessness, her sarcasm and her hard-heartedness," before concluding, "She's not a mother to me."[30] Later, as she revised her diary, Frank felt ashamed of her harsh attitude, writing: "Anne, is it really you who mentioned hate, oh Anne, how could you?"[31] She came to understand that their differences resulted from misunderstandings that were as much her fault as her mother's, and saw that she had added unnecessarily to her mother's suffering. With this realization, Frank began to treat her mother with a degree of tolerance and respect.[32]
The Frank sisters each hoped to return to school as soon as they were able, and continued with their studies while in hiding. Margot took a shorthand course by correspondence in Bep Voskuijl's name and received high marks. Most of Anne's time was spent reading and studying, and she regularly wrote and edited her diary entries. In addition to providing a narrative of events as they occurred, she wrote about her feelings, beliefs, and ambitions, subjects she felt she could not discuss with anyone. As her confidence in her writing grew, and as she began to mature, she wrote of more abstract subjects such as her belief in God, and how she defined human nature.[33]
I finally realized that I must do my schoolwork to keep from being ignorant, to get on in life, to become a journalist, because that's what I want! I know I can write ..., but it remains to be seen whether I really have talent ...
And if I don't have the talent to write books or newspaper articles, I can always write for myself. But I want to achieve more than that. I can't imagine living like Mother, Mrs. van Daan and all the women who go about their work and are then forgotten. I need to have something besides a husband and children to devote myself to! ...
I want to be useful or bring enjoyment to all people, even those I've never met. I want to go on living even after my death! And that's why I'm so grateful to God for having given me this gift, which I can use to develop myself and to express all that's inside me!
When I write I can shake off all my cares. My sorrow disappears, my spirits are revived! But, and that's a big question, will I ever be able to write something great, will I ever become a journalist or a writer?
A partial reconstruction of the barracks in the Westerbork transit camp where Anne Frank was housed from August to September 1944
On the morning of 4 August 1944, following a tip from an informer who was never identified, the Achterhuis was stormed by a group of German uniformed police (Grüne Polizei) led by SS-Oberscharführer Karl Silberbauer of the Sicherheitsdienst.[35] The Franks, van Pelses, and Pfeffer were taken to RSHA headquarters, where they were interrogated and held overnight. On 5 August they were transferred to the Huis van Bewaring (House of Detention), an overcrowded prison on the Weteringschans. Two days later they were transported to the Westerbork transit camp, through which by that time more than 100,000 Jews, mostly Dutch and German, had passed. Having been arrested in hiding, they were considered criminals and were sent to the Punishment Barracks for hard labor.[36]
Victor Kugler and Johannes Kleiman were arrested and jailed at the penal camp for enemies of the regime at Amersfoort. Kleiman was released after seven weeks, but Kugler was held in various work camps until the war's end.[37] Miep Gies and Bep Voskuijl were questioned and threatened by the Security Police but were not detained. They returned to the Achterhuis the following day, and found Anne's papers strewn on the floor. They collected them, as well as several family photograph albums, and Gies resolved to return them to Anne after the war. On 7 August 1944, Gies attempted to facilitate the release of the prisoners by confronting Silberbauer and offering him money to intervene, but he refused.[38]
On 3 September 1944,[a] the group was deported on what would be the last transport from Westerbork to the Auschwitz concentration camp, and arrived after a three-day journey. On the same train was Bloeme Evers-Emden, an Amsterdam native who had befriended Margot and Anne in the Jewish Lyceum in 1941.[39] Bloeme saw Anne, Margot, and their mother regularly in Auschwitz,[40] and was interviewed for her remembrances of the Frank women in Auschwitz in the 1988 television documentary The Last Seven Months of Anne Frank by Dutch filmmaker Willy Lindwer[41] and the 1995 BBC documentary Anne Frank Remembered.[42]
In the chaos that marked the unloading of the trains, the men were forcibly separated from the women and children, and Otto Frank was wrenched from his family. Of the 1,019 passengers, 549—including all children younger than 15—were sent directly to the gas chambers. Anne Frank had turned 15 three months earlier and was one of the youngest people to be spared from her transport. She was soon made aware that most people were gassed upon arrival, and never learned that the entire group from the Achterhuis had survived this selection. She reasoned that her father, in his mid-fifties and not particularly robust, had been killed immediately after they were separated.[43]
With the other females not selected for immediate death, Frank was forced to strip naked to be disinfected, had her head shaved and was tattooed with an identifying number on her arm. By day, the women were used as slave labour and Frank was forced to haul rocks and dig rolls of sod; by night, they were crammed into overcrowded barracks. Some witnesses later testified Frank became withdrawn and tearful when she saw children being led to the gas chambers; others reported that more often she displayed strength and courage. Her gregarious and confident nature allowed her to obtain extra bread rations for her mother, sister, and herself. Disease was rampant; before long, Frank's skin became badly infected by scabies. The Frank sisters were moved into an infirmary, which was in a state of constant darkness and infested with rats and mice. Edith Frank stopped eating, saving every morsel of food for her daughters and passing her rations to them through a hole she made at the bottom of the infirmary wall.[44]
Memorial for Margot and Anne Frank at the former Bergen-Belsen site, along with floral and pictorial tributes
In October 1944 the Frank women were slated to join a transport to the Liebau labour camp in Upper Silesia. Bloeme Evers-Emden was slated to be on this transport. But Anne was prohibited from going because she had developed scabies, and her mother and sister opted to stay with her. Bloeme went on without them.[42]
On 28 October selections began for women to be relocated to Bergen-Belsen. More than 8,000 women, including Anne and Margot Frank and Auguste van Pels, were transported. Edith Frank was left behind and later died from starvation.[45] Tents were erected at Bergen-Belsen to accommodate the influx of prisoners, and as the population rose, the death toll due to disease increased rapidly. Frank was briefly reunited with two friends, Hanneli Goslar and Nanette Blitz, who were confined in another section of the camp. Goslar and Blitz survived the war and later discussed the brief conversations they had conducted with Frank through a fence. Blitz described her as bald, emaciated, and shivering. Goslar noted Auguste van Pels was with Anne and Margot Frank, and was caring for Margot, who was severely ill. Neither of them saw Margot, as she was too weak to leave her bunk. Anne told Blitz and Goslar she believed her parents were dead, and for that reason she did not wish to live any longer. Goslar later estimated their meetings had taken place in late January or early February 1945.[46]
In March 1945 a typhus epidemic spread through the camp, killing 17,000 prisoners.[47] Other diseases, including typhoid fever, were rampant.[48] Due to these chaotic conditions, it is not possible to say what ultimately caused Anne's death. Witnesses later testified Margot fell from her bunk in her weakened state and was killed by the shock. A few days later, Anne died. This was only a few weeks before the camp was liberated by British troops on 15 April 1945; the exact dates were not recorded.[49] After liberation, the camp was burned in an effort to prevent further spread of disease, and Anne and Margot were buried in a mass grave at an unknown location.
After the war, it was estimated of the 107,000 Jews deported from the Netherlands between 1942 and 1944, only 5,000 survived. An estimated 30,000 Jews remained in the Netherlands, with many people aided by the Dutch underground. Approximately two-thirds of this group survived the war.[50]
Otto Frank survived his internment in Auschwitz. After the war ended, he returned to Amsterdam, where he was sheltered by Jan and Miep Gies as he attempted to locate his family. He learned of the death of his wife, Edith, in Auschwitz, but he remained hopeful that his daughters had survived. After several weeks, he discovered Margot and Anne had also died. He attempted to determine the fates of his daughters' friends and learned many had been murdered. Susanne ''Sanne'' Ledermann, often mentioned in Anne's diary, had been gassed along with her parents; her sister, Barbara, a close friend of Margot, had survived.[51] Several of the Frank sisters' school friends had survived, as had the extended families of Otto and Edith Frank, as they had fled Germany during the mid-1930s, with individual family members settling in Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
Het Achterhuis, cover of the 1st edition of Anne Frank's diary in 1947, subsequently titled as The Diary of a Young Girl
In July 1945, after the Red Cross confirmed the deaths of the Frank sisters, Miep Gies gave Otto Frank the diary and a bundle of loose notes that she had saved in the hope of returning them to Anne. Otto Frank later commented that he had not realized Anne had kept such an accurate and well-written record of their time in hiding. In his memoir, he described the painful process of reading the diary, recognizing the events described and recalling that he had already heard some of the more amusing episodes read aloud by his daughter. He saw for the first time the more private side of his daughter and those sections of the diary she had not discussed with anyone, noting, "For me it was a revelation ... I had no idea of the depth of her thoughts and feelings ... She had kept all these feelings to herself".[52] Moved by her repeated wish to be an author, he began to consider having it published.
Frank's diary began as a private expression of her thoughts; she wrote several times that she would never allow anyone to read it. She candidly described her life, her family and companions, and their situation, while beginning to recognise her ambition to write fiction for publication. In March 1944, she heard a radio broadcast by Gerrit Bolkestein—a member of the Dutch government in exile, based in London—who said that when the war ended, he would create a public record of the Dutch people's oppression under German occupation.[53] He mentioned the publication of letters and diaries, and Frank decided to submit her work when the time came. She began editing her writing, removing some sections and rewriting others, with a view to publication. Her original notebook was supplemented by additional notebooks and loose-leaf sheets of paper. She created pseudonyms for the members of the household and the helpers. The van Pels family became Hermann, Petronella, and Peter van Daan, and Fritz Pfeffer became Albert Düssell. In this edited version, she addressed each entry to "Kitty," a fictional character in Cissy van Marxveldt's Joop ter Heul novels that Anne enjoyed reading. Otto Frank used her original diary, known as "version A", and her edited version, known as "version B", to produce the first version for publication. He removed certain passages, most notably those in which Anne is critical of her parents (especially her mother), and sections that discussed Frank's growing sexuality. Although he restored the true identities of his own family, he retained all of the other pseudonyms.
Otto Frank gave the diary to the historian Annie Romein-Verschoor, who tried unsuccessfully to have it published. She then gave it to her husband Jan Romein, who wrote an article about it, titled "Kinderstem" ("A Child's Voice"), which was published in the newspaper Het Parool on 3 April 1946. He wrote that the diary "stammered out in a child's voice, embodies all the hideousness of fascism, more so than all the evidence at Nuremberg put together."[54] His article attracted attention from publishers, and the diary was published in the Netherlands as Het Achterhuis in 1947,[55] followed by a second run in 1950.
It was first published in Germany and France in 1950, and after being rejected by several publishers, was first published in the United Kingdom in 1952. The first American edition, published in 1952 under the title Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl, was positively reviewed. The book was successful in France, Germany, and the United States, but in the United Kingdom it failed to attract an audience and by 1953 was out of print. Its most noteworthy success was in Japan, where it received critical acclaim and sold more than 100,000 copies in its first edition. In Japan, Anne Frank quickly was identified as an important cultural figure who represented the destruction of youth during the war.[56]
A play by Frances Goodrich and Albert Hackett based upon the diary premiered in New York City on 5 October 1955, and later won a Pulitzer Prize for Drama. It was followed by the 1959 movie The Diary of Anne Frank, which was a critical and commercial success. Biographer Melissa Müller later wrote that the dramatization had "contributed greatly to the romanticizing, sentimentalizing and universalizing of Anne's story."[57] Over the years the popularity of the diary grew, and in many schools, particularly in the United States, it was included as part of the curriculum, introducing Anne Frank to new generations of readers.
In 1986 the Dutch Institute for War Documentation published the "Critical Edition" of the diary. It includes comparisons from all known versions, both edited and unedited. It includes discussion asserting the diary's authentication, as well as additional historical information relating to the family and the diary itself.[58]
Cornelis Suijk—a former director of the Anne Frank Foundation and president of the U.S. Center for Holocaust Education Foundation—announced in 1999 that he was in the possession of five pages that had been removed by Otto Frank from the diary prior to publication; Suijk claimed that Otto Frank gave these pages to him shortly before his death in 1980. The missing diary entries contain critical remarks by Anne Frank about her parents' strained marriage and discuss Frank's lack of affection for her mother.[59] Some controversy ensued when Suijk claimed publishing rights over the five pages; he intended to sell them to raise money for his foundation. The Netherlands Institute for War Documentation, the formal owner of the manuscript, demanded the pages be handed over. In 2000 the Dutch Ministry of Education, Culture and Science agreed to donate US$300,000 to Suijk's Foundation, and the pages were returned in 2001. Since then, they have been included in new editions of the diary.
The diary has been praised for its literary merits. Commenting on Anne Frank's writing style, the dramatist Meyer Levin commended Frank for "sustaining the tension of a well-constructed novel",[60] and was so impressed by the quality of her work that he collaborated with Otto Frank on a dramatization of the diary shortly after its publication.[61] Meyer became obsessed with Anne Frank, which he wrote about in his autobiography The Obsession. The poet John Berryman called the book a unique depiction, not merely of adolescence but of the "conversion of a child into a person as it is happening in a precise, confident, economical style stunning in its honesty".[62]
In her introduction to the diary's first American edition, Eleanor Roosevelt described it as "one of the wisest and most moving commentaries on war and its impact on human beings that I have ever read."[63] John F. Kennedy discussed Anne Frank in a 1961 speech, and said, "Of all the multitudes who throughout history have spoken for human dignity in times of great suffering and loss, no voice is more compelling than that of Anne Frank."[64][65] In the same year, the Soviet writer Ilya Ehrenburg wrote of her: "one voice speaks for six million—the voice not of a sage or a poet but of an ordinary little girl."[66]
As Anne Frank's stature as both a writer and humanist has grown, she has been discussed specifically as a symbol of the Holocaust and more broadly as a representative of persecution.[67] Hillary Rodham Clinton, in her acceptance speech for an Elie Wiesel Humanitarian Award in 1994, read from Anne Frank's diary and spoke of her "awakening us to the folly of indifference and the terrible toll it takes on our young," which Clinton related to contemporary events in Sarajevo, Somalia and Rwanda.[68] After receiving a humanitarian award from the Anne Frank Foundation in 1994, Nelson Mandela addressed a crowd in Johannesburg, saying he had read Anne Frank's diary while in prison and "derived much encouragement from it." He likened her struggle against Nazism to his struggle against apartheid, drawing a parallel between the two philosophies: "Because these beliefs are patently false, and because they were, and will always be, challenged by the likes of Anne Frank, they are bound to fail."[69] Also in 1994, Václav Havel said "Anne Frank's legacy is very much alive and it can address us fully" in relation to the political and social changes occurring at the time in former Eastern Bloc countries.[64]
Primo Levi suggested Anne Frank is frequently identified as a single representative of the millions of people who suffered and died as she did because "One single Anne Frank moves us more than the countless others who suffered just as she did but whose faces have remained in the shadows. Perhaps it is better that way; if we were capable of taking in all the suffering of all those people, we would not be able to live."[64] In her closing message in Müller's biography of Anne Frank, Miep Gies expressed a similar thought, though she attempted to dispel what she felt was a growing misconception that "Anne symbolises the six million victims of the Holocaust", writing: "Anne's life and death were her own individual fate, an individual fate that happened six million times over. Anne cannot, and should not, stand for the many individuals whom the Nazis robbed of their lives ... But her fate helps us grasp the immense loss the world suffered because of the Holocaust."[70]
Otto Frank spent the remainder of his life as custodian of his daughter's legacy, saying, "It's a strange role. In the normal family relationship, it is the child of the famous parent who has the honor and the burden of continuing the task. In my case the role is reversed." He recalled his publisher's explaining why he thought the diary has been so widely read, with the comment, "he said that the diary encompasses so many areas of life that each reader can find something that moves him personally".[71] Simon Wiesenthal expressed a similar sentiment when he said that the diary had raised more widespread awareness of the Holocaust than had been achieved during the Nuremberg Trials, because "people identified with this child. This was the impact of the Holocaust, this was a family like my family, like your family and so you could understand this."[72]
In June 1999 Time magazine published a special edition titled "Time 100: The Most Important People of the Century". Anne Frank was selected as one of the "Heroes & Icons", and the writer, Roger Rosenblatt, described her legacy with the comment, "The passions the book ignites suggest that everyone owns Anne Frank, that she has risen above the Holocaust, Judaism, girlhood and even goodness and become a totemic figure of the modern world—the moral individual mind beset by the machinery of destruction, insisting on the right to live and question and hope for the future of human beings." He notes that while her courage and pragmatism are admired, her ability to analyze herself and the quality of her writing are the key components of her appeal. He writes, "The reason for her immortality was basically literary. She was an extraordinarily good writer, for any age, and the quality of her work seemed a direct result of a ruthlessly honest disposition."[73]
After the diary became widely known in the late 1950s, various allegations against the veracity of diary and/or its contents appeared, with the earliest published criticisms occurring in Sweden and Norway.
In 1957, Fria ord ("Free Words"), the magazine of the Swedish neofascist organisation National League of Sweden published an article by Danish author and critic Harald Nielsen, who had previously written antisemitic articles about the Danish-Jewish author Georg Brandes.[74] Among other things, the article claimed that the diary had been written by Meyer Levin.[75]
In 1958, at a performance of The Diary of Anne Frank in Vienna, Simon Wiesenthal was challenged by a group of protesters who asserted that Anne Frank had never existed, and who challenged Wiesenthal to prove her existence by finding the man who had arrested her. Wiesenthal indeed began searching for Karl Silberbauer and found him in 1963. When interviewed, Silberbauer admitted his role, and identified Anne Frank from a photograph as one of the people arrested. Silberbauer provided a full account of events, even recalling emptying a briefcase full of papers onto the floor. His statement corroborated the version of events that had previously been presented by witnesses such as Otto Frank.[76]
Opponents of the diary continued to express the view that it was not written by a child, but had been created as "pro-Jewish propaganda," with Otto Frank being accused of fraud.
In 1959, Otto Frank took legal action in Lübeck against Lothar Stielau, a school teacher and former Hitler Youth member who published a school paper that described the diary as "a forgery." The complaint was extended to include Heinrich Buddegerg, who wrote a letter in support of Stielau, which was published in a Lübeck newspaper. The court examined the diary in 1960 and authenticated the handwriting as matching that in letters known to have been written by Anne Frank. They declared the diary to be genuine. Stielau recanted his earlier statement, and Otto Frank did not pursue the case any further.[75]
In 1976, Otto Frank took action against Heinz Roth of Frankfurt, who published pamphlets stating that the diary was "a forgery." The judge ruled that if Roth was to publish any further statements he would be subjected to a fine of 500,000 German marks and a six-month jail sentence. Roth appealed against the court's decision. He died in 1978, and after a year his appeal was rejected.[75]
Otto Frank mounted a lawsuit in 1976 against Ernst Römer, who distributed a pamphlet titled "The Diary of Anne Frank, Bestseller, A Lie". When a man named Edgar Geiss distributed the same pamphlet in the courtroom, he too was prosecuted. Römer was fined 1,500 Deutschmarks,[75] and Geiss was sentenced to six months imprisonment. The sentence of Geiss was reduced on appeal, and the case was eventually dropped following a subsequent appeal because the statutory limitation for libel had expired.[77]
With Otto Frank's death in 1980, the original diary, including letters and loose sheets, were willed to the Dutch Institute for War Documentation,[78] who commissioned a forensic study of the diary through the Netherlands Ministry of Justice in 1986. They examined the handwriting against known examples and found that they matched. They determined that the paper, glue, and ink were readily available during the time the diary was said to have been written. They concluded that the diary is authentic, and their findings were published in what has become known as the "Critical Edition" of the diary.
In 1991, Holocaust deniers Robert Faurisson and Siegfried Verbeke produced a booklet titled The Diary of Anne Frank: A Critical Approach. They claimed that Otto Frank wrote the diary. They made various assertions, such as that the diary contained several contradictions; that hiding in the Achterhuis would have been impossible; and that the prose style and handwriting were not those of a teenager.[79]
The Anne Frank House in Amsterdam and the Anne Frank Funds in Basel instigated a civil lawsuit in December 1993 to prohibit the further distribution of The Diary of Anne Frank: A Critical Approach in the Netherlands. On 9 December 1998, the Amsterdam District Court ruled in favour of the claimants, forbade any further denial of the authenticity of the diary and unsolicited distribution of publications to that effect, and imposed a penalty of 25,000 guilders per infringement.[80]
An unabridged edition of Anne Frank's work was published in 1995.[81] This version included Anne's description of her exploration of her own genitalia and her puzzlement regarding sex and childbirth, a passage that had previously been edited out by Otto Frank.[82] When Gail Horalek of Northville, Michigan, learned in March 2013 that her daughter's seventh-grade class was using this edition of the diary in class, she filed a complaint with the school district asking that an edited version be used instead. Horalek, who described the passage as pornographic, said the school should have obtained prior approval from parents before assigning the book. In 2010, school officials in Culpeper County, Virginia, stopped assigning the unabridged version after similar complaints were lodged.[83]
Emer O'Toole of The Guardian noted that "we [still] live in a society in which young women are taught to be ashamed of the changes that their bodies undergo at puberty – to be secretive about them, and even to pretend that they don't exist."[82] Clem Bastow of Daily Life found the complaint "infuriating."[84]
On 3 May 1957, a group of citizens, including Otto Frank, established the Anne Frank Stichting in an effort to rescue the Prinsengracht building from demolition and to make it accessible to the public. The Anne Frank House opened on 3 May 1960. It consists of the Opekta warehouse and offices and the Achterhuis, all unfurnished so that visitors can walk freely through the rooms. Some personal relics of the former occupants remain, such as movie star photographs glued by Anne to a wall, a section of wallpaper on which Otto Frank marked the height of his growing daughters, and a map on the wall where he recorded the advance of the Allied Forces, all now protected behind Perspex sheets. From the small room which was once home to Peter van Pels, a walkway connects the building to its neighbours, also purchased by the Foundation. These other buildings are used to house the diary, as well as rotating exhibits that chronicle aspects of the Holocaust and more contemporary examinations of racial intolerance around the world. One of Amsterdam's main tourist attractions, it received a record 965,000 visitors in 2005. The House provides information via the internet and offers exhibitions that in 2005 travelled to 32 countries in Europe, Asia, North America, and South America.[85]
In 1963 Otto Frank and his second wife, Elfriede Geiringer-Markovits, set up the Anne Frank Fonds as a charitable foundation, based in Basel, Switzerland. The Fonds raises money to donate to causes "as it sees fit". Upon his death, Otto willed the diary's copyright to the Fonds, on the provision that the first 80,000 Swiss francs in income each year was to be distributed to his heirs. Any income above this figure is to be retained by the Fonds for use on whatever projects its administrators considered worthy. It provides funding for the medical treatment of the Righteous among the Nations on a yearly basis. The Fonds aims to educate young people against racism, and loaned some of Anne Frank's papers to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington for an exhibition in 2003. Its annual report that year outlined its efforts to contribute on a global level, with support for projects in Germany, Israel, India, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.[86]
In 1997, the Anne Frank Educational Centre (Jugendbegegnungsstätte Anne Frank) was opened in the Dornbusch neighborhood of Frankfurt, where Frank lived with her family until 1934. The Centre is "a place where both young people and adults can learn about the history of National Socialism and discuss its relevance to today."[87]
The Merwedeplein apartment, where the Frank family lived from 1933 until 1942, remained privately owned until the 2000s. After becoming the focus of a television documentary, the building—in a serious state of disrepair—was purchased by a Dutch housing corporation. Aided by photographs taken by the Frank family and descriptions in letters written by Anne Frank, it was restored to its 1930s appearance. Teresien da Silva of the Anne Frank House and Frank's cousin, Bernhard "Buddy" Elias, contributed to the restoration project. It opened in 2005. Each year, a writer who is unable to write freely in his or her own country is selected for a year-long tenancy, during which they reside and write in the apartment. The first writer selected was the Algerian novelist and poet El-Mahdi Acherchour.[85]
In June 2007 "Buddy" Elias donated some 25,000 family documents to the Anne Frank House. Among the artifacts are Frank family photographs taken in Germany and Holland and the letter Otto Frank sent his mother in 1945, informing her that his wife and daughters had perished in Nazi concentration camps.[88]
In November 2007 the Anne Frank tree—by then infected with a fungal disease affecting the tree trunk—was scheduled to be cut down to prevent it from falling on the surrounding buildings. Dutch economist Arnold Heertje said about the tree: "This is not just any tree. The Anne Frank tree is bound up with the persecution of the Jews."[89] The Tree Foundation, a group of tree conservationists, started a civil case to stop the felling of the horse chestnut, which received international media attention. A Dutch court ordered city officials and conservationists to explore alternatives and come to a solution.[90] The parties built a steel construction that was expected to prolong the life of the tree up to 15 years.[89] However, it was only three years later that gale-force winds blew down the tree on 23 August 2010.[91] Eleven saplings from the tree are being distributed to museums, schools, parks and Holocaust remembrance centers through a project led by the Anne Frank Center USA. The first sapling was planted in April 2013 at The Children's Museum of Indianapolis. Saplings were also sent to a Little Rock, Arkansas, school that was the centre of a desegregation battle, Liberty Park, New York City, which honors victims of the September 11 attacks, and other sites in the United States.[92]
Over the years, several films about Anne Frank appeared. Her life and writings have inspired a diverse group of artists and social commentators to make reference to her in literature, popular music, television, and other media. These include The Anne Frank Ballet by Adam Darius,[93] first performed in 1959, and the choral work Annelies, first performed in 2005.[94] The only known footage of the real Anne Frank comes from a 1941 silent film recorded for her newlywed next-door neighbor. She is seen leaning out of a second-floor window in an attempt to better view the bride and groom. The couple, who survived the war, gave the film to the Anne Frank House.[95]
In 1999, Time named Anne Frank among the heroes and icons of the 20th century on their list The Most Important People of the Century, stating: "With a diary kept in a secret attic, she braved the Nazis and lent a searing voice to the fight for human dignity".[73] Philip Roth called her the "lost little daughter" of Franz Kafka.[96] On 9 March 2012 Der Spiegel announced that Madame Tussauds wax museum had unveiled an exhibit featuring a likeness of Anne Frank.[97]
Barnouw, David; Van Der Stroom, Gerrold, eds. (2003). The Diary of Anne Frank: The Revised Critical Edition. New York: Doubleday. ISBN 0-385-50847-6. 
Berryman, John (2000) [1999]. "The Development of Anne Frank". In Enzer, Hyman Aaron; Solotaroff-Enzer, Sandra. Anne Frank: Reflections on her life and legacy. Urbana: University of Illinois Press. ISBN 978-0-252-06823-2. 
Bigsby, Christopher (2006). Remembering and Imagining the Holocaust: The Chain of Memory. New York: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-86934-8. 
Enzer, Hyman Aaron; Solotaroff-Enzer, Sandra, eds. (20 December 1999). Anne Frank: Reflections on Her Life and Legacy. Urbana: University of Illinois Press. ISBN 978-0-252-06823-2. 
Frank, Anne (1995) [1947]. Frank, Otto H.; Pressler, Mirjam, eds. Het Achterhuis [The Diary of a Young Girl – The Definitive Edition] (in Dutch). Massotty, Susan (translation). Doubleday. ISBN 0-553-29698-1. ; This edition, a new translation, includes material excluded from the earlier edition.
Frank, Anne (1989). The Diary of Anne Frank, The Critical Edition. Netherlands State Institute for War Documentation. New York: Doubleday. ISBN 978-0-385-24023-9. 
Frank, Anne; Holmer, Per (2005). Anne Franks dagbok : den oavkortade originalutgåvan : anteckningar från gömstället 12 juni 1942 – 1 augusti 1944 [Anne Frank's Diary: The Unabridged Original Edition: Notes From the Hiding Place] (in Swedish). Stockholm: Norstedt. ISBN 978-91-1-301402-9. 
Lee, Carol Ann (2000). The Biography of Anne Frank – Roses from the Earth. London: Viking Press. ISBN 978-0-7089-9174-9. 
Müller, Melissa (1999) [1998]. Das Mädchen Anne Frank [Anne Frank: The Biography] (in German). Kimber, Rita and Robert (translators). New York: Henry Holt and Company. ISBN 978-0-7475-4523-1. OCLC 42369449. ; With a note from Miep Gies
Rosow, La Vergne (1996). Light 'n Lively Reads for ESL, Adult, and Teen Readers: A Thematic Bibliography. Englewood, Colo: Libraries Unlimited. p. 156. ISBN 978-1-56308-365-5. 
van der Rol, Ruud; Verhoeven, Rian (1995). Anne Frank – Beyond the Diary – A Photographic Remembrance. Langham, Tony & Peters, Plym (translation). New York: Puffin. ISBN 978-0-14-036926-7. 
Westra, Hans; Metselaar, Menno; Van Der Rol, Ruud; Stam, Dineke (2004). Inside Anne Frank's House: An Illustrated Journey Through Anne's World. Woodstock: Overlook Duckworth. ISBN 978-1-58567-628-6. 
"Anne Frank House, Annual Report 2005" (PDF). Anne Frank House. March 2006. Archived from the original on 16 February 2008. Retrieved 18 April 2012. 
Barnauw, David; van der Stroom, Gerrold (25 April 2003). "Who Betrayed Anne Frank?" (PDF). Netherlands Institute for War Documentation, Amsterdam. Archived from the original on 31 October 2007. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
Bastow, Clem (2 May 2013). "Anne Frank's diary isn't pornographic". Daily Life. Retrieved 6 May 2013. 
Bennett-Smith, Meredith (29 April 2013). "Anne Frank's Diary Too 'Pornographic' For 7th-Grade Students, Claims Michigan Parent". Huffington Post. Retrieved 3 May 2013. 
Blumenthal, Ralph (10 September 1998). "Five precious pages renew wrangling over Anne Frank". The New York Times. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
Boretz, Carrie (10 March 1995). "Anne Frank's Diary, Unabridged". New York Times. Retrieved 3 May 2013. 
Clinton, Hillary (14 April 1994). "Remarks by the First Lady, Elie Wiesel Humanitarian Awards, New York City". Clinton4.nara.gov. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
Engel, Pamela (23 March 2013). "Saplings from Anne Frank's Tree Take Root in US". Yahoo! News. Associated Press. Retrieved 23 March 2013. 
Faurisson, Robert (November–December 2000). The Diary of Anne Frank: is it genuine? 19 (6). Journal of Historical Review. Retrieved 18 April 2012. 
Feldman, Ellen (Feb–March 2005). "Anne Frank in America". American Heritage 56 (1). Retrieved 19 April 2012. 
Ferguson, Kate Katharina (9 March 2012). "Madame Tussauds Unveils Anne Frank Wax Figure". Der Spiegel (Berlin). Retrieved 18 April 2012. 
Gabbatt, Adam (2 October 2009). "Holocaust Film footage of Anne Frank posted on YouTube". The Guardian (London). Retrieved 6 April 2012. 
Graver, Lawrence. "One Voice Speaks for Six Million: The uses and abuses of Anne Frank's diary". Yale Holocaust Encyclopedia. Yale University Press. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
"Welcome to the Anne Frank educational centre". Jugendbegegnungsstätte Anne Frank. 2012. Retrieved 12 September 2012. 
Kreijger, Gilbert (20 November 2007). "Dutch court saves Anne Frank tree from the chop". Reuters. Retrieved 6 April 2012. 
Laeredt, Angela (5 May 1995). "Anne Frank: After the diary stopped". The Independent (London). Retrieved 18 April 2012. 
Levin, Meyer (15 June 1952). "The Child Behind the Secret Door; An Adolescent Girl's Own Story of How She Hid for Two Years During the Nazi Terror". The New York Times Book Review. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
Mandela, Nelson (15 August 1994). "Address by President Nelson Mandela at the Johannesburg opening of the Anne Frank exhibition at the Museum Africa". African National Congress. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
Marcuse, Harold (7 August 2002). "Lessons from The Diary of Anne Frank". history.ucsb.edu. University of California, Santa Barbara. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
Max, Arthur (25 June 2007). "Anne Frank's Cousin Donates Family Files". The Washington Post. Associated Press. Retrieved 18 April 2012. 
McCrum, Robert (1 August 2010). "Anne Frank: was her diary intended as a work of art?". The Guardian (London). Retrieved 6 April 2012. 
Morine, Suzanne (1 December 2007). "People in Anne Frank's Life". Anne Frank Diary Reference.org. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
"Nothospital". Gedenkstätten Bergen-Belsen (in German). Stiftung Niedersächsische Gedenkstätten. Retrieved 23 July 2013. 
O'Toole, Emer (2 May 2013). "Anne Frank's diary isn't pornographic – it just reveals an uncomfortable truth". The Guardian. Retrieved 3 May 2013. 
Romein, Jan. "The publication of the diary: reproduction of Jan Romein's Het Parool article Kinderstem". Anne Frank Museum. Archived from the original on 29 April 2007. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
Stevens, Mary (1 September 1989). "2 videos recollect life in World War II". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved 6 April 2012. 
Stichting, Anne Frank. "Typhus". Betrayed. Anne Frank House. Archived from the original on 17 February 2007. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
Stichting, Anne Frank. "Publicity about Anne Frank and her Diary: Ten questions on the authenticity of the diary of Anne Frank". Anne Frank House. Archived from the original on 5 October 2007. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
Stichting, Anne Frank (20 September 2005). "Reaction decease Simon Wiesenthal". Anne Frank House. Archived from the original on 30 October 2007. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
Stichting, Anne Frank. "What did Otto Frank do to counter the attacks on the authenticity of the diary? Question 7 on the authenticity of the diary of Anne Frank". Anne Frank House. Archived from the original on 21 October 2007. Retrieved 18 April 2012. 
Stichting, Anne Frank. "Publicity about Anne Frank and her Diary: Legal rulings". Anne Frank House. Archived from the original on 13 October 2007. Retrieved 18 April 2012. 
Thomasson, Emma; Balmforth, Richard (23 January 2008). "Plan agreed to save Anne Frank tree from the axe". Reuters. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
"Holocaust Encyclopedia – The Netherlands". The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. Retrieved 17 April 2012. 
Anne Frank's last remaining close relative, Buddy Elias, BBC News video interview about Anne, 25 February 2011
United States Holocaust Memorial Museum: Exhibition "Anne Frank: An Unfinished Story" and Encyclopedia Anne Frank
Categories: Anne Frank1929 births1945 deaths20th-century German writers20th-century women writersAuschwitz concentration camp inmatesPeople who died in Bergen-Belsen concentration campChildren who died in Nazi concentration campsDeaths from typhusDutch civilians killed in World War IIDutch diaristsDutch JewsDutch people of German-Jewish descentDutch women writersGerman diaristsGerman expatriates in the NetherlandsGerman JewsGerman women writersHistorians of fascismJewish refugeesJewish women writersPeople from FrankfurtStateless peopleTeen writersWomen diaristsWomen in World War IIWriters from AmsterdamWriters who died in Nazi concentration campsJewish martyrsHidden categories: Use dmy dates from May 2013Wikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalismWikipedia protected pages without expiryArticles with hAudio microformatsArticles containing Dutch-language textArticles containing Swedish-language textArticles containing German-language textCommons category template with no category setCommons category with page title same as on WikidataFeatured articlesWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with ULAN identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
HomeH2ShowsD-Day: The Soldiers' StoryAmerican DaredevilsVikingsModern MarvelsHow Sex Changed the WorldStorage WarsPawn StarsView AllScheduleTopicsHistory of D-DayHistory of WW2HIstory of LondonHistory of AmericaHistory of DeathHISTORY LocationsView AllFeaturesDid you know...?Book ClubBehind the scenesBiosAdolf HItlerWinston ChurchillMahatma GandhiNelson MandelaEva PerónMuhammed AliView AllVideosGamesMankindDuck Dynasty: Teatime TakedownIRT: Ice ShowdownWarriorsMud Men: Mini GamesView AllShop 
 The Diary of Anne Frank is one of the most widely read books in the world but her time in hiding was just one part of this remarkable girl's short life.
She was born on 12 June 1929 in Frankfurt, Germany, and was the second daughter of Otto Frank and Edith Frank-Hollander. Her sister Margot was three years older. She enjoyed four happy years growing up in Frankfurt until the Nazi's came to power.
Of German Jewish descent, she and her family moved to Holland in 1933, where her father set up a business. By 1934, Edith and the two girls were living in Amsterdam, where they both attended school. From a young age, Anne showed an aptitude for reading and writing, while her outspoken and energetic personality shone through.When Holland was occupied by the Nazis in 1940, their heritage put the family under threat.
The family were subjected to the same rules as German Jews, namely Jewish children could only attend Jewish schools, they faced curfews, were not allowed to own a business and were forced to wear a yellow star. Otto transferred his shares in his company to a friend and resigned as director leaving the family with enough income to survive.
On her 13th birthday, Otto gave Anne an autograph book bound with white and red checked cloth and closed with a small lock. She proceeded to use this as her diary, with the first entries detailing how her family were segregated and discriminated against. In July 1942, her sister Margot received a call up notice from the Central Office of Jewish Emigration ordering her to report for a relocation to a work camp. This made the family move into hiding earlier than planned.
On 6 July 1942, Anne, her sister Margot and her parents went into hiding, along with four other families. Their hiding place, the annexe, was in a specially prepared space above the offices of their business.
Whilst in hiding, they were supported by a group of friends, who brought them food as well as anything else they needed.
Anne started each diary entry 'Dear Kitty' and what followed was an incredibly candid and eloquent account of her life in confinement. It expresses her fear, boredom and confusion at the situation she found herself in.
As well as giving the reader an insight into of what it was like to live under such extreme circumstances, it also shows Anne struggling with the universal problem of growing up.
	Her diary ends in 1944 when the annexe was raided by the Nazi authorities. Anne and Margot were first sent to Auschwitz and then to Bergen-Belsen where they died of typhoid in 1945.
She was survived only by her father Otto. Anne's diary was kept safe by the family friend, Miep Gies, who gave it to Otto when he returned to Holland. When Anne was still alive she had expressed interest in having her diary published as a record of her experience. After her death, her father edited it, and it was first published in 1947.
'The Diary of Anne Frank' is an exceptionally popular and well known piece of writing. It has been translated into 67 languages and is especially popular with young people.
History of America From the first pilgrims to the first black president, explore the history of the United States.
Please selectUnited StatesAustraliaBrazilGermanyIsraelJapanLatin AmericaPolandPortugalRomaniaSouth AfricaSouth East AsiaSpain 
=======================================================
Sign up to receive research updates, news about artifact discoveries, and information about our Holocaust education programs.
English home pageالمصادر بالعربيةΠηγές στα ΕλληνικάRecursos en españolمنابع موجود به زبان فارسیRessources en françaisSumber Bahasa IndonesiaMateriali e risorse in italiano日本語のリソース한국어 자료Recursos em Português (do Brasil)Материалы на русском языкеTürkçe Kaynaklarاُردو ری سورسز中文参考资料 
Anne Frank, age twelve, at her school desk. Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 1941. Anne Frank Fonds/Anne Frank House via Getty Images
OVERVIEW AND BACKGROUND  Anne Frank was one of over one million Jewish children who died in the Holocaust. She was born Annelies Marie Frank on June 12, 1929, in Frankfurt, Germany, to Otto and Edith Frank. 
For the first 5 years of her life, Anne lived with her parents and older sister, Margot, in an apartment on the outskirts of Frankfurt. After the Nazi seizure of power in 1933, Otto Frank fled to Amsterdam in the Netherlands, where he had business connections. The rest of the Frank family followed Otto, with Anne being the last of the family to arrive in February 1934 after staying with her grandparents in Aachen. 
The Germans occupied Amsterdam in May 1940. In July 1942, German authorities and their Dutch collaborators began to concentrate Jews from throughout the Netherlands at Westerbork, a transit camp near the Dutch town of Assen, not far from the German border. From Westerbork, German officials deported the Jews to Auschwitz-Birkenau and Sobibor killing centers in German-occupied Poland. 
IN HIDING  During the first half of July, Anne and her family went into hiding in an apartment which would eventually hide four Dutch Jews as well—Hermann, Auguste, and Peter van Pels, and Fritz Pfeffer. For two years, they lived in a secret attic apartment behind the office of the family-owned business at 263 Prinsengracht Street, which Anne referred to in her diary as the Secret Annex. Otto Frank's friends and colleagues, Johannes Kleiman, Victor Kugler, Jan Gies, and Miep Gies, had previously helped to prepare the hiding place and smuggled food and clothing to the Franks at great risk to their own lives. On August 4, 1944, the Gestapo (German Secret State Police) discovered the hiding place after being tipped off by an anonymous Dutch caller. 
ARREST AND DEPORTATION  That same day, Gestapo official SS Sergeant Karl Silberbauer and two Dutch police collaborators arrested the Franks; the Gestapo sent them to Westerbork on August 8. One month later, in September 1944, SS and police authorities placed the Franks, and the four others hiding with the Franks, on a train transport from Westerbork to Auschwitz, a concentration camp complex in German-occupied Poland. Selected for labor due to their youth, Anne and her sister, Margot were transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp near Celle, in northern Germany in late October 1944. 
Both sisters died of typhus in March 1945, just a few weeks before British troops liberated Bergen-Belsen on April 15, 1945. SS officials also selected Anne's parents for labor. Anne's mother, Edith died in Auschwitz in early January 1945. Only Anne's father, Otto, survived the war. Soviet forces liberated Otto at Auschwitz on January 27, 1945. 
WHAT WAS ANNE FRANK'S TATTOO ID NUMBER?  On September 3, 1944, Anne, along with her mother, Edith, her sister, Margot, and her father, Otto, boarded the last transport from Westerbork to Auschwitz-Birkenau. The transport arrived in Auschwitz on September 5, 1944 with 1,019 Jews on board. Men and women were separated. The women selected from this transport, including Anne, Edith, and Margot, were marked with numbers between A-25060 and A-25271. Records indicating their exact numbers have not been preserved. Approximately eight weeks later, in late October 1944, Anne and Margot were transferred from Auschwitz-Birkenau to Bergen-Belsen, where they both died sometime in March 1945. Though Anne's death certificate documents her movement between camps, it, too, does not include her tattoo ID number. 
DIARY  While in hiding, Anne kept a diary in which she recorded her fears, hopes, and experiences. Found in the secret apartment after the family was arrested, the diary was kept for Anne by Miep Gies, one of the people who had helped hide the Franks. It was published after the war in many languages and is used in thousands of middle school and high school curricula in Europe and the Americas. Anne Frank has become a symbol for the lost promise of the children who died in the Holocaust. 
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesCash for College! 54 Scholarships Worth $10&#044;000 or MoreErikson's Psychosocial Stages Summary ChartHow to Control Carpenter BeesQuiz - What's Your Leadership Style? [About Psychology]College Interview Questions
A wax figure of Anne Frank stands on display on its first day for the public at Madame Tussauds on December 19, 2008 in Berlin, Germany.
Top Related Searcheslife in the netherlandssecret annexannelies marieaachen germanyedith frankmaternal grandmother
Historical Importance of Anne Frank:During the two years and one month Anne Frank spent hiding in a Secret Annex in Amsterdam during World War II, she kept a diary. Anne Frank's diary, which was published by her father after the war and has been read by millions of people around the world, chronicles both the tensions and difficulties of living in such a confined space for that long a duration as well as Anne's struggles with becoming a teenager. Since the publication of her diary, Anne Frank has become a symbol of the children that were murdered in the Holocaust.Dates:June 12, 1929 -- March 1945Also Known As:Annelies Marie FrankOverview of Anne Frank:Anne Frank was born in Frankfurt am Main, Germany as the second child of Otto and Edith Frank. Anne's sister, Margot Betti Frank, was three years older.
The Franks were a middle-class, liberal Jewish family whose ancestors had lived in Germany for centuries. The Franks considered Germany their home; thus it was a very difficult decision for them to leave Germany in 1933 and start a new life in the Netherlands, away from the anti-Semitism of the newly empowered Nazis. 
After moving his family in with Edith's mother in Aachen, Germany, Otto Frank moved to Amsterdam, Netherlands in the summer of 1933 so that he could establish a Dutch firm of Opekta, a company which made and sold pectin (a product used to make jelly). The other members of the Frank family followed a bit later, with Anne being the last to arrive in Amsterdam in February 1934.
The Franks quickly settled into life in Amsterdam. While Otto Frank focused on building up his business, Anne and Margot started at their new schools and made a large circle of Jewish and non-Jewish friends. In 1939, Anne's maternal grandmother also fled Germany and lived with the Franks until her death in January 1942.
On May 10, 1940, Germany attacked the Netherlands. Five days later, the Netherlands officially surrendered. The Nazis were now in control of the Netherlands and quickly began issuing anti-Jewish laws and edicts. In addition to no longer being able to sit on park benches, go to public swimming pools, or take public transportation, Anne could no longer go to a school with non-Jews. In September 1941, Anne had to leave her Montessori school to attend the Jewish Lyceum. In May 1942, a new edict forced all Jews over the age of six to wear a yellow Star of David on their clothes.
Since the persecution of Jews in Netherlands was extremely similar to the early persecution of Jews in Germany, the Franks could foresee that just like it had for the Jews in Germany, death and deportation was coming soon to Jews in the Netherlands. The Franks realized they needed to find a way to escape. Unable to leave from the Netherlands because the borders were closed, the Franks decided the only way to escape the Nazis was to go into hiding. Nearly a year before Anne received her diary, the Franks had begun organizing a hiding place.
For Anne's 13th birthday (June 12, 1942), she received a red-and-white-checkered autograph album that she decided to use as a diary. Until she went into hiding, Anne wrote in her diary about everyday life such as her friends, grades she received at school, even about playing ping pong.
The Franks had planned on moving to their hiding place on July 16, 1942, but their plans changed when Margot received a call-up notice on July 5, 1942. After packing their final items, the Franks left their apartment at 37 Merwedeplein the following day.
Their hiding place, which Anne called the Secret Annex, was located in the upper-back portion of Otto Frank's business at 263 Prinsengracht. On July 13, 1942 (seven days after the Franks arrived in the Annex), the van Pels family (called the van Daans in Anne's published diary) arrived at the Secret Annex to live. The van Pels family included Auguste van Pels (Petronella van Daan), Hermann van Pels (Herman van Daan), and their son Peter van Pels (Peter van Daan). The last to arrive of the eight people to hide in the Secret Annex was the dentist Friedrich "Fritz" Pfeffer (called Albert Dussel in the diary) on November 16, 1942.
Anne continued writing her diary from her 13th birthday on June 12, 1942 until August 1, 1944. Much of the diary is about the cramped and stifling living conditions as well as the personality conflicts between the eight that lived together in hiding. Also among the two years and one month that Anne lived in the Secret Annex, she wrote about her fears, her hopes, and her character. She felt misunderstood by those around her and was constantly trying to better herself.
Anne was 13 years old when she went into hiding and she was only 15 old when she was arrested. On the morning of August 4, 1944, around ten to ten-thirty in the morning, an SS officer and several Dutch Security Police members pulled up to 263 Prinsengracht. They went directly to the bookcase that hid the door to the Secret Annex and pried the door open. All eight people living in the Secret Annex were arrested and taken to Westerbork. Anne's diary lay on the ground and was collected and safely stored by Miep Gies later that day.
On September 3, 1944, Anne and all those who had been hiding in the Secret Annex were shipped on the very last train leaving Westerbork for Auschwitz. At Auschwitz, the group was separated and several were soon transported to other camps. Anne and Margot were transported to Bergen-Belsen at the end of October 1944. In late February or early March of 1945, Margot died of typhus, followed just a few days later by Anne, also from typhus. Bergen-Belsen was liberated on April 12, 1945, just about a month after their deaths.
Related ArticlesAnne Frank Goes Into Hiding, 1942Anne Frank - My Favorite Historical FigureThe Diary of a Young Girl - Diary of Anne FrankBooks About Anne FrankDiary of Anne Frank 
What Everyone Should Know About the Vietnam War34 Facts About Nazi Leader Adolf HitlerHistory Basics: What Everyone Should Know About...33 Facts You Should Know About the HolocaustThe 1960s at a Glance
Crimes & ScandalsDecade By DecadeDisasters & TragedyFads & FashionsImportant PeopleMedical Advances & IssuesPhotographsScientific DiscoveriesTimelinesWars & ConflictsBlog
20th Century HistoryAbout.comEducation20th Century HistoryWars & ConflictsHolocaustAnne FrankAnne Frank - BiographyAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
=======================================================
Anne Frank is a Jewish girl who has to go into hiding during World War Two to avoid the Nazis. Together with seven others she hides in the secret annex on the Prinsengracht 263 in Amsterdam. After almost 2 years in hiding they are discovered and deported to concentration camps. Anne’s father, Otto Frank, is the only one of the eight people to survive. After her death Anne becomes world famous because of the diary she wrote while in hiding.
Anne Frank was born on 12 June 1929 in the German town of Frankfurt am Main. Her father’s family had lived here for generations. Anne’s sister, Margot is three and a half years older. The economic crisis, Hitler’s rise to power and growing anti-Semitism  put an end to the family’s carefree life. Otto Frank and his wife Edith decide, just as many other German Jews, to leave Germany.
Otto can set up a business in Amsterdam and the family finds a home on the Merwedeplein. The children go to school, Otto works hard in his business and Edith looks after the home. As the threat of war in Europe increases, Otto and his family try to emigrate to England and the U.S.A. but these attempts fail. On 1 September 1939 Germany invades Poland and World War Two starts.
For a while there is hope that The Netherlands will not become involved in the war, but on 10 May 1940 German troops invade the country. Five days later The Netherlands surrenders and is occupied. Anti-Jewish regulations soon follow. Jews are allowed to go to less and less places, Anne and Margot must attend a Jewish school and Otto loses his business.
When a renewed attempt to emigrate to the U.S.A. fails, Otto and Edith decide to go into hiding. Otto furnishes the house behind his business premises on the Prinsengracht and this becomes the hiding place. He does this together with his Jewish business partner Hermann van Pels and help from employees Johannes Kleiman and Victor Kugler.
On 5 July 1942 Margot Frank receives a call-up to report for a German work camp. The next day the Frank family goes into hiding. The Van Pels family follow a week later and in November 1942 an eighth person arrives; dentist Fritz Pfeffer . They remain in the secret annex for just over two years.
The people in hiding must stay very quiet, they are often afraid and despite good and bad times, spend most of it together. They are helped by the office workers Johannes Kleiman, Victor Kugler, Miep Gies and Bep Voskuijl, by Miep's husband Jan Gies and warehouse boss Johannes Voskuijl, Bep's father. These helpers not only arrange food, clothes and books, they are contact with the outside world for the people in hiding.
Shortly before going into hiding Anne receives a diary for her birthday. She starts writing straightaway and during her time in hiding she writes about events in the secret annex and about herself. Her diary is a great support to her. Anne also writes short stories and collects her favorite sentences by other writers in a notebook.
When the Minister of Education makes a request on the radio for people to keep war diaries, Anne decides to edit her diary and create a novel called 'The Secret Annex'. She starts to rewrite her diary, but before she has finished, she and the other people in hiding are arrested.
On 4 August 1944 the people in hiding along with helpers Johannes Kleiman and Victor Kugler are arrested. Via the Sichterheidsdienst headquarters, prison and transit camp Westerbork they are deported to Auschwitz. The two helpers are sent to the Amersfoort camp. Johannes Kleiman is released shortly after his arrest and six months later Victor Kugler escapes. Immediately after the arrest Miep Gies and Bep Voskuijl rescue Anne's diary and papers that have been left behind in the secret annex. Despite intensive investigations it has never been clear how the hiding place was discovered.
Otto Frank is the only one of the eight people in hiding to survive the war. During his long journey back to The Netherlands he learns that his wife, Edith, has died. He knows nothing about his daughters and still hopes to see them again. He arrives back in Amsterdam at the beginning of July. He goes straight to Miep and Jan Gies and remains with them for another seven years.
Otto Frank tries to find his daughters but in July receives news that they have both died of disease and deprivation in Bergen-Belsen. Miep Gies then gives him Anne's diary and papers. Otto reads the diary and discovers a completely different Anne. He is very moved by her writing.
Anne wrote in her diary that she wanted to be a writer or a journalist and that she wanted her diary published as a novel. Otto Frank's friends convince him of the great expressiveness of her diary and on 25 June 1947, 'The Secret Annex' is published in an edition 3.000. Many more editions, translations , a play and a film follow .
People from all over the world learn of Anne Frank's story. Over the years Otto Frank answers thousands of letters from people who have read his daughter's diary. In 1960 the Anne Frank House becomes a museum. Otto Frank remains involved with the Anne Frank House and campaigns for human rights and respect until his death in 1980.
Life in GermanyEmigrating to the NetherlandsThe German invasionThe hiding placeA diary as a best friendThe ArrestOtto Frank returnsThe diary of Anne FrankIn briefAll people
Practical informationOnline ticket salesGroup visits for schoolsGroup visitsExhibitionsThe Anne Frank CollectionsFrom hiding place to museum
Will this year, 1944, bring us victory? We don't know yet. But where there's hope, there's life. It fills us with fresh courage and makes us strong again.
Life in GermanyHappy yearsCrisis and anti-SemitismEmigration plansEmigrating to the NetherlandsA new startAt home in AmsterdamOtto's businessesThreat of WarThe German invasionAnti-Jewish measures Anne Frank at the Jewish LyceumMargot is called up Preparing to go into hidingThe hiding placeIn hiding The hiding place Tension and argumentsThe HelpersDaily activitiesThe war rages onOthers went into hiding too A diary as a best friendAnne throws herself into writingRewriting for publicationAnne Frank, the writerTaken seriously as a writer at last? The ArrestThe day of the arrestDeported to the campsThe fate of the people in hidingThe betrayal has never been solvedOtto Frank returns Back to AmsterdamSearching for Anne and MargotOtto reads Anne's diaryThe diary of Anne FrankThe diary is publishedThe different versions of Anne’s diaryReactions to "The Secret Annex"A play and on film800 times Peter van DaanReception in AmericaOtto Frank leaves for SwitzerlandOtto reconcilesNelson Mandela on Anne FrankAll peopleAnne FrankOtto FrankEdith FrankMargot FrankHermann van PelsAuguste van PelsPeter van PelsFritz PfefferMiep GiesBep VoskuijlJo KleimanVictor KuglerJan GiesJohan VoskuijlWillem van MaarenThe story in brief
=======================================================
Anne Frank is a Jewish girl who had to go into hiding during The Second World War to escape the Nazis.
After getting married, Otto and Edith Frank settle in Frankfurt. They soon have children: Margot in 1926, and Anne in 1929. Those first few years are happy ones, but the economic crisis empowers Hitler’s NSDAP. In 1933, Hitler takes over as leader of the German government. Otto and Edith Frank are deeply worried. Not only are they Jewish, the economic crisis causes many problems. They look for a means of escape.
Otto Frank manages to set up a business in Amsterdam. Edith, Margot and Anne follow him to the Netherlands. They find a place to live on the Merwedeplein. The Franks feel safe and free again. The children go to school, Otto works hard on his business and Edith takes care of the household. But then World War 2 breaks out. On 10 May 1940, Germany invades the Netherlands. The Frank family is in danger once more.
With the Netherlands now occupied, life changes for the Frank family. Restrictions keep mounting, both for individuals and for Otto's business. When Margot is called up to be sent to a German labour camp, Otto and Edith decide the dangers have become too great. They take their family into hiding. 
There are four other Jews in the Secret Annex besides the Frank family: Hermann and Auguste van Pels with their son Peter, and Fritz Pfeffer. Four of Otto’s employees help them. Everyone lives in constant fear of discovery. And it’s certainly not easy for eight people to live in such close quarters.
Anne doesn’t just keep a diary during her time in the Secret Annex. She also writes short stories and collects her favourite sentences by other writers in a notebook. Anne hopes for her diary to be published as a novel after the war. That’s why she starts rewriting it. But Anne never manages to finish it. She's discovered and arrested before she completes her work.
On 4 August 1944, everyone in the Secret Annex is arrested. Someone has betrayed them. They are deported first to the Westerbork transit camp, and then on to Auschwitz. Otto Frank is the only person from the Secret Annex to survive the camps. The others all die. Hermann van Pels is murdered in the gas chambers, and Auguste is thrown in front of a train during a transport. The others die of disease and exhaustion. The identity of their betrayer has never been established.
After Auschwitz is liberated, Otto returns to Amsterdam. On his way back, he hears of Edith’s death. Back in Amsterdam, he goes to see Miep and Jan Gies. He hopes Anne and Margot might still be alive, but then discovers that they too did not survive the war. Miep gives him Anne’s diaries. Anne had wanted her diary to be published after the war, and her wish would eventually come true.
After the war, Otto Frank devotes himself to working for human rights and respect. He answers thousands of letters from people who have read his daughter’s diary. The diary is translated, and adapted to both film and theatre. People all over the world get to know Anne Frank’s story, and are deeply touched.
Anne Frank is a Jewish girl who had to go into hiding during The Second World War to escape the Nazis. She kept a diary while in hiding at Prinsengracht in Amsterdam. Anne and the others in hiding were discovered and deported to the concentration camps. Of the eight people in hiding only Anne's father, Otto Frank, survives.
Explore Anne Frank's hiding place. Wander around a labyrinth of hallways, stairs and little rooms. Inspect the furnished rooms and listen to the stories of those who hid there, and their helpers.
In the 1920s, Adolf Hitler’s National Socialist German Workers Party (NSDAP) is a small political splinter group...
Not being able to go outside upsets me more than I can say, and I'm terrified our hiding place will be discovered and that…
Life in GermanyEmigrating to the NetherlandsThe German invasionThe hiding placeA diary as a best friendThe ArrestOtto Frank returnsThe diary of Anne FrankIn briefAll people
Practical informationOnline ticket salesGroup visits for schoolsGroup visitsExhibitionsThe Anne Frank CollectionsFrom hiding place to museum
Will this year, 1944, bring us victory? We don't know yet. But where there's hope, there's life. It fills us with fresh courage and makes us strong again.
Life in GermanyHappy yearsCrisis and anti-SemitismEmigration plansEmigrating to the NetherlandsA new startAt home in AmsterdamOtto's businessesThreat of WarThe German invasionAnti-Jewish measures Anne Frank at the Jewish LyceumMargot is called up Preparing to go into hidingThe hiding placeIn hiding The hiding place Tension and argumentsThe HelpersDaily activitiesThe war rages onOthers went into hiding too A diary as a best friendAnne throws herself into writingRewriting for publicationAnne Frank, the writerTaken seriously as a writer at last? The ArrestThe day of the arrestDeported to the campsThe fate of the people in hidingThe betrayal has never been solvedOtto Frank returns Back to AmsterdamSearching for Anne and MargotOtto reads Anne's diaryThe diary of Anne FrankThe diary is publishedThe different versions of Anne’s diaryReactions to "The Secret Annex"A play and on film800 times Peter van DaanReception in AmericaOtto Frank leaves for SwitzerlandOtto reconcilesNelson Mandela on Anne FrankAll peopleAnne FrankOtto FrankEdith FrankMargot FrankHermann van PelsAuguste van PelsPeter van PelsFritz PfefferMiep GiesBep VoskuijlJo KleimanVictor KuglerJan GiesJohan VoskuijlWillem van MaarenThe story in brief
=======================================================
Anne Frank was born in Frankfurt, Germany on June 12, 1929. Her father, Otto Frank, was a businessman while her mother, Edith, stayed home taking care of Anne and her older sister Margot.
Anne was an outgoing and spirited child. She got into more trouble than her quiet and serious older sister. Anne was like her father who liked to tell the girls stories and play games with them, while Margot was more like her shy mother.
Growing up Anne had lots of friends. Her family was Jewish and followed some of the Jewish holidays and customs. Anne liked to read and dreamed of being a writer someday.
In 1933 Adolf Hitler became the leader of Germany. He was the leader of the Nazi political party. Hitler did not like Jewish people. He blamed them for many of Germany's problems. Many Jewish people began to flee from Germany.
Otto Frank decided his family should leave, too. In 1934 they moved to the city of Amsterdam in the Netherlands. Anne was only four years old. Before long Anne had made new friends, was speaking Dutch, and was going to school in a new country. Anne and her family felt safe once again.
In 1939 Germany invaded Poland and World War II had begun. Germany had already taken over Austria and Czechoslovakia. Would they invade the Netherlands, too? Otto considered moving again, but decided to stay.
On May 10, 1940 Germany invaded the Netherlands. The Franks did not have time to escape. Jews had to register with the Germans. They weren't allowed to own businesses, have jobs, go to the movies, or even sit on the benches at the park! Otto Frank turned his business over to some non-Jewish friends. 
In the midst of all this, the Franks tried to go on as normal. Anne had her thirteenth birthday. One of her presents was a red journal which is how we know Anne's story today.
Things continued to get worse. The Germans began to require all Jewish people to wear yellow stars on their clothing. Some Jews were rounded up and taken to concentration camps. Then one day the order came that Margot would have to go to a labor camp. Otto was not going to let that happen. He and Edith had been preparing a place for the family to hide. The girls were told to pack up what they could. They had to wear all their clothes in layers because a suitcase would look too suspicious. Then they went to their hiding place.
Otto had prepared a secret hideout next to his place of work. The door was hidden behind some bookshelves. The hideout was small. The first floor had a bathroom and a small kitchen. The second floor had two rooms, one for Anne and Margot and one for her parents. There was also an attic where they stored food and where Anne would sometimes go to be alone.
Anne named her diary "Kitty" after a friend of hers. Each entry into her diary began "Dear Kitty". Anne wrote about all sorts of things. She didn't think others would be reading it. She wrote about her feelings, books she read, and the people around her. From Anne's diary we find out just what it must have been like to live in hiding for years, fearing for her life.
The Franks had to be careful not be caught by the Germans. They covered all the windows with thick curtains. During the day they had to be extra quiet. They whispered when they talked and went barefoot so they could walk softly. At night, when the people working in the business below went home, they could relax a bit, but they still had to be very careful.
Soon more people moved in with the Franks. They needed a place to hide, too. The Van Pels family joined just a week later. They had a 15 year old boy named Peter. This was three more people in that cramped space. Then Mr. Pfeffer moved in. He ended up rooming with Anne and Margot moved to her parent's room.
Anne and her family had been hiding for nearly two years. They had heard that the war was coming to an end. It looked like the Germans were going to lose. They were starting to have hope that they would soon be free.
However, on August 4, 1944 the Germans stormed into the Frank's hideout. They took everyone captive and sent them to concentration camps. The men and women were separated. Eventually the girls were separated and sent to a camp. Both Anne and her sister died of the disease Typhus in March of 1945, only a month before Allied soldiers arrived at the camp.
The only family member to survive the camps was Anne's father Otto Frank. He returned to Amsterdam and found Anne's diary. Her diary was published in 1947 under the name The Secret Annex. Later it was renamed Anne Frank: Diary of a Young Girl. It became a popular book read throughout the world.
You can go here to read more about the Holocaust that caused the death of over 6 million Jewish people during World War II.
=======================================================
A young Jewish girl named Anne Frank (1929-1945), her parents and older sister moved to the Netherlands from Germany after Adolf Hilter and the Nazis came to power there in 1933 and made life increasingly difficult for Jews. In 1942, Frank and her family went into hiding in a secret apartment behind her father’s business in German-occupied Amsterdam. The Franks were discovered in 1944 and sent to concentration camps; only Anne’s father survived. Anne Frank’s diary of her family’s time in hiding, first published in 1947, has been translated into almost 70 languages and is one of the most widely read accounts of the Holocaust.
Anne Frank was born Anneliese Marie Frank in Frankfurt, Germany, on June 12, 1929, to Edith Hollander Frank (1900-45) and Otto Frank (1889-1980), a prosperous businessman. Less than four years later, in January 1933, Adolf Hitler became chancellor of Germany and he and his Nazi government instituted a series of measures aimed at persecuting Germany’s Jewish citizens.
Did You Know? In 1960, the building at Prinsengracht 263, home to the Secret Annex, opened to the public as a museum devoted to the life of Anne Frank. Her original diary is on display there.By the fall of 1933, Otto Frank moved to Amsterdam, where he established a small but successful company that produced a gelling substance used to make jam. After staying behind in Germany with her grandmother in the city of Aachen, Anne joined her parents and sister Margot (1926-45) in the Dutch capital in February 1934. In 1935, Anne started school in Amsterdam and earned a reputation as an energetic, popular girl.
In May 1940, the Germans, who had entered World War II in September of the previous year, invaded the Netherlands and quickly made life increasingly restrictive and dangerous for Jewish people there. Between the summer of 1942 and September 1944, the Nazis and their Dutch collaborators deported more than 100,000 Jews in Holland to extermination camps.
In early July 1942, after Margot Frank received a letter ordering her to report to a work camp in Germany, Anne Frank’s family went into hiding in an attic apartment behind Otto Frank’s business, located at Prinsengracht 263 in Amsterdam. In an effort to avoid detection, the family left a false trail suggesting they’d fled to Switzerland.
A week after they had gone into hiding, the Franks were joined by Otto’s business associate Hermann van Pels (1898-1944), along with his wife Auguste (1900-45) and their son Peter (1926-45), who were also Jewish. A small group of Otto Frank’s employees, including his Austrian-born secretary, Miep Gies (1909-2010), risked their own lives to smuggle food, supplies and news of the outside world into the secret apartment, whose entrance was situated behind a movable bookcase. In November 1942, the Franks and Van Pels were joined by Fritz Pfeffer (1889-1944), Miep Gies’ Jewish dentist.
Life for the eight people in the small apartment, which Anne Frank referred to as the Secret Annex, was tense. The group lived in constant fear of being discovered and could never go outside. They had to remain quiet during daytime in order to avoid detection by the people working in the warehouse below. Anne passed the time, in part, by chronicling her observations and feelings in a diary she had received for her 13th birthday, a month before her family went into hiding.
Addressing her diary entries to an imaginary friend she called Kitty, Anne Frank wrote about life in hiding, including her impressions of the other inhabitants of the Secret Annex, her feelings of loneliness and her frustration over the lack of privacy. While she detailed typical teenage issues such as crushes on boys, arguments with her mother and resentments toward her sister, Frank also displayed keen insight and maturity when she wrote about the war, humanity and her own identity. She also penned short stories and essays during her time in hiding.
On August 4, 1944, after 25 months in hiding, Anne Frank and the seven others in the Secret Annex were discovered by the Gestapo, the German secret state police, who had learned about the hiding place from an anonymous tipster (who has never been definitively identified).
After their arrest, the Franks, Van Pels and Fritz Pfeffer were sent by the Gestapo to Westerbork, a holding camp in the northern Netherlands. From there, in September 1944, the group was transported by freight train to the Auschwitz-Birkenau extermination and concentration camp complex in German-occupied Poland. Anne and Margot Frank were spared immediate death in the Auschwitz gas chambers and instead were sent to Bergen-Belsen, a concentration camp in northern Germany. In March 1945, the Frank sisters died of typhus at Bergen-Belsen; their bodies were thrown into a mass grave. Several weeks later, on April 15, 1945, British forces liberated the camp.
Edith Frank died of starvation at Auschwitz in January 1945. Hermann van Pels died in the gas chambers at Auschwitz soon after his arrival there in 1944; his wife is believed to have likely died at the Theresienstadt concentration camp in what is now the Czech Republic in the spring of 1945. Peter van Pels died at the Mauthausen concentration camp in Austria in May 1945. Fritz Pfeffer died from illness in late December 1944 at the Neuengamme concentration camp in Germany. Anne Frank’s father, Otto, was the only member of the group to survive; he was liberated from Auschwitz by Soviet troops on January 27, 1945.
When Otto Frank returned to Amsterdam following his release from Auschwitz, Miep Gies gave him five notebooks and some 300 loose papers containing Anne’s writings. Gies had recovered the materials from the Secret Annex shortly after the Franks’ arrest by the Nazis and had hidden them in her desk. (Margot Frank also kept a diary, but it was never found.) Otto Frank knew that Anne wanted to become an author or journalist, and had hoped her wartime writings would one day be published. Anne had even been inspired to edit her diary for posterity after hearing a March 1944 radio broadcast from an exiled Dutch government official who urged the Dutch people to keep journals and letters that would help provide a record of what life was like under the Nazis.
After his daughter’s writings were returned to him, Otto Frank helped compile them into a manuscript that was published in the Netherlands in 1947 under the title “Het Acheterhuis” (“Rear Annex”). Although U.S. publishers initially rejected the work as too depressing and dull, it was eventually published in America in 1952 as “The Diary of a Young Girl.” The book, which went on to sell tens of millions of copies worldwide, has been labeled a testament to the indestructible nature of the human spirit. It is required reading at schools around the globe and has been adapted for the stage and screen.
Fact Check We strive for accuracy and fairness. But if you see something that doesn't look right, contact us!
=======================================================
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/HelveticaNeue-Light.eot?#iefix') format('embedded-opentype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/HelveticaNeue-Light.woff') format('woff'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/HelveticaNeue-Light.ttf') format('truetype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/HelveticaNeue-Light.svg#HelveticaNeue-Light') format('svg');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-light-webfont.eot');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-light-webfont.eot?#iefix') format('embedded-opentype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-light-webfont.woff') format('woff'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-light-webfont.ttf') format('truetype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-light-webfont.svg#kontrapunktLight') format('svg');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-bold-webfont.eot?#iefix') format('embedded-opentype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-bold-webfont.woff') format('woff'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-bold-webfont.ttf') format('truetype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-bold-webfont.vg#kontrapunktBold') format('svg');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-lightitalic-webfont.eot');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-lightitalic-webfont.eot?#iefix') format('embedded-opentype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-lightitalic-webfont.woff') format('woff'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-lightitalic-webfont.ttf') format('truetype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/kontrapunkt-lightitalic-webfont.svg#kontrapunktLightItalic') format('svg');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/helveticaltstd-roman-webfont.eot');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/helveticaltstd-roman-webfont.eot?#iefix') format('embedded-opentype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/helveticaltstd-roman-webfont.woff') format('woff'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/helveticaltstd-roman-webfont.ttf') format('truetype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/helveticaltstd-roman-webfont.svg#helveticaltstd-roman') format('svg');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/helveticaneueltstd_bd-webfontt.eot');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/helveticaneueltstd_bd-webfont?#iefix') format('embedded-opentype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/helveticaneueltstd_bd-webfont.woff') format('woff'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/helveticaneueltstd_bd-webfont.ttf') format('truetype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/helveticaneueltstd_bd-webfont.svg#helveticaneueltstd_bd') format('svg');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-display-webfont?#iefix') format('embedded-opentype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-display-webfont.woff') format('woff'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-display-webfont.ttf') format('truetype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-display-webfont.svg#arnopro-display') format('svg');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-bolddisplay-webfontt.eot');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-bolddisplay-webfont?#iefix') format('embedded-opentype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-bolddisplay-webfont.woff') format('woff'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-bolddisplay-webfont.ttf') format('truetype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-bolddisplay-webfont.svg#arnopro-display') format('svg');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-italicdisplay-webfontt.eot');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-italicdisplay-webfont?#iefix') format('embedded-opentype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-italicdisplay-webfont.woff') format('woff'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-italicdisplay-webfont.ttf') format('truetype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-italicdisplay-webfont.svg#arnopro-display') format('svg');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-bolditalicdisplay-webfontt.eot');
src: url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-bolditalicdisplay-webfont?#iefix') format('embedded-opentype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-bolditalicdisplay-webfont.woff') format('woff'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-bolditalicdisplay-webfont.ttf') format('truetype'),
    url('http://annefrank.com/wp-content/themes/anfrnk/assets/fonts/arnopro-bolditalicdisplay-webfont.svg#arnopro-bolditalicdisplay') format('svg');
“                                        When I write, I can shake off all my cares.”Anne Frank, April 5, 1944 
Born on June 12, 1929, Anne Frank was a German-Jewish teenager who was forced to go into hiding during the Holocaust. She and her family, along with four others, spent over two years during World War II hiding in an annex of rooms above her father’s office in Amsterdam.
Since it was first published in 1947, Anne Frank’s diary has become one of the most powerful memoirs of the Holocaust. Its message of courage and hope in the face of adversity has reached millions. The diary has been translated into 67 languages with over 30 million copies sold. Anne Frank’s story is especially meaningful to young people today. For many she is their first, if not their only exposure to the history of the Holocaust.
After being betrayed to the Nazis, Anne, her family, and the others living with them were arrested and deported to Nazi concentration camps. In March of 1945, nine months after she was arrested, Anne Frank died of typhus at Bergen-Belsen. She was fifteen years old.
Read passages and watch videos of Anne’s diary that relate to deportation, despair and still believing.
Resources for EducatorsThe Center provides a whole host of information and educational tools for use in the classroom. These include downloadable materials for students and teachers, curriculum guides, and required reading. Learn more 
Sample DownloadsTeaching the Holocaust: A Guide to Anne FrankA Readers' Companion to Anne Frank: Diary of a Young Girl 
More from AnneFrank.orgThe history of the HouseSee content from our partner, the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam, and learn more about the history of the House.
Check out the Graphic NovelThis animation shows an extract from the new graphic biography of Anne Frank
The Secret 3D AnnexWander through the hidden furnished rooms and get to know the stories from Anne’s diary.
The Anne Frank Center USA  44 Park Place, New York NY 10007  |  Phone: 212.431.7993  |  Email: info@annefrank.com  |  Privacy Statement  |  CopyrightSite Design: AIS NY  |  Site Development: Plus FactoryOfficial airline of the Anne Frank Center USA: 
=======================================================
One of the boys in this neighborhood group of Jewish and non-Jewish playmates became a guard in the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp. Learn the story behind the photo in a new Museum exhibition on collaboration and complicity in the Holocaust.
On June 6, 1944, Allied forces landed on the beaches of Normandy, France, opening a long-awaited second front in western Europe. Explore this turning point in World War II through the oral histories, diaries, and paintings of those who lived it.
What can the Holocaust teach us about society and ourselves today? The Museum’s National Conversation is designed to provoke discussion about the Holocaust and its lessons. Join us for an event near you. 
Through our comprehensive campaign, “Never Again. What You Do Matters,” led by honorary chair Elie Wiesel, the Museum seeks to secure the resources to keep Holocaust memory alive as a force for change in today’s world.
                    Our collection of Holocaust-related materials is among the most comprehensive in the world. View photos, film, artifacts, oral histories, and more. 
                    Help us learn the fates of some of the youngest survivors of the Holocaust, who found themselves alone and separated from their families at the end of World War II.
Our Some Were Neighbors online exhibition earned the highest honor for technology education and outreach in the museum field. Read More 
                                                                            11 a.m.                                                                    
                                                                            7 p.m.                                                                    
                                                                            12 p.m.                                                                    
                                                                            7 p.m.                                                                    
                                                                            6 p.m.                                                                    
Samantha Power is the US Permanent Representative to the United Nations. An expert on human rights and US foreign policy, she gave the keynote address at the Museum's National Tribute Dinner on April 30, 2014, where Lieutenant-General Roméo Dallaire was honored with the Museum's Elie Wiesel Award.
Read more about the 2014 Elie Wiesel Award recipient: http://www.ushmm.org/information/about-the-museum/the-elie-wiesel-award/2014
The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum inspires citizens and leaders worldwide to confront hatred, prevent genocide, and promote human dignity.
Learn about the Holocaust, antisemitism, and genocide prevention. Access scholarly papers and lectures, expert interviews, eyewitness testimonies, short videos, and teaching materials.
