=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Hunter Stockton Thompson (July 18, 1937 – February 20, 2005) was an American journalist and author. Born in Louisville, Kentucky, to a middle-class family, Thompson had a turbulent youth after the death of his father left the family in poverty. He was unable to formally finish high school as he was incarcerated for 60 days after abetting a robbery. He subsequently joined the United States Air Force before moving into journalism. He traveled frequently, including stints in California, Puerto Rico, and Brazil, before settling in Aspen, Colorado, in the early 1960s.
Thompson became internationally known with the publication of Hell's Angels: The Strange and Terrible Saga of the Outlaw Motorcycle Gangs (1967), for which he had spent a year living and riding with the Angels, experiencing their lives and hearing their stories first hand. Previously a relatively conventional journalist, with the publication in 1970 of "The Kentucky Derby Is Decadent and Depraved" he became a counter cultural figure, with his own brand of New Journalism he termed "Gonzo", an experimental style of journalism where reporters involve themselves in the action to such a degree that they become central figures of their stories. The work he remains best known for is Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream (1971), a rumination on the failure of the 1960s counterculture movement. It was first serialized in Rolling Stone, a magazine with which Thompson would be long associated, and was released as a film starring Johnny Depp and directed by Terry Gilliam in 1998.
Politically minded, Thompson ran unsuccessfully for sheriff of Pitkin County, Colorado, in 1970, on the Freak Power ticket. He was well known for his inveterate hatred of Richard Nixon, whom he claimed represented "that dark, venal, and incurably violent side of the American character"[1] and whom he characterized in Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72. Thompson's output notably declined from the mid-1970s, as he struggled with the consequences of fame, and he complained that he could no longer merely report on events as he was too easily recognized. He was also known for his lifelong use of alcohol and illegal drugs; his love of firearms, and his iconoclastic contempt for authoritarianism, and remarked that, "I hate to advocate drugs, alcohol, violence, or insanity to anyone, but they've always worked for me."
While suffering a bout of health problems, Thompson committed suicide at the age of 67. Per his wishes, his ashes were fired out of a cannon in a ceremony funded by his friend, Johnny Depp, and attended by a host of friends including then Senator John Kerry and Jack Nicholson. Hari Kunzru wrote that, "the true voice of Thompson is revealed to be that of American moralist ... one who often makes himself ugly to expose the ugliness he sees around him."[2]
Thompson was born into a middle-class family in Louisville, Kentucky, the first of three sons, to Jack Robert Thompson (September 4, 1893, Horse Cave, Kentucky – July 3, 1952, Louisville), a public insurance adjuster and World War I veteran, and Virginia Ray Davison (1908, Springfield, Kentucky – March 20, 1998, Louisville), who was head librarian at the Louisville Public Library.[3] His parents were introduced to each other by a friend from Jack's fraternity at the University of Kentucky in September 1934, and were married on November 2, 1935.[4] Thompson's first name came from a purported ancestor on his mother's side, the Scottish surgeon John Hunter.[5]
On December 2, 1943, when Thompson was six years old, the family settled at 2437 Ransdell Avenue, in the affluent Cherokee Triangle neighborhood of The Highlands.[6] On July 3, 1952, when Thompson was 14 years old, his father, aged 58, died of myasthenia gravis. Hunter and his brothers, Davison Wheeler (born June 18, 1940) and James Garnet (February 2, 1949 – March 25, 1993),[7] were raised by their mother. Hunter also had a much older half-brother, James Thompson, Jr., from his father's first marriage, who was not part of the Thompson household. Virginia worked as a librarian to support her children, and is described as having become a "heavy drinker" following her husband's death.[4][8]
Interested in sports and athletically inclined from a young age, Thompson co-founded the Hawks Athletic Club while attending I. N. Bloom Elementary School,[9] which led to an invitation to join Louisville's Castlewood Athletic Club,[9] a club for adolescents that prepared them for high-school sports, where he excelled in baseball, though he never joined any sports teams in high school, where he was often in trouble.[4]
Thompson attended I. N. Bloom Elementary School,[10] Highland Middle School, and Atherton High School, before transferring to Louisville Male High School in September 1952. Also in 1952, he was accepted as a member of the Athenaeum Literary Association, a school-sponsored literary and social club that had been founded at Male High in 1862. Its members at the time, generally drawn from Louisville's wealthy upper-class families, included Porter Bibb, who became the first publisher of Rolling Stone. During this time Thompson read and adored J. P. Donleavy's The Ginger Man.[11]
As an Athenaeum member, Thompson contributed articles and helped edit the club's yearbook The Spectator; but the group ejected Thompson in 1955, citing his legal problems.[4] Charged as an accessory to robbery after being in a car with the robber, Thompson was sentenced to 60 days in Kentucky's Jefferson County Jail. He served 31 days and, a week after his release -and one day after sinking nearly every boat in a local harbor by shooting holes beneath their waterlines- enlisted in the United States Air Force.[4] While he was in jail the school superintendent refused him permission to take his high school final examinations, and as a result he did not graduate.[11]
Thompson completed basic training at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, Texas, and transferred to Scott Air Force Base in Belleville, Illinois, to study electronics. He applied to become an aviator, but was rejected by the Air Force's aviation-cadet program. In 1956, he transferred to Eglin Air Force Base near Fort Walton Beach, Florida. While serving at Eglin, he took evening classes at Florida State University.[12] At Eglin, he landed his first professional writing job as sports editor of the The Command Courier by lying about his job experience. In this capacity, he covered the Eglin Eagles, a football team that included future professional players Bart Starr, Max McGee and Zeke Bratkowski. Thompson traveled with the team around the US, covering its games. In early 1957, he wrote a sports column for The Playground News, a local newspaper in Fort Walton Beach, Florida. He could not use his name on the column because the Air Force did not allow airmen to hold other jobs.[4]
Thompson was discharged from the Air Force in June 1958 as an Airman First Class, having been recommended for an early honorable discharge by his commanding officer. "In summary, this airman, although talented, will not be guided by policy", Col. William S. Evans, chief of information services wrote to the Eglin personnel office. "Sometimes his rebel and superior attitude seems to rub off on other airmen staff members."[13]
After the Air Force, he worked as sports editor for a newspaper in Jersey Shore, Pennsylvania,[14] before relocating to New York City. There he audited several courses at the Columbia University School of General Studies During this time he worked briefly for Time, as a copy boy for $51 a week. While working, he used a typewriter to copy F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby and Ernest Hemingway's A Farewell to Arms in order to learn about the writing styles of the authors. In 1959, Time fired him for insubordination.[15] Later that year, he worked as a reporter for The Middletown Daily Record in Middletown, New York. He was fired from this job after damaging an office candy machine and arguing with the owner of a local restaurant who happened to be an advertiser with the paper.[15]
In 1960, Thompson moved to San Juan, Puerto Rico, to take a job with the sporting magazine El Sportivo, which folded soon after his arrival. Thompson applied for a job with the Puerto Rican English language daily The San Juan Star, but its managing editor, future novelist William J. Kennedy, turned him down. Nonetheless, the two became friends and after the demise of El Sportivo, Thompson worked as a stringer for the New York Herald Tribune and a few stateside papers on Caribbean issues with Kennedy working as his editor.[16][17] After returning to the States, Hunter hitchhiked across the United States along U.S. Hwy 40, eventually ending up in Big Sur, California working as a security guard and caretaker at the Big Sur hot springs for an eight-month period in 1961, just before it became the Esalen Institute. While there, he published his first magazine feature in the nationally distributed Rogue magazine, on the artisan and bohemian culture of Big Sur. Thompson had had a rocky tenure as caretaker of the hot springs, and the unexpected publicity from the article finally got him fired. During this period, Thompson wrote two novels, Prince Jellyfish and The Rum Diary, and submitted many short stories to publishers with little success. The Rum Diary, a novel based on Thompson's experiences in Puerto Rico, was eventually published in 1998, long after he had become famous.
From May 1962 to May 1963, Thompson traveled to South America as a correspondent for a Dow Jones-owned weekly newspaper, the National Observer. In Brazil, he spent several months as a reporter for the Brazil Herald, the country's only English-language daily, published in Rio de Janeiro. His longtime girlfriend Sandra Dawn Conklin (aka Sandy Conklin Thompson, now Sondi Wright) later joined him in Rio. They were married on May 19, 1963, shortly after returning to the United States, and lived briefly in Aspen, Colorado, where they had a son, Juan Fitzgerald Thompson (born March 23, 1964). The couple conceived five more times, but three pregnancies were miscarried, and the other two produced infants who died shortly after birth. Hunter and Sandy divorced in 1980 but always remained close friends.
In 1964, the family relocated to Glen Ellen, California, where Thompson continued to write for the National Observer on an array of domestic subjects. One story was about his 1964 visit to Ketchum, Idaho, to investigate the reasons for Ernest Hemingway's suicide.[18] While there, he stole a pair of elk antlers hanging above the front door of Hemingway's cabin. Thompson severed his ties with the Observer after his editor refused to print his review of Tom Wolfe's 1965 essay collection The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby,[19] and moved to San Francisco. He immersed himself in the drug and hippie culture that was taking root in the area, and soon began writing for the Berkeley underground paper The Spyder.[20]
In 1965, Carey McWilliams, editor of The Nation, hired Thompson to write a story about the California-based Hells Angels* motorcycle club. After the article appeared (on May 17, 1965), Thompson received several book offers and spent the next year living and riding with the gang. The relationship broke down when the bikers perceived that Thompson was exploiting them for personal gain, and demanded a share of the profits from his writings. An argument at a party resulted in a savage beating for Thompson (or "stomping", as the Angels referred to it). Random House published the hard cover Hell's Angels: The Strange and Terrible Saga of the Outlaw Motorcycle Gangs* in 1966, and the fight between Thompson and the Angels was well-marketed. CBC Television even broadcast an encounter between Thompson and Hells Angel Skip Workman before a live studio audience.[21]
A reviewer for The New York Times praised it as an "angry, knowledgeable, fascinating and excitedly written book", that shows the Hells Angels "not so much as dropouts from society but as total misfits, or unfits — emotionally, intellectually and educationally unfit to achieve the rewards, such as they are, that the contemporary social order offers." The reviewer also praised Thompson as a "spirited, witty, observant and original writer; his prose crackles like motorcycle exhaust."[22]
Following the success of Hell's Angels, Thompson was able to publish articles in a number of well-known magazines during the late 1960s, including The New York Times Magazine, Esquire, Pageant, and Harper's. In the Times Magazine article, published in 1967, shortly before the "Summer of Love", and titled "The Hashbury is the Capital of the Hippies", Thompson wrote in-depth about the Hippies of San Francisco, deriding a culture that began to lack the political convictions of the New Left and the artistic core of the Beats, instead becoming overrun with newcomers lacking any purpose other than obtaining drugs.[23] It was an observation on the 1960s' counterculture that Thompson would further examine in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas and other articles.[24]
By late 1967, Thompson and his family moved back to Colorado and rented a house in Woody Creek, a small mountain hamlet outside Aspen. In early 1969, Thompson finally received a $15,000 royalty check for the paperback sales of Hell's Angels and used two-thirds of the money for a down payment on a modest home and property where he would live for the rest of his life.[25] He named the house Owl Farm and often described it as his "fortified compound."
In early 1968, Thompson signed the "Writers and Editors War Tax Protest" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the Vietnam War.[26] According to Thompson's letters and his later writings, at this time he planned to write a book called The Joint Chiefs about "the death of the American Dream." He used a $6,000 advance from Random House to travel on the 1968 Presidential campaign trail and attend the 1968 Democratic Convention in Chicago for research purposes. From his hotel room in Chicago, Thompson watched the clashes between police and protesters, which he wrote had a great effect on his political views. The planned book was never finished, but the theme of the death of the American dream would be carried over into his later work, and the contract with Random House was eventually fulfilled with the 1972 book Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.[27] He also signed a deal with Ballantine Books in 1968 to write a satirical book called The Johnson File about Lyndon B. Johnson. A few weeks after the contract was signed, however, Johnson announced that he would not stand for re-election, and the deal was cancelled.[27]
In 1970, Thompson ran for sheriff of Pitkin County, Colorado, as part of a group of citizens running for local offices on the "Freak Power" ticket. The platform included promoting the decriminalization of drugs (for personal use only, not trafficking, as he disapproved of profiteering), tearing up the streets and turning them into grassy pedestrian malls, banning any building so tall as to obscure the view of the mountains, and renaming Aspen "Fat City" to deter investors. Thompson, having shaved his head, referred to the Republican candidate as "my long-haired opponent", as he wore a crew cut.
With polls showing him with a slight lead in a three-way race, Thompson appeared at Rolling Stone magazine headquarters in San Francisco with a six-pack of beer in hand, and declared to editor Jann Wenner that he was about to be elected Sheriff of Aspen, Colorado, and wished to write about the "Freak Power" movement.[28] Thus, Thompson's first article in Rolling Stone was published as The Battle of Aspen with the byline "By: Dr. Hunter S. Thompson (Candidate for Sheriff)." Despite the publicity, Thompson narrowly lost the election. While carrying the city of Aspen, he garnered only 44% of the county-wide vote in what had become a two-way race. The Republican candidate agreed to withdraw a few days before the election in order to consolidate the anti-Thompson votes, in return for the Democrats withdrawing their candidate for county commissioner. Thompson later remarked that the Rolling Stone article mobilized his opposition far more than his supporters.[29]
Also in 1970, Thompson wrote an article entitled "The Kentucky Derby Is Decadent and Depraved" for the short-lived new journalism magazine Scanlan's Monthly. Although it was not widely read, the article was the first to use the techniques of Gonzo journalism, a style Thompson would later employ in almost every literary endeavor. The manic first-person subjectivity of the story was reportedly the result of sheer desperation; he was facing a looming deadline and started sending the magazine pages ripped out of his notebook. Ralph Steadman, who would collaborate with Thompson on several more projects, contributed expressionist pen-and-ink illustrations.
The first use of the word "Gonzo" to describe Thompson's work is credited to the journalist Bill Cardoso. Cardoso first met Thompson on a bus full of journalists covering the 1968 New Hampshire primary. In 1970, Cardoso (who was then the editor of The Boston Globe Sunday Magazine) wrote to Thompson praising the "Kentucky Derby" piece as a breakthrough: "This is it, this is pure Gonzo. If this is a start, keep rolling." According to Steadman, Thompson took to the word right away and said, "Okay, that's what I do. Gonzo."[30] Thompson's first published use of the word appears in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: "Free Enterprise. The American Dream. Horatio Alger gone mad on drugs in Las Vegas. Do it now: pure Gonzo journalism."
The book for which Thompson gained most of his fame had its genesis during the research for "Strange Rumblings in Aztlan", an exposé for Rolling Stone on the 1970 killing of the Mexican-American television journalist Rubén Salazar. Salazar had been shot in the head at close range with a tear gas canister fired by officers of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department during the National Chicano Moratorium March against the Vietnam War. One of Thompson's sources for the story was Oscar Zeta Acosta, a prominent Mexican-American activist and attorney. Finding it difficult to talk in the racially tense atmosphere of Los Angeles, Thompson and Acosta decided to travel to Las Vegas, and take advantage of an assignment by Sports Illustrated to write a 250-word photograph caption on the Mint 400 motorcycle race held there.
What was to be a short caption quickly grew into something else entirely. Thompson first submitted to Sports Illustrated a manuscript of 2,500 words, which was, as he later wrote, "aggressively rejected." Rolling Stone publisher Jann Wenner was said to have liked "the first 20 or so jangled pages enough to take it seriously on its own terms and tentatively scheduled it for publication — which gave me the push I needed to keep working on it", Thompson later wrote.[31]
The result of the trip to Las Vegas became the 1972 book Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, which first appeared in the November 1971 issues of Rolling Stone as a two-part series. It is written as a first-person account by a journalist named Raoul Duke on a trip to Las Vegas with Dr. Gonzo, his "300-pound Samoan attorney", to cover a narcotics officers' convention and the "fabulous Mint 400". During the trip, Duke and his companion (always referred to as "my attorney") become sidetracked by a search for the American Dream, with "... two bags of grass, seventy-five pellets of mescaline, five sheets of high-powered blotter acid, a salt shaker half full of cocaine, and a whole galaxy of multi-colored uppers, downers, screamers, laughers ... and also a quart of tequila, a quart of rum, a case of Budweiser, a pint of raw ether, and two dozen amyls."
Coming to terms with the failure of the 1960s countercultural movement is a major theme of the novel, and the book was greeted with considerable critical acclaim, including being heralded by The New York Times as "by far the best book yet written on the decade of dope".[32] "The Vegas Book", as Thompson referred to it, was a mainstream success and introduced his Gonzo journalism techniques to a wide public.
Within the next year, Thompson wrote extensively for Rolling Stone while covering the election campaigns of President Richard Nixon and his unsuccessful opponent, Senator George McGovern. The articles were soon combined and published as Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72. As the title suggests, Thompson spent nearly all of his time traveling the "campaign trail", focusing largely on the Democratic Party's primaries (Nixon, as an incumbent, performed little campaign work) in which McGovern competed with rival candidates Edmund Muskie and Hubert Humphrey. Thompson was an early supporter of McGovern and wrote unflattering coverage of the rival campaigns in the increasingly widely read Rolling Stone.
Thompson went on to become a fierce critic of Nixon, both during and after his presidency. After Nixon's death in 1994, Thompson famously described him in Rolling Stone as a man who "could shake your hand and stab you in the back at the same time" and said "his casket [should] have been launched into one of those open-sewage canals that empty into the ocean just south of Los Angeles. He was a swine of a man and a jabbering dupe of a president. [He] was an evil man—evil in a way that only those who believe in the physical reality of the Devil can understand it."[33] Following Nixon's pardon by Gerald Ford in 1974, Hunter ruminated on the approximately $400,000 pension Nixon maneuvered his way into by resigning before being formally indicted. While the Washington Post was lamenting Nixon's "lonely and depressed" state after being forced from the White House, Hunter wrote that '[i]f there were any such thing as true justice in this world, his [Nixon's] rancid carcass would be somewhere down around Easter Island right now, in the belly of a hammerhead shark.'[34] There was however one passion shared by Thompson and Nixon: a love of football, discussed in Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72.
According to Jann Wenner, co-founder and publisher of Rolling Stone, Thompson's journalistic work began to seriously suffer after his trip to Africa to cover "The Rumble in the Jungle" in 1974. He missed the boxing match while intoxicated at his hotel, and did not submit a story to the magazine. Wenner is quoted as saying in the 2008 documentary of Thompson's life, Gonzo: The Life and Work of Dr. Hunter S. Thompson, "After Africa he just couldn't write. He couldn't piece it together".[35]
Thompson was to provide Rolling Stone with coverage for the 1976 presidential campaign that would appear in a book published by the magazine. Reportedly, as Thompson was waiting for a $75,000 advance check to arrive, he learned that Rolling Stone publisher Jann Wenner had cancelled the assignment without informing him.[28] Wenner then asked Thompson to travel to Vietnam to report on what appeared to be the closing of the Vietnam War. Thompson accepted, and left for Saigon immediately. He arrived with the country in chaos, just as South Vietnam was collapsing and other journalists were scrambling to find transportation out of the region. While there, Thompson learned that Wenner had pulled the plug on this excursion as well, and Thompson found himself in Vietnam without health insurance or additional financial support. Thompson's story about the fall of Saigon would not be published in Rolling Stone until ten years later.[28] These two incidents severely strained the relationship between the author and the magazine, and Thompson contributed far less to the publication in later years.
The year 1980 marked both his divorce from Sandra Conklin and the release of Where the Buffalo Roam, a loose film adaptation of situations from Thompson's early 1970s work, with Bill Murray starring as the author. Murray would go on to become one of Thompson's trusted friends. After the lukewarm reception of the film, Thompson temporarily relocated to Hawaii to work on a book, The Curse of Lono, a Gonzo-style account of a marathon held in that state. Extensively illustrated by Ralph Steadman, the piece first appeared in Running magazine in 1981 as "The Charge of the Weird Brigade" and was excerpted in Playboy in 1983.[36]
On July 21, 1981, in Aspen, Colorado, Thompson was pulled over at 2am for running a stop sign, and began to "rave" at a state trooper.[37] Consequently he was arrested, but the drunk-driving charges against him were later dropped.[37]
In 1983, he covered the U.S. invasion of Grenada but would not discuss these experiences until the publication of Kingdom of Fear 20 years later. Later that year he authored a piece for Rolling Stone called "A Dog Took My Place", an exposé of the scandalous Roxanne Pulitzer divorce and what he termed the "Palm Beach lifestyle." The article contained dubious insinuations of bestiality (among other things) but was considered to be a return to proper form by many. Shortly thereafter, Thompson accepted an advance to write about "couples pornography" for Playboy. As part of his research, in the spring of 1985 he spent evenings at the Mitchell Brothers O'Farrell Theater striptease club in San Francisco and his experience there eventually evolved into a full-length novel tentatively titled The Night Manager. Neither the novel nor the article has been published.
At the behest of old friend and editor Warren Hinckle, Thompson became a media critic for the San Francisco Examiner, writing a weekly column for the newspaper in the mid-to-late 1980s.[38] Thompson's editor at the Examiner, David McCumber (who wrote a Mitchell brothers biography not long after Jim Mitchell fatally shot his brother Art in 1991), would later ruminate on the erratic quality of Thompson's writing by this juncture, opining that "one week it would be acid-soaked gibberish with a charm of its own. The next week it would be incisive political analysis of the highest order..."[39]
In 1990, former porn director Gail Palmer visited Thompson's home in Woody Creek. She later accused him of sexual assault, claiming that he twisted her breast when she refused to join him in the hot tub. She also described cocaine use to authorities. A six person 11-hour search of Thompson's home turned up various kinds of drugs and a few sticks of dynamite.[40] All charges were dismissed after a pre-trial hearing. Thompson would later describe this experience at length in Kingdom of Fear.
By the early 1990s, Thompson was said to be working on a novel called Polo Is My Life, which was briefly excerpted in Rolling Stone in 1994, and which Thompson himself described in 1996 as "... a sex book — you know, sex, drugs and rock and roll. It's about the manager of a sex theater who's forced to leave and flee to the mountains. He falls in love and gets in even more trouble than he was in the sex theater in San Francisco".[41] The novel was slated to be released by Random House in 1999, and was even assigned ISBN 0-679-40694-8, but was not published.
Thompson continued to contribute irregularly to Rolling Stone. "Fear and Loathing in Elko", published in 1992, was a well-received fictional rallying cry against Clarence Thomas, while "Mr. Bill's Neighborhood" was a largely non-fictional account of an interview with Bill Clinton at a Little Rock, Arkansas steakhouse. Rather than embarking on the campaign trail as he had done in previous presidential elections, Thompson monitored the proceedings from cable television; Better Than Sex: Confessions of a Political Junkie, his account of the 1992 Presidential Election campaign, is composed of reactionary faxes sent to Rolling Stone. A decade later, he contributed "Fear and Loathing, Campaign 2004"—an account of a road jaunt with John Kerry during his presidential campaign that would be Thompson's final magazine feature.
Thompson was named a Kentucky Colonel by the Governor of Kentucky in a December 1996 tribute ceremony where he also received keys to the city of Louisville.[42]
Despite publishing a novel and numerous newspaper and magazine articles, the majority of Thompson's literary output after the late 1970s took the form of a 4-volume series of books called The Gonzo Papers. Beginning with The Great Shark Hunt in 1979 and ending with Better Than Sex in 1994, the series is largely a collection of rare newspaper and magazine pieces from the pre-gonzo period, along with almost all of his Rolling Stone short pieces, excerpts from the Fear and Loathing books, and so on.
By the late 1970s, Thompson received complaints from critics, fans and friends that he was regurgitating his past glories without much new on his part;[43] these concerns are alluded to in the introduction of The Great Shark Hunt, where Thompson suggested that his "old self" committed suicide.
Perhaps in response to this, as well as the strained relationship with Rolling Stone, and the failure of his marriage, Thompson became more reclusive after 1980. He would often retreat to his compound in Woody Creek and reject assignments or refuse to complete them. Despite the dearth of new material, Wenner kept Thompson on the Rolling Stone masthead as chief of the "National Affairs Desk", a position he would hold until his death.
Thompson's work was popularized again with the 1998 release of the film Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, which opened to considerable fanfare. The book was reprinted to coincide with the film, and Thompson's work was introduced to a new generation of readers. Soon thereafter, his "long lost" novel The Rum Diary was published, as were the first two volumes of his collected letters, which were greeted with critical acclaim.
In July 2000, Thompson accidentally shot his assistant, Deborah Fuller, while attempting to scare a bear away from her lodging on The Owl Farm. He fired a shotgun at the ground near the bear, and the pellets ricocheted upward, hitting her in in the right arm and leg. She was quoted as saying "I screamed 'You son of a bitch, you shot me.' And poor Hunter. I don't think I had ever seen him run so fast. He felt Horrible."[44] No charges were filed for the incident.[45]
Thompson's next, and penultimate, collection, Kingdom of Fear, combined new material, selected newspaper clippings, and some older works. Released in 2003, it was perceived by critics to be an angry, vitriolic commentary on the passing of the American Century, and the state of affairs after the September 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
Thompson completed his journalism career in the same way it had begun: writing about sports. Thompson penned a weekly column called "Hey, Rube" for ESPN.com's "Page 2". The column ran from 2000 until his death in 2005. Simon & Schuster bundled many of the columns from the first few years and released it in mid-2004 as Hey Rube: Blood Sport, the Bush Doctrine, and the Downward Spiral of Dumbness.
Thompson died at Owl Farm, his "fortified compound" in Woody Creek, Colorado, at 5:42 p.m. on February 20, 2005, from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head. His son Juan, daughter-in-law Jennifer, and grandson Will were visiting for the weekend. Will and Jennifer were in the next room when they heard the gunshot, but they mistook the sound for a book falling and didn't check on him immediately.
Anita Thompson, who was at The Aspen Club, was on the phone with her husband as he cocked the gun. According to the Aspen Daily News, he asked her to come home to help him write his ESPN column, and then set the receiver on the counter. Mistaking the cocking of the gun for the sound of his typewriter keys, she hung up as he fired it.
Juan Thompson found his father's body. According to the police report and Anita's cell phone records,[46] he called the sheriff's department a half-hour later, and then walked outside and fired three shotgun blasts into the air. "Juan told me he had shot a shotgun into the air to mark the passing of his father," Pitkin County Deputy Sheriff John Armstrong said.
The police report stated that in Thompson's typewriter was "a piece of paper carrying the date 'Feb 22 '05' and the single word 'counselor'."[47]
Those present told the press that they did not believe his suicide was out of desperation, but was a premeditated act resulting from his many painful and chronic medical conditions, which included a hip replacement. What Doug Brinkley describes as a suicide note written by Thompson to his wife was later published by Rolling Stone in the September issue No. 983. Titled "Football Season Is Over", it read:
"No More Games. No More Bombs. No More Walking. No More Fun. No More Swimming. 67. That is 17 years past 50. 17 more than I needed or wanted. Boring. I am always bitchy. No Fun — for anybody. 67. You are getting Greedy. Act your (old) age. Relax — This won't hurt."[48]
"... He told me 25 years ago that he would feel real trapped if he didn't know that he could commit suicide at any moment. I don't know if that is brave or stupid or what, but it was inevitable. I think that the truth of what rings through all his writing is that he meant what he said. If that is entertainment to you, well, that's OK. If you think that it enlightened you, well, that's even better. If you wonder if he's gone to Heaven or Hell, rest assured he will check out them both, find out which one Richard Milhous Nixon went to — and go there. He could never stand being bored. But there must be Football too — and Peacocks ..."[49]
On August 20, 2005, in a private funeral, Thompson's ashes were fired from a cannon. This was accompanied by red, white, blue and green fireworks-all to the tune of Norman Greenbaum's "Spirit in the Sky" and Bob Dylan's "Mr. Tambourine Man."[50] The cannon was placed atop a 153-foot (47 m) tower which had the shape of a double-thumbed fist clutching a peyote button, a symbol originally used in his 1970 campaign for Sheriff of Pitkin County, Colorado. The plans for the monument were initially drawn by Thompson and Steadman, and were shown as part of an Omnibus program on the BBC titled Fear and Loathing in Gonzovision (1978). It is included as a special feature on the second disc of the 2003 Criterion Collection DVD release of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, and labeled as Fear and Loathing on the Road to Hollywood.
According to his widow, Anita, the funeral was funded by actor Johnny Depp, who was a close friend of Thompson. Depp told the Associated Press, "All I'm doing is trying to make sure his last wish comes true. I just want to send my pal out the way he wants to go out."[50] An estimated 280 people attended, including U.S. Senators John Kerry[51] and George McGovern;[51] 60 Minutes correspondents Ed Bradley and Charlie Rose; actors Jack Nicholson, John Cusack, Bill Murray, Benicio del Toro, Sean Penn, and Josh Hartnett; singers Lyle Lovett, John Oates and David Amram, and artist and long-time friend Ralph Steadman.
Thompson is often credited as the creator of Gonzo journalism, a style of writing that blurs distinctions between fiction and nonfiction. His work and style are considered to be a major part of the New Journalism literary movement of the 1960s and 1970s, which attempted to break free from the purely objective style of mainstream reportage of the time. Thompson almost always wrote in the first person, while extensively using his own experiences and emotions to color "the story" he was trying to follow. His writing aimed to be humorous, colorful and bizarre, and he often exaggerated events to be more entertaining. The term Gonzo has since been applied in kind to numerous other forms of highly subjective artistic expression.
Despite his having personally described his work as "Gonzo", it fell to later observers to articulate what the term actually meant. While Thompson's approach clearly involved injecting himself as a participant in the events of the narrative, it also involved adding invented, metaphoric elements, thus creating, for the uninitiated reader, a seemingly confusing amalgam of facts and fiction notable for the deliberately blurred lines between one and the other. Thompson, in a 1974 Interview in Playboy addressed the issue himself, saying "Unlike Tom Wolfe or Gay Talese, I almost never try to reconstruct a story. They're both much better reporters than I am, but then, I don't think of myself as a reporter." Tom Wolfe would later describe Thompson's style as "... part journalism and part personal memoir admixed with powers of wild invention and wilder rhetoric."[52] Or as one description of the differences between Thompson and Wolfe's styles would elaborate, "While Tom Wolfe mastered the technique of being a fly on the wall, Thompson mastered the art of being a fly in the ointment."[53]
The majority of Thompson's most popular and acclaimed work appeared within the pages of Rolling Stone magazine. Along with Joe Eszterhas and David Felton, Thompson was instrumental in expanding the focus of the magazine past music criticism; indeed, Thompson was the only staff writer of the epoch never to contribute a music feature to the magazine. Nevertheless, his articles were always peppered with a wide array of pop music references ranging from Howlin' Wolf to Lou Reed. Armed with early fax machines wherever he went, he became notorious for haphazardly sending sometimes illegible material to the magazine's San Francisco offices as an issue was about to go to press.
Robert Love, Thompson's editor of 23 years at Rolling Stone, wrote that "the dividing line between fact and fancy rarely blurred, and we didn't always use italics or some other typographical device to indicate the lurch into the fabulous. But if there were living, identifiable humans in a scene, we took certain steps ... Hunter was a close friend of many prominent Democrats, veterans of the ten or more presidential campaigns he covered, so when in doubt, we'd call the press secretary. 'People will believe almost any twisted kind of story about politicians or Washington,' he once said, and he was right."
Discerning the line between the fact and the fiction of Thompson's work presented a practical problem for editors and fact-checkers of his work. Love called fact-checking Thompson's work "one of the sketchiest occupations ever created in the publishing world", and "for the first-timer ... a trip through a journalistic fun house, where you didn't know what was real and what wasn't. You knew you had better learn enough about the subject at hand to know when the riff began and reality ended. Hunter was a stickler for numbers, for details like gross weight and model numbers, for lyrics and caliber, and there was no faking it."[54]
Thompson often used a blend of fiction and fact when portraying himself in his writing as well, sometimes using the name Raoul Duke as an author surrogate whom he generally described as a callous, erratic, self-destructive journalist who constantly drank alcohol and took hallucinogenic drugs. Fantasizing about causing bodily harm to others was also a characteristic in his work used to comedic effect and an example of his brand of humor.
In the late sixties, Thompson acquired his famous title of "Doctor" from the Universal Life Church.[55] He later preferred to be called Dr. Thompson, and his "alter-ego" Raoul Duke called himself a "doctor of journalism". Thompson was as fond of personae as W.C. Fields: besides "Raoul Duke", Thompson also toyed with the idea of taking the names "Jefferson Rank", "Gene Skinner", and "Sebastian Owl" for various purposes literary and non-literary, naming his "compound" in Woody Creek, Colorado, "Owl Farm" after the last of these.[citation needed]
A number of critics have commented that as he grew older the line that distinguished Thompson from his literary self became increasingly blurred.[56][57][58] Thompson himself admitted during a 1978 BBC interview that he sometimes felt pressured to live up to the fictional self that he had created, adding "I'm never sure which one people expect me to be. Very often, they conflict — most often, as a matter of fact. ... I'm leading a normal life and right along side me there is this myth, and it is growing and mushrooming and getting more and more warped. When I get invited to, say, speak at universities, I'm not sure if they are inviting Duke or Thompson. I'm not sure who to be."[59]
Thompson's writing style and eccentric persona gave him a cult following in both literary and drug circles, and his cult status expanded into broader areas after being portrayed three times in major motion pictures. Hence, both his writing style and persona have been widely imitated, and his likeness has even become a popular costume choice for Halloween.[60]
In the documentary Breakfast with Hunter, Hunter S. Thompson is seen in several scenes wearing different Che Guevara T-shirts. Additionally, actor and friend Benicio del Toro has stated that Thompson kept a "big" picture of Che in his kitchen.[61]
Although Thompson rarely personally endorsed political labels or programs in his writings, in his letters he expressed affinity with the far left. In a 1965 letter to his friend Paul Semonin, Thompson explained an affection for the Industrial Workers of the World, "I have in recent months come to have a certain feeling for Joe Hill and the Wobbly crowd who, if nothing else, had the right idea. But not the right mechanics. I believe the IWW was probably the last human concept in American politics."[62] In another letter to Semonin, Thompson wrote that he agreed with Karl Marx, and compared him to Thomas Jefferson.[63] In a letter to William Kennedy, Thompson confided that he was "coming to view the free enterprise system as the single greatest evil in the history of human savagery."[64]
Thompson wrote passionately on behalf of African American rights and the African American Civil Rights Movement.[65] He strongly criticized the dominance in American society of, what he called, "white power structures".[66] He was a proponent of the right to bear arms and privacy rights.[67] A member of the National Rifle Association,[68] Thompson was also co-creator of "The Fourth Amendment Foundation", an organization to assist victims in defending themselves against unwarranted search and seizure.[69]
Part of his work with The Fourth Amendment Foundation centered around support of Lisl Auman, a Colorado woman who was sentenced for life in 1997 under felony murder charges for the death of police officer Bruce VanderJagt, despite contradictory statements and dubious evidence.[70] Thompson organized rallies, provided legal support, and co-wrote an article in the June 2004 issue of Vanity Fair outlining the case. The Colorado Supreme Court eventually overturned Auman's sentence in March 2005, shortly after Thompson's death, and Auman is now free. Auman's supporters claim Thompson's support and publicity resulted in the successful appeal.[71]
Thompson was a firearms and explosives enthusiast (in his writing and in life) and owned a vast collection of handguns, rifles, shotguns, and various automatic and semi-automatic weapons, along with numerous forms of gaseous crowd control and many homemade devices.
Thompson was also an ardent supporter of drug legalization and became known for his detailed accounts of his own drug use. He was an early supporter of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws and served on the group's advisory board for over 30 years, until his death.[72] He told an interviewer in 1997 that drugs should be legalized "[a]cross the board. It might be a little rough on some people for a while, but I think it's the only way to deal with drugs. Look at Prohibition: all it did was make a lot of criminals rich."[41]
After the September 11 attacks, Thompson voiced skepticism regarding the official story on who was responsible for the attacks. He speculated to several interviewers that it may have been conducted by the U.S. Government or with the government's assistance, though readily admitting he had no way to prove his theory.[73]
In 2004, Thompson wrote: "Nixon was a professional politician, and I despised everything he stood for—but if he were running for president this year against the evil Bush–Cheney gang, I would happily vote for him."[74]
Thompson wrote a number of books, publishing from 1966 to the end of his life. His best-known works include Hell's Angels: The Strange and Terrible Saga of the Outlaw Motorcycle Gangs, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, and The Rum Diary.
As a journalist over the course of decades, Thompson published numerous articles in various periodicals. He wrote for many publications, including Rolling Stone, Esquire, The Boston Globe, Chicago Tribune, The New York Times, Time, Vanity Fair, The San Juan Star, and Playboy. He was also guest editor for a single edition of The Aspen Daily News. A collection of his articles for Rolling Stone was released in 2011 as Fear and Loathing at Rolling Stone: The Essential Writings of Hunter S. Thompson. The book was edited by the magazine's co-founder and publisher, Jann S. Wenner, who also provided an introduction to the collection.
Thompson wrote many letters, which were his primary means of personal communication. He made carbon copies of all his letters, usually typed, a habit begun in his teenage years.
The Fear and Loathing Letters, is a planned three-volume collection of selections from Thompson's correspondence, edited by the historian Douglas Brinkley. The first volume, The Proud Highway was published in 1997, and contains letters from 1955 to 1967. Fear and Loathing in America was published in 2000 and contains letters dating from 1968 to 1976. A third volume, titled The Mutineer: Rants, Ravings, and Missives from the Mountaintop 1977–2005 was published in March 2014.
Accompanying the eccentric and colorful writing of Hunter Thompson, illustrations by British artist Ralph Steadman offer visual representations of the Gonzo style. Steadman and Thompson developed a close friendship, and often traveled together. Though his illustrations occur in most of Thompson's books, they are conspicuously featured in full page color in Thompson's The Curse of Lono, set in Hawaii.
Thompson was an avid amateur photographer throughout his life and his photos have been exhibited since his death at art galleries in the United States and United Kingdom. In late 2006, AMMO Books published a limited-edition 224-page collection of Thompson photos called Gonzo, with an introduction by Johnny Depp. Thompson's snapshots were a combination of the subjects he was covering, stylized self-portraits, and artistic still life photos. The London Observer called the photos "astonishingly good" and that "Thompson's pictures remind us, brilliantly in every sense, of very real people, real colours."[75]
The film Where the Buffalo Roam (1980) depicts heavily fictionalized attempts by Thompson to cover the Super Bowl and the 1972 U.S. presidential election. It stars Bill Murray as Thompson and Peter Boyle as Thompson's attorney Oscar Zeta Acosta, referred to in the movie as Carl Lazlo, Esq.
The 1998 film adaptation of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas was directed by Monty Python veteran Terry Gilliam, and starred Johnny Depp (who moved into Thompson's basement to "study" Thompson's persona before assuming his role in the film) as Raoul Duke and Benicio del Toro as Dr. Gonzo. The film has achieved something of a cult following.
The film adaptation of Thompson's novel The Rum Diary was released in October 2011, also starring Johnny Depp as the main character, Paul Kemp. The novel's premise was inspired by Thompson's own experiences in Puerto Rico. The film was written and directed by Bruce Robinson.[76]
At a press junket for The Rum Diary shortly before the film's release, Depp said that he would like to adapt The Curse of Lono, "The Kentucky Derby Is Decadent and Depraved", and Hell's Angels for the big screen: "I'd just keep playing Hunter. There's a great comfort in it for me, because I get a great visit with my old friend who I miss dearly."[77]
Fear and Loathing in Gonzovision (1978) is an extended television profile by the BBC. It can be found on disc 2 of The Criterion Collection edition of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.
The Mitchell brothers, owners of the O'Farrell Theatre in San Francisco, made a documentary about Thompson in 1988 called Hunter S. Thompson: The Crazy Never Die.
Wayne Ewing created three documentaries about Thompson. The film Breakfast with Hunter (2003) was directed and edited by Ewing. It documents Thompson's work on the movie Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, his arrest for drunk driving, and his subsequent fight with the court system. When I Die (2005) is a video chronicle of making Thompson's final farewell wishes a reality, and documents the send-off itself. Free Lisl: Fear and Loathing in Denver (2006) chronicles Thompson efforts in helping to free Lisl Auman, who was sentenced to life in prison without parole for the shooting of a police officer, a crime she didn't commit. All three films are only available online.[78]
In Come on Down: Searching for the American Dream[79] (2004) Thompson gives director Adamm Liley insight into the nature of the American Dream over drinks at the Woody Creek Tavern.
Buy the Ticket, Take the Ride: Hunter S. Thompson on Film (2006) was directed by Tom Thurman, written by Tom Marksbury, and produced by the Starz Entertainment Group. The original documentary features interviews with Thompson's inner circle of family and friends, but the thrust of the film focuses on the manner in which his life often overlapped with numerous Hollywood celebrities who became his close friends, such as Johnny Depp, Benicio del Toro, Bill Murray, Sean Penn, John Cusack, Thompson's wife Anita, son Juan, former Senators George McGovern and Gary Hart, writers Tom Wolfe and William F. Buckley, actors Gary Busey and Harry Dean Stanton, and the illustrator Ralph Steadman among others.
Blasted!!! The Gonzo Patriots of Hunter S. Thompson (2006), produced, directed, photographed and edited by Blue Kraning, is a documentary about the scores of fans who volunteered their privately owned artillery to fire the ashes of the late author, Hunter S. Thompson. Blasted!!! premiered at the 2006 Starz Denver International Film Festival, part of a tribute series to Hunter S. Thompson held at the Denver Press Club.
In 2008, Academy Award-winning documentarian Alex Gibney (Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room, Taxi to the Dark Side) wrote and directed a documentary on Thompson, titled Gonzo: The Life and Work of Dr. Hunter S. Thompson. The film premiered on January 20, 2008, at the Sundance Film Festival. Gibney uses intimate, never-before-seen home videos, interviews with friends, enemies and lovers, and clips from films adapted from Thompson's material to document his turbulent life.
Lou Stein's adaptation of "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" was performed at the Battersea theatre. Stein persuades London’s 'Time Out' Magazine to put Thompson up for a fortnight, in exchange for him writing a cover story to publicize the play. Thompson doesn’t write the story, but does rampage around London on Time Out’s expense account. The play was revived for the Vault Fringe Festival in 2014.
GONZO: A Brutal Chrysalis is a one-man show about Thompson written by Paul Addis, who also played the author. Set in the writing den of Thompson's Woody Creek home, the show portrays his life between 1968 and 1971. James Cartee began playing the role soon after Addis's arrest in 2009, and again after Addis's death in 2012.
Thompson appeared on the cover of the 1,000th issue of Rolling Stone, May 18 – June 1, 2006, as a devil playing the guitar next to the two "L"'s in the word "Rolling". Johnny Depp also appeared on the cover.[80]
The Thompson-inspired character Uncle Duke appears on a recurring basis in Doonesbury, the daily newspaper comic strip by Garry Trudeau. When the character was first introduced, Thompson protested, quoted in an interview as saying that he would set Trudeau on fire if the two ever met,[81] although it was reported that he liked the character in later years. Between March 7, 2005 (roughly two weeks after Thompson's suicide) and March 12, 2005, Doonesbury ran a tribute to Hunter, with Uncle Duke lamenting the death of the man he called his "inspiration". The first of these strips featured a panel with artwork similar to that of Ralph Steadman, and later strips featured various non-sequiturs (with Duke variously transforming into a monster, melting, shrinking to the size of an empty drinking glass, or people around him turning into animals) which seemed to mirror some of the effects of hallucinogenic drugs described in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.
*^ The name of the Hells Angels motorcycle club has no apostrophe, but in the title and in the text of Thompson's book a possessive apostrophe was added to the name, rendering it as Hell's Angels.
Douglas Brinkley, Terry McDonell (Fall 2000). "Hunter S. Thompson, The Art of Journalism No. 1". The Paris Review. 
Gonzo: the Life of Hunter S. Thompson, an Oral Biography, [compiled and ed.] by Jann S. Wenner & Corey Seymour, [with an] Introd. by Johnny Depp (New York: Little, Brown, and Co., 2007). xxiv, 467 pp. ISBN 978-0-7394-9567-4
Jackson, S. M (November 28, 1978), "The Hunter Thompson Saga: A savage burlesque in three parts", Commonwealth Times (Richmond Va.): 1, 11–14, 16, 23, retrieved June 6, 2013 
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hunter_S._Thompson&oldid=611729536"					
Categories: 20th-century American novelists21st-century American novelistsAmerican columnistsAmerican essayistsAmerican journalistsAmerican male novelistsAmerican political writersAmerican sportswritersAmerican tax resistersAtherton High School alumniEnglish-language writersMotorcycling writersCensorship in the artsColumbia University alumniCounterculture of the 1960sDrug policy reform activistsFlorida State University alumniJournalists who committed suicideKentucky colonelsLouisville Male High School alumniPeople from Louisville, KentuckyPsychedelic drug advocatesSuicides by firearm in ColoradoUnited States Air Force airmenWriters from ColoradoWriters from KentuckyWriters who committed suicide1937 births2005 deathsHunter S. ThompsonJournalists from ColoradoAmerican people of English descentAmerican people of Scottish descent9/11 conspiracy theoristsHidden categories: Pages using citations with accessdate and no URLAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from February 2013Articles with dead external links from February 2011Articles with dead external links from August 2012Articles with dead external links from December 2012Articles with inconsistent citation formatsUse mdy dates from October 2013All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2010Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/loading-indicator._V192185253_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif');
        background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/buttons._V243643239_.gif')
    background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/traffic/s9m/alert-small._V195630253_.gif");
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/donsbeak-sm-up._V197474569_.png) no-repeat 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite-mini.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
Hunter S. Thompson's books include Fear and Loathing in America, Screwjack, Hell's Angels, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, The Proud Highway, Better Than Sex, The Rum Diary, and Kingdom of Fear. He was contributor to various national and international publications, including a weekly sports column for ESPN Online. Thompson died February 2005.
Hunter S. Thompson's books include Fear and Loathing in America, Screwjack, Hell's Angels, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, The Proud Highway, Better Than Sex, The Rum Diary, and Kingdom of Fear. He was contributor to various national and international publications, including a weekly sports column for ESPN Online. Thompson died February 2005.
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream by Hunter S. Thompson and Ralph Steadman
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas and Other American Stories (Modern Library) by Hunter S. Thompson and Ralph Steadman
The Proud Highway: Saga of a Desperate Southern Gentleman, 1955-1967 (The Fear and Loathing Letters, Vol. 1) by Hunter S. Thompson, Douglas Brinkley and William J. Kennedy
Kingdom of Fear: Loathsome Secrets of a Star-Crossed Child in the Final Days of the American Century by Hunter S. Thompson
Fear and Loathing at Rolling Stone: The Essential Writing of Hunter S. Thompson by Hunter S. Thompson and Jann Wenner
Generation of Swine: Tales of Shame and Degradation in the '80's (Gonzo Papers) by Hunter S. Thompson
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/tile-blue-bg._V46870869_.gif)
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tl._V192184760_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tm._V192184721_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tr._V192184429_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bl._V192184824_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bm._V192184603_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-br._V192545463_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tl2._V192545542_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tr2._V192545537_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-bl._V192545543_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-br._V192545543_.gif);
Help us improve our Author Pages by updating your bibliography and submitting a new or current image and biography.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Hunter S. Thompson was born on July 18, 1937 in Louisville, Kentucky, USA as Hunter Stockton Thompson. He was married to Anita Thompson and Sondi Wright. He died on February 20, 2005 in Aspen, Colorado, USA.
      He wounded his assistant Deborah Fuller accidentally with a shotgun whilst trying to scare a bear from his property in Aspen, Colorado, USA. On August 3rd of that year, he was cleared of criminal charges of trying to wound his assistant. [July 2000]
      Charged for possession of child pornography and sexually assulting former pornography star Gail Palmer. An eleven hour search of his home in Woody Creek, Colorado, turned up insufficient evidence to prosecute him on either of the charges, and the DA dropped its case.
      Along with Don Johnson, wrote the script for the two-hour TV movie "Bridges," a story about an unstable, former alcoholic-drug addict cop who works in L.A. with a diminuitive Latino partner and dates a mafia boss's daughter. Although rejected by NBC, they bought the script and transformed it into the series Nash Bridges (1996).
      Married for nearly 18 years to Sandra Dawn Thompson, during which he wrote what were considered his two greatest books "Hells Angels" and "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas". During the marriage, Sandy's habit of partaking on drug and alcohol binges with her husband led to several miscarriages, and only one of her pregnancies produced a healthy child, now grown Juan Thompson. Eventually, the drugs put Hunter into a several years depressed state, fights broke out between the two, and Sandy took several beatings, some times of which she fought back and injured Hunter. When she told him she wanted a divorce, Hunter went ballistic, destroying some of her possesions and burning the manuscripts she had been writing. Sandy called the sheriff, a family friend, who sent a deputy up to her house to escort her into town. The deputy, naive to the situation, sheepishly asked Sandy if Thompson possesed any firearms, to which she truthfully replied: "Yes, 22 of them, and every one is loaded".
      Ran for Sheriff of Aspen, Colorado, in 1969 on the Freak Power Party ticket, and narrowly lost.
      Graduate of Louisville (Ky.) Male High School, class of 1955. Missed his graduation exercises because he was in jail. He later started calling himself Dr. Thompson, after purchasing a doctorate in Divinity from a church by mail order.
      Appeared on a 1967 broadcast of To Tell the Truth (1956) when his book detailing his experiences with the "Hell's Angels" was published.
      Biography/bibliography in: "Contemporary Authors". New Revision Series, Vol. 133, pp. 410-417. Farmington Hills, MI: Thomson Gale, 2005.
      Underground cartoonist turned comics and animation historian Scott Shaw based a recurring character in his works after Thompson: an anthropomorphic dog named "Pointer X. Toxin".
      His final wishes stipulated that his body be cremated and his ashes be shot out of a cannon across his Colorado ranch. Journalist friend Troy Hooper said "He was a big fan of bonfires and explosions and anything that went bang and I'm sure he'd like to go bang as well." This finally happened on August 20, 2005, along with a big celebration, attended by Sean Penn, Johnny Depp, Lyle Lovett, and other close friends and family.
      Shortly before his death, he talked in his ESPN.com column about 'inventing' a new sport: Shotgun Golf.
      He was the basis for the character Spider Jerusalem in the comic series "Transmetropolitan" by Warren Ellis and Darik Robertson.
      Wanted his remains to be shot out of a 150 foot long canon. The canon had to be built especially to fulfill this last wish.
Johnny Depp, who starred in two movie adaptations of Thompson's books (Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998) and The Rum Diary (2011) ), helped to fulfill his last wish.
      In order to improve his writing style, he once copied F. Scott Fitzgerald's novel "The Great Gatsby" word for word, from start to finish.
      Rode a BSA A65 Lightning most notably whilst researching his seminal book Hell's Angels. Towards the end of his period with the Hell's Angels, he wrote that he was beaten up by them.
      Rode a BSA A65 Lightning most notably whilst researching his seminal book "Hell's Angels". Towards the end of his period with the Hell's Angels, he wrote that he was beaten up by them.
      His favorite pastime was to load a barrel or oil drum with explosives and then shoot it from a safe distance with one of his many handguns.
      After covering the 1972 Democratic Convention in Miami for Rolling Stone Magazine, Thompson went for an evening swim in the ocean to clear his head. A light tropical storm blew up, Thompson got caught in a riptide, and he was swept out to sea. He spent the rest of the night fighting to swim back to the beach, finally crawling ashore at 9:00 A.M.
      With the aid of two friends he robbed a liquor store by starting a fight with the clerks and then cleaning out the cash register in the confusion.
      During his adolescence, he and two friends broke into and robbed the same Lexington (Kentucky) gas station on three consecutive nights.
      Critics have often contended that his writing style noticeably declined after his wife, Sandy, divorced him.
      When he lived in Big Sur in the early 1960s, he rode his BSA Lightning so much he was known as "The Wild One of Big Sur".
      When he was living in Big Sur in the early 1960s, a group of religious fanatics moved in next door. He got rid of them by nailing the head of a wild boar to their front door, and by putting its entrails in their car.
      One of the most widely quoted lines from tributes and obituaries to him was from one written by Frank Kelly Rich, editor and publisher of Modern Drunkard Magazine: "There was always a powerful comfort in knowing he was out there somewhere in the night, roaring drunk, guzzling high-octane whiskey and railing against a world amok with complacency and hypocrisy."
      His lifelong antipathy for Richard Nixon was known by the former president, who barred him from the White House.
      Following Richard Nixon's appearance in New Hampshire during the 1968 campaign, he offered Thompson a lift to the airport on the condition that the two of them talk about nothing but football. Thompson accepted, mostly because he thought Nixon knew nothing about the sport. He discovered that, in fact, Nixon was an avid fan, clear down to which colleges the top players were from!.
      Was extremely critical of the Bush administration.He once said that "if Nixon were running, I would happily vote for him instead".
      Shortly after Ernest Hemingway's suicide in Ketcham, Idaho, he wrote an article titled, "What Lured Hemingway to Ketcham". Thompson concluded that Hemingway had become depressed because all of the author's favorite haunts - such as Paris and Cuba - had changed, and all of his friends were dead or different. Hemingway had nothing to live for. Ironically, the same thing happened to Thompson.
      Biography in: "The Scribner Encyclopedia of American Lives". Volume 7, 2003-2005, pages 538-541. Farmington Hills, MI: Thomson Gale, 2007.
      Had his first run in with the law at the age of 9, when him and a group of friends knocked a federal mailbox in front of a city bus.
      (Concerning Garry Trudeau modeling the "Doonesbury" character "Duke" after him): "I've never met Garry Trudeau, but if I ever do, I'll set him on fire".
      (Comparing Las Vegas from when he wrote "Fear and Loathing In Las Vegas" to today): "The city's frightening now. That's the basis of my reaction to Las Vegas. It's not the city I wrote about. It's not the same place at all. You'll notice that even the - what do you call them? milestone or trademark casinos are now gone."
      I hate to advocate drugs, alcohol, violence, or insanity to anyone, but they've always worked for me.
      When I attended a press conference for (President) Jimmy Carter, I signed more autographs than Carter did. The Secret Service agents didn't know who I was. They thought I was an astronaut.
      (After the death of Richard Nixon in 1994): "If the right people had been in charge of Nixon's funeral, his casket would have been launched into one of those open-sewage canals that empty into the ocean just south of Los Angeles. He was a swine of a man and a jabbering dupe of a president. Nixon was so crooked that he needed servants to help him screw his pants on every morning. Even his funeral was illegal. He was queer in the deepest way. His body should have been burned in a trash bin."
      (On Bill Clinton): "It's almost embarrassing to talk about Clinton as if he were important. I'd almost prefer Nixon. I'd say Clinton is every bit as corrupt as Nixon, but a lot smoother."
      By any accepted standard, I have had more than nine lives. I counted them up once, and there were thirteen times when I should have died.
      The TV business is uglier than most things. It is normally perceived as some kind of cruel and shallow money trench through the heart of the journalism industry, a long plastic hallway where thieves and pimps run free and good men die like dogs, for no good reason.
      If I'd written all the truth I knew for the past ten years, about 600 people, including me, would be rotting in prison cells from Rio to Seattle today. Absolute truth is a very rare and dangerous commodity in the context of professional journalism.
      We are turning into a nation of whimpering slaves to Fear -- fear of war, fear of poverty, fear of random terrorism, fear of getting down-sized or fired because of the plunging economy, fear of getting evicted for bad debts, or suddenly getting locked up in a military detention camp on vague charges of being a Terrorist sympathizer.
      The Edge... there is no honest way to explain it because the only people who really know where it is, are the ones who have gone over.
      Civilization ends at the waterline. Beyond that, we all enter the food chain, and not always right at the top.
      Going to trial with a lawyer who considers your whole life-style a Crime in Progress is not a happy prospect.
      [About conservative politician/writer Pat Buchanan] "We disagree so violently on almost everything that it's a real pleasure to drink with him."
      [About the September 11, 2001 attack] "The towers are gone now, reduced to bloody rubble, along with all hopes for peace in our time, in the United States or any other country. Make no mistake about it: we are at war now - with somebody - and we will stay at war with that mysterious enemy for the rest of our lives."
      [In a letter to a friend] "Yes, once in a while I smile for a picture. See enclosed. It was taken for a passport."
      A group photo of the top ten journalists in America on any given day would be a monument to human ugliness.
      Being barred from the White House is like being banned from the Playboy Club. It carries with it a certain distinction.
      The only difference between the Sane and the Insane is IN and yet within this word, the Sane have the power to have the Insane locked up.
      Life should not be a journey to the grave with the intention of arriving safely in a pretty and well-preserved body, but rather to skid in broadside in a cloud of smoke, thoroughly used up, totally worn out, and loudly proclaiming, 'Wow! What a ride!'.
=======================================================
ul.multicol2,ul.multicol3 {float:left;width:100%;margin:0;padding:0;list-style:none;text-align:center}
Hunter S. ThompsonWriterBorn: 18 July 1937Died: 20 February 2005 (self-inflicted gunshot)Birthplace: Louisville, KentuckyBest known as: Author of Fear and Loathing in Las VegasName at birth: Hunter Stockton ThompsonWriter Hunter S. Thompson was famous for his free-wheeling, intoxicant-fueled observations on politics and society in Rolling Stone magazine and in books such as Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1971).  Thompson got his start in journalism when he was in the United States Air Force in the late 1950s.  In 1966 he wrote about his relationship with a motorcycle gang in Hell's Angels and was propelled into the counter-culture limelight.  With wit and salty language, Thompson created a public persona of a hard-drinking, gun-toting anti-authoritarian; he centered his reporting around his own crazy behavior and called it "gonzo journalism."  In the 1970s he was particularly associated with the rock-and-roll magazine Rolling Stone; the magazine's puyblisher, Jann Wenner, called Thompson "the DNA of Rolling Stone" at Thompson's memorial service in 2005.  Thompson's work appeared in many other magazines, books and, in the early 2000s, on ESPN.com.  His books include Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72 (1972), The Great Shark Hunt (1975) and Kingdom of Fear (2002).Extra credit: He was also known as "Dr. Gonzo" or "Dr. Hunter S. Thompson"...  In the movies Thompson has been portrayed by Bill Murray in Where the Buffalo Roam (1980), and Johnny Depp in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998, with Benicio Del Toro)... Thompson was usually seen with a long cigarette holder, a Hawaiian shirt and aviator sunglasses...  The character Duke in the comic strip Doonesbury is based on Thompson... Thompson's ashes were fired from a cannon on his Colorado estate amid fireworks and tributes from friends on 21 August 2005.Copyright © 1998-2014			by Who2?, LLC. All rights reserved.More on Hunter S Thompson from Infoplease:
Hunter S. Thompson - Hunter S. Thompson Age: 67 cynical and subjective writer known for his drug-fueled yet wickedly ...Hunter S. Thompson - Biography of Hunter S. Thompson, Author of Fear and Loathing in Las VegasGonzo: The Life and Work of Dr. Hunter S. Thompson - Starring Hunter S. Thompson, Anita Thompson, Bob Braudis, Charles Perry, Douglas BrinkleyR - Z - R - Z Rainier III John Raitt William Rehnquist Peter Rodino Joseph Rotblat Nipsey Russell Herb ...Breakfast With Hunter - Starring Johnny Depp, Hunter S Thompson, Matt Dillon, John Cusack, Terry Gilliam
Warning: fsockopen(): php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
Warning: fsockopen(): unable to connect to :3128 (php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known) in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
=======================================================
HOT TUBHunter S. ThompsonE. Jean CarrollJohnny DeppFear and LoathingRolling StoneFree Book (PDF)Free Book (RTF)
"She  Pestered Me for Sex in My Hot Tub,"  Claims Outlaw Writer    ASPEN, COLO., Feb. 14 (AP)-Acting on telephone calls from nervous local residents, Pitkin County Sheriff Deputies early this morning discovered a 24-year-old scantily clad woman in an abandoned cesspool behind the secluded mountain home of famed "gonzo" journalist Hunter S. Thompson.  The  woman, who appeared well-fed, with no apparent marks of violence on her body, gave her name as Miss Laetitia Snap, an ornithologist and contributing editor to American Wildlife magazine. Friends of Miss Snap have described her as a "shy, refined" Ph.D., an "illustrious authority on peacocks," and an executive vice-president of the Indiana chapter of the lzaak Walton Society. She was reported missing from her Huntertown, Indiana, home 11weeks ago by members of the Allen County Bird-Watchers Assoc.                                                                  Forced  to Compose  Biography     Miss Snap, wearing only a pair of men's boxer shorts and a polka-dotted purple kerchief tied around her chest, told reporters who had gathered at the scene that Dr. Thompson held her captive in the cesspool, a dry cement pit measuring 15 x 8 feet, and after repeatedly "indulging his perverted  appetites," had forced Miss Snap to write his biography.  "He made me compose this  revolting  record of human calamity," said the red-haired pavologist, who is 5 feet, 3 inches tall, 106 pounds, and a former  Miss Indiana.  "It's all here," she said, removing a thick manuscript from a broken leather case, "the history of the biggest degenerate of the 20th century."  Miss Snap, who said she had not slept in many days because of "seal bombs being dropped in the cesspool," declared that she was giving the manuscript to a fellow Hoosier, E. Jean Carroll, an acquaintance of Dr. Thompson, to be edited, and added: "And then the world will fairly call him a hog."                                                                      Last Arrested for Tweaking    Dr. Thompson, the inspiration for Uncle Duke in the "Doonesbury" comic strip, told  reporters that "Miss Tishy Snap is an inebriated nymphomaniac," and said she had pestered him for sex in his hot tub. He had no further comment as he arrived for questioning at the Sheriff's  office at 530 Main Street in Aspen.  Ranked by many critics with Swift, Gogol and Twain, Dr. Thompson is the author of "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas," "Hell's Angels," 'The Great Shark Hunt" and several other best-sellers. His "Fear and Loathing: On the Campaign Trail '72" was cited by the New York Tunes as the best campaign book ever published.   To quote Professor Cybriane Vonne of Harvard University, "Hunter Thompson falls most naturally into place not with other writers, but with the great myths of Western Civilization: Ulysses, Faust, Dorian Gray."   Dr. Thompson first came to the nation's attention in 1970 when he ran for Sheriff of  Aspen on the Freak Power ticket, and nearly won. "Where the Buffalo Roam," a movie starring Bill Murray, is based on Dr. Thompson's life. The actor, Johnny Depp, captured Dr. Thompson's quirky looks and speech in the film, "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas."  A symbol of freedom around  the globe, Dr. Thompson was last arrested in 1990 for brutally tweaking the breast of Porn Queen Gail Palmer­Slater. That case was dismissed for lack of evidence.  Miss Snap's 667-page manuscript, which carries one of the most astonishing sex scenes of the modem era, is rumored to contain many "shocking and disgusting" surprises, and has excited speculation among some experts that Thompson himself may be its author. A bidding war is reported to have begun among publishing houses in New York. 
=======================================================
@import url("http://www.litkicks.com/sites/all/themes/litmega/css/litmega-alpha-default.css?n6pvkk");
@import url("http://www.litkicks.com/sites/all/themes/litmega/css/litmega-alpha-default-normal.css?n6pvkk");
@import url("http://www.litkicks.com/sites/all/themes/omega/alpha/css/grid/alpha_default/normal/alpha-default-normal-12.css?n6pvkk");
@import url("http://www.litkicks.com/sites/all/themes/omega/alpha/css/grid/alpha_default/normal/alpha-default-normal-24.css?n6pvkk");
There's a certain amount of danger when writing about a man like Hunter S. Thompson. Figuratively and literally. Figuratively, in that Thompson is still vital and practicing his art. Any biography, therefore, will be incomplete. Literally, in that Thompson is a violent and unstable man with a fondness of firearms and extreme action. He's the type to come looking for you.
Thompson has been many things to many people, which is a testament to his talent. His books have transcended social barriers and have become almost required reading for many diverse, almost diametrically opposed audiences -- law enforcement officials and restless youth, politicians and journalism students, to name a few. If this sounds a bit bold, consider the following:
His first published novel, The Hell's Angels, was the first detailed expose written from within the motorcycle club. It was so in-depth on the workings of the Angels that it became a training manual on dealing with motorcycle clubs for many police departments.
Probably his most famous work, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, became a living bible for the drug culture and rebel youth, having a similar impact as On The Road did in the previous decade.
His following novel Fear and Loathing on the '72 Campaign Trail was and still is a must-read for politicians and those whose livelihoods depend on understanding the workings of the political arena.
What made these works so special is not so much the subject matter, but the way in which Thompson wrote. His form was wild and breathless, catching action as it was happening, cutting through the bullshit, fictionalizing here and there, and making sense of it all later (It's no surprise to learn that Kerouac was one of Thompson's biggest influences). Thompson's form became known as "Gonzo Journalism", a term which was coined by Thompson's good friend, occasional cohort and fellow journalist, Bill Cardoso.
While to the general public Thompson is often portrayed as a subversive, drug-addled novelist, the truth is that he is and always was a sports writer (as well as a self-proclaimed political addict). And his road to literary success, like most authors/journalists, was a crevice-filled journey to say the least.
Thompson abilities as a writer and, more importantly, as a ruthless con man were evident early in his life. He was born July 18, 1937 in Louisville, Kentucky. As a youth, he had several run-ins with the law but was regarded as brilliant by his high school English teacher. Even then he wrote in a sardonic style and constantly attacked the status quo.
After graduating (which he did while in a jail cell, serving a six-week sentence for robbery while the rest of his fellow graduates were receiving their diplomas), Thompson enlisted in the Air Force and graduated from Scott Air Force Base in Belleville, Illinois.  In 1956, he was assigned to Eglin Air Proving Ground in Pensacola, Florida. Eglin was where he first began in the field of journalism.
When he arrived, he discovered that the base's newspaper, the Command Courier, was looking for a sports editor. Since he didn't really fit in with armed forces "lifestyle", Thompson conned his way into the position by claiming to have a journalistic background. As Thompson wrote at the time, "The people who hired me didn't bother to check too closely on my journalistic background ... I've managed to keep them in safe ignorance for about a month now." 
A quick learner and gifted writer, Thompson soon caught on and excelled as a journalist. He began moonlighting on another competing newspaper in the area (under the pseudonym Thorne Stockton). He kept a very hectic schedule and was helped by a sergeant who respected Thompson's talent enough to overlook his numerous infractions of military protocol. 
Thompson was always interested in literature and knew that his best bet was to make it as a writer. He studied the classics but was particularly taken with current writers of the time like F. Scott Fitzgerald, Ernest Hemingway, Ayn Rand and an emerging group known as the Beats. 
Thompson had an interesting way of studying the writers he loved. He would take and transcribe their works on his typewriter in an effort to discover each writer's particular rhythm and flow. He typed The Great Gatsby and A Farewell To Arms in their entirety. He also was a constant letter writer and kept thorough records of his correspondences, much as Kerouac did.
It was also during this time that Thompson discovered the writer who was to have perhaps the biggest influence on his career, H.L. Mencken.
In October of 1957, Thompson was delighted to receive an honorable discharge from the Air Force. After the service, he spent time in Pennsylvania and New York, living nearly in poverty. He was fired from one newspaper job because he kicked in a vending machine that cheated him. It was at this time that he began writing his Fitzgeraldian novel Prince Jellyfish, which to this day is unpublished in its entirety.
He was tired of the climate in the east and, in 1959, became determined to find work in the Caribbean. He responded to an ad for a sports editor for the San Juan Star in Puerto Rico in typical Thompson style:
"I have given up on American journalism. The decline of the American press has long been obvious, and my time is too valuable to waste in an effort to supply the 'man on the street' with his daily quota of cliches, gossip, and erotic type. There is another concept of journalism, which you may or may not be familiar with. It's engraved on a bronze plaque on the southeast corner of the Times Tower in New York City."
He received a negative reply, just as cynical, from a young editor named William Kennedy, who went on to win the Pulitzer for the novel Ironweed. Thus began a correspondence that continues today. Although Kennedy rejected him, Thompson was able to secure a job on El Sportivo, a new English-language weekly bowling publication.
Things in San Juan did not go as smoothly as Thompson had hoped. 'Prince Jellyfish' continued to be ignored, eliciting little more than form letters from publishers; El Sportivo was bombing and his paychecks were consistently bouncing, if they came at all; and he was becoming increasingly jealous of his girlfriend, Sandy Conklin, who was living in New York.
But soon his personal life turned around as Conklin joined him in San Juan and became his common-law wife. He also was receiving the occasional infusion of cash for writing freelance articles for the New York Herald Tribune and Louisville Courier-Journal, as well as working as a male model.
Nine months later the pair returned to New York. Thompson began working on a novel called The Rum Diary, which detailed his time in the Caribbean. A few months later, Thompson and high school buddy Paul Semonin hitchhiked to the West Coast searching for work as writers.
Thompson settled for a time in Big Sur while Semonin moved to Denver. While in Big Sur, Thompson wrote an article on the well-known creative haven for Rogue magazine and earned his largest paycheck to date: $350. It also earned him an eviction from his Big Sur home as his landlady did not approve of his characterization of the local inhabitants.
Ever the restless writer, in mid-1962 Thompson set off abroad, this time to South America. This time he was writing for the National Observer. And it was at this time that he first gained the attention of the national media. His pieces on South America were receiving high praise throughout the journalism community. He also gained a new drinking buddy, Charles Kuralt of CBS News.
A year later he was back in the States to make his common law wife his official wife. Later in 1963, the Thompsons moved to Aspen, Colorado, staying with Semonin before setting down stakes in the small mountain hamlet of Woody Creek.
One of the biggest impacts on Thompson's life occurred on November 22, 1963 when Kennedy was shot. He felt it signaled a turn in society. In a letter to Semonin, he wrote: "This savage unbelievable killing, this monstrous stupidity, has guaranteed that my children and yours will be born in a shitrain."
In another letter to William Kennedy, who was back in New York, he used the phrase "fear and loathing" to describe the way he felt after the murder.
What became Gonzo journalism started in 1964 as "impressionistic jounalism", in Thompson words. It took the time-honored tradition of objective journalism and gave it a 180. Thompson, like Tom Wolfe, felt that there was nothing more interesting than the reporter's perception of what was going on -- not just the facts and figures.
Thompson continued to write for the Observer, and the publication loved his fresh approach. He also began soliciting President Johnson to appoint himself Governor of Samoa. For awhile, amazingly enough, the Johnson administration remained in contact with Thompson. Thompson eventually withdrew his offer in outrage over the President's handling of Vietnam.
The Thompsons moved once again, this time back to San Francisco, where Thompson began trying to get on with The Nation and the magazine gave him the idea to write about the Hell's Angels. His articles received much praise and led to his first publishing contract with Ballantine Books, who wanted him to write an entire book on the subject.
In early 1966 Thompson finished his book. To say it was a success would be an understatement. He spent a year with the motorcycle club, not as a writer (they were distrustful of journalists because of their consistent maligning) but almost as a member. His ability as a con man came through for him once again.
Thompson became ingrained in the culture and presented the Angels in a fair light, something that had not been done until this time, even though he had once been on the losing end of a severe beating at the hands of the Angels. There are numerous accounts of what happened, but what's for sure is that the old Angel law -- when you fight one Angel, you fight them all -- was definitely true. Thompson even included the beating as the postscript to the book.
The first edition of the book sold out immediately and it broke into the New York Times bestseller list, although Thompson had a few problems on the book tour, showing up drunk for most interviews. He was, after all, a writer.
The success of Hell's Angels quickly catapulted Thompson to the front of the journalistic avant garde. He received numerous offers from popular publications like Esquire and Saturday Evening Post. In 1968 Thompson began nurturing an addiction that still is with him today: politics. This started with a simple letter to Eugene McCarthy, whose anti-Vietnam War stance Thompson admired, pledging his service to McCarthy in his run at the Democratic candidacy for president. The snowball began to gain momentum.
Thompson also was in the beginnings of a friendship with Oscar "Zeta" Acosta, a radical, militant lawyer from East Los Angeles. Acosta, who was one of the driving influences behind the burgeoning Brown Power scene in L.A., met Thompson on a visit to Aspen in 1967. The Thompson-Acosta correspondences are some of the most entertaining correspondences in print. They swing from acidic fantasy to personal issues to decisions that would ultimately alter aspects of our nation's history.
While in New York, Thompson met with his publishers regarding his next book. Thompson pitched the idea of a book on the "The Death of the American Dream." Thompson's idea was to write a book that would "do up a massive indictment, focusing on the murderers of the so-called 'American Dream.'" His main targets were the Pentagon, the Joint Chiefs and Lyndon Johnson, to name a few. For the next two years, the book was the focal point of Thompson's energies. And although it never appeared in print, it helped set Thompson down the path towards creating two of his most influential and best known works, 'Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas' and 'Fear and Loathing: On the Campaign Trail '72'.
In 1969, Thompson was hired by Playboy to do a piece on Jean-Claude Killy, an Olympic skier turned pitchman. What Thompson returned with was the first true piece of Gonzo literature to be published, entitled "The Temptations of Jean-Claude Killy". Except it was never published in Playboy because the editors felt it was too mean-spirited. The fact was Thompson had stepped beyond the who, what, where, when and why mentality of the press and delivered something quite different: a piece where the writer was not objective but subjective, allowing the writer's personality and impressions of the situation come out. The piece was eventually published in Ramparts magazine, the first magazine to recognize that Thompson was doing something new and exciting.
Soon after the Killy piece, Thompson, along with the Thompson-recommended Ralph Steadman, an English illustrator, were sent to cover the Kentucky Derby for the magazine. "The Kentucky Derby Is Decadent and Depraved" provided readers with a vicious and, at the same time, hilarious description of the Southern sporting classic. Steadman's illustrations were done in lipstick and were perverse and humorous, much like Thompson's writing. It was the beginning of a life-long working relationship. Most recently, Steadman provided the illustrations for the opening and closing sequences in the movie, 'Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas'.
Thompson was really getting his fat into the fire. His next target was an old nemesis who had returned stronger and smarter: Richard Nixon. By fluke, Thompson was allowed to interview the candidate and discovered that the washed-out politician was "brighter and therefore more dangerous than I surmised. He was a brute in need of extermination."
Thompson and Nixon did have two things in common: they both were political addicts (although Nixon in the worst definition of the concept) and football addicts. Thompson has recalled fondly the depth of Nixon's knowledge, including his ability to recall a seemingly unimportant, but strategically crucial play from the previous year's Super Bowl.
However, it wasn't Nixon that pulled Thompson into politics so much as the violence that erupted during the Democratic National Convention in Chicago in 1968, a convention which Thompson was covering at the time, for material for his book. 
Thompson returned to his home in Woody Creek a new man with a new mission: to beat the fuckers at their own game. And thus he began what is still one the most memorable and strategically effective anti-campaigns in the history of the U.S: the Freak Power ticket.
It was the fall of 1969 and the Aspen Mayoral election was coming up. Thompson was so disgusted by the candidates that he and a group of local friends ran their own candidate for mayor: a 29-year-old hippie bike-racer named Joe Edwards. Their campaign began three weeks before the election and nearly caused the upheaval of the small Western town.
This wasn't a whim or joke. Thompson noticed that there was a very low voter turnout in previous elections and determined that for the most part, it was the 18 to 25 year olds who were missing. So the theory he perpetuated was that if any candidate could garner the young vote, they would have the power to not necessarily win, but at least change the outcome of the election.
But the Freak Party got more than it bargained for. With only three weeks to organize, Joe Edwards lost the mayoral race by one vote. In reality, Edwards won the actual vote by six -- but lost the absentee ballot by seven. As Thompson wrote, "we scared the living shit out of the Aspen Power Structure."
In the final analysis, the group that really cost the Freaks the election wasn't the conservatives but the old-school liberals who supported the Democratic candidate. They were so scared of the possibility of a Freak Power mayor that they cannibalized their own candidate and voted Republican.
The close loss whetted Thompson's appetite and the next year the Freak Power Party entered the political arena with a vengeance. And not only in Aspen. Freak Power blossomed in Kansas, Berkeley and Los Angeles, where Acosta tallied 110,000 votes out of 2 million cast in the L.A. County sheriff race.
Thompson himself ran for sheriff and his platform was pretty direct: an end to the selling-off of Aspen. What follows is an excerpt from an advertisement Thompson took out in the Aspen Times: "And now we are reaping the whirlwind-big-city problems too malignant for small-town solutions, Chicago-style traffic in a town without stoplights, Oakland-style drug busts continually bungled by simple cowboy cops who see nothing wrong with kicking handcuffed prisoners in the ribs while the sheriff stands by watching, seeing nothing wrong with it either."
The Freak Party campaign was unique to say the least. The Party posters bore a red fist clutching a peyote button. Thompson shaved his head clean. The Freak Power Party proposed changing the city name to "Fat City" to scare off investors. It's hard to gauge if people actually believed this. On the question of drugs, as Thompson wrote, "We ran straight at the bastards with an out-front mescaline platform ... marijuana got lost in the scramble." Thompson relented a bit before the election, saying he would refrain from taking mescaline while on duty.
In the end Thompson lost the race 1500 to 1065. He did delight in the fact that he won the city vote, where the Freaks made up 30% of the electorate. But he was trounced in the county vote -- even losing 300 to 90 in his own precinct of Woody Creek.
Perhaps the most clear description of Freak Power came from one of the many campaign posters written by Thompson: "This is the real point: that we are not really freaks at all -- not in the literal sense -- but the twisted realities of the world we are trying to live in have somehow combined to make us feel like freaks. We argue, we protest, we petition -- but nothing changes."
Thompson's campaign attracted quite a bit of attention. But the most interested media outlet was Rolling Stone, a fledgling rock-and-roll mag out of San Francisco. The owner and editor, Jann Wenner, became a good friend and recurring nemesis of Thompson's. Much like the Acosta letters, the correspondences between the two are legendary.
Thompson's first article for Rolling Stone, "The Battle of Aspen", was published in the October 1, 1970 issue. It was during this time, while working on a piece for Rolling Stone, that Thompson stumbled upon the city of Las Vegas.
In two issue of Rolling Stone in 1971, there appeared articles by the author "Raoul Duke" entitled 'Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas'. As Douglas Brinkley wrote, the book "essentially ... follows Duke and his three-hundred pound Samoan attorney, Dr. Gonzo, to Las Vegas, ostensibly to cover a motorcycle race and then a convention of district attorneys."
Raoul Duke had become Thompson's alter ego previously in correspondences. Thompson realized that it allowed him to say things that he couldn't with the name "Hunter S. Thompson". It allowed him to blur fact, fiction and fantasy together.
Thompson felt he had a classic on his hands and a few people echoed this. However, when 'Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas' was published in book form it did not sell nearly as well as 'Hell's Angels'. But it did solidify Thompson's conviction in what he was doing.
Thompson's next big job for Rolling Stone was covering the Democratic party during the 1972 election. Thompson harbored a basic hatred for typical politicians but became quickly enamored of South Dakota senator George McGovern. McGovern ran on a anti-Vietnam ticket and was the more politically correct manifestation of the Freak Party. Except that after McGovern won the Democratic nomination, he relented to party politics and, instead of staying on the path that got him the nomination, tried to bring together all the splinter Democratic groups, thus losing the very voter base that had put him in position to take the presidency from Nixon. 
In the end, McGovern lost in a landslide but Thompson turned out what still stands today as the preeminent and most insightful piece ever written on a presidential election, 'Fear and Loathing: On the Campaign Trail '72'. And he made a life-long friend in George McGovern.
Also, during the election, Thompson developed a strange friendship with a young Republican speechwriter named Pat Buchanan. Even though they were polar opposites in terms of philosophy, they both respected the fact that each of them could "leave it on the field" and go have a drink in a bar together without killing each other.
Over the next few years, Thompson kept himself busy by covering the withdrawal of American troops in Vietnam, the fall of Laos and also putting together an often-overlooked political summit. In 1974, Thompson along with a group that included Wenner, ex-RFK campaign veterans and McGovern strategists, gathered in Elko, NV to create a liberal strategy for political victory following the fall of Nixon. What resulted, as Thompson recalled, was complete "gibberish."
Around this same time, Thompson had been made aware of a very sad situation: the disappearance of Oscar Acosta in the Spring of 1974. To this day, it's not known what happened to the "Brown Buffalo" who "stomped on the terra" as Thompson described him. Some believe he went underground, but most others feel he was murdered by drug traffickers. But to this day, the case has never been solved.
As Nixon fell apart and, along with him, the Republican party, Thompson became more involved in national politics. He became a friend, proponent and unofficial advisor to Jimmy Carter before and during his run for the presidency in 1976. Thompson even stayed at the Carter's home in Plains, Georgia for a couple of days in 1975. When there were rumors about Thompson possibly running for president, Carter sent Thompson a note saying he'd drop out in support of Thompson.
Needless to say, Thompson didn't run. But a prediction he made two years previously, when Carter was known as "Jimmy-who?" in the press, came true: Carter trounced Ford to become President. And Thompson had another great piece of political writing for Rolling Stone.
As the '80s began, Thompson sensed a whole new era of political fatbacks and greedheads. And he was right.
During the '80s, Thompson, much like Charles Bukowski in Los Angeles, wrote periodic columns for the San Francisco Examiner, as well as continuing to freelance. Thompson's pace remained busy, though he no longer moved at the break-neck speed of the previous decades. Most of his work during this period is featured in the ongoing book series, The Gonzo Papers. Thus far, there have been three volumes, The Great Shark Hunt, Generation of Swine and Songs of the Doomed. The volume that covers the '80s is appropriately subtitled, 'Tales of Shame and Degradation in the '80s'. 
Also, during the '80s Thompson finally became involved in a medium that had intrigued him for years -- film. The movie Where the Buffalo Roam loosely chronicles his adventures with Acosta. It movie did not do well at the box office. 
In the film, Bill Murray played Thompson to a tee while Acosta was portrayed by Peter Boyle. Murray was so affected by Thompson that many sensed a difference about him after the movie was made. On the set of Saturday Night Live, Murray began showing up late and becoming noticeably more irritable. 
Thompson continued to be eerily accurate in his political predictions, especially during the Iran-Contra affair. However, one prediction he made that didn't come true was in regards to a certain Vice President going to jail for a long, long time, a la Spiro Agnew. Unfortunately, just the opposite came true -- George Bush became president. Thompson once again had a new target, although he wrote a letter to the newly elected president asking for a job. Once again, pure Thompson.
The '90s opened on a high note for Thompson, with Bush's back being broken. Thompson, while supporting and actively campaigning for Clinton, sensed a similarity between the new president and Nixon: they both came to the Hill to play hard ball. Thompson's resulting novel was Better Than Sex: Confessions of a Political Junkie.
As the '90s progressed, Thompson became a counter-culture godfather. After all, he was one of the only voices from the time who was still pertinent and coherent. He continued to appear occasionally in print, but largely remained in his "heavily fortified compound" in Woody Creek.
What was arguably Thompson's most successful venture came in 1998 when Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas was finally made into a major motion picture. Thompson had been pitching the idea for thirty years and finally the film was produced. It was directed by Terry Gilliam, with Johnny Depp playing Thompson's character and Benicio Del Toro playing Dr. Gonzo. Once again Thompson had affected another young actor, as it's been said that Depp had a hard time shaking off the character after production finished.
There have been many arguments between Thompson devotees regarding which movie was better, Fear and Loathing or Where the Buffalo Roam. Most seem to lean to Fear and Loathing but surprisingly a majority believe both movies came up short.
Thompson devotees also differ on the issue of Murray versus Depp. Depp looks strikingly similar to Thompson in his youth. But while Depp did an excellent job acting, it felt just like that -- acting. Murray seemed more natural and, thus, believable. But that's just this writer's opinion.
As the century closed out, another dream of Thompson's came true as his second novel, The Rum Diary, was finally published. There are rumors of the book being in the pre-production stages of becoming a movie. Screwjack, a book of older short stories, was published as well.
Thompson career came full circle in 2001. His first job in journalism was as a sports reporter at Eglin Air Force and in 2001 he once again became a sportswriter as a weekly columnist for ESPN.com's "Page 2" section. His column is called "Hey Rube!". Thompson definitely still has his teeth -- thus far he's written scathing indictments of everything from the second coming of satan, lil' George Bush, to the entire NBA.
To summarize Thompson's career would be foolish. That's why this piece is so long. It's because of the layers and depth of everything he did, which, at the time, was not always apparent. He's successfully written about everything from the Hell's Angels and the dope scene of San Francisco to Super Bowls and Presidential elections. His friends throughout life includes the likes of Pat Buchanan, George McGovern and Jimmy Carter, as well as Ken Kesey, William Burroughs and Warren Zevon.
Thompson, much like Kerouac, is a WRITER. He WRITES. Whereas many writers stick to one style or genre, Thompson's been successful writing about many seemingly opposing subjects.
Today he's still writing as well as ever, although there have been detractors who say he's seen better days. His work on "Page 2" proves otherwise. He even predicted that Jenna Bush would become the wild-child that would cause problems for the new President.
It's just further evidence that Thompson had that inexhaustible, inextinguishable IT -- the stuff that all great artists possess. 
Hunter S. Thompson, who carried the beat romanticism of Jack Kerouac, the political conviction of Allen Ginsberg and the acidic skepticism of William S. Burroughs into the world of popular journalism, died a Hemingway-esque death in Colorado on February 20, 2005.
Gary Snyderby Levi Asher Monday, July 25, 1994 02:03 pmYou have to be careful writing about Gary Snyder, because he's such a Zen guy you get the feeling anything you write will be vastly inferior to silence.... Read more and add your thoughts E. Howard Hunt, Novelistby Levi Asher Tuesday, January 23, 2007 08:02 pmE. Howard Hunt, pulp novelist and key Watergate operative, has died. ... Read more and add your thoughts (2 comments)On Zazen: A Talk With Vanessa Veselkaby Levi Asher Monday, May 9, 2011 07:54 pm"What is this book? Hmm ... another Buddhist geological thriller? A secular spiritual epic?" An interview with Vanessa Veselka, author of the amazing debut novel "Zazen".... Read more and add your thoughts (4 comments)Ken Kesey's Mobile Transcendentalismby Levi Asher Wednesday, August 24, 2011 07:44 amMagic Trip, a new film by Alex Gibney and Alison Ellwood, tells the story of novelist Ken Kesey's 1964 road trip across America in a painted bus with a troupe of fanciful hippies and legendary beatnik Neal Cassady at the wheel.... Read more and add your thoughts (7 comments)Raymond Chandler and the Blue Dahlia Gambitby Michael Norris Tuesday, September 20, 2011 10:14 amI learned about drinking whiskey, specifically bourbon whiskey, from Raymond Chandler. Actually, I recently read in his letters that Chandler was more of a gin man. So I really learned about drinking whiskey from Chandler’s alter ego, Philip Marlowe.... Read more and add your thoughts (4 comments)Hitchhiking With Vanessaby Levi Asher Friday, October 19, 2012 08:40 am"A small crowd gathered around the dumpster in the rain. Word filtered back that the girl was a teenage hitchhiker.  I remember thinking that it could be me, because I was also a teenage hitchhiker."
That's Vanessa Veselka, up-and-coming novelist and Litkicks favorite, telling a harrowing true story about a past run-in with a serial killer in the pages of the latest GQ magazine ...... Read more and add your thoughts (2 comments)Andy Clausen and the Poetry of Reconstructionby Eliot Katz Wednesday, February 13, 2013 10:49 pmThe first time that I saw Andy Clausen read poetry was in the summer of 1980, at Naropa Institute in Boulder, Colorado. Andy was scheduled to read one night as part of a three-person bill, along with Allen Ginsberg and Philip Whalen ...... Read more and add your thoughts (5 comments)The Great Lost Rock Memoir: Poison Heart by Dee Dee Ramoneby Levi Asher Monday, February 25, 2013 06:10 pm"Poison Heart", the pained memoir by Dee Dee Ramone of New York City's seminal punk band The Ramones.... Read more and add your thoughts (2 comments)The Great Lost Rock Memoir: The Autobiography by Chuck Berryby Levi Asher Sunday, March 17, 2013 06:42 pmIt's fitting that the guy who singlehandedly invented rock and roll when he recorded a song called "Mabellene" at Chess studios in Chicago on May 21, 1955 would later become an early innovator in the rock memoir field. ... Read more and add your thoughts (8 comments)Jackson and Bukowski: Drunken Literatureby Alan Bisbort Thursday, April 25, 2013 09:31 pmRecently, I’ve been thinking about drunks. Specifically, I've been thinking about literature written by drunks and/or about drinking. Two recent biographies have helped catalyze my thinking on this ...... Read more and add your thoughts (17 comments)The Ballad of J. T. Lauraby Levi Asher Wednesday, July 24, 2013 08:29 pmAdam Langer interviews Laura Albert in Interview Magazine.... Read more and add your thoughts (2 comments)Katharine Graham, the Heroine of the Washington Postby Levi Asher Monday, August 5, 2013 09:30 pm"Personal History" by newspaper publisher Katharine Graham is one of the most stunning and inspiring autobiographies I've ever read.... Read more and add your thoughts (4 comments)Choire Sicha and the Fatal Epigraphby Levi Asher Tuesday, September 3, 2013 11:13 amI did not like Choire Sicha's novel about love and money in New York City.... Read more and add your thoughts (1 comment)Wild Tales by Graham Nashby Levi Asher Wednesday, October 2, 2013 08:31 amLevi Asher reviews a new memoir by Graham Nash, British/American political activist and singer with the Hollies and Crosby Stills Nash and Young.... Read more and add your thoughts (7 comments)The Best Article About the Velvet Underground Ever, by Lance Loud in 1975by Lance Loud Monday, October 28, 2013 08:38 pmA classic look at the emerging legend of the Velvet Underground, written by Lance Loud in 1975, now reprinted for the first time ever from Hit Parader magazine.... Read more and add your thoughts (5 comments) 
=======================================================
Pioneer of "gonzo" journalism, Hunter S. Thompson is born in Louisville, Ky., on this day.By age 10, Thompson was publishing his own two-page newspaper, which he sold for four cents. By his early teens, he had already launched on the life of drinking, vandalism, and pyromania that would turn him into a bestselling writer. At age 18, he was jailed for robbery. After serving 30 days of his 50-day sentence, he was released after promising to join the Air Force.While serving on a Pensacola, Florida, Air Force base, he became sports editor of the base newspaper and later went to work for a paper in New York, where he was fired for kicking a vending machine. He wrote conventional journalism pieces for various magazines, and in 1967 he expanded one of his articles into his first book, Hells Angels, which became a bestseller. In 1970, while covering the Kentucky Derby, Thompson went on a weeklong bender and developed severe writer's block. He handed his scrawled notes to the copy boys his editors sent after him, and the result, "The Kentucky Derby Is Decadent and Depraved," was hailed as a landmark in journalism. One of his editors dubbed the new style "gonzo," for its wild, careening style.In 1972, Thompson's Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas became a bestseller, as did his 1972 Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail, about the Nixon-McGovern presidential election. Thompson died at his home in Woody Creek, Colo., on February 20, 2005, of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head. He was 76 years old.
