=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Roger Joseph Ebert (/ˈiːbərt/; June 18, 1942 – April 4, 2013) was an American film critic, journalist and screenwriter. He was a film critic for the Chicago Sun-Times from 1967 until his death in 2013.[2] In 1975, he was the first film critic to win the Pulitzer Prize for Criticism.[3] As of 2010, his reviews were syndicated to more than 200 newspapers in the United States and abroad. Ebert also published more than 20 books and dozens of collections of reviews.
Ebert and Chicago Tribune critic Gene Siskel helped popularize nationally-televised film reviewing when they co-hosted the PBS show Sneak Previews, followed by several variously-named At the Movies programs. The two verbally sparred and traded humorous barbs while discussing films. They created and trademarked the phrase "Two Thumbs Up," used when both hosts gave the same film a positive review. After Siskel died in 1999, Ebert continued hosting the show with various co-hosts and then, starting in 2000, with Richard Roeper.
In 2005, Ebert became the first film critic to receive a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.[3] Neil Steinberg of the Chicago Sun-Times said Ebert "was without question the nation's most prominent and influential film critic",[1] Tom Van Riper of Forbes described him as "the most powerful pundit in America",[4] and Kenneth Turan of the Los Angeles Times called him "the best-known film critic in America".[5]
Ebert lived with cancer of the thyroid and salivary glands from 2002 that required treatments necessitating the removal of his lower jaw, which cost him the ability to speak or eat normally. Regardless, his ability to write was unimpaired and he continued to publish frequently both online and in print right up until his death on April 4, 2013.[1]
Roger Joseph Ebert[6] was born in Urbana, Illinois, the only child of Annabel (née Stumm),[7][8] a bookkeeper,[1] and Walter H. Ebert,[7] an electrician.[9][10] He was raised Roman Catholic, attending St. Mary's elementary school and serving as an altarboy in Urbana.[10]
His paternal grandparents were German immigrants[11] and his maternal ancestry was German, Dutch, and Irish.[12][13] Ebert's interest in journalism began when he was a student at Urbana High School, where he was a sports writer for The News-Gazette in Champaign, Illinois; however, he began his writing career with letters of comment to the science fiction fanzines of the era.[2] He became involved in science fiction fandom,[14] writing articles for fanzines, including Richard A. Lupoff's Xero. In his senior year, he was class president and editor-in-chief of his high school newspaper, The Echo.[10] In 1958, he won the Illinois High School Association state speech championship in "radio speaking", an event that simulates radio newscasts.[15]
Regarding his early influences in film criticism, Ebert wrote in the 1998 parody collection Mad About the Movies:
I learned to be a movie critic by reading Mad magazine... Mad's parodies made me aware of the machine inside the skin – of the way a movie might look original on the outside, while inside it was just recycling the same old dumb formulas. I did not read the magazine, I plundered it for clues to the universe. Pauline Kael lost it at the movies; I lost it at Mad magazine.[16]
Ebert began taking classes at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign as an early-entrance student, completing his high-school courses while also taking his first university class.[17] After graduating from Urbana High School in 1960, Ebert then attended and received his undergraduate degree in 1964. While at the University of Illinois, Ebert worked as a reporter for the Daily Illini and then served as its editor during his senior year while also continuing to work as a reporter for the News-Gazette of Champaign-Urbana, Illinois (he had begun at the News-Gazette at age 15 covering Urbana High School sports).[18] As an undergraduate, he was a member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity and president of the U.S. Student Press Association at Illinois.[19] One of the first movie reviews he ever wrote was a review of La Dolce Vita, published in The Daily Illini in October 1961.[20]
Ebert spent a semester as a master's student in the department of English there before attending the University of Cape Town on a Rotary fellowship for a year.[21] He returned from Cape Town to his graduate studies at Illinois for two more semesters and then, after being accepted as a PhD candidate at the University of Chicago, he prepared to move to Chicago. He needed a job to support himself while he worked on his doctorate and so applied to the Chicago Daily News, hoping that, as he had already sold freelance pieces to the Daily News, including an article on the death of writer Brendan Behan, he would be hired by editor Herman Kogan. Instead Kogan referred Ebert to the city editor at the Chicago Sun-Times, Jim Hoge, who hired Ebert as a reporter and feature writer at the Sun-Times in 1966.[22] He attended doctoral classes at the University of Chicago while working as a general reporter at the Sun-Times for a year. After movie critic Eleanor Keane left the Sun-Times in April 1967, editor Robert Zonka gave the job to Ebert.[23] The load of graduate school and being a film critic proved too much, so Ebert left the University of Chicago to focus his energies on film criticism.[24]
Ebert began his career as a film critic in 1967, writing for the Chicago Sun-Times. He also met film critic Pauline Kael for the first time at the New York Film Festival in 1967. After he sent her some of his columns, she told him they were "the best film criticism being done in American newspapers today".[10] That same year, Ebert's first book, a history of the University of Illinois titled Illini Century: One Hundred Years of Campus Life, was published by the University's press. In 1969, his review of Night of the Living Dead[25] was published in Reader's Digest.
Ebert co-wrote the screenplay for the 1970 Russ Meyer film Beyond the Valley of the Dolls and sometimes joked about being responsible for the film, which was poorly received on its release but is now regarded as a cult classic.[26] Ebert and Meyer also made Beneath the Valley of the Ultra-Vixens, Up!, and other films, and were involved in the ill-fated Sex Pistols movie Who Killed Bambi? (In April 2010, Ebert posted his screenplay of Who Killed Bambi? aka Anarchy in the UK on his blog.)[27]
From the 1970s on, Ebert worked for the University of Chicago as a guest lecturer, teaching a night class on film. For example, his fall 2005 class was on the work of the German director Rainer Werner Fassbinder.
In 1975, Ebert began co-hosting a weekly film review television show, Sneak Previews, which was locally produced by the Chicago public broadcasting station WTTW. Three years later, Gene Siskel became a co-host when the show was picked up by PBS for national distribution. The duo became famous for their "thumbs up/thumbs down" review summaries.[28] Siskel and Ebert trademarked the phrase "Two Thumbs Up".[29]
In 1982, they moved from PBS to launch a similar syndicated commercial television show named At The Movies With Gene Siskel & Roger Ebert. In 1986, they again moved the show to new ownership, creating Siskel & Ebert & The Movies through Buena Vista Television (part of the Walt Disney Company).
After Siskel's death in 1999, the producers retitled the show Roger Ebert & the Movies and used rotating co-hosts. In September 2000, Chicago Sun-Times columnist Richard Roeper became the permanent co-host and the show was renamed At The Movies With Ebert & Roeper (and other later titles).
Ebert ended his association with the Disney-owned At The Movies in July 2008,[29] after the studio indicated it wished to take the program in a new direction. On February 18, 2009, Ebert reported that he and Roeper would soon announce a new movie-review program,[30] and reiterated this plan after Disney announced that the program's last episode would air in August 2010.[31]
On January 31, 2009, Ebert was made an honorary life member of the Directors Guild of America.[32] His final television series, Ebert Presents: At The Movies, premiered on January 21, 2011, with Ebert contributing a review voiced by Bill Kurtis in a brief segment called "Roger's Office",[33] as well as featuring more traditional film reviews in the "At The Movies" format presented by Christy Lemire and Ignatiy Vishnevetsky.
His final review in the Chicago Sun-Times was for the film To the Wonder, which he gave 3.5 out of 4 stars. It was published on April 6, 2013.[34] In July 2013, a previously-unpublished review of the film Computer Chess appeared on Ebert's website.[35] The review had been written in March but had remained unpublished until the film's wide-release date.[36] Matt Zoller Seitz, the editor for Ebert's website, confirmed that there were other unpublished reviews that would be eventually uploaded to the website.[36] A second posthumously-published review, for The Spectacular Now, was published in August 2013.[37]
Ebert described his critical approach to films as "relative, not absolute"; he reviewed a film for what he felt would be its prospective audience, yet always with at least some consideration as to its value as a whole. He awarded four stars to films of the highest quality, and generally a half star to those of the lowest, unless he considered the film to be "artistically inept" or "morally repugnant", in which case it received no stars.[38]
When you ask a friend if Hellboy is any good, you're not asking if it's any good compared to Mystic River, you're asking if it's any good compared to The Punisher. And my answer would be, on a scale of one to four, if Superman is four, then Hellboy is three and The Punisher is two. In the same way, if American Beauty gets four stars, then The United States of Leland clocks in at about two.[39]
Ebert emphasized that his star ratings had little meaning if not considered in the context of the review itself. Occasionally (as in his review of Basic Instinct 2), Ebert's star rating may have seemed at odds with his written opinion. Ebert acknowledged such cases, stating, "I cannot recommend the movie, but ... why the hell can't I? Just because it's godawful? What kind of reason is that for staying away from a movie? Godawful and boring, that would be a reason".[40] In August 2004 Stephen King, in a column, criticized what he saw as a growing trend of leniency towards films from critics including Ebert. His main criticism was that films, citing Spider-Man 2 as an example, were constantly given four star ratings that they did not deserve.[41] In his review of The Manson Family, Ebert gave the film three stars for achieving what it set out to do, but admitted that did not count as a recommendation per se. He similarly gave the Adam Sandler-starring remake of The Longest Yard a positive rating of three stars, but in his review, which he wrote soon after attending the Cannes Film Festival, he recommended readers not see the film because they had access to more satisfying cinematic experiences.[42] He declined to give a star rating to The Human Centipede, arguing that the rating system was "unsuited" to such a film: "Is the movie good? Is it bad? Does it matter? It is what it is and occupies a world where the stars don't shine."[43]
Ebert reprinted his starred reviews in movie guides. In his appearances on The Howard Stern Show, he was frequently challenged to defend his ratings. Ebert stood by his opinions with one notable exception – when Stern pointed out that Ebert had given The Godfather Part II a three-star rating in 1974, but had subsequently given The Godfather Part III three and a half stars. Ebert later added The Godfather Part II to his "Great Movies" list in October 2008 stating that his original review has often been cited as proof of his "worthlessness" but he still had not changed his mind and would not change a word of his original review.[44] When reviewing the 2009 remake of The Last House on the Left, Ebert noted how he had given the controversial 1972 original three and a half stars and declined to make a comparison between the two versions: "I wrote that original "Last House" review 37 years ago. I am not the same person. I am uninterested in being 'consistent'".[45]
Ebert occasionally accused some films of having an unwholesome political agenda, and the word "fascist" accompanied more than one of Ebert's reviews of the law-and-order films of the 1970s such as Dirty Harry. He was wary of films passed off as art, but which he saw as lurid and sensational. He leveled this charge against such films as The Night Porter.[46]
Ebert's reviews could clash with the overall reception of movies, as evidenced by his one-star review of the celebrated 1986 David Lynch film Blue Velvet ("marred by sophomoric satire and cheap shots ... in a way, [director Lynch's] behavior is more sadistic than the Hopper character").[47] He was dismissive of the popular 1988 Bruce Willis action film Die Hard ("inappropriate and wrongheaded interruptions reveal the fragile nature of the plot"),[48] while his positive 3 out of 4 stars review of 1997's Speed 2: Cruise Control ("Movies like this embrace goofiness with an almost sensual pleasure")[49] is one of only two positive reviews accounting for that film's 3% approval rating on the reviewer aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes (the other having been written by his At The Movies co-star Gene Siskel).[50]
Ebert's reviews were also characterized by what has been called "dry wit".[1][51] In August 2005, after Rob Schneider insulted Los Angeles Times movie critic Patrick Goldstein (who had criticized Schneider's film Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo) by commenting that Goldstein was unqualified because he had never won the Pulitzer Prize, Ebert intervened by stating that, as a Pulitzer winner, he was qualified to review the film, and bluntly told Schneider, "Your movie sucks."[52] Ebert and Schneider would later reconcile regarding this matter.[53][54][55]
Ebert commented on films using his Catholic upbringing as a point of reference,[10] and was critical of films he believed were grossly ignorant of or insulting to Catholicism, such as Stigmata[56] and Priest.[57] He also gave favorable reviews of controversial films with themes or references to Jesus and Catholicism, including The Passion of the Christ, The Last Temptation of Christ, and to Kevin Smith's religious satire Dogma.[58] Ebert was described as an agnostic in 2005,[10] but preferred not being "pigeon-holed".[59]
He often included personal anecdotes in his reviews when he considered them relevant. He occasionally wrote reviews in the forms of stories, poems, songs,[60] scripts, open letters,[61][62] or imagined conversations.[63][64] He wrote many essays and articles exploring in depth the field of film criticism.
Ebert was also an advocate and supporter of Asian-American cinema, famously coming to the defense of the cast and crew of Justin Lin's Better Luck Tomorrow (2001) during a Sundance Film Festival screening when a white member of the audience asked how Asians could be portrayed in such a negative light and how a film so empty and amoral could be made for Asian-Americans and Americans. Ebert responded that "nobody would say such a thing to a bunch of white filmmakers: how could you do this to "your people"? ... Asian-American characters have the right to be whoever the hell they want to be. They do not have to represent 'their people'!"[65][66][67] He was a supporter of the film after the incident at Sundance, and also supported a number of Asian-American films, having them also screen at his film festival (such as Eric Byler's Charlotte Sometimes).[68] Ebert was a fan of Asian-American filmmaker Wayne Wang.[69]
Ebert was accused by some horror movie fans of elitism in his dismissal of what he calls "Dead Teenager Movies". Ebert clarified that he did not disparage horror movies as a whole, but that he drew a distinction between films like Nosferatu and The Silence of the Lambs, which he regarded as "masterpieces", and films which he felt consisted of nothing more than groups of teenagers being killed off with the exception of one survivor to populate a sequel.[70]
Ebert indicated that his favorite film was Citizen Kane, joking, "That's the official answer", although he preferred to emphasize it as "the most important" film. He insinuated that his real favorite film was La Dolce Vita.[71] His favorite actor was Robert Mitchum, and his favorite actress was Ingrid Bergman.[72] He expressed his general distaste for "top ten" lists, and all movie lists in general,[71] but contributed a top ten list to the 2012 Sight and Sound Critics' poll. Listed alphabetically, those films were 2001: A Space Odyssey; Aguirre, the Wrath of God; Apocalypse Now; Citizen Kane; La Dolce Vita; The General; Raging Bull; Tokyo Story; The Tree of Life; and Vertigo.[73]
Ebert compiled "best of the year" movie lists beginning in 1967, thereby helping provide an overview of his critical preferences.[74] His top choices were:
Ebert revisited and sometimes revised his opinions. After ranking E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial third on his 1982 list, it was the only movie from that year to appear on his later "Best Films of the 1980s" list (where it also ranked third). He made similar revaluations of 1981's Raiders of the Lost Ark, and 1985's Ran. The Three Colors trilogy (Blue, White, and Red), and Pulp Fiction originally ranked second and third on Ebert's 1994 list; both were included on his "Best Films of the 1990s" list, but their order had reversed.[75]
Ebert was an admirer of director Werner Herzog, whom he supported through many years when Herzog's popularity had declined. He conducted an onstage public "conversation" with Herzog at the Telluride Film Festival in 2004, after a screening of Herzog's film Invincible at the Ebert's Overlooked Film Festival. Herzog dedicated his 2008 film Encounters at the End of the World to Ebert, and Ebert responded with a heartfelt public letter of gratitude.[76] Herzog said he once exhorted Ebert to watch The Anna Nicole Show (which Ebert did) so he could gain a better understanding of the decline in American culture.[77]
In 2005, Ebert opined that video games are not art, and are inferior to media created through authorial control, such as film and literature, stating, "video games can be elegant, subtle, sophisticated, challenging and visually wonderful", but "the nature of the medium prevents it from moving beyond craftsmanship to the stature of art".[78] This resulted in negative reaction from video game enthusiasts,[79] such as writer Clive Barker, who defended video games as an art form, stating that they have the power to move people, that the views of book or film critics are less important than those of the consumers experiencing them, and that Ebert's were prejudiced. Ebert responded that the charge of prejudice was merely a euphemism for disagreement, that merely being moved by an experience does not denote it as artistic, and that critics are also consumers.[80] Ebert later defended his position in April 2010, saying, "No video gamer now living will survive long enough to experience the medium as an art form".[81] He also stated that he had never found a video game "worthy of (his) time", and thus had never played one.[82]
In a July 1, 2010, blog entry, Ebert maintained his position that video games can never be art in principle, but conceded that he should not have expressed this skepticism without being more familiar with the actual experience of playing them. He reflected on the reaction to his blog entry, gamers' attempts to recommend to him games such as Shadow of the Colossus, and his reluctance to play games due to his lack of interest in the medium. Ebert did say that he enjoyed playing Cosmology of Kyoto.[83]
Ebert was an outspoken opponent of the Motion Picture Association of America film rating system, repeatedly criticizing its decisions regarding which movies are suitable for children.[84] An example of this was his review of The Exorcist, where he criticized the 'R' rating and suggested an 'X' rating instead. He wrote several articles making a case for the X rating to be replaced with a new 'A' rating, which would allow for serious, well-made films with adults-only content to avoid the pornographic stigma that the X brought.
He also frequently lamented that cinemas outside major cities are "booked by computer from Hollywood with no regard for local tastes", making high-quality independent and foreign films virtually unavailable to most American moviegoers.[85]
Ebert was a strong advocate for Maxivision 48, in which the movie projector runs at 48 frames per second, as compared to the usual 24 frames per second. He was opposed to the practice whereby theatres lower the intensity of their projector bulbs in order to extend the life of the bulb, arguing that this has little effect other than to make the film harder to see.[86] Ebert was skeptical of the recent resurgence of 3D effects in film, which he found unrealistic and distracting.[87]
In 1995, Ebert, along with colleague Gene Siskel, guest-starred on an episode of the animated TV series The Critic. In the episode, Siskel and Ebert split and each wants Jay as his new partner. The episode is a parody of the film Sleepless in Seattle.[88] The following year, Ebert appeared in Pitch, a documentary by Canadian film makers Spencer Rice and Kenny Hotz.
He also made an appearance as himself in a 1997 episode of the television series Early Edition, which took place in Chicago. In the episode, Ebert consoles a young boy who is depressed after he sees a character called Bosco the Bunny die in a movie.[89]
In 2003, Ebert had a cameo appearance in the film Abby Singer, in which he recited the white parasol monologue from Citizen Kane. Roger Ebert founded his own film festival, Ebertfest, in his home town of Champaign, Illinois, and was also a regular fixture at the Hawaii International Film Festival. On May 4, 2010, Ebert was announced by the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences as the Webby Person of the Year, having taken to the Internet following his battle with cancer.[90] On October 22, 2010, Ebert appeared on camera with Robert Osborne on the Turner Classic Movies network during the network's "The Essentials" series. Ebert chose the film Sweet Smell of Success to be shown.
During the past decade, on the day of the Academy Award ceremony, Ebert repeatedly appeared with Roeper on the live pre-awards show, An Evening at the Academy Awards: The Arrivals. This aired for over a decade, usually prior to the awards ceremony show, which also featured red carpet interviews and fashion commentary. They also used to appear on the post-awards show entitled An Evening at the Academy Awards: The Winners, produced and aired by the ABC-owned KABC-TV in Los Angeles.
Ebert was one of the principal critics featured in Gerald Peary's 2009 documentary film For the Love of Movies: The Story of American Film Criticism. He is shown discussing the dynamics of appearing with Gene Siskel on the 1970s show Coming to a Theatre Near You, which was the predecessor of Sneak Previews on Chicago PBS station WTTW. He also expressed his approval of the proliferation of young people writing film reviews today on the Internet.[91]
Ebert provided DVD audio commentaries for several films, including Citizen Kane, Casablanca, Dark City, Floating Weeds, Crumb, and Beyond the Valley of the Dolls (for which Ebert also wrote the screenplay, based on a story that he co-wrote with Russ Meyer). Ebert was also interviewed by Central Park Media for an extra feature on the DVD release of the anime film Grave of the Fireflies. Ebert appeared as a guest star multiple times on Sesame Street. Before his death, it was announced that a bio-documentary called Life Itself based on Ebert was in production.[92]
Though not making a personal appearance, an honorary effigy of Ebert co-starred in the 1998 reimagining version of Godzilla, played by actor Michael Lerner as New York City Mayor Ebert. The trademark image of the glasses, build and hair make the resemblance almost uncanny. In the final action scenes of the movie, as the heroes make their escape in a taxi, the cab displays a campaign ad on top portraying a photo of the mayor with a 'thumbs up' alongside the phrase "Re-elect Mayor Ebert".
Ebert and his wife Chaz Hammelsmith Ebert (left) giving the thumbs up to Nancy Kwan (right) at the Hawaii International Film Festival on October 20, 2010
At age 50, Ebert married trial attorney Charlie "Chaz" Hammelsmith (formerly Chaz Hammel-Smith) in 1992.[10][93] He explained in his memoir, Life Itself, that he "would never marry before [his] mother died", as he was afraid of displeasing her.[94] In a July 2012 blog entry titled "Roger loves Chaz", Ebert wrote, "She fills my horizon, she is the great fact of my life, she has my love, she saved me from the fate of living out my life alone, which is where I seemed to be heading".[95] Chaz Ebert is now vice president of the Ebert Company and has emceed Ebertfest.[96]
Ebert was a recovering alcoholic, having quit drinking in 1979. He was a member of Alcoholics Anonymous and had written some blog entries on the subject.[97] He was a longtime friend of, and briefly dated, Oprah Winfrey, who credited him with persuading her to syndicate The Oprah Winfrey Show,[98] which became the highest-rated talk show in American television history.[99] He was also good friends with film historian and critic Leonard Maltin and considered the book Leonard Maltin's Movie and Video Guide to be the standard of film guide books.
A supporter of the Democratic Party,[100] Ebert publicly urged liberal filmmaker Michael Moore to give a politically charged acceptance speech at the Academy Awards: "I'd like to see Michael Moore get up there and let 'em have it with both barrels and really let loose and give them a real rabble-rousing speech."[101] During a 1996 panel at the University of Colorado at Boulder's Conference on World Affairs, Ebert coined the Boulder Pledge, by which he vowed never to purchase anything offered through the result of an unsolicited email message, or to forward chain emails or mass emails to others.[102][103][104]
Ebert was critical of intelligent design creationism,[105] and stated that people who believe in either creationism or New Age beliefs such as crystal healing or astrology are not qualified to be President.[106] Ebert also expressed disbelief in pseudoscientific or supernatural claims in general, calling them "woo-woo".[107]
Discussing his beliefs, in 2009 Ebert wrote that he did not "want to provide a category for people to apply to [him]" because he "would not want [his] convictions reduced to a word", and stated, "I have never said, although readers have freely informed me I am an atheist, an agnostic, or at the very least a secular humanist – which I am".[59] In the same blog entry, he also said "I am not a believer, not an atheist, not an agnostic. I am still awake at night, asking how?[a] I am more content with the question than I would be with an answer."[59][108] In March 2013, he wrote that he was pro-life: "My choice is to not support abortion, except in cases of a clear-cut choice between the lives of the mother and child. A child conceived through incest or rape is innocent and deserves the right to be born." He also stated: "I consider myself Catholic, lock, stock and barrel, with this technical loophole: I cannot believe in God. I refuse to call myself an atheist however, because that indicates too great a certainty about the unknowable."[109]
On April 25, 2011, he achieved one of his long-time goals: winning one of the weekly caption contests in The New Yorker after more than 100 attempts.[110]
Ebert (right) at the Conference on World Affairs in September 2002, shortly after his cancer diagnosis
In early 2002, Ebert was diagnosed with papillary thyroid cancer which was successfully removed in February. In 2003, he underwent surgery for cancer in his salivary gland, which was followed up by radiation treatment. He was again afflicted with cancer in 2006. In June of that year, he had surgery to remove cancerous tissue near his right jaw.[111] A week later he had a life-threatening complication when his carotid artery burst near the surgery site.[112] He was confined to bed rest and was unable to speak, eat, or drink for a period of time, necessitating the use of a feeding tube.[113] The complications kept Ebert off the air for an extended period of time.
Ebert made his first public appearance since mid-2006 at Ebertfest on April 25, 2007. He was unable to speak, instead communicating through his wife.[114] He returned to reviewing on May 18, 2007, when three of his reviews were published in print.[115] In July 2007, he revealed that he was still unable to speak.[116] Ebert adopted a computerized voice system to communicate, eventually using a copy of his own voice created from his recordings by CereProc.[117] In March 2010, his health trials and new computerized voice were featured on The Oprah Winfrey Show.[118][119] Ebert later proposed a test to determine the realism of a synthesized voice.[120]
Ebert underwent further surgery in January 2008 to hopefully restore his voice and address the complications from his previous surgeries.[121][122] On April 1, Ebert announced his speech had not been restored.[123] A further surgery was performed in April 2008 after Ebert fractured his hip in a fall.[124] By 2011, Ebert was using a prosthetic chin to hide some of the damage done by his many chin, mouth, and throat surgeries.[125]
In December 2012, Ebert was hospitalized with a fractured hip.[126] On April 2, 2013, he announced that he would be taking a "leave of presence" from his duties because the hip fracture was determined to be cancerous and would require radiation treatment.[127][128] He remarked, "I'll be able at last to do what I've always fantasized about doing: reviewing only the movies I want to review."[128]
I know it is coming, and I do not fear it, because I believe there is nothing on the other side of death to fear. I hope to be spared as much pain as possible on the approach path. I was perfectly content before I was born, and I think of death as the same state. What I am grateful for is the gift of intelligence, and for life, love, wonder, and laughter. You can't say it wasn't interesting. My lifetime's memories are what I have brought home from the trip. I will require them for eternity no more than that little souvenir of the Eiffel Tower I brought home from Paris.[96]
Two days before his death, Ebert ended his final blog post by saying, "So on this day of reflection I say again, thank you for going on this journey with me. I'll see you at the movies."[128] On April 4, 2013, Ebert died at the age of 70 at his home in Chicago, ending his 11-year battle with cancer.[1][129]
His death prompted wide reaction from celebrities both in and out of the entertainment industry. U.S. President Barack Obama wrote, "Roger was the movies ... [he could capture] the unique power of the movies to take us somewhere magical ... The movies won't be the same without Roger".[130][131] Robert Redford called Ebert "one of the great champions of freedom of artistic expression" and said "His personal passion for cinema was boundless, and that is sure to be his legacy for generations to come."[130] Oprah Winfrey called Ebert's death the "end of an era", as did Steven Spielberg, who also said that Ebert's "reviews went far deeper than simply thumbs up or thumbs down. He wrote with passion through a real knowledge of film and film history, and in doing so, helped many movies find their audiences... [he] put television criticism on the map".[130]
On April 7, 2013, a private memorial vigil with an open casket was held at the chapel of Graceland Cemetery on the city's north side. The funeral was set for the following day, April 8, 2013.[132]
In September 2013, organizers in Champaign, Illinois announced plans to raise $125,000 to build a life-size bronze statue of Ebert in the town, to be unveiled in front of the Virginia Theatre at Ebertfest in 2014. The composition was selected by Chaz Ebert and depicts Ebert sitting in the middle of three theater seats giving a "thumbs up".[133]
The 2013 Toronto International Film Festival opened with a video tribute of Roger Ebert at the Roy Thompson Hall during the world premiere of the WikiLeaks based film The Fifth Estate. Ebert had been an avid supporter of the festival since its early days. His wife Chaz Ebert was in attendance to accept a plaque on Roger's behalf.
Hundreds attended the April 8, 2013 funeral Mass held at Chicago's Holy Name Cathedral, where Ebert was celebrated as a film critic, newspaperman, advocate for social justice, and husband.[108] Father Michael Pfleger concluded the service with: "the balconies of heaven are filled with angels singing Thumbs Up."[132]
A 2-hour-and-45-minute public tribute, entitled Roger Ebert: A Celebration of Life, was held at 7 p.m. on Thursday, April 11, 2013 at the Chicago Theater. It featured in-person remembrances, video testimonials, video and film clips, gospel choirs, and was, according to the Chicago Tribune's Mark Caro, "a laughter- and sorrow-filled send-off from the entertainment and media worlds".[134] At the 86th Academy Awards ceremony, Ebert was included in the In Memoriam montage, a rare honor for a film critic.
At the April 2014 Ebertfest, the Pulitzer Prize-winner will be honored with a life size bronze statue outside the Virginia Theatre in Champaign, IL. A fan of Ebert, Scott Anderson, Jr. and the Public Art League, have commissioned the project and donations are being collected for The Roger Ebert Film Center at the University of Illinois.[135]
Each year from 1999 to 2013, except in 2008, Ebert published Roger Ebert's Movie Yearbook, a collection of all of his movie reviews from the previous two and a half years (for example, the 2011 edition, ISBN 978-0-7407-9769-9, covers January 2008 – July 2010), as well as essays and other writings. He has also written the following books:
An Illini Century: One Hundred Years of Campus Life (1967) – A history of the first 100 years of the University of Illinois. (no ISBN)
The Perfect London Walk (1986) – A tour of London, Ebert's favorite foreign city. (ISBN 0-8362-7929-8)
Two Weeks In Midday Sun : A Cannes Notebook (1987) Coverage of the 1987 Cannes Film Festival which was also the 40th anniversary of the festival plus comments about the previous twelve festivals Ebert had attended. Interviews with John Malkovich, Barbara Hershey, and Isabella Rossellini. (ISBN 0-8362-7942-5)
Behind the Phantom's Mask (1993) This is Ebert's only work of fiction which is about an on-stage murder and the resulting attention put on a previously unknown actor. (ISBN 0-8362-8021-0)
Roger Ebert's Book of Film (1996) – a Norton Anthology of a century of writing about the movies. (ISBN 0-393-04000-3)
I Hated, Hated, Hated This Movie (2000) – a collection of reviews of films that received two stars or fewer. (The title comes from his zero-star review of the 1994 film North.) (ISBN 0-7407-0672-1)
Questions for the Movie Answer Man (1997) – his responses to questions sent from his readers. (ISBN 0-8362-2894-4)
The Great Movies (2002), The Great Movies II (2005), and The Great Movies III (2010) – Three books of essays about great films. (ISBN 0-7679-1038-9, ISBN 0-7679-1950-5, and ISBN 978-0-226-18208-7)
Awake in the Dark: The Best of Roger Ebert (2006) – a collection of essays from his 40 years as a film critic, featuring interviews, profiles, essays, his initial reviews upon a film's release, as well as critical exchanges between the film critics Richard Corliss and Andrew Sarris. The foreword was written by David Bordwell.[136] (ISBN 0-226-18200-2)
Your Movie Sucks (2007) – A collection of less-than-two-star reviews. (The title comes from his zero-star review of the 2005 film Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo.) (ISBN 0-7407-6366-0)
Scorsese by Ebert (2008) – Covers works by director Martin Scorsese from 1967 to 2008 plus 11 interviews with the director over that time period. (ISBN 978-0-226-18202-5)
The Pot and How to Use It: The Mystery and Romance of the Rice Cooker (2010) (ISBN 0-7407-9142-7)[137]
A Horrible Experience of Unbearable Length (2012) – A third book of less-than-two-star reviews, for movies released after 2006. (The title comes from his one-star review of the 2009 film Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen.) (ISBN 1-4494-1025-1)
Categories: Wrapports1942 births2013 deaths20th-century American writers21st-century American writersAmerican film criticsAmerican humanistsAmerican male writersAmerican memoiristsAmerican people of Dutch descentAmerican people of German descentAmerican people of Irish descentAmerican people with disabilitiesAmerican screenwritersAmerican skepticsAmerican television personalitiesCancer deaths in IllinoisChicago Sun-Times peopleDeaths from thyroid cancerFilm historiansFilm theoristsFormer Roman CatholicsIllinois DemocratsPeople from Chicago, IllinoisPeople from Urbana, IllinoisPulitzer Prize for Criticism winnersReligious skepticsScience fiction fansUniversity of Cape Town alumniUniversity of Chicago facultyUniversity of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign alumniWriters from IllinoisHidden categories: Pages with Rotten Tomatoes embedsUse mdy dates from April 2013Commons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersVIAF different on Wikidata 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Roger Ebert was the all-time best-known, most successful movie critic in cinema history, when one thinks of his establishing a rapport with both serious cineastes and the movie-going public and reaching more movie fans via television and print than any other critic. He became the first and only movie critic to win a Pulitzer Prize (it would be 28 years before another film critic, Stephen Hunter, would win journalism's top tchotchke). His opinions likely was relied on by more movie-goers than any other critic in cinema history, making Roger Ebert the gold standard for film criticism.
      Educated at the University of Illinois, won national college award for his campus newspaper columns.
      His home had a mini-movie theater and a glass enclosed workout room, plus he had a life-sized statue of Oliver Hardy.
      Once told David Letterman that if he were trapped on a deserted island with only one film to watch, that film would be Citizen Kane (1941).
      He went to the draft for the Vietnam War and almost got in, but he was told he was overweight and was rejected. He was 26 years old and weighed 206 pounds at that time.
      Shoulder surgery in May 2002 caused him to miss attending Cannes Film Festival for first time in 25 years. Broke left shoulder in two places after slipping on wet floor.
      His fourth annual EbertFest of Overlooked Films held at Virginia Theatre in Champaign, Illinois, drew almost twenty thousand people over five days in March 2002.
      Considered the film Day of the Woman (1978) to be the worst movie he has ever seen, then called its 2010 remake worse.
      First person ever to win the Pulitzer Prize for film criticism; in 2003, Stephen Hunter of the Washington Post became the second.
      He drew criticism when he stated that he considered The Passion of the Christ (2004) to be 'the most violent film I've ever seen'. Many misinterpreted that to mean that he felt that the violence in the film was negative and exploitive (even though he gave the film a glowing review). He stated in his Q and A column that "The effect of movie violence depends on subjective factors, including the purpose the filmmakers had in using it."
      At the end of the 1990s, he and Martin Scorsese made a list of the top ten films of the decade. Roger's were: 1. Hoop Dreams (1994) 2. Pulp Fiction (1994) 3. Goodfellas (1990) 4. Fargo (1996) 5. Three Colors: Red, White and Blue 6. Schindler's List (1993) 7. Breaking the Waves (1996) 8. Leaving Las Vegas (1995) 9. Malcolm X (1992) 10. JFK (1991).
      Wrote an introduction for the book "Mad at a Movies", a compilation of past movie satires from the pages of "Mad" magazine. He credits Mad's movie satires as one of his earliest inspirations for becoming a film critic.
      Believed the Academy's biggest mistake was giving Gladiator (2000) the award for 'Best Picture' of the year in 2000.
      Spent a year on a Rotary fellowship at the University of Cape Town in South Africa. He later started a Ph.D at the University of Chicago, which he didn't finish.
      Despite undergoing debilitating cancer treatment and radiation in 2004, Ebert continued his award-winning movie reviews, writing an incredible 274 reviews that year, plus 26 essays on great movies and 26 versions of his column "The Movie Answer Man." He also covered various film festivals (including Cannes) and the Oscars.
      [June 23, 2005] Received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6834 Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, California.
      Author of the "Boulder Pledge" 1996 - a strong statement against spam in response to hearing the fact some people will purchase things advertised via spam. If people don't buy things, there's no reason to send it.
      Three of the five films he's chosen from 2000 to 2004 as the best of the year, have all won their lead actresses the Oscar for Best Actress in a Leading Role. Halle Berry in Monster's Ball (2001) (his choice for the best film of 2001), Charlize Theron in Monster (2003) (his choice for the best film of 2003) and Hilary Swank in Million Dollar Baby (2004) (his choice for the best film of 2004).
      His top ten films of all time were: The General (1926), Citizen Kane (1941), Tôkyô monogatari (1953), Vertigo (1958), La dolce vita (1960), 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968), Aguirre, der Zorn Gottes (1972), Apocalypse Now (1979), Raging Bull (1980) and The Tree of Life (2011).
      1 July 2006 - Had surgery to repair a burst blood vessel near his salivary gland, near where he had his previous cancer operation.
      Biography/bibliography in: "Contemporary Authors." New Revision Series, volume 151, pages 132-135. Farmington Hills, MI: Thomson Gale, 2006.
      Claimed in his original review of Rocky (1976) that Sylvester Stallone was the "next Marlon Brando".
      Police departments across the United States, including the makers of Cops (1989), hold a review at their annual conventions, of actual arrest/cross examine procedure on videotape. It is titled "Fiscal and Deebert", spoofing the critics Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert.
      Shared the birthplace of Urbana, Illinois with the character Hal 9000, as specified in 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) one of his favorite films. He held a birthday party for Hal 9000 at the University of Illinois in Urbana in 1997 (Hal's birth-date in the novel, not the film) celebrated with a screening of 2001 and its co-writer Arthur C. Clarke in attendance via satellite.
      Said that the first movie he ever saw was A Day at the Races (1937) starring The Marx Brothers.
      As a result of suffering from thyroid cancer, he had to have his lower jaw removed. He lost all ability to speak, eat and drink. His legs were also weakened from unsuccessful attempts at building a new jaw from other bone and tissue. He was nourished through infusions and a tube and communicated via his computer or through signs he made with his hands. Despite all health problems, he continued to work as a movie critic.
      As of December 2010, he has twice refused to assign a star rating to a film: once for Pink Flamingos (1972) and once for The Human Centipede (First Sequence) (2009). In both cases he explained his reasoning was that a film made to disgust the viewer cannot be judged as "good" or "bad", but either must be accepted for what it is or not at all.
      In reference to a film adaptation of the Russ Meyer biography, "Big Bosoms and Square Jaws", Roger said that he would want to be portrayed by either Jack Black or Philip Seymour Hoffman.
      His favorite film of the naughts was Synecdoche, New York (2008). His other top ten are The Hurt Locker (2008), Monster (2003), Juno (2007), Me and You and Everyone We Know (2005), Chop Shop (2007), Le fils (2002), 25th Hour (2002), Almost Famous (2000) and My Winnipeg (2007).
      Editor of "The Daily Illini" during his senior year at the University of Illinois in Champaign-Urbana, Illinois. One of his first movie reviews was a review of La dolce vita (1960), published in The Daily Illini on October 4, 1961, when he was a sophomore.
      Met a young, unfamiliar critic Gene Siskel in 1969 at a Chicago Newspaper. They became friends for 30 years until Siskel's death, early in 1999.
      I know it is coming, and I do not fear it, because I believe there is nothing on the other side of death to fear. I hope to be spared as much pain as possible on the approach path. I was perfectly content before I was born, and I think of death as the same state. I am grateful for the gifts of intelligence, love, wonder and laughter. You can't say it wasn't interesting. My lifetime's memories are what I have brought home from the trip. I will require them for eternity no more than that little souvenir of the Eiffel Tower I brought home from Paris.
      Old theatres are irreplaceable. They could never be duplicated at today's costs - but more importantly, their spirit could not be duplicated because they remind us of a day when going to the show was a more glorious and escapist experience. I think a town's old theatres are the sanctuary of its dreams.
      From his review of North (1994): I hated this movie. Hated hated hated hated hated this movie. Hated it. Hated every stupid simpering vacant audience-insulting moment of it. Hated the sensibility that thought anyone would like it. Hated the implied insult to the audience by its belief that anyone would be entertained by it.
Pearl Harbor (2001) is a two-hour movie squeezed into three hours, about how on December 7, 1941, the Japanese staged a surprise attack on an American love triangle.
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie (1995) is about as close as you can get to absolute nothing and still have a product to project on the screen.
      [on the creature in Resident Evil (2002)] That creature is called The Licker because it has a nine-foot tongue. At one point it has its tongue nailed to the track and is dragged along the third rail; I hate it when that happens.
      [on Mannequin (1987)] This movie is a real curiosity. It's dead. I don't mean it's bad. A lot of bad movies are fairly throbbing with life. Mannequin is dead. The wake lasts 90 minutes and then we can leave the theater. Halfway through, I was ready for someone to lead us in reciting the rosary.
      On Schindler's List (1993): Of the thousands of movies that I've seen, none has touched me more deeply, spiritually, emotionally with just an outpouring of emotion.
      On Hoop Dreams (1994): A film like 'Hoop Dreams' is what the movies are for. It takes us, shakes us, and make us think in new ways about the world around us. It gives us the impression of having touched life itself.
      On Baby Geniuses (1999): The movie involves a genius baby named Sly, who escapes from the lab and tries to organize fellow babies in revolt. The nauseating sight of little Sly on a disco floor, dressed in the white suit from 'Saturday Night Fever' and dancing to 'Stayin' Alive', had me pawing under my seat for the bag my Subway Gardenburger came in, in case I felt the sudden need to recycle it.
      On Swingers (1996): I saw it, I enjoyed it. I probably wouldn't walk more than five blocks to see it again. And on a cold day I'd have to think about it.
      On Evil Dead II (1987): "Evil Dead 2: Dead by Dawn" is a comedy disguised as a blood-soaked shock-a-rama. It looks superficially like a routine horror movie, a vomitorium designed to separate callow teenagers from their lunch. But look a little closer and you'll realize that the movie is a fairly sophisticated satire. Level One viewers will say it's in bad taste. Level Two folks like myself will perceive that it is about bad taste.
      On Leaving Las Vegas (1995): Oh, this movie is so sad! It is sad not because of the tragic lives of its characters, but because of their goodness and their charity.
      On the re-release of Pink Flamingos (1972): John Waters' 'Pink Flamingos' has been restored for its 25th anniversary revival and, with any luck at all, that means I won't have to see it again for another 25 years. If I haven't retired by then, I will. How do you review a movie like this? I am reminded of an interview I once did with a man who ran a carnival sideshow. His star was a geek, who bit off the heads of live chickens and drank their blood. 'He's the best geek in the business,' this man assured me. 'What is the difference between a good geek and a bad geek?' I asked. 'You wanna examine the chickens?'.
      On Mùi du du xanh (1993): Here is a film so placid and filled with sweetness that watching it is like listening to soothing music.
Caligola (1979) is sickening, utterly worthless, shameful trash. If it is not the worst film I have ever seen, that makes it all the more shameful: People with talent allowed themselves to participate in this travesty. Disgusted and unspeakably depressed, I walked out of the film after two hours of its 170-minute length. People learn fast. "This movie," said the lady in front of me at the drinking fountain, "is the worst piece of shit I have ever seen."
      On The Fearless Vampire Killers: Vampires 101 (1967): There's a girl dressed like a vampire standing in a window on Randolph Street, and if you can make her laugh, you get two free tickets to 'The Fearless Vampire Killers'...I've cooked up a whizzero of an indoor contest. It works this way. First, you buy two tickets to 'The Fearless Vampire Killers, etc.' Then, you go inside and - get this - if you don't laugh even once during the whole movie, you get your money back...The night I went to see 'The Fearless Vampire Killers', for example, the whole audience would have won because nobody laughed. One or two people cried, and a lady behind me dropped a bag of M&Ms which rolled under the seats, and a guy on the center aisle sneezed at 43 minutes past the hour.
      [on The Lonely Guy (1984)] I ordered a box of popcorn and went into the theater. 'Good luck,' an usher told me. 'You're going to need it.' He was right.
      [on Before Sunrise (1995)] The R rating for this film, based on a few four-letter words, is entirely unjustified. It is an ideal film for teenagers.
      [on Jack Frost (1998)] The snowman gave me the creeps. Never have I disliked a movie character more. They say state-of-the-art special effects can create the illusion of anything on the screen, and now we have proof: It's possible for the Jim Henson folks and Industrial Light and Magic to put their heads together and come up with the most repulsive single creature in the history of special effects... To see the snowman is to dislike the snowman.
      We Americans like to see evil in terms of guns and crime and terrorists and drug smuggling - big, broad immoral activities. We rarely make movies about how one person can be personally cruel to another, through their deep understanding of what might hurt the other person the most.
      People ask me sometimes if I ever change my mind about a review and I no longer agree with what I said in my review of The Graduate (1967), that the Simon & Garfunkel songs are instantly forgettable. I don't think that was right.
      On Deep Throat (1972): There are, I have been told, 17 scenes of explicit sex in the movie "Deep Throat." I did not count them myself, I saw the movie, but I forgot to start counting until too late. Harold, who is a bartender in the Old Town area, counted them on Friday afternoon, and we will have to take his word. Harold is not often mistaken in these matters. He has a keen eye and a good memory.
      On Freddy Got Fingered (2001): This movie doesn't scrape the bottom of the barrel. This movie isn't the bottom of the barrel. This movie isn't below the bottom of the barrel. This movie doesn't deserve to be mentioned in the same sentence with barrels.
      On God Told Me To (1976): As I left the theater, dazed, I saw a crowd across the street. A young man in a strait jacket (try not to get ahead of the story, please) was preparing to be suspended in mid-air hundreds of inches above the ground, and to escape, Houdini-style. At the moment he was still standing on the sidewalk - but, believe me, it was still a better show.
      On The Deathmaster (1972): [Robert] Quarry arrives at dawn in an old coffin that floats up on the beach at Santa Monica. If memory serves, it is the same beach used for the opening scene of Attack of the Crab Monsters (1957). Crab monsters would be a relief, in fact, but what with the price of crabmeat these days they have all gone into different lines of work or simply dropped out of circulation. The next time you eat a crabmeat cocktail, reflect that it could be eating you.
      On The Longest Yard (2005): There is a sense in which attacking this movie is like kicking a dog for not being better at calculus.
      On Un indien dans la ville (1994): Through a stroke of good luck, the entire third reel of the film was missing the day I saw it. I went back to the screening room two days later to view the missing reel. It was as bad as the rest, but nothing could have saved this film. As my colleague Gene Siskel observed, 'If the third reel had been the missing footage from Orson Welles' The Magnificent Ambersons (1942) this movie still would have sucked.'
      On Americathon (1979): If you plan to miss this movie, better miss it quickly; I doubt if it'll be around to miss for long.
      On Jeg - en kvinde (1965): If you can miss only one movie this year, make it 'I, A Woman.' Here is a Swedish film which very nearly restores my faith in the cinema, demonstrating that all the other crummy movies I've had to sit through in this job weren't so bad. Not by comparison, anyway.
      I can report, however, why I didn't find The Jerk (1979) very funny. It began to grind on me right at the beginning because it was depending on whats rather than whys for its laughs. I'll explain. It seems to me that there are two basic approaches to any kind of comedy, and in a burst of oversimplification I'll call them the Funny Hat and the Funny Logic approaches. The difference is elementary: In the first, we're supposed to laugh because the comic is wearing the funny hat, and in the second it's funny because of his reasons for wearing the funny hat.
      [on why his movie ratings are relative, not concrete] It doesn't work that way because people should be smart enough to listen to what Richard Roeper and I say instead of looking at the dumb thumbs and the dumb stars because there are gradations and contexts that go on.
      A depressing number of people seem to process everything literally. They are to wit as a blind man is to a forest, able to find every tree, but each one coming as a surprise.
      On First Descent (2005): "'As the decade progressed, so did snowboarding,' we learn at one point, leading me to reflect that as the decade progressed, so did time itself."
      The distribution system seems to be set up to turn every multiplex in this country into an idiot's convention.
      [To Gene Siskel, when he claimed that David Lynch, director of Blue Velvet (1986), was playing him like a piano.] Well, the next time someone plays me, he better have some music that's worth listening to.
      I am against censorship and believe that no films or books should be burned or banned, but film school study is one thing and a general release is another. Any new Disney film immediately becomes part of the consciousness of almost every child in America, and I would not want to be a black child going to school in the weeks after Song of the South (1946) was first seen by my classmates.
      On Batman Begins (2005): To get straight to the point, Batman Begins is the 5th Batman movie, but the first to get it right; to get it absolutely right!
      It's saying something about a director's work when the most well-rounded and socialized hero in any of [Tim Burton's] films is Pee-wee Herman.
      One thing I've discovered is that I love my job more than I thought I did, and I love my wife even more!
      [about Terry Zwigoff/Crumb (1994)]: Zwigoff was plagued by agonizing back pain all during the period when he was making Crumb (1994) and slept with a gun under his pillow, he told me, in case he had to end his misery in the middle of the night. When Crumb (Robert Crumb) didn't want to cooperate with the documentary, Zwigoff threatened to shoot himself. Crumb does not often meet his match, but did with Zwigoff.
      When you ask a friend if Hellboy (2004) is any good, you're not asking if it's any good compared to Mystic River (2003), you're asking if it's any good compared to The Punisher (2004). And my answer would be, on a scale of one to four, if "Superman" is four, then Hellboy (2004) is three and The Punisher (2004) is two. In the same way, if American Beauty (1999) gets four stars, then "[The United States of] Leland" clocks in at about two.
      Prior to the Academy Awards ceremony at which Bowling for Columbine (2002) won for Best Documentary: I'd like to see Michael Moore get up there and let 'em have it with both barrels and really let loose and give them a real rabble-rousing speech.
      On Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1990): There are said to be many levels to the video game, but I succeeded in penetrating only to the second before I realized I had to abandon Ninja Turtles that instant, or risk permanent psychic damage... but this movie is nowhere near as bad as it might have been, and probably is the best possible Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle movie... The plot? Do you care?
      American films are usually about one or two stars and a handful of well-known character actors, while Europeans are still capable of pitching in together for an ensemble piece.
      On The Village (2004): Eventually the secret of Those, etc., is revealed. To call it an anticlimax would be an insult not only to climaxes but to prefixes.
      On Ballistic: Ecks vs. Sever (2002): A miniaturized assassination robot small enough to slip through the bloodstream would cost how much? Millions? And it is delivered by dart? How's this for an idea: use a poison dart, and spend the surplus on school lunches.
      There was a time when the feature was invariably preceded by a cartoon, and audiences smiled when they heard the theme music for "Looney Tunes" and "Merrie Melodies" from Warner Bros. Cartoons have long since been replaced by 20 minutes of paid commercials in many theaters, an emblem of the greed of exhibitors and their contempt for their audiences. In those golden days, the cartoon (and even a newsreel and a short subject) was a gift from the management.
      On Death Sentence (2007): ...Basically this is a movie about a lot of people shooting at each other, and during the parts I liked, the action audience will probably go out to get popcorn, or a tattoo or something.
      [on Robert Mitchum] He has what many of the great 1930s and 1940s actors who are today's cult heroes had: a capacity to retain and even expand their dignity, their image, their self-possession, even in the midst of the worst possible material. You see Mitchum in bad movies, but you can never spot him being bad.
      [on Red Dawn (1984)] Indeed, there's a lot this movie doesn't pause for, including a rational explanation of the plot.
      On Southland Tales (2006): Note to readers planning to write me messages informing me that this review was no more than a fevered rant: You are correct.
      On Slither (2006): There are better movies opening this weekend. There are better movies opening every weekend. But "Slither" has a competence to it, an ability to manipulate obligatory horror scenes in a way that works. Given my theory of the star rating system, which suggests movies should be rated by their genres, "Slither" gets two if "28 Days Later" gets three. On the other hand, "Basic Instinct 2" also opens today, and in the genre of slick and classy big-star thrillers, if "Fatal Attraction" gets 2-1/2 stars, then "Basic Instinct 2" gets 1-1/2. On the third hand, a lot of people would probably enjoy "Basic Instinct 2" more than "Slither." One of these days, I'm going to have to take that star rating system and feed it to a meat-eating slime-slug.
      On Basic Instinct 2 (2006): Here is a movie so outrageous and preposterous it is either (a) suicidal or (b) throbbing with a horrible fascination. I lean toward (b). It's a lot of things, but boring is not one of them. I cannot recommend the movie, but ... why the hell can't I? Just because it's godawful? What kind of reason is that for staying away from a movie? Godawful and boring, *that* would be a reason...My 1-1/2-star rating [of the movie] is like a cold shower, designed to take my mind away from giving it four stars.
      [on 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968)] The genius is not in how much Stanley Kubrick does in 2001: A Space Odyssey, but in how little. This is the work of an artist so sublimely confident that he doesn't include a single shot simply to keep our attention. He reduces each scene to its essence, and leaves it on screen long enough for us to contemplate it, to inhabit it in our imaginations. Alone among science-fiction movies, 2001 is not concerned with thrilling us, but with inspiring our awe.
      [on 37°2 le matin (1986)] Now comes a throwback to the old days when the phrase "French movie" did not mean art and "art film" didn't mean art, either, and everybody knew exactly what they did mean, and had their exact change counted out before they dashed up to the box office, so nobody would see them going into a dirty movie. If you can get anything more than that out of Betty Blue, consider it a bonus.
      [on Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo (2005)] Does this sound like a movie you want to see? It sounds to me like a movie that Columbia Pictures and the film's producers...should be discussing in long, sad conversations with their inner child.
      [on Mister Lonely (2007)] I wish there were a way to write a positive two-star review. Harmony Korine's "Mister Lonely" is an odd, desperate film, lost in its own audacity, and yet there are passages of surreal beauty and preposterous invention that I have to admire. The film doesn't work, and indeed seems to have no clear idea of what its job is, and yet (sigh) there is the temptation to forgive its trespasses simply because it is utterly, if pointlessly, original.
      On Knowing (2009): The plot involves the most fundamental of all philosophical debates: Is the universe deterministic or random? Is everything in some way preordained or does it happen by chance? If that questions sounds too abstract, wait until you see this film, which poses it in stark terms: What if we could know in advance when the Earth will end?
      On Ballast (2008): Especially in its opening scenes, "Ballast" is "slower" and "quieter" than we usually expect. You know what? So is life, most of the time. We don't wake up and immediately start engaging with plot points. But "Ballast" inexorably grows and deepens and gathers power and absorbs us. I always say I hardly ever cry at sad films, but I sometimes do, just a little, at films about good people.
      On Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen (2009): Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen is a horrible experience of unbearable length, briefly punctuated by three or four amusing moments. One of these involves a dog-like robot humping the leg of the heroine. Such are the meager joys.
      On Happy Gilmore (1996): Happy Gilmore is filled with so many plugs it looks like a product placement sampler in search of a movie. I probably missed a few, but I counted Diet Pepsi, Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Subway sandwich shops, Budweiser (in bottles, cans and Bud-dispensing helmets), Michelob, Visa cards, Bell Atlantic, AT&T, Sizzler, Wilson, Golg Digest, the ESPN sports network, and Top-Flite golf balls. I'm sure some of those got in by accident (the modern golf tour has ads plastered on everything but the grass), but I'm fairly sure Subway paid for placement, since they scored one Subway sandwich eaten outside a store, one date in a Subway store, one Subway soft drink container, two verbal mentions of Subway, one Subway commercial starring Happy, a Subway T-shirt, and a Subway golf bag. Halfway through the movie, I didn't know what I wanted more: laughs, or mustard.
      On G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra (2009): G. I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra is a 118-minute animated film with sequences involving the faces and other body parts of human beings. It is sure to be enjoyed by those whose movie appreciation is defined by the ability to discern that moving pictures and sound are being employed to depict violence...Yet I say this movie is certainly better than "Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen." How so? Admittedly, it doesn't have as much cleavage. But the high-tech hardware is more fun to look at than the transforming robots, the plot is as preposterous, and although the noise is just as loud, it's more the deep bass rumbles of explosions than the ear-piercing bang of steel robots pounding on each other.
      On The Hot Chick (2002): The MPAA rates this PG-13. It is too vulgar for anyone under 13, and too dumb for anyone over 13.
      On The Master of Disguise (2002): The Master of Disguise pants and wheezes and hurls itself exhausted across the finish line after barely 65 minutes of movie, and then it follows it with 15 minutes of end credits in an attempt to clock in as a feature film. We get outtakes, deleted scenes, flubbed lines and all the other versions of the Credit Cookie, which was once a cute idea but is getting to be a bore.The credits go on and on and on. The movie is like a party guest who thinks he is funny and is wrong. The end credits are like the same guest taking too long to leave. At one point they at last mercifully seemed to be over, and the projectionist even closed the curtains, but no: There was Dana Carvey, still visible against the red velvet, asking us what we were still doing in the theater. That is a dangerous question to ask after a movie like "The Master of Disguise." The movie is a desperate miscalculation. It gives poor Dana Carvey nothing to do that is really funny, and then expects us to laugh because he acts so goofy all the time. But acting funny is not funny. Acting in a situation that's funny-now that's funny.
      On Battlefield Earth (2000): Battlefield Earth is like taking a bus trip with someone who has needed a bath for a long time. It's not merely bad; it's unpleasant in a hostile way. Some movies run off the rails. This one is like the train crash in The Fugitive (1993). I watched it in mounting gloom, realizing I was witnessing something historic, a film that for decades to come will be the punch line of jokes about bad movies.
      [on North (1994)] It's the movie that makes me cringe even when I'm sitting here just thinking about it.
      On Mad Dog Time (1996): Mad Dog Time is the first movie I have seen that does not improve on the sight of a blank screen viewed for the same length of time. Oh, I've seen bad movies before. But they usually made me care about how bad they were. Watching Mad Dog Time is like waiting for the bus in a city where you're not sure they have a bus line...Mad Dog Time should be cut into free ukulele picks for the poor.
      [on Police Academy (1984)] It's really something. It's so bad, maybe you should pool your money and draw straws and send one of the guys off to rent it so that in the future, whenever you think you're sitting through a bad comedy, he could shake his head, and chuckle tolerantly, and explain that you don't know what bad is.
      On The Twilight Saga: New Moon (2009): The characters in this movie should be arrested for loitering with intent to moan. Never have teenagers been in greater need of a jump-start. Granted some of them are more than 100 years old, but still: their charisma is by Madame Tussaud...sitting through this [movie] is like driving a tractor in low gear though a sullen sea of Brylcreem.
      On Leap Year (2010): Let's start off on the same page. A sweet but over-organized young woman named Anna...has been dating a high-powered heart surgeon named Jeremy...for four years. He's pleasant, attentive, presentable and shares her goal of buying a condo in the best building in Boston. He does nothing, absolutely nothing, wrong. For veteran filmgoers, he has one fatal flaw: He has a healthy head of hair, and every strand is perfectly in place. No modern movie hero can have his hair combed.
      On Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen (2009): If you want to save yourself the ticket price, go into the kitchen, cue up a male choir singing the music of hell, and get a kid to start banging pots and pans together. Then close your eyes and use your imagination.
      On Tooth Fairy (2010): In the pantheon of such legends as Santa Claus and the Bogeyman, the Tooth Fairy ranks down in the minor leagues... There is a scene in "Tooth Fairy" when the hero is screamed at by his girlfriend for even *beginning* to suggest to her 6-year-old that the tooth fairy doesn't exist, but surely this is a trauma a child can survive. Don't kids simply humor their parents to get the dollar?
      On Valentine's Day (2010): "Valentine's Day" is being marketed as a Date Movie. I think it's more of a First-Date Movie. If your date likes it, do *not* date that person again. And if you like it, there may not be a second date.
The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008) is third among the top five favorites for Best Picture. It may well win. I can't imagine many people wanting to see the movie twice. There is another film this year that isn't in the "top five" or listed among the front-runners at all, and it's a profound consideration of the process of living and aging. That's Charlie Kaufman's Synecdoche, New York (2008). It will be viewed and valued decades from now. You mark my words.
      Now that I no longer do the red carpet, I can say with pride I never once asked anyone, 'What are you wearing?'
      I have the sense that younger Hollywood is losing the instinctive feeling for story and quality that generations of executives possessed. It's all about the marketing.
      I'm not opposed to 3-D as an option. I'm opposed to it as a way of life for Hollywood, where it seems to be skewing major studio output away from the kinds of films we think of as Oscar-worthy.
      Doing research on the Web is like using a library assembled piecemeal by pack rats and vandalized nightly.
      On The Human Centipede (First Sequence) (2009): I am required to award stars to movies I review. This time, I refuse to do it. The star rating system is unsuited to this film. Is the movie good? Is it bad? Does it matter? It is what it is and occupies a world where the stars don't shine.
      On The Twilight Saga: Eclipse (2010): Of Taylor Lautner's musculature, and particularly his abs, much has been written. Yes, he has a great build, but I remind you that an abdominal six-pack must be five seconds' work for a shape-shifter. More impressive is the ability of both Edward and Jacob to regard Bella with penetrating gazes from 'neath really dope eyebrows. When my eyebrows get like Edward's, the barber trims them and never even asks me first.
      [About David Gordon Green] He is not a director of plots so much as a director of tones, emotions and moments of truth, and there's a sense of gathering fate even in the lighter scenes. His films remind me of Days of Heaven (1978) by Terrence Malick, in the way they are told as memories, as if all of this happened and is over with and cannot be changed; you watch a Green film not to see what will happen, but to see what did happen.
      [on 12 Angry Men (1957)]: The movie plays like a textbook for directors interested in how lens choices affect mood. By gradually lowering his camera, Lumet illustrates another principle of composition: A higher camera tends to dominate, a lower camera tends to be dominated. As the film begins we look down on the characters, and the angle suggests they can be comprehended and mastered. By the end, they loom over us, and we feel overwhelmed by the force of their passion.
      [About Sidney Lumet]: If Lumet is not among the most famous of American directors, that is only because he ranges so widely he cannot be categorized. Few filmmakers have been so consistently respectful of the audience's intelligence.
      [on Bloodline (1979)]: It has been reported that author Sidney Sheldon was paid $2 million for the screen rights to his novel. I hope he is laughing all the way to his remedial writing class.
      [on Battle Los Angeles (2011)]: Young men: If you attend this crap with friends who admire it, tactfully inform them they are idiots. Young women: If your date likes this movie, tell him you've been thinking it over, and you think you should consider spending some time apart.
      [on The Green Hornet (2011)] There is a role in the film for Cameron Diaz but nothing for her to do. She functions primarily to allow the camera to cut to her from time to time, which is pleasant but unsatisfying. Diaz has a famously wonderful smile, and curiously in her first shot in the film, she smiles for no reason at all, maybe just to enter the smile on the record. The director of this half-cooked mess is Michel Gondry, whose Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2004) is as good as this one is bad. Casting about for something to praise, I recalled that I heard a strange and unique sound for the first time, a high-pitched whooshing scream, but I don't think Gondry can claim it, because it came from the hand dryers in the nearby men's room.
      A common misconception is that Gene and I never agree. The truth is more often than not we do agree. Some films are obviously good or obviously bad. That just leaves the ones in the middle for Gene to be wrong about.
      [on A Nightmare on Elm Street (2010)] Forget about the plot, the actors and the director. What you require to make a new "Nightmare on Elm Street" are these three off-the-shelf sound effects: 1. A sudden, loud clanging noise mixed with a musical chord. 2. Snicker-snack sounds, which Freddy Krueger's steel finger claws make every time they are seen. 3. A voice deepener, to drop Freddy's speaking voice to an ominous level. On top of that, you need your sudden cuts, your lighting from below, your thump-thump-thumps and of course a dog that barks at something unseen in the night, so that your teenage heroine can go out on the lawn in bare feet and flimsy PJs and call "Rufus! Rufus! Here, boy!"....Are we supposed to be scared? Is the sudden clanging chord supposed to evoke a fearful Pavlovian response? For Rufus, maybe, but not for me.
      [on Thor (2011)]: Thor is a failure as a movie, but a success as marketing, an illustration of the ancient carnival tactic of telling the rubes anything to get them into the tent. "You won't believe what these girls take off!" a carny barker promised me and my horny pals one steamy night at the Champaign County Fair. He was close. We didn't believe what they left on.
      It's said that Christopher Nolan spent ten years writing his screenplay for Inception (2010). That must have involved prodigious concentration, like playing blindfold chess while walking a tight-wire.
      [on The Social Network (2010)] David Fincher's film has the rare quality of being not only as smart as its brilliant hero, but in the same way. It is cocksure, impatient, cold, exciting and instinctively perceptive.
      From such harrowing beginnings, it's rather awesome what an entertaining film Danny Boyle has made with 127 Hours (2010)."
      If the British monarchy is good for nothing else, it's superb at producing the subjects of films.
Rango (2011) is some kind of a miracle: An animated comedy for smart moviegoers, wonderfully made, great to look at, wickedly satirical, and (gasp!) filmed in glorious 2-D.
      [on Final Destination 5 (2011)] The actors in a movie like this are essentially doing product placement. By getting their names and faces out there in a splatter movie, they can perhaps catch the eye of a casting agent and get a shot at a decent film. They have studied their craft. They have struggled and dreamed. They have attended countless auditions. Now at last they have a role in a major Hollywood release, and can call home: "Mom! I get impaled by the mast of a sailboat after I fall off a bridge!"
      (on The Human Centipede II (Full Sequence) (2011)) The film is reprehensible, dismaying, ugly, artless and an affront to any notion, however remote, of human decency.
Conan the Barbarian (2011) involves a clash of civilizations whose vocabularies are limited to screams, oaths, grunts, howls, ejaculations, exclamations, vulgarities, screeches, wails, bellows, yelps and woofs. I'd love to get my hands on the paycheck for subtitling this movie. The plot involves - oh, never mind. You have your Barbarians, and they kill one another in an unending series of battle scenes. I guess Conan is the good guy, but what difference does it make?
      Oh, I know a lot of Death at a Funeral (2010) is in very bad taste. That's when I laughed the most. I don't laugh at movies where the characters are deliberately being vulgar. But when they desperately don't want to be--now that's funny. Consider the scene when Uncle Russell eats too much nut cake and is seized by diarrhea. And Norman wrestles him off his wheelchair and onto the potty, and gets his hand stuck underneath. Reader, I laughed. I'm not saying I'm proud of myself. That's not the way I was raised. But I laughed.
      In New Year's Eve (2011), we look out over the surging throng of ecstatic celebrants [in Times Square], and the sea of humanity is blue. They're all wearing freebie hats from Nivea skin creme. No hats for the Knicks, Budweiser or I Heart New York. All Nivea skin creme. I've heard of product placement, but this is carpet bombing.
      It takes The Double (2011) less than half an hour to reveal who the double is. That's if you're lucky enough to avoid the movie's trailer, which just comes right out and tells you.
      I can buy imperfections if they occur to me after the movie is over. The problem would be if they occurred to me while I was watching it.
      [on The Human Centipede II (Full Sequence) (2011)] Laurence R. Harvey is described as "a British performance artist." I raced off to the always helpful Google and discovered that his artistic career to date hasn't generated a single link. It may be that his performance art consists entirely of walking down the street as himself. Gene Siskel liked to amuse himself by people-watching and thinking, "When that person looked in the mirror before leaving the house, he thought he looked great."
      [on Happy Few (2010)] You know there's something wrong with a sex movie when the good parts are the dialogue.
      [on Death Wish II (1982)] In my movie rating system, the most a movie can get is four stars (My Dinner with Andre (1981)) and the least is ordinarily half a star (even The Beast Within (1982) got a whole star). I award "no stars" only to movies that are artistically inept and morally repugnant.
      [on Trois couleurs: Rouge (1994)] This the kind of film that makes you feel intensely alive while you're watching it, and sends you out into the streets afterwards eager to talk deeply and urgently, to the person you are with.
      [on Dirty Love (2005)] Jenny McCarthy has a technologically splendid bosom that should, in my opinion, be put to a better use than being vomited upon.
      [on Goodbye Lover (1998)] There is a part of me that knows this movie is very, very bad. And another part of me that takes a guilty pleasure in it. Too bad I saw it at a critics' screening, where professional courtesy requires a certain decorum. This is the kind of movie that might be materially improved by frequent hoots of derision.
      [on The Babymakers (2012)] Although I am aware sperm is a precious bodily fluid, I don't find it an especially funny one, and when a character spills half of the deposits in a sperm bank and then slips around on the floor like a clown on ice, I'm not laughing. I'm thinking, "yuck!" Millions of little soldiers being massacred for a laugh.
Brave (2012) has an uplifting message about improving communication between mothers and daughters, although transforming your mom into a bear is a rather extreme first step.
To Rome with Love (2012) isn't great Woody Allen. Here is a man who has made a feature every year since 1969, give or take a few, and if they cannot all be great Woody, it's churlish to complain if they're only good Woody. His previous film, Midnight in Paris (2011), was magical. A few critics have said unkind things about his age, which strikes me as bad manners. So he's 76. Good for him. Is his timing still skilled? Is he still funny? Aren't we happy to have another picture?
      Cinema, for me, has always been something like music composed with photographic images. Others see it more like 'action painting', and we've seen a lot of discussion in recent years about what J. Hoberman and others have called 'post-photographic cinema', in which computers have replaced cameras, and animation has replaced photography, as the primary means of creating images on the screen.
Punisher: War Zone (2008) is one of the best-made bad movies I've seen. It looks great, it hurtles through its paces and is well-acted. The soundtrack is like elevator music if the elevator were in a death plunge. The special effects are state of the art. Its only flaw is that it's disgusting.
      [on Humpday (2009)] Women, I suspect, are more likely than men to view sex from the over-all perspective of what we may call their lives. In a country like Saudi Arabia, whose citizens express discomfort about men and women even attending movies together, I have little doubt which gender is more concerned.
      ...the star rating system is relative, not absolute. When you ask a friend if Hellboy (2004) is any good, you're not asking if it's any good compared to Mystic River (2003), you're asking if it's any good compared to The Punisher (2004) And my answer would be, on a scale of one to four, if Superman (1978) is four, then Hellboy is three and The Punisher is two. In the same way, if American Beauty (1999) gets four stars, then [The United States of Leland (2003)] clocks in at about two.
      [on The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn - Part 2 (2012)] I have now seen something like 10 hours about these vampires as they progress through immortality, and I'd rather see either version of Nosferatu, eine Symphonie des Grauens (1922) that many times. I must admit if you're going to bring the series to a close, Part 2 does it about as well as it can be done. It must be hard for Summit Entertainment to drop the final curtain on a series that has grossed billions, but it bit the bullet, and I imagine fans will be pleased.
      [on If Lucy Fell (1996)] I found myself hoping they would not find love, because the only way for a premise this stupid to redeem itself would be, of course, in their deaths.
      [on the 85th Academy Award nominees] The field was led with 12 nominations by Steven Spielberg's Lincoln (2012). It's a great film, in my opinion, but in the context of Oscar nominations it also represents the kind of film the Academy loves to nominate: An important drama on a big subject by an industry veteran. The industry spends all year churning out product like last weekend's box office winner [Texas Chainsaw 3D (2013)], and then puts on its evening wear and poses as humanitarians.
      [on ...E tu vivrai nel terrore! L'aldilà (1981)] The movie is being revived around the country for midnight cult showings. Midnight is not late enough.
      [on I Know What You Did Last Summer (1997)] After the screening was over and the lights went up, I observed a couple of my colleagues in deep and earnest conversation, trying to resolve twists in the plot. They were applying more thought to the movie than the makers did. A critic's mind is a terrible thing to waste.
      [on Amour (2012)] When I saw Hiroshima mon amour (1959), I was young and eager and excited to be attending one of the first French art films I'd ever seen. It helped teach me what it was, and who I was. Now I see that the film, its actors and its meaning have all been carried on, and that the firemen are going to come looking for all of us one of these days, sooner or later.
      [on Mr. Death: The Rise and Fall of Fred A. Leuchter, Jr. (1999)] The ability of so many people to live comfortably with the idea of capital punishment is perhaps a clue to how so many Europeans were able to live with the idea of the Holocaust: Once you accept the notion that the state has the right to kill someone and the right to define what is a capital crime, aren't you halfway there?
Swept Away (2002) is a deserted island movie during which I desperately wished the characters had chosen one movie to take along if they were stranded on a deserted island, and were showing it to us instead of this one.
      Writing and speaking, Pauline Kael commanded the American idiom. Her paragraphs announced their author. Like George Bernard Shaw, she wrote reviews that will be read for their style, humor and energy long after some of their subjects have been forgotten. Her work pointed up the disconnect between the immediate sensual experience of moviegoing and the abstract theory-mongering of many film critics. She was there, she sat in the theater, it was happening to her, and here was what she felt about it. Critics aren't supposed to talk during screenings, but I can still hear her Oh! Oh! Oh! during scenes she thought were dreadful. She loved the movies so much that bad ones were a personal affront. And when she loved one, her ecstasy came racing through her prose.
      At a time when digital techniques can show us almost anything, The Blair Witch Project (1999) is a reminder that what really scares us is the stuff we can't see. The noise in the dark is almost always scarier than what makes the noise in the dark. Any kid can tell you that. Not that he believes it at the time.
      [on Battleship (2012)] One alien weapon is especially fearsome: a large metal ball with spikes, which rolls through things and flattens them. Were less sophisticated versions of this used in medieval times, maybe made of flaming tar balls?
      [on Holy Motors (2012)] Here is a film that is exasperating, frustrating, anarchic and in a constant state of renewal. It's not tame. Some audience members are going to grow very restless. My notion is, few will be bored.
      [on Superstar (1999)] Too bad the Catholic League is so busy attacking good films, like Dogma (1999), that it can't spare the time to picket bad ones. I'm not in favor of protesting films on the basis of theology, but to picket them because they're boring could be an act of mercy.
      [on Marie Antoinette (2006)] Every criticism I have read of this film would alter is fragile magic and reduce its romantic and tragic poignancy to the level of an instructional film.
      [on Kids in the Hall: Brain Candy (1996)] I did not laugh once. I thought this movie was awful, dreadful, terrible, stupid, idiotic, unfunny, waver, forced, painful, bad.
      [on Stargate (1994)] The movie Ed Wood (1994) about the worst director of all time, was made to prepare us for Stargate.
      In the previous century the movie theater was often, in smaller towns and cities, the only grand architectural statement, save perhaps for a church or courthouse. They unashamedly provided a proscenium for our dreams.
      [on The Legend of Zorro (2005)] He's a bright kid, but not bright enough to recognize that Zorro is his own father. To be sure, Zorro wears a mask, but let me pose a hypothetical exercise for my readers. Imagine your own father. That's it. Now place him in a typical setting: Pushing back from the dinner table, cutting off some jerk in an intersection, or scratching his dandruff. Now imagine your dad wearing black leather pants, a black linen shirt, a black cloak, a flat black hat, and a black mask that covers his eyes...Still your dad, right? You can almost hear your mom: "Now don't you go getting any ideas about that whip."
      [on The Scarlet Letter (1995)] Hester's comely slave girl, Mituba, prepares her bath, and then Hester slowly luxuriates in it by candlelight, while dreaming of Arthur. It is hard to see for sure, but I think she may be indulging in the practice that the nuns called "interfering with herself". Meanwhile, through a convenient peephole, Mituba watches lustfully, for no other purpose than to provide the additional thrill of one attractive woman observing another one naked. Will the sin that dare not speak its name make an appearance in Massachusetts Bay? Alas, no.
      [on Fight Club (1999)] Is Tyler Durden in fact a leader of men with a useful philosophy? "It's only after we've lost everything that we're free to do anything," he says, sounding like a man who tripped over the Nietzsche display on his way to the coffee bar in Borders. Fight Club itself does not advocate Durden's philosophy. It is a warning against it, I guess; one critic I like says it makes "a telling point about the bestial nature of man and what can happen when the numbing effects of day-to-day drudgery cause people to go a little crazy." I think it's the numbing effects of movies like this that cause people to go a little crazy. Although sophisticates will be able to rationalize the movie as an argument against the the behavior it shows, my guess is that audience will like the behavior but not the argument. Certainly they'll buy tickets because they can see Pitt and Norton pounding on each other; a lot more people will leave this movie and get into fights than will leave it discussing Tyler Durden's moral philosophy.
      [the Black & White It's a Wonderful Life (1946) vs the colour version] If I were a local program director with taste and a love of movies, I would find out when my competitor was going to air his colorized version, and counter-program with the original black-and-white movie, patting myself on the back for a public service.
      Some movies, even good ones, should only be seen once. When we know how they turn out, they've surrendered their mystery and appeal. Other movies can be viewed an indefinite number of times. Like great music, they improve with familiarity.
      [on Frank Capra's postwar career] Later films as State of the Union (1948) and Pocketful of Miracles (1961) have the Capra touch but not the magic.
      "This sucks on so many levels." - Dialogue from Jason X (2001) [;] Rare for a movie to so frankly describe itself. "Jason X" sucks on the levels of storytelling, character development, suspense, special effects, originality, punctuation, neatness and aptness of thought.
      [on Hellbound: Hellraiser II (1988)] "Kirsty!" we hear. And "Tiffany!" And "Kirsty!!!" and "Tiffany!!!" And "Kirstiyyyyyyy!!!!!" And "Tiffanyyyyyyy!!!!!" I'm afraid this is another one of those movies that violates the First Rule of Repetition of Names, which states that when the same names are repeated in a movie more than four times a minute for more than three minutes in a row, the audience breaks out into sarcastic laughter, and some of the ruder members are likely to start shouting "Kirsty!" and "Tiffany!" at the screen.
      [on Átame! (1989)] To know me is to love me. This cliche is popular for a reason, because most of us, I imagine, believe deep in our hearts that if anyone truly got to know us, they'd truly get to love us - or at least know why we're the way we are. The problem in life, maybe the central problem, is that so few people ever seem to have sufficient curiosity to do the job on us that we know we deserve.
      Film criticism is important because films are important. If films are not important, the criticism wouldn't matter so much. Films are important because they are the art form of the 20th century. They are the most serious of the mass arts, because even theatre is not a mass art. They affect the way people think and feel and behave and they can be both a good influence on society and a negative influence. To the degree that they glorify mindlessness and short attention spans, I think they're bad; to the degree that they encourage empathy with people not like ourselves and encourage us to think about life and issues, they can be good. They can also of course simply be purely entertaining, and there's nothing wrong with that.
      [on Ladder 49 (2004)] I was surprisingly affected by the film. After I left the screening, I walked a while by the river, and sat and thought, and was happy not to have anything that had to be done right away.
In the Bleak Midwinter (1995) is the kind of movie that will probably appeal best to those with a background in the theater and Shakespeare. It asks, but never really answers, the question of why intelligent adults would devote their lives to such an ill-paying, frustrating, disappointing profession. Of course a great many other intelligent adults devote their lives to professions that are equally frustrating and disappointing, and, while they may pay better, are boring, and never have opening nights.
      [on The Anniversary Party (2001)] The movie was shot with a digital camera. Yes, you can tell. (Critics who say it looks as good as film are like friends who claim you don't look a day older.)
      'Kindness' covers all of my political beliefs. No need to spell them out. I believe that if, at the end, according to our abilities, we have done something to make others a little happier, and something to make ourselves a little happier, that is about the best we can do. To make others less happy is a crime. To make ourselves unhappy is where all crime starts. We must try to contribute joy to the world. That is true no matter what our problems, our health, our circumstances. We must try. I didn't always know this and am happy I lived long enough to find it out.
      I think you have to see Charlie Kaufman's Synecdoche, New York (2008) twice. I watched it the first time and knew it was a great film and that I had not mastered it. The second time because I needed to. The third time because I will want to. It will open to confused audiences and live indefinitely.
=======================================================
The film version of the best-selling novel "The Fault in Our Stars" feels emotionally inert, despite its many moments that are meant to put a…
Tom Cruise saves the world again, but it takes a tremendous amount of effort and many, many lives to do it.
"The Ballad of Narayama" is a Japanese film of great beauty and elegant artifice, telling a story of startling cruelty. What a space it opens…
Patrice Leconte's "Monsieur Hire" is a tragedy about loneliness and erotomania, told about two solitary people who have nothing else in common. It involves a…
Major outlets call the man who assaulted America Ferrera at Cannes and Brad Pitt in Hollywood a "prankster." They're wrong to do so.
Major outlets call the man who assaulted America Ferrera at Cannes and Brad Pitt in Hollywood a "prankster." They're wrong to do so.
An FFC offers a personal take on Petra Costa's "Elena," including a video with producer Fernando Mereilles.
The making of "Ghostbusters"; Neil deGrasse Tyson doesn't hate movies; Kenneth Turan's favorite films; Aspiring movie critics in Kenya; American voyeur in Montreal.
The joy of "Orange is the New Black" comes in how it unfolds, the ways the writers and performers constantly defy expectations.
Chaz is the Publisher of Ebert Digital, President of Ebert Productions and Vice President of The Ebert Company, managing print publishing, television production, public speaking engagements, and organizing the annual Ebertfest film festival.
A video report on RogerEbert.com's favorite films of Cannes 2014, including new works by Mike Leigh and the Dardennes brothers.
The latest Cannes 2014 video covers the biggest awards, interviews several of this year's attendees, and highlights the Dardennes' "Two Days, One Night" and Ryan Gosling's "Lost River."
Chaz Ebert's latest video reports on the Cannes premieres of "Foxcatcher," "The Homesman," "Mr. Turner," and "The Wonders," while offering an extended report on the emotional screening of "Life Itself."
The Ebert Club is our hand-picked selection of content for Ebert fans. You will receive a weekly newsletter full of movie-related tidbits, articles, trailers, even the occasional streamable movie. Club members also get access to our members-only section on RogerEbert.com
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/loading-indicator._V192185253_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif');
        background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/buttons._V243643239_.gif')
    background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/traffic/s9m/alert-small._V195630253_.gif");
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/donsbeak-sm-up._V197474569_.png) no-repeat 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite-mini.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
Roger Ebert is the Pulitzer Prize-winning film critic from the Chicago Sun-Times. His reviews are syndicated to more than 200 newspapers in the United States and Canada. The American Film Institute and the School of the Art Institute of Chicago have awarded him honorary degrees and the Online Film Critics Society named his Web site (rogerebert.com) the best online movie review site
Roger Ebert is the Pulitzer Prize-winning film critic from the Chicago Sun-Times. His reviews are syndicated to more than 200 newspapers in the United States and Canada. The American Film Institute and the School of the Art Institute of Chicago have awarded him honorary degrees and the Online Film Critics Society named his Web site (rogerebert.com) the best online movie review site
Roger Ebert's Book of Film: From Tolstoy to Tarantino, the Finest Writing From a Century of Film by Roger Ebert
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/tile-blue-bg._V46870869_.gif)
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tl._V192184760_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tm._V192184721_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tr._V192184429_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bl._V192184824_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bm._V192184603_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-br._V192545463_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tl2._V192545542_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tr2._V192545537_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-bl._V192545543_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-br._V192545543_.gif);
Help us improve our Author Pages by updating your bibliography and submitting a new or current image and biography.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
ul.multicol2,ul.multicol3 {float:left;width:100%;margin:0;padding:0;list-style:none;text-align:center}
Roger EbertFilm Reviewer / TV PersonalityBorn: 19 June 1942Died: 4 April 2013 (cancer)Birthplace: Urbana, IllinoisBest known as: The "two thumbs up" movie critic and TV personalityRoger Ebert was the film critic for The Chicago Sun-Times from 1967 until his death in 2013. He is better known for his long run on TV, reviewing films opposite his friend and fellow film critic Gene Siskel for nearly a quarter century. Roger Ebert attended the University of Illinois and landed a job as a reporter at the Sun Times in 1966. The next year he became the paper's film reviewer and quickly established himself as one of the nation's leading critics. Ebert won the Pulitzer Prize for criticism in 1975, becoming the first film critic ever so honored; the same year, he began a local TV show called Opening Soon at a Theater Near You, in which he and Gene Siskel, critic for the Chicago Tribune, reviewed (and argued about) new movies. The show, retitled Sneak Previews, became a nationwide hit on PBS and then (under other names) on commercial networks. Siskel and Ebert's habit of giving good films "two thumbs up" became a popular shorthand for critical approval.Gene Siskel died in 1999; Ebert continued the show with other reviewers until a series of surgeries forced him to give up the show for good. Ebert had surgery in 2002 to remove a cancerous thyroid gland, followed by extensive radiation. The cancer returned in 2006, and Ebert nearly died when his radiation-weakened carotid artery burst after surgery to remove part of his jaw. He had a tracheostomy and lost the ability to speak, and his face became somewhat disfigured; however, with TV out of the picture he became one of the Internet's most active and popular film reviewers. He also wrote a 2011 memoir, Life Itself, along with many other books, including A Kiss Is Still a Kiss (1984), Roger Ebert's Book of Film (1996), and the 2007 compendium of negative reviews titled Your Movie Sucks.On April 2nd of 2013, Roger Ebert announced in his blog that he again had cancer (he did not disclose a specific variety) and said that he would take a "leave of presence" -- meaning that he would "continue to write selected reviews but to leave the rest to a talented team of writers handpicked and greatly admired by me." However, two days later he suddenly died.Extra credit: Roger Ebert married his wife, the former Chaz Hammelsmith, in 1992... Starting in 1999 he hosted "Roger Ebert's Overlooked Film Festival," also known as Ebertfest, in his hometown of Champaign-Urbana, Illinois... Roger Ebert wrote the script for Beyond the Valley of the Dolls, the 1970 film directed by Russ Meyer, while taking a sabbatical from the Sun-Times... Roger Ebert was born on the very same day as Beatle Paul McCartney.Copyright © 1998-2014			by Who2?, LLC. All rights reserved.More on Roger Ebert from Infoplease:
Roger Ebert - Roger Ebert film critic Born: 6/18/1942 Birthplace: Urbana, Illinois Best known as co-host with ...Roger Ebert - Biography of Roger Ebert, The "two thumbs up" movie critic and TV personalityGene Siskel - Gene Siskel (Eugene Kal Siskel) Age: 53 familiar Chicago Tribune film critic who achieved fame ...Jennifer Joseph - Biography of Jennifer Joseph, The model for the latest Columbia Pictures logoKelly Oxford - Biography of Kelly Oxford, The author of Everything is Perfect When You're a Liar
Warning: fsockopen(): php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
Warning: fsockopen(): unable to connect to :3128 (php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known) in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
=======================================================
Birth Name: Roger Joseph EbertBirth Place: Urbana, ILDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 06/18/1942, GeminiDate of Death: 04/04/2013Profession: Film critic; author; screenwriter
Joined the Chicago Sun-Times as a reporter in 1966 and started writing film reviews for the paper a year later. 
Teamed with Chicago Tribune film critic Gene Siskel in 1975 for the weekly review program Sneak Previews, which aired on PBS for more than two decades. 
Wrote the screenplay for Russ Meyer's cult-classic Beyond the Valley of the Dolls; used pseudonyms for writing Meyer's Beneath the Valley of the Ultra-Vixens and Up!
Founded the annual event Ebertfest, originally titled Roger Ebert's Overlooked Film Festival, in 1999. 
Continued to write film reviews after having survived thyroid and salivary-gland cancers and having part of his jaw bone removed; employs text-to-speech software that allows him to converse.Roger Ebert Relationships: Annabel Ebert - MotherChaz Hammelsmith - WifeSonia Hammelsmith - StepdaughterWalter H. Ebert - FatherRoger Ebert Awards: 1987 Emmy:  Outstanding Informational Series - Nominee1994 Emmy:  Outstanding Informational Series - Nominee1997 Emmy:  Outstanding Informational Series - Nominee1992 Emmy:  Outstanding Informational Series - Nominee1988 Emmy:  Outstanding Informational Series - Nominee1985 Emmy:  Outstanding Informational Series - Nominee1984 Emmy:  Outstanding Informational Series - NomineeCollege: University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, IL (BS, 1964); attended University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa; attended University of Chicago, Chicago, IL
Buy Charlie Rose with Roger Ebert; Twyla Tharp; Jeff Koons (August 7, 2000) from Amazon.comFrom Charlie Rose, Inc. (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $24.95Buy Charlie Rose with Mark Mobius; Roger Ebert; Julia Sweeney (November 27, 1996) from Amazon.comFrom Charlie Rose (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $24.95
=======================================================
Birth Name: Roger Joseph EbertBirth Place: Urbana, ILDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 06/18/1942, GeminiDate of Death: 04/04/2013Profession: Film critic; author; screenwriter
VIDEO: Charlie Rose (December 16, 2002)Oct 13, 2013 03:50 AMCharlie Rose (December 16, 2002)Paid | Amazon Instant VideoLength: 55:00Aired: 12/16/2002An Interview With David Albright, A Former Nuclear Weapons Inspector, About Inspections In Iraq. Then, Actor Philip Seymour Hoffman Discusses His Two Most Recent Films, Love Liza And 25Th Hour. Finally, Roger Ebert, Film Critic And Co-Host Of Ebert & Roeper, Talks About The Movies Of 2002. watchVIDEO: Charlie Rose (December 6, 2002)Oct 13, 2013 03:50 AMCharlie Rose (December 6, 2002)Paid | Amazon Instant VideoLength: 53:00Aired: 12/6/2002Charlie Rose With Floyd Norris & Michael Hirsh; Madeleine Albright; Bill Carter; Peter Peterson watchTop Videos: Kimmel Asks About Fake Bands at Coachella, Kate McKinnon and Ellen DanceApr 25, 2013 02:45 PM ETby TV Guide NewsThis week, Jimmy Kimmel interviewed fans at the Coachella Music Festival about some hot new bands — the only problem is, the bands don't actually exist. But that didn't stop festival-goers from gushing about them. Elsewhere, Saturday Night Live's Kate McKinnon did her best Ellen DeGeneres impersonation in front of Ellen herself, and Boardwalk Empire's Steve Buscemi discovered a family connection with the band Vampire Weekend. Also, in random celebrity strokes of genius, Tilda Swinton led the audience at Ebertfest in a dance to Barry White in remembrance of Roger Ebert, and Buscemi's Boardwalk castmate Michael Shannon did a dramatic (and NSFW!) reading of a nasty letter from a sorority president. Check out those clips and more in our weekly roundup of Top Videos:
                                            First Look: Heidi Fleiss, Bow Wow and a Tribute to Roger Ebert on Oprah: Where Are They Now?
Heidi Fleiss, the 'Hollywood Madam,' who was busted for running a high-end prostitution ring, talks about her life today. Plus, rapper Bow Wow opens up about fatherhood and the lessons he's learned along the way. Then, watch a special tribute to film critic Roger Ebert.
Praised with "4 stars," (Roger Ebert, Chicago Sun-Times), Tarantino's feature film follow-up Jackie Brown earned a 1997 Oscar® nomination for supporting actor Robert Forster (Mulholland Drive), three Golden Globe nominations (including Best Musical/Comedy) and an NAACP Image Award nomination for Pam Grier’s performance. An all-star cast joins Grier and Forster, including Samuel L. Jackson, Robert DeNiro, Michael Keaton and Bridget Fonda in Tarantino's adaptation of the novel by Elmore Leonard (3:10 to Yuma, Out of Sight).
A sexy flight attendant (Grier) is caught in a plot between the police and an arms dealer, and everyone's looking for the payoff. There are six unlikely players on the trail for a big score - a half million dollars in cash. But alliances are shaky when its unclear who is playing and who is getting played.
Find out what happened on June 18 including famous birthdays like Roger Ebert and Paul McCartney; famous deaths like Ethel Barrymore; and notable events like Sally K. Ride becoming the first American woman in space.
Praised with "4 stars," (Roger Ebert, Chicago Sun-Times), Tarantino's feature film follow-up Jackie Brown earned a 1997 Oscar® nomination for supporting actor Robert Forster (Mulholland Drive), three Golden Globe nominations (including Best Musical/Comedy) and an NAACP Image Award nomination for Pam Grier’s performance. An all-star cast joins Grier and Forster, including Samuel L. Jackson, Robert DeNiro, Michael Keaton and Bridget Fonda in Tarantino's adaptation of the novel by Elmore Leonard (3:10 to Yuma, Out of Sight).
A sexy flight attendant (Grier) is caught in a plot between the police and an arms dealer, and everyone's looking for the payoff. There are six unlikely players on the trail for a big score - a half million dollars in cash. But alliances are shaky when its unclear who is playing and who is getting played.
Following director James Toback as he made his drama When Will I Be Loved, this documentary provides a look inside the world of filmmaking.
Step back into the psychedelic ’60s in this sexy, hilarious parody of Valley Of The Dolls, co-written by Roger Ebert. When three fun-loving bombshells with a rock band head for Hollywood to make it big, they find themselves at a hedonistic love-in thrown by an eccentric music promoter. Soon, it seems, superstardom is within reach. That is, if their newfound distractions don’t get in the way!
In this sexy, hilarious Valley Of The Dolls parody, three fun-loving bombshell rockers head for Hollywood and find themselves distracted by the hedonistic lifestyle they encounter!
In this sexy, hilarious Valley Of The Dolls parody, three fun-loving bombshell rockers head for Hollywood and find themselves distracted by the hedonistic lifestyle they encounter!
An Interview With David Albright, A Former Nuclear Weapons Inspector, About Inspections In Iraq. Then, Actor Philip Seymour Hoffman Discusses His Two Most Recent Films, Love Liza And 25Th Hour. Finally, Roger Ebert, Film Critic And Co-Host Of Ebert & Roeper, Talks About The Movies Of 2002.
                                                                                                 TV Listings
Tilda Swinton has won an Oscar, slept in a box and now she's led the crowd at Chicago's Ebertfest in a frantic dance-along to Barry White's "My Everything." You, Tilda, are our everything.
At the film festival, founded by the late Roger Ebert, this weekend, Ebert's wife Chaz introduced the eccentric actress. "Tilda promised you that we're going to do something that they do at her film festival and film events in Scotland," she said. "We're going to have an audience dance-along."
Film critic Roger Ebert died Thursday after a long battle with cancer, TVGuide.com has confirmed. He was 70.
Roger Ebert says that his cancer has returned, so it's time to slow down and take a "leave of presence."
"The immediate reason for my 'leave of presence' is my health," he writes on his Chicago Sun-Times blog.  "The painful fracture that made it difficult for me to walk has recently been revealed to be a cancer. It is being treated with radiation, which has made it impossible for me to attend as many movies as I used to... What in the world is a leave of presence? It means I am not going away. My intent is to continue to write selected reviews, but to leave the rest to a talented team of writers handpicked and greatly admired by me."
Roger Ebert's At the Movies will go on an indefinite hiatus at the end of the year, Ebert announced on his blog.
"Our public television program Ebert Presents At The Movies will go on hiatus while we find necessary funding," Ebert wrote Wednesday. "It was a sad but necessary moment of realism."
Ebert Presents: At the Movies may go off the air at the end of the season, Roger Ebert writes on his blog.
Since the show's January debut, it has been financed solely by a $25,000 backing from Kanbar Charitable Trust. The rest has come from Ebert and his wife Chaz, who are both executive producers on the show.
Buy Charlie Rose with Mark Mobius; Roger Ebert; Julia Sweeney (November 27, 1996) from Amazon.comFrom Charlie Rose (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $24.95Buy Roger Ebert's Movie Yearbook 2012 from Amazon.comFrom Andrews McMeel Publishing (Paperback)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $23.26
=======================================================
Prize for film criticism (in 1975) and is best known for his TV work opposite critic-colleague Gene 
In 1996 I observed the 20th anniversary of my association on television with Gene Siskel, my co-host on 
I am aware of no other American newspaper film critic who has been continuously at his job longer than I 
have, and among active American film critics in general I can think only of Stanley Kauffmann and Andrew 
Sarris, who I continue to read with great attention and respect. I have been at this awhile. When I 
mentioned Bonnie and Clyde during a talk at the University of Virginia, a student referred to it as an 
three quarters of my time working for the print media. Both kinds of journalism have their advantages. On 
television, we are able to show actual scenes from the new movies, which work better than any description 
to give a sense of the work. And there are two of us, so there is always one ready to question a judgment, 
disagree with an analysis, or second an opinion. When Siskel and I agree strongly on the worth of a film, 
campaigns, media junkets, fast-food and T-shirt tie-ins, and mass bookings into 2,000 theaters at a time, I 
In print, the breadth of the influence is harder to measure, but I think it may run a little deeper, because a 
written review holds the attention longer and more stubbornly. If I value television because it allows me to 
exchange views with a colleague I respect, I value print because it allows me to be uninterrupted. My 
newspaper reviews are written in exactly the words I want to use; on TV, where we do a lot of ad-libbing, I 
sometimes don't express myself as well as I would like. Print punishes cliches; TV rewards them. I see 
I had my first professional newspaper job by the time I was 15, as a sports writer for The News-Gazette in 
instruction of patient veterans like Bill Schmelzle, Jari Jackson, Harold Holmes, and Ed Borman, I learned 
the newspaper business as an apprentice. (Bill Lyon, now a gifted Philadelphia columnist, was my exact 
contemporary on the same paper; I covered Urbana High School and he covered Champaign.) In those days 
stories were written on flimsy newsprint on old manual typewriters, assembled with paste-pots, copy-read 
with soft lead pencils (without erasers), set into type on Linotype machines, cast into hot-metal page 
forms, and printed on presses that made the building shake. Today it is all done with computers, in city 
Occasionally I am asked if I will quit writing print reviews someday, and "just do the television show." 
Such a day will never come. I appreciate the opportunity to do both jobs, and the freedom that each gives 
