=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Morgan Freeman[2] (born June 1, 1937) is an American actor, film director, and narrator. Freeman has received Academy Award nominations for his performances in Street Smart, Driving Miss Daisy, The Shawshank Redemption and Invictus, and won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar in 2005 for Million Dollar Baby. He has also won a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award. Freeman has appeared in many other box office hits, including Unforgiven, Glory, Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, Seven, Deep Impact, The Sum of All Fears, Bruce Almighty, Along Came a Spider, The Dark Knight trilogy, March of the Penguins and The Lego Movie. He is known for his distinctively smooth, deep voice. He got his first break as part of the cast of The Electric Company.
Morgan Freeman was born in Memphis, Tennessee, on June 1, 1937. He is the son of Mayme Edna (née Revere), a teacher,[3] and Morgan Porterfield Freeman,[2] a barber who died April 27, 1961, from cirrhosis. He has three older siblings. According to a DNA analysis, some of his ancestors were from Niger.[4] Freeman was sent as an infant to his paternal grandmother in Charleston, Mississippi.[5][6][7] He moved frequently during his childhood, living in Greenwood, Mississippi; Gary, Indiana; and finally Chicago, Illinois.[7]
Freeman made his acting debut at age nine, playing the lead role in a school play. He then attended Broad Street High School, a building which serves today as Threadgill Elementary School, in Greenwood, Mississippi.[8] At age 12, he won a statewide drama competition, and while still at Broad Street High School, he performed in a radio show based in Nashville, Tennessee. In 1955, he graduated from Broad Street, but turned down a partial drama scholarship from Jackson State University, opting instead to enlist in the United States Air Force.[9] Freeman served in the U.S. Air Force as a Automatic Tracking Radar Repairman and rose to the rank of Airman 1st Class.[10]
After four years in the military, he moved to Los Angeles, California, where he took acting lessons at the Pasadena Playhouse and dancing lessons in San Francisco in the early 1960s and worked as a transcript clerk at Los Angeles City College.[9] During this period, Freeman also lived in New York City, working as a dancer at the 1964 World's Fair, and in San Francisco, where he was a member of the Opera Ring musical theater group. He acted in a touring company version of The Royal Hunt of the Sun, and also appeared as an extra in the 1965 film The Pawnbroker. Freeman made his off-Broadway debut in 1967, opposite Viveca Lindfors in The Nigger Lovers[11][12] (about the civil rights era "Freedom Riders"), before debuting on Broadway in 1968's all-black version of Hello, Dolly! which also starred Pearl Bailey and Cab Calloway.
He continued to be involved in theater work and received the Obie Award in 1980 for the title role in Coriolanus. In 1984, he received his second Obie Award for his role as the preacher in The Gospel at Colonus. Freeman also won a Drama Desk Award and a Clarence Derwent Award for his role as a wino in The Mighty Gents. He received his third Obie Award for his role as a chauffeur for a Jewish widow in Driving Miss Daisy, which was adapted for the screen in 1989.[9]
Although his first credited film appearance was in 1971's Who Says I Can't Ride a Rainbow?, Freeman first became known in the American media through roles on the soap opera Another World and the PBS kids' show The Electric Company[7] (notably as Easy Reader, Mel Mounds the DJ, and Vincent the Vegetable Vampire).
Beginning in the mid-1980s, Freeman began playing prominent supporting roles in many feature films, earning him a reputation for depicting wise, fatherly characters.[7] As he gained fame, he went on to bigger roles in films such as the chauffeur Hoke in Driving Miss Daisy, and Sergeant Major Rawlins in Glory (both in 1989).[7] In 1994, he portrayed Red, the redeemed convict in the acclaimed The Shawshank Redemption. In the same year he was a member of the jury at the 44th Berlin International Film Festival.[13]
He also starred in such films as Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, Unforgiven, Seven, and Deep Impact. In 1997, Freeman, together with Lori McCreary, founded the film production company Revelations Entertainment, and the two co-head its sister online film distribution company ClickStar. Freeman also hosts the channel Our Space on ClickStar, with specially crafted film clips in which he shares his love for the sciences, especially space exploration and aeronautics.
After three previous nominations—a supporting actor nomination for Street Smart, and leading actor nominations for Driving Miss Daisy and The Shawshank Redemption—he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in Million Dollar Baby at the 77th Academy Awards.[7] Freeman is recognized for his distinctive voice, making him a frequent choice for narration. In 2005 alone, he provided narration for two films, War of the Worlds and the Academy Award-winning documentary film March of the Penguins.
Freeman appeared as God in the hit film Bruce Almighty and its sequel, Evan Almighty, as well as Lucius Fox in the critical and commercial success Batman Begins and its sequels, The Dark Knight and The Dark Knight Rises. He starred in Rob Reiner's 2007 film The Bucket List, opposite Jack Nicholson. He teamed with Christopher Walken and William H. Macy for the comedy The Maiden Heist, which was released direct to video due to financial problems with the distribution company. In 2008, Freeman returned to Broadway to co-star with Frances McDormand and Peter Gallagher for a limited engagement of Clifford Odets's play, The Country Girl, directed by Mike Nichols.
He had wanted to do a film based on Nelson Mandela for some time. At first he tried to get Mandela's autobiography Long Walk to Freedom adapted into a finished script, but it was not finalized.[14] In 2007, he purchased the film rights to a book by John Carlin, Playing the Enemy: Nelson Mandela and the Game That Made a Nation.[15] Clint Eastwood directed the Nelson Mandela bio-pic titled Invictus, starring Freeman as Mandela and Matt Damon as rugby team captain Francois Pienaar.[16]
In 2010, Freeman co-starred alongside Bruce Willis in Red.[17] In 2013, Freeman appeared in the action-thriller Olympus Has Fallen and in the science fiction film Oblivion. In 2014, he appeared in "Last Vegas".
In July 2009, Freeman was one of the presenters at the 46664 Concert celebrating Nelson Mandela's birthday at Radio City Music Hall in New York City. Freeman was the first American to record a par on Legend Golf & Safari Resort's Extreme 19th hole.[18]
At age 65, Freeman earned a private pilot's license.[19] He owns or has owned at least three private aircraft, including a Cessna Citation 501 jet and a Cessna 414 twin-engine prop. In 2007 he purchased an Emivest SJ30[20] long-range private jet and took delivery in December 2009.[21] He is certified to fly all of them.[22]
Effective January 4, 2010, Freeman replaced Walter Cronkite as the voiceover introduction to the CBS Evening News featuring Katie Couric as news anchor.[23] CBS cited the need for consistency in introductions for regular news broadcasts and special reports as the basis for the change.[23] As of 2010[update], Freeman is the host and narrator of the Discovery Channel television show Through the Wormhole.[24]
He was featured on the opening track to B.o.B's second album Strange Clouds. The track "Bombs Away" features a prologue and epilogue (which leads into a musical outro) spoken by Freeman. In 2011, Freeman was featured with John Lithgow in the Broadway debut of Dustin Lance Black's play, 8, a staged reenactment of Perry v. Brown, the federal trial that overturned California's Proposition 8 ban on same-sex marriage. Freeman played Attorney David Boies.[25] The production was held at the Eugene O'Neill Theatre in New York City to raise money for the American Foundation for Equal Rights.[26][27]
Freeman was married to Jeanette Adair Bradshaw from October 22, 1967, until 1979. He married Myrna Colley-Lee on June 16, 1984. The couple separated in December 2007. Freeman and Colley-Lee had adopted Freeman's step-granddaughter from his first marriage and together helped to raise her. Freeman's attorney and business partner Bill Luckett announced in August 2008 that Freeman and his wife were in divorce proceedings. On September 15, 2010, their divorce was finalized in Mississippi.
In 2008, the TV series African American Lives 2 revealed that some of Freeman's great-great-grandparents were slaves who migrated from North Carolina to Mississippi. Freeman also discovered that his Caucasian maternal great-great-grandfather had lived with, and was buried beside, Freeman's African-American great-great-grandmother (the two could not legally marry at the time, in the segregated South).[3] A DNA test on the series stated that he is descended from the Songhai and Tuareg peoples of Niger.[4]
Freeman lives in Charleston, Mississippi, and New York City. He owns and operates Ground Zero, a blues club, located in Clarksdale, Mississippi. He formerly co-owned Madidi, a fine dining restaurant, also in Clarksdale. [28]
Freeman was injured in an automobile accident near Ruleville, Mississippi, on the night of August 3, 2008. The vehicle in which he was traveling, a 1997 Nissan Maxima, left the highway and flipped over several times. He and a female passenger, Demaris Meyer, were rescued from the vehicle using the "Jaws of Life". Freeman was taken via medical helicopter to The Regional Medical Center (The Med) hospital in Memphis.[29][30] Police ruled out alcohol as a factor in the crash.[31] Freeman was coherent following the crash, as he joked with a photographer about taking his picture at the scene.[32] His left shoulder, arm, and elbow were broken in the crash, and he had surgery on August 5, 2008. Doctors operated for four hours to repair nerve damage in his shoulder and arm.[33] On CNN's Piers Morgan Tonight he stated that he is left handed but cannot move the fingers of his left hand. He wears a compression glove to protect against blood pooling due to non-movement. His publicist announced he was expected to make a full recovery.[34][35] Meyer, his passenger, sued him for negligence, claiming that he was drinking the night of the accident.[36] Subsequently, the suit was settled.[37]
Freeman denied the claim that he was a "man of God", saying that "the question of faith is whatever you actually believe is. We take a lot of what we're talking about in science on faith; we posit a theory, and until it's disproven we have faith that it's true. If the mathematics work out, then it's true, until it's proven to be untrue."[38]
In 2004, Freeman and others formed the Grenada Relief Fund to aid people affected by Hurricane Ivan on the island of Grenada. The fund has since become PLANIT NOW, an organization that seeks to provide preparedness resources for people living in areas afflicted by hurricanes and severe storms.[39] Freeman has worked on narrating small clips for global organizations, such as One Earth,[40] whose goals include raising awareness of environmental issues. He has narrated the clip "Why Are We Here," which can be viewed on One Earth's website. Freeman has donated money to the Mississippi Horse Park in Starkville, Mississippi. The park is part of Mississippi State University and Freeman has several horses that he takes there.[41]
Freeman endorsed Barack Obama's candidacy for the 2008 presidential election, although he stated that he would not join Obama's campaign.[42] He narrates for The Hall of Presidents with Barack Obama, who has been added to the exhibit.[43][44] The Hall of Presidents re-opened on July 4, 2009, at Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Florida.[44] Freeman joined President Bill Clinton, USA Bid Committee Chairman Sunil Gulati, and USMNT midfielder Landon Donovan on Wednesday, December 1, 2010, in Zurich for the U.S. bid committee's final presentation to FIFA for the 2022 FIFA World Cup.[45]
Freeman has publicly criticized the celebration of Black History Month and does not participate in any related events, saying, "I don't want a black history month. Black history is American history."[46] He says the only way to end racism is to stop talking about it, and he notes that there is no "white history month."[47] Freeman once said on an interview with 60 Minutes's Mike Wallace, "I am going to stop calling you a white man and I'm going to ask you to stop calling me a black man."[46][48] Freeman supported the defeated proposal to change the Mississippi state flag, which contains the Confederate battle flag.[49][50] Freeman sparked controversy in 2011 when, on CNN's Piers Morgan Tonight, he accused the Tea Party movement of racism.[51][52][53]
On October 28, 2006, Freeman was honored at the first Mississippi's Best Awards in Jackson, Mississippi, with the Lifetime Achievement Award for his works on and off the big screen. He received an honorary degree of Doctor of Arts and Letters from Delta State University during the school's commencement exercises on May 13, 2006.[54] In 2013, Boston University presented him with an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters.[55]
Categories: 1937 births20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsAfrican-American film directorsAfrican-American male actorsAmerican agnosticsAmerican aviatorsAmerican film directorsAmerican male film actorsAmerican male stage actorsAmerican male television actorsAmerican people of Nigerien descentAmerican people of Songhai descentAmerican people of Tuareg descentBest Actor Empire Award winnersBest Musical or Comedy Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Supporting Actor Academy Award winnersCecil B. DeMille Award Golden Globe winnersEnglish-language film directorsFilm directors from IndianaFilm directors from MississippiFilm directors from TennesseeIndependent Spirit Award winnersKennedy Center honoreesLiving peopleMale actors from IndianaMale actors from Memphis, TennesseeMale actors from MississippiMale actors from TennesseeOutstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role Screen Actors Guild Award winnersPeople from Gary, IndianaPeople from Greenwood, MississippiTennessee DemocratsUnited States Air Force airmenHidden categories: Subscription required using viaPages containing links to subscription-only contentAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from September 2010Articles with dead external links from September 2012Articles with dead external links from August 2010Articles with dead external links from July 2011All pages needing factual verificationWikipedia articles needing factual verification from April 2012Wikipedia semi-protected pagesUse mdy dates from November 2012Articles with hAudio microformatsArticles with hCardsArticles containing potentially dated statements from 2010All articles containing potentially dated statementsCommons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          With an authoritative voice and calm demeanor, this ever popular American actor has grown into one of the most respected figures in modern US cinema. Born in June 1937 in Memphis, Tennessee, the young Freeman attended Los Angeles City College before serving several years in the US Air Force as a mechanic between 1955 and 1959. His first dramatic arts exposure was on the stage including appearing in an all-African American production of the exuberant musical Hello, Dolly!.Throughout the 1970s, he continued his work on stage, winning Drama Desk and Clarence Derwent Awards and receiving a Tony Award nomination for his performance in The Mighty Gents in 1978. In 1980, he won two Obie Awards, for his portrayal of Shakespearean anti-hero Coriolanus at the New York Shakespeare Festival and for his work in Mother Courage and Her Children. Freeman won another Obie in 1984 for his performance as The Messenger in the acclaimed Brooklyn Academy of Music production of Lee Breuer's The Gospel at Colonus and, in 1985, won the Drama-Logue Award for the same role. In 1987, Freeman created the role of Hoke Coleburn in Alfred Uhry's Pulitzer Prize-winning play Driving Miss Daisy, which brought him his fourth Obie Award. In 1990, Freeman starred as Petruchio in the New York Shakespeare Festival's The Taming of the Shrew, opposite Tracey Ullman. Returning to the Broadway stage in 2008, Freeman starred with Frances McDormand and Peter Gallagher in Clifford Odets' drama The Country Girl, directed by Mike Nichols.Freeman first appeared on TV screens as several characters including "Easy Reader", "Mel Mounds" and "Count Dracula" on the Children's Television Workshop (now Sesame Workshop) show The Electric Company (1971). He then moved into feature film with another children's adventure, Who Says I Can't Ride a Rainbow! (1971). Next, there was a small role in the thriller Blade (1973); then he played Casca in Julius Caesar (1979) and the title role in Coriolanus (1979). Regular work was coming in for the talented Freeman and he appeared in the prison dramas Attica (1980) and Brubaker (1980), Eyewitness (1981), and portrayed the final 24 hours of slain Malcolm X in Death of a Prophet (1981). For most of the 1980s, Freeman continued to contribute decent enough performances in films that fluctuated in their quality. However, he really stood out, scoring an Oscar nomination as a merciless hoodlum in Street Smart (1987) and, then, he dazzled audiences and pulled a second Oscar nomination in the film version of Driving Miss Daisy (1989) opposite Jessica Tandy. The same year, Freeman teamed up with youthful Matthew Broderick and fiery Denzel Washington in the epic Civil War drama Glory (1989) about freed slaves being recruited to form the first all-African American fighting brigade.His star continued to rise, and the 1990s kicked off strongly with roles in The Bonfire of the Vanities (1990), Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves (1991), and The Power of One (1992). Freeman's next role was as gunman Ned Logan, wooed out of retirement by friend William Munny to avenge several prostitutes in the wild west town of Big Whiskey in Clint Eastwood's de-mythologized western Unforgiven (1992). The film was a sh and scored an acting Oscar for Gene Hackman, a directing Oscar for Eastwood, and the Oscar for best picture. In 1993, Freeman made his directorial debut on Bopha! (1993) and soon after formed his production company, Revelations Entertainment.More strong scripts came in, and Freeman was back behind bars depicting a knowledgeable inmate (and obtaining his third Oscar nomination), befriending falsely accused banker Tim Robbins in The Shawshank Redemption (1994). He was then back out hunting a religious serial killer in Se7en (1995), starred alongside Keanu Reeves in Chain Reaction (1996), and was pursuing another serial murderer in Kiss the Girls (1997).Further praise followed for his role in the slave tale of Amistad (1997), he was a worried US President facing Armageddon from above in Deep Impact (1998), appeared in Neil LaBute's black comedy Nurse Betty (2000), and reprised his role as Alex Cross in Along Came a Spider (2001). Now highly popular, he was much in demand with cinema audiences, and he co-starred in the terrorist drama The Sum of All Fears (2002), was a military officer in the Stephen King-inspired Dreamcatcher (2003), gave divine guidance as God to Jim Carrey in Bruce Almighty (2003), and played a minor role in the comedy The Big Bounce (2004).2005 was a huge year for Freeman. First, he he teamed up with good friend Clint Eastwood to appear in the drama, Million Dollar Baby (2004). Freeman's on-screen performance is simply world-class as ex-prize fighter Eddie "Scrap Iron" Dupris, who works in a run-down boxing gym alongside grizzled trainer Frankie Dunn, as the two work together to hone the skills of never-say-die female boxer Hilary Swank. Freeman received his fourth Oscar nomination and, finally, impressed the Academy's judges enough to win the Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his performance. He also narrated Steven Spielberg's War of the Worlds (2005) and appeared in Batman Begins (2005) as Lucius Fox, a valuable ally of Christian Bale's Bruce Wayne/Batman for director Christopher Nolan. Freeman would reprise his role in the two sequels of the record-breaking, genre-redefining trilogy.Roles in tentpoles and indies followed; highlights include his role as a crime boss in Lucky Number Slevin (2006), a second go-round as God in Evan Almighty (2007) with Steve Carell taking over for Jim Carrey, and a supporting role in Ben Affleck's directorial debut, Gone Baby Gone (2007). He co-starred with Jack Nicholson in the breakout hit The Bucket List (2007) in 2007, and followed that up with another box-office success, Wanted (2008), then segued into the second Batman film, The Dark Knight (2008).In 2009, he reunited with Eastwood to star in the director's true-life drama Invictus (2009), on which Freeman also served as an executive producer. For his portrayal of Nelson Mandela in the film, Freeman garnered Oscar, Golden Globe and Critics' Choice Award nominations, and won the National Board of Review Award for Best Actor.Recently, Freeman appeared in RED (2010), a surprise box-office hit; he narrated the Conan the Barbarian (2011) remake, starred in Rob Reiner's The Magic of Belle Isle (2012); and capped the Batman trilogy with The Dark Knight Rises (2012). Freeman has several films upcoming, including the thriller Now You See Me (2013), under the direction of Louis Leterrier, and the science fiction actioner Oblivion (2013), in which he stars with Tom Cruise.
        [Narration] Often provides narration for his films, as either himself or the character he is playing.
      Ranked #31 in Empire (UK) magazine's "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time" list. [October 1997]
      Father of Alfonso Freeman from his relationship with Loletha Adkins and Saifoulaye Freeman (born 1960) from another previous relationship.
      Father of Morgana Freeman with Jeanette Adair Bradshaw. He also adopted his first wife's daughter, Deena.
      He was (along with director/actress Billie Allen, director/ playwright Garland Thompson, and journalist Clayton Riley') a founding member of The Frank Silvera Writers' Workshop, named after noted Black actor Frank Silvera.
      Has reprised the same character three times. He played Dr. Alex Cross in Kiss the Girls (1997) and then reprised the role in Along Came a Spider (2001). He also played God in Bruce Almighty (2003) and then reprised that role in Evan Almighty (2007). Finally, he played Lucius Fox in both Batman Begins (2005) and The Dark Knight (2008).
      Considered joining the Air Force to become a fighter pilot but opted to stay with acting instead.
      Has starred in two movies based on Stephen King books: Dreamcatcher (2003) and The Shawshank Redemption (1994).
      Has appeared in two films opposite a main character named Jack Ryan: The Sum of All Fears (2002) and The Big Bounce (2004).
      Owns a boat which is berthed in the Caribbean. His busy schedule, however, only allows him to go sailing on it once a year.
      During an interview with Charlie Rose regarding the 10th year anniversary of The Shawshank Redemption (1994), Freeman said he regarded that film, Glory (1989), Driving Miss Daisy (1989), and Unforgiven (1992) as the highlights of his career.
      He is often called the greatest living actor in film, a title he humbly waves off and says he is just "lucky."
      Was nominated for Broadway's 1978 Tony Award as Best Actor (Feature Role - Play) for 'The Mighty Gents.'
      Said in an issue of Life Magazine (February 2005) that he can be seen as an extra in The Pawnbroker (1964).
      Speaks fluent French. He gave an introductory speech in French to the crowd of extras gathered in Montreal's Olympic Stadium to portray the Baltimore Super Bowl audience in The Sum of All Fears (2002).
      In May 2005, he won the right to the Internet domain name www.morganfreeman.com from the company Mighty LLC, of Charlestown, Saint Kitts and Nevis in a UN panel.
      Received a trademark on his name from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on September 19, 2006.
      Most of the characters he has played aren't written specifically for an African-American actor.
      Keeps his Oscar statuette inside a cabinet which resides in his office. The cabinet was built by a good friend of his in 1998 especially for the Oscar that his friend predicted he would win. It even came with a plaque that read: "No Parking. Reserved for Oscar."
      He has played three men who teach someone to box in three separate films. First, he played "Geel Piet" in The Power of One (1992), he then played "Alex Cross" in Kiss the Girls (1997) where, at the beginning of the film, he was teaching a group of young boys how to box, and he also played "Eddie 'Scrap Iron' Dupree" in Million Dollar Baby (2004).
      The only African-American actor/actress to appear in three Best Picture Oscar Winners: Driving Miss Daisy (1989), Unforgiven (1992) and Million Dollar Baby (2004).
      His performance as "Fast Black" in Street Smart (1987) is ranked #77 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time (2006).
      In January 2001, opened Madidi, a fine-dining restaurant in Clarksdale, MS, with local attorney and businessman, Bill Lucket. They also co-own Ground Zero Blues Club, a blues bar and grill that opened in May 2001.
      Three films of his are on the American Film Institute's 100 Most Inspiring Movies of All Time. They are: Driving Miss Daisy (1989) at #77, Glory (1989) at #31 and The Shawshank Redemption (1994) at #23.
      Narrated 2 Academy Award-winning feature-length documentaries: The Long Way Home (1997) and La marche de l'empereur (2005).
      In addition to his role as "Lucius Fox" in the new Batman franchise, Freeman previously acted alongside another Batman: Michael Keaton in Clean and Sober (1988).
      Broke his arm and shoulder when he flipped his car near his home of Charleston, Mississippi on August 3, 2008.
      Though he was born in Memphis, he actually grew up in the Mississippi Delta region. He moved back to Mississippi to open a blues club and restaurant in 2001.
      Was honored with the American Film Institute's 39th Lifetime Achievement Award on June 9, 2011.
      Listed his five favorite films as King Kong (1933), High Noon (1952), Moulin Rouge! (2001), The Outlaw Josey Wales (1976) and Moby Dick (1956).
      Will receive the 2012 Cecil B. DeMille award at the Golden Globes award ceremony in January 2012 [November 9, 2011].
      The longest he has gone without an Oscar nomination is 10 years, between The Shawshank Redemption (1994) and Million Dollar Baby (2004).
      Has purchased the film rights to Orange Crushed, a mystery novel by an African-American writer, Pamela Thomas-Graham. (Thomas-Graham is also the CEO of cable news channel CNBC.) Orange Crushed features an African-American heroine, Professor Nikki Chase. [June 2004]
      As of 2014, has appeared in four movies that were nominated for the Best Picture Oscar: Driving Miss Daisy (1989), Unforgiven (1992), The Shawshank Redemption (1994) and Million Dollar Baby (2004). With the exception of The Shawshank Redemption (1994), all the other films won in the category.
      I had a philosophic aversion to it. I didn't want to do the same thing twice. Then, I realized that my philosophical aversion was bullshit. I realized I liked Alex Cross. And the fact that he's black is totally incidental. That's a rare thing for a black actor to find. - on his hesitation to do Along Came a Spider (2001).
      It was a wonderful experience. Steve Bing was the producer and was very generous. But the movie didn't turn out very well. The director ['George Armitage'] fell ill and we shut down production for a few weeks while he recuperated. And I think when he came back he just didn't pick up the ball and run with it the way he should have, and the movie suffered greatly for that. - on the failure of The Big Bounce (2004).
      I've been living with myself all of my life, so I know all of me. So when I watch me, all I see is me. It's boring. - on why he dislikes watching his own films.
      I'm not intimidated by lead roles. I'm better in them. I don't feel pressure - I feel released at times like that. That's what I'm born to do.
      I was in Africa when I got the call for Unforgiven (1992). Clint called my agency and made an offer for a western. I was like, 'He called for me?' It was jaw-dropping.
      It took a long time for word of mouth to kick in because no one could say it. It was 'The Shimshunk Reduction', 'The Hudsucker Redemption'; I mean people just couldn't say it, which really made me angry because I knew that at the time! The movie we made was called 'Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption'. Isn't that a great title? But they were like, 'That won't fit on the marquee.' So it took a year or two for people to say it. Some people still can't say it. - on the box-office failure of The Shawshank Redemption (1994).
      If you don't show the actual violence and the audience provides their own violence, it's much more gruesome. This is a guy who spent a lot time planning and preparing, and what was he doing? He was punishing people for their sins. He had a moral agenda. A twisted moral agenda, but do you know how many people do? People in high places. - on the violence in Se7en (1995).
      People thought it was a picture about slavery. But it wasn't about slavery at all. It was about American jurisprudence. The point of the film ultimately was that the President in not the king. But I think people were like, 'Jesus, not another movie about slavery!' We really do have a negative response to negative history. Which is a shame" - on the box-office failure of Amistad (1997).
      'I knew that movie wasn't going to work. I don't think Brian De Palma had a clue. It struck me that he didn't read the book-or that he didn't like the book. It was the one time Tom Hanks was awfully miscast. Originally they hired Alan Arkin to play my role. I thought that was perfect casting. But then they thought they had to be politically correct and make the judge black. So they fired Alan Arkin and hired me. Not a great way to get a role. I was kind of a suck-a-- for not turning it down, but they weren't going to give it back to Alan anyway. I never did get around to seeing the movie. - On the failure of The Bonfire of the Vanities (1990).
      "It's a tricky character, right on the edge of Uncle Remus. But, I knew how to play him right away. I knew when I read it. I just saw him -- the dignity in the character. The only time I ever worried about it was when I was doing the show Off-Broadway, and all these Southerners would come back wiping their eyes and talking about how nostalgic it made them feel. How their grandmother had a chauffeur just like that. I was like, 'God damn it! I made these people nostalgic for the good ol' days!' But, then, I had some black friends see it, and they said, 'Oh, my grandfather was exactly like that.' So that made me feel okay." - On the character of Hoke in Driving Miss Daisy (1989).
      That was a strange production. There were moments of extreme tension on the set. Between the producers and actors, between the director and actors, between everybody. Just this personality stuff between different groups. Very strange. Let's stop talking about that one. - on working on The Shawshank Redemption (1994).
      [on Se7en (1995)] There's all this loss and angst and death and sense of helplessness in that movie-if I saw it in the theater, I probably wouldn't have liked it. I saw Fight Club (1999) and I didn't like it much. It's a great movie, well made, fabulous acting, but it just made me feel so bad. But David Fincher is an extraordinarily good director.
      When I was doing press for Deep Impact (1998), reporters would always ask me how it felt to play the first black president, and I'd tell them, 'I'm not playing the first black president. I'm playing a president who happens to be black.' Or they'd ask me what sort of research I did for the role. Research? What kind of research do you need to play the president? He's a guy. Besides, we all know what presidents are like standing up there in a press conference. Hell, you don't have to do any research to play a president.
      "I saw Neil LaBute's first movie, In the Company of Men (1997), and I thought it sucked deeply. I mean, talk about a couple of scuzzy guys. Man, they were turds. But I was intrigued by the mind that would think this up and film it. Then, I saw LaBute's second movie, Your Friends & Neighbors (1998). Not any better, but still intriguing. So then I got the script for Nurse Betty (2000), and I loved it and I went and met him. And it turns out he's married, has these lovely kids. He's just this big bear of a man. Cuddly, even. It didn't take any persuading to convince me to do the film".
      When I got nominated for the Oscar [for Street Smart (1987)], it put rocket boosters in my career. Since childhood, all I wanted to do was make movies. I love the stage, but I wanted to be a movie actor.
      "I don't know what my favorite film of mine is...But I think the most important film I was in was Glory (1989)".
      "It was my idea to just do The Electric Company (1971) for a couple of years and go on. But, you get trapped by that money thing. It's golden handcuffs. It gets a lot of people, including soap opera actors and commercial actors. Then, they don't want to see you in serious work. That was going to be me, having people come up to me saying 'My kids love you!'. I was there three years too long".
      I was talking to Bob Hoskins when we were making Unleashed together. We were talking about the joy of doing bad guys. And he confirmed exactly what I was thinking. With bad guys you get to let it all out. All those dark places in your psyche? You can let 'em go. When you play good guys, it's kind of boring. It's one note.
      Once you've gotten the job, there's nothing to it. If you're an actor, you're an actor. Doing it is not the hard part. The hard part is getting to do it.
      [Accepting his UCLA Tracy award]: "To be included among this group of highly accomplished actors is just magical."
      I'm very worried about what's going on in the world at the moment because we have this Napoleonic president; by Napoleonic I mean he's a man who just seems to need to search himself. It doesn't make sense. I don't have any love lost on Saddam Hussein. If he needs to be removed from office, fine. You have to find the right way to do it, but going to war, nah, with the people. To do what. What is the real reason? Because he's harboring weapons of mass destruction? So it is with North Korea. Why are we acting to acquiesce to this? We do not need the Iraqi oil. We have Kuwait oil. It's the same pool. That's why Kuwait's there. That's why Kuwait was set up. You think that country could exist there without somebody backing it? We're talking about a piece of Iraq. So, we keep this. That's my noise. I am terribly upset about the whole thing.
      You know, I was hanging out with Sidney Poitier and we were trying to decide if he or I were the better actor. We decided it was me as I convinced the world I could sing. (Freeman debuted on Broadway in 1968 in "Hello, Dolly!")
      Stop talking about it. I'm going to stop calling you a white man. And I'm going to ask you to stop calling me a black man. - when asked how to get rid of racism in an interview with Mike Wallace on 60 Minutes (1968).
      Ridiculous... I don't want a Black History Month. Black history is American history. - when asked what he thinks of Black History Month on 60 Minutes (1968).
      The American Indians have this saying. 'Look at the day, look at the sunlight, the grass and the trees! It's a good day to die!'
      You couldn't possibly try to entertain all of the people who seem to be offering you entertainment. Because most of them want some compensation for it.
      Upon waking up face down in a door way and not knowing how he got there: "I recognised that it had become a problem, so I just quit. I do have self-control. Once I realise that I've got to change something I just do it."
      If you wake up and the snow is knee-deep outside, you are not filled with rage. It's just something that you've got to cope with. If you're living in a situation it's the only situation that you know, and you've got to deal with it.
      I don't have to work. I could stop and never have to worry about paying the rent. I'm working for the joy of doing it.
      Sometimes you want to upset an audience so you can engage them. I've done so-called Hollywood films, and I know that it's all about wanting the audience to feel upbeat, give them a happy ending. But they also like complete stories. If your story's complete it doesn't have to have a happy ending.
      They say there's no fool like an old fool. But blessings be upon my wife because I think without her, I'd be somebody's fool by now.
      If you live a life of make-believe, your life isn't worth anything until you do something that does challenge your reality. And to me, sailing the open ocean is a real challenge, because it's life or death.
      Upon getting work as an off-Broadway actor in 1967: I made $70 a week as an actor and I'd been making $60 in LA. Making more than that as an actor was just unbelievable to me. I never went back to typing but had some real lean times in-between. But I didn't have to go to work for anybody else. I didn't have to wash dishes, I didn't have to wait tables, I didn't have to drive a cab or wash cars. I deliberately left myself nothing to fall back on. If you've got a cushion, where you land, you stay. You can't climb a mountain with a net. If you've got the net, you'll let go.
      I work about half the year. I'm just a guy who enjoys his work and enjoys working with people who enjoy their work. When that happens you get a bonding situation and if it come out with a good product, then that ties you even closer together. It's almost like a great love affair.
      I've never been a mechanic. Throughout my life, what I have been is an actor, a pretender. I do have the wife and the family and the stuff like that but on the other hand, I'm - knock on wood - outstandingly healthy.
      I think we all have a private bucket list. It may not be written down, but I'm constantly checking them off. I just checked off Jack Nicholson. Every day was a holiday because I've been praying at the temple of Jack ever since Five Easy Pieces (1970). I had a chance to ride with him on the Warner Brothers plane with Clint [Eastwood]. I got to jawing what a fan I was, and as actors will do, he expressed how he liked my work. Then we started talking about how we could make a sequel to [the 1973 Nicholson film] The Last Detail (1973). But that didn't pan out.
      My aim in life, when I graduated from high school, was to get out of Mississippi. I started coming back [to Mississippi] in about 1979, because my parents moved back, which I couldn't understand. What in the world would make you come back here? It took me about 20 years to figure that out.
      I'm not a campaigner or a crusader for ending racism, or anything for that matter. I believe you should live your life according to your own tenets. If there are people you don't like, avoid them. But not liking people based on generalities is stupid.
      Isn't there a big, 800-pound gorilla missing here? Money, money, money. You work all your life so you don't have to wash dishes or sweep floors or pump gas, and still pay the rent. That's very germane to what you call a career.
      I don't know about anyone else, but my kids didn't have me. I was busy trying to be somebody. Now I have all these debts to pay. -- on the personal toll being an actor can take on a person.
      I don't think that anything where you start off with something is an art form. If you start off with a blank page or a blank canvas or a blank slab or a blank stone, you're going to create something. If someone brings it to you and says, "Can you enlarge upon it?"
      The fact that the people who are making the decisions about moviemaking are not moviemakers is a big problem.
      I don't do accents. But I was going to have to do some sort of accent and do my best to sound like Mandela. I really fretted over that because he's an iconic figure. If you screw it up you've screwed it up. But once we got into production, it all fell into place. -- on the toughest aspect of preparing for "Invictus"
      Glory does what I think movies are best at, and that is giving you a lesson in history. Glory is a story that nobody knew. It's American history that was completely ignored, and there is an awful lot of that. It is because the people who tell the story tell their own story. So if you ever ask, any time down the line, that's always the film I'll be most proud of.
      On The Shawshank Redemption (1994): That is the film that most people will mention. It's not the only one, but it's the most common. I think more people have seen Shawshank than have seen anything else bar Casablanca (1942). Me, I just take the compliment.
      I never think about awards or anything like that when I do a job. I was first named a best actor when I was 12 years old and it doesn't really mean anything when you get down to it, because there is no best. I don't get all that involved. My chest puffs up as much as I can puff it up but I am not trying to be better than the person I am acting with. I am trying to be at least as good. That's how it works.
      [on Michael Wincott] Michael is a sweetheart, he has an enormous power. He is one of those people who's totally dedicated to what he's doing. I certainly get enjoyment out of working with him. He's great to rehearse with, he's always got ideas and this incredible sense of humor and this kind of outlandish take on things.
      I never wanted to be a movie star. I never wanted to be a personality. Then all you do is turn yourself into what the audience wants and play it over and over. That's what movie stars do.
      [on the assassination of John F. Kennedy in 1963] On that dreadful afternoon I, along with most of the other people in New York, found myself on the street, wandering in a daze, shocked to realize the enormity of the act. I think that's when America began to lose her way.
=======================================================
Septuagenarian actor Morgan Freeman is the go-to guy for gravitas, although the Academy Award winner has claimed he tires of the word being brought up during every interview. Whatever his own feeling on the moniker, Freeman is officially stuck with being the voice for weight, substance and trustworthiness.
Freeman may have started late in his big screen career but when it finally kicked in, people noticed his consistent and controlled performances that are matched by few of his contemporaries.
He may have played a stoic chauffeur in the 1989 film ‘Driving Miss Daisy’ but what drives the man who has played some of the biggest celluloid roles of the last 20 years?
Freeman is the son a school teacher and a barber who both took on extra shifts at the local hospital to make ends meet. Following the birth of their final and sixth child, (five boys, and one girl) both parents relocated in Chicago to find better paid work. Freeman and his siblings were then raised in Mississippi by their dedicated grandparents.
Freeman spent most of his childhood summers in Chicago with his parents. He would scrounge for empty bottles and redeem them for the deposit payment to buy tickets to the movies.
At school, Freeman loved attention and remembers wanting to act, even before hitting his teens. “I was 12 and there was this girl in school that I really liked; very well-dressed, beautiful curls. To get her attention, I pulled a chair out from under her when she was about to sit down. She fell on the floor and ran to our English teacher. I thought: Oh, Lord, that’s it. But instead of bringing me to the principal’s office, she took me to another class that needed performers for a school play. And for this performance I got my first acting award.’’
It would not be until the century had turned before he won his first Academy Award. Freeman received Oscar nominations for his roles in 1987's ‘Street Smart’, 1989's ‘Driving Miss Daisy’ and 1994's ‘The Shawshank Redemption’. He finally won his Oscar for Best Actor in a Supporting Role in the heart-wrenching 2004 boxing drama ‘Million Dollar Baby’, directed by Clint Eastwood; his second role in an Eastwood-directed film.
Growing up, Freeman worshipped the silver screen stars and was particularly drawn to war films featuring airplanes; an attraction that continued through his teens and led to him joining the United States Air Force at the age of 18. Freeman worked as a mechanic in the Air Force and later considered joining as a fighter pilot but opted to give acting a whirl instead. He later trained for his own private pilot’s license. Freeman was not the only one of his siblings to give the military a go: all but the youngest, became military men.
Penniless in the late 1950s, Freeman moved to Los Angeles to follow his acting dream. He picked up a job at the Los Angeles City College where he was allowed free dancing, singing, and acting classes. He struggled during these years waiting for his big break.
“I went to Hollywood straight away. I got a good running start but the wall was brick. So when I bounced, I bounced all the way to New York and got onto the stage and stayed there.’’
Freeman said the move to New York was a blessing in disguise as he was treading the boards, avoiding the period in the 1970s when black exploitation films started.
“All the New York actors were going to Hollywood, starring in it [Blaxploitation], making $40,000. I said to my agent whose name was Jeff Hunter, and who picked me up from the first stage play I did in New York: ‘Everybody's going out there and they're working. I'm sitting here languishing. I should go - don't you think I should go out to Hollywood?’"
“I don't think so. When they want you, they'll send for you," said Hunter. It worked. Though they didn't want me for a long time.’’
Freeman worked the theatre for decades. Then, in 1966, he made his movie debut with a tiny role in the drama ‘A Man Called Adam’, starring Sammy Davis Jr. and Louis Armstrong, and directed by Leo Penn (father of Chris, Michael, and Sean Penn). The following year Freeman married Jeanette Adair Bradshaw. They had two sons together, Alfonso and Saifoulaye, but the pair divorced in 1979.
Then came a 1970s television role playing the Easy Reader and several other roles on ‘The Electric Company’, a children’s educational show. Freeman later took a supporting role in the film ‘Brubaker’ but things cooled off after that.
Freeman says the phone stopped ringing for him in the 1980s. He came close to applying for his taxi driver’s license when new offers started to roll in. Fed up with the lower wages of theatre and having two children to support Freeman auditioned for, and won, the role of a doctor in the daytime soap-opera, ‘Another World’. He kept the regular work for two years before leaving to take a role in the film, ‘Harry and Son’.
In 1984, Freeman remarried a costume designer, Myrna Colley-Lee, with whom he raised two daughters: Deena (adopted with Colley-Lee) and Morgana.
Once production ended for Harry and Son, Morgan again found himself out of work so he returned to Broadway where he was making a name for himself. It was back on Broadway that Freeman landed his Obie award-winning role in the stage version of ‘Driving Miss Daisy’.
His role as the dignified chauffeur assisting a moody pensioner gave him much publicity and it was not long before he landed a role opposite Christopher Reeve in ‘Street Smart’. By this time, 1987, Freeman was 50 and winning praise for his characterisation of a menacing pimp. He also won his first Oscar nomination for the part.
Two years later, he was nominated for another Oscar for playing Hoke Colburn, the chauffeur in the film version of ‘Driving Miss Daisy’, opposite Jessica Tandy.
He was nominated a third time for Stephen King's ‘Shawshank Redemption’ in 1994. The film, an adaptation of a Stephen King novel, was a slow-burner at the box office but has topped DVD sales and rentals and often appears in Top 100 film lists voted by both critics and viewers.
“Everywhere I go, everywhere I go, people say, 'I love your movies. Shawshank Redemption' or they say `Shooshunk’ or `Shankshout is the best movie I ever saw.' It opened the same year that Dumb and Dumber opened. Shawshank made $35m at the box office - domestic. Dumb and Dumber made $110m. Duu-uh.’’
In 2000, as a 63-year-old, Freeman kissed Renée Zellweger in ‘Nurse Betty’; it was his first on-screen kiss.
Freeman has hobbies outside of his work. He is an avid pilot, sailor and co-owns a blues club and a restaurant. However he will never shake being one of the world’s most recognisable actors with his striking wearisome eyes, smattering of freckles and mop of salt and pepper hair."I have discovered that there was no place to go to hide from racism. If it's a problem for you, it's a problem for you. You just find it wherever you are.’’Preferring his home town to the La-La Land of Hollywood, Freeman decided to move back to Clarksville, Mississippi, a town with a population of about 20,000 and no red carpet events.
“When I started going home to visit my parents as an adult, I began to realise how much I felt associated with the state. I was raised there and had a lot of friends in Mississippi. In addition, I could spend a third of the money that I would in Los Angeles and get 10 times the amount of land with my next neighbour miles away. I feel very comfortable there. I am in a place that I’ve always loved.”
Explaining why he moved back to his home town, Freeman continues: “I did it because I live in Mississippi and having traveled around the country, the world, particularly the country, I have discovered that there was no place to go to hide from racism. If it's a problem for you, it's a problem for you. You just find it wherever you are.’’
Freeman may have played the role of a black president, and a black God twice, but he says dividing roles into black or white is pointless in the film industry.
“It’s no longer a question. Anybody who says anything to the contrary is looking for excuses. This business has learned in the 70s that the issue isn’t race but money. The bosses don’t care what colour you are, but whether or not you have a following and if that following will pay for you. If it will, you will get the best offers; no matter who you look like.’’
In 2005, Freeman labeled the concept of a month, dedicated to black history in America, as “ridiculous’’. He told a ‘60 Minutes’ reporter: “You're going to relegate my history to a month? I don't want a black history month. Black history is American history.’’
Freeman’s biggest triumph came in the 2004 Clint Eastwood-directed film ‘Million Dollar Baby’. In it, he played Scrap, a former fighter who whiled away his days as the manager of a run-down gym called the Hit Pit.
He may have punched the air in triumph of winning the gold statue but claims acting-boxing is more difficult than carrying the air of gravitas.
“Have you ever thrown a punch at anybody that you weren't going to connect with? Try it sometime. You're just throwing as hard as you can through the air, and not just once but a lot of times. And when you get done, you can hardly raise your arm.’’
The movie garnered critical acclaim, earning him his first Academy Award as a best supporting actor. He also collected an Italian Online Movie Award for Best Supporting Actor and Screen Actors Guild and Vancouver Film Critics Circle gongs.
Having achieved the recognition, he went on to appear in a variety of roles in movies including ‘Batman Begins’, ‘Lucky Number Slevin’ and ‘Evan Almighty’ in which he reprised his Bruce Almighty role of God. Freeman then starred in the Ben Affleck-directed movie ‘Gone Baby Gone’ in 2008 before teaming up with Angelina Jolie and James McAvoy for action film ‘Wanted’, which was a commercial success.
In 2009, Freeman took on a role many fans would have loved to see him portray when he appeared as Nelson Mandela in a biographical drama film directed by Clint Eastwood. Based on a book by John Carlin entitled ‘Playing the Enemy: Nelson Mandela and the Game That Changed a Nation’, the movie garnered rave reviews and earned him more award nominations. These included an Academy Award for Best Actor nomination, as well as Golden Globe and Screen Actors Guild nods.
Always busy and never shy to engage in some action, 2010 saw Freeman join a star-studded cast including Bruce Willis, John Malkovich, Helen Mirren and Richard Dreyfuss in ‘Red’. He is due to follow the action-comedy film with 2011's ‘The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle’ and 2012's ‘The Dark Knight Rises’.
=======================================================
From All Movie Guide: Morgan Freeman has enjoyed an impressive and varied career on stage, television, and screen. It is a career that began in the mid-'60s, when Freeman appeared in an off-Broadway production of {+The Niggerlovers} and with Pearl Bailey in an all-African-American Broadway production of {+Hello, Dolly!} in 1968. He went on to have a successful career both on and off-Broadway, showcasing his talents in everything from musicals to contemporary drama to Shakespeare. Before studying acting, the Memphis-born Freeman attended Los Angeles Community College and served a five-year stint with the Air Force from 1955 to 1959. After getting his start on the stage, he worked in television, playing Easy Reader on the PBS children's educational series The Electric Company from 1971 through 1976. During that period, Freeman also made his movie debut in the lighthearted children's movie Who Says I Can't Ride a Rainbow? (1971). Save for his work on the PBS show, Freeman's television and feature film appearances through the '70s were sporadic, but in 1980, he earned critical acclaim for his work in the prison drama Brubaker. He gained additional recognition for his work on the small screen with a regular role on the daytime drama Days of Our Lives from 1982 to 1984. Following Brubaker, Freeman's subsequent '80s film work was generally undistinguished until he played the dangerously emotional pimp in Street Smart (1987) and earned his first Oscar nomination. With the success of Street Smart, Freeman's film career duly took off and he appeared in a string of excellent films that began with the powerful Clean and Sober (1988) and continued with Driving Miss Daisy (1989), in which Freeman reprised his Obie-winning role of a dignified, patient Southern chauffeur and earned his second Oscar nomination for his efforts. In 1989, he also played a tough and cynical gravedigger who joins a newly formed regiment of black Union soldiers helmed by Matthew Broderick in Glory. The acclaim he won for that role was replicated with his portrayal of a high school principal in that same year's Lean on Me.Freeman constitutes one of the few African-American actors to play roles not specifically written for African-Americans, as evidenced by his work in such films as Kevin Costner's Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves (1991), in which he played Robin's sidekick, and Clint Eastwood's revisionist Western Unforgiven (1992). In 1993, Freeman demonstrated his skills on the other side of the camera, making his directorial debut with Bopha!, the story of a South African cop alienated from his son by apartheid. The following year, the actor received a third Oscar nomination as an aged lifer in the prison drama The Shawshank Redemption. He went on to do steady work throughout the rest of the decade, turning in memorable performances in films like Seven (1995), in which he played a world-weary detective; Amistad (1997), which featured him as a former slave; Kiss the Girls (1997), a thriller in which he played a police detective; and Deep Impact, a 1998 blockbuster that cast Freeman as the President of the United States. Following an appearance opposite Renee Zellweger in director Neil LaBute's Nurse Betty, Freeman would return to the role of detective Alex Cross in the Kiss the Girls sequel Along Came a Spider (2001). Freeman continued to keep a high profile moving into the new millennium with roles in such thrillers as The Sum of All Fears (2002) and Stephen King's Dreamcatcher, and the popular actor would average at least two films per year through 2004. 2003's Jim Carrey vehicle Bruce Almighty cast Freeman as God (a tall role indeed, and one he inherited from both George Burns and Gene Hackman). The story finds the Supreme Being appearing on on Earth and giving Carrey temporary control over the universe - to outrageous comic effect. By the time Freeman appeared opposite Hilary Swank and Clint Eastwood in Eastwood's acclaimed 2004 boxing drama Million Dollar Baby, his reputation as one of Hollywood's hardest-working, most-respected actors was cemented in place. When Freeman took home the Best Supporting Actor Oscar at the 77th Annual Academy Awards for his performance as the former boxer turned trainer who convinces his old friend to take a scrappy female fighter (Hilary Swank) under his wing, the award was considered overdue given Freeman's impressive body of work.The Oscar reception lifted Freeman to further heights. In summer 2005, Freeman was involved in three of the biggest blockbusters of the year, including War of the Worlds, Batman Begins and March of the Penguins. He joined the cast of the first picture as the foreboding narrator who tells of the destruction wrought by aliens upon the Earth. The Batman Begins role represented the first in a renewed franchise (the second being 2008's The Dark Knight), with the actor playing Lucius Fox, a technology expert who equips Bruce Wayne (Christian Bale) with his vast assemblage of gadgetry. Freeman also provided narration for the most unpredictable smash of the year, the nature documentary March of the Penguins.That fall, Miramax's drama An Unfinished Life cast Freeman in a difficult role as Mitch, a bear attack victim reduced to near-paraplegia, living on a derelict western ranch. The picture was shelved it for two years; it arrived in cinemas practically stillborn, and many critics turned their noses up at it. After a brutal turn as a sociopathic mob boss in Paul McGuigan's Lucky Number Slevin (2006), Freeman reprised his turn as God in the 2007 Bruce Almighty sequel Evan Almighty; the high-budgeted picture flopped, but Freeman emerged unscathed. Versatile as ever, he then opted for a much different genre and tone with a key role in the same year's detective thriller Gone, Baby, Gone. As written and directed by Ben Affleck (and adapted from the novel by Dennis Lehane) the film wove the tale of two detectives searching for a missing four-year-old in Boston's underbelly. He returned to the Batman franchise in The Dark Knight, a film that broke box-office records, in 2008, and he would stick with the franchise for its final installment, The Dark Knight Rises, in 2012. Freeman would remain a top tier actor in years to come, appearing in such films as Red, Invictus (which saw him playing Nelson Mandela), Conan the Barbarian, and The Magic of Belle Isle. ~ Sandra Brennan, Rovi      
Institution - Greenwood High School			Location - Greenwood , Mississippi									Year range - 1955			
© 2010 All Media Guide, LLC Portions of content provided by All Movie Guide ®, a trademark of All Media Guide, LLC
=======================================================
City College after a five-year stint in the Air Force. A true Renaissance man, he has done it all, from Broadway to children's television, soap operas and finally, starring roles in big budget features. He made his Broadway debut opposite Pearl Bailey in an all-black revival of Hello Dolly in 1968, and later gained broad exposure as Easy Reader in Educational TV's The Electric Company.
On the big screen from the early 1970s, Freeman made his breakthrough into big budget films with Brubaker (1980), starring Robert Redford. He won the National Society of Film Critics Best Supporting Actor Award for Street Smart (1987), and was nominated for a Best Actor Academy Award for his inspiring performance in Driving Miss Daisy (1989) and although he didn't win the statuette, he won a Golden Globe award for his work in the film, as well as a Silver Berlin Bear from the Berlin International Film Festival, an Image Award and a National Board of Review award. "I don't think of acting as a creative endeavor," Freeman says.
For his role as Red in The Shawshank Redemption (1994), Freeman received Oscar and Golden Globe nominations. He won an Empire Award as Best Actor for Se7en (1995), and in 2000, he received an Outstanding Achievement in Acting award at the Hollywood Film Festival as well as the Joseph Plateau Life Achievement Award at the Flanders International Film Festival. From the Philadelphia Festival of World Cinema, he received a Lifetime Achievement Award in 2001, and got a well-deserved Star on the Walk of Fame on March 18, 2003. Now in his sixties, Freeman continues to work non-stop, winning awards and critical acclaim for nearly every performance. For Million Dollar Baby (2004), he received his fourth Oscar nomination and his first win. In 2010, he received a fifth Oscar nomination, this time for his portrayal of Nelson Mandela in Invictus (2009). Freeman has continued to enjoy an exremely successful film career. He reprised his role as Lucius Fox in the final chapter of Christopher Nolan's Batman trilogy, The Dark Knight Rises (2012). He also starred in Last Vegas (2013)and Transcendence (2014). Most recently, he lent his voice in The LEGO Movie (2014) and narrates the  true story of lemurs in Island of Lemurs: Madagascar (2014). He also starred in  
Freeman has been married and divorced twice. He has two children from his first marriage and two children from his second.
Filmography → Oscars™ Nominations And AwardsActorDolphin Tale 2 (2014)ActorIsland of Lemurs: Madagascar (2014)ActorIsland of Lemurs: Madagascar - An IMAX 3D Experience (2014)ActorThe LEGO Movie 3D (2014)ActorThe LEGO Movie (2014)ActorLucy (2014)ActorTranscendence (2014)ActorLast Vegas (2013)ActorNow You See Me (2013)ActorOblivion (2013)ActorOlympus Has Fallen (2013)ActorThe Dark Knight Rises (2012)ActorThe Dark Knight Rises: The IMAX Experience (2012)ActorThe Magic of Belle Isle (2012)ActorBorn To Be Wild (2011)ActorBorn To Be Wild 3D (2011)ActorDolphin Tale (2011)ActorDolphin Tale 3D (2011)ActorRED (2010)ActorFate of a Nation (2009)ActorInvictus (2009)Actor in a Leading RoleNomineeActorThe Dark Knight (2008)ActorThe Dark Knight: The IMAX Experience (2008)ActorWanted (2008)ActorThe Bucket List (2007)ActorEvan Almighty (2007)ActorFeast of Love (2007)ActorGone Baby Gone (2007)Actor10 Items or Less (2006)ActorLucky Number Slevin (2006)ActorBatman Begins (2005)ActorBatman Begins: The IMAX Experience (2005)ActorEdison Force (2005)ActorMarch of the Penguins (2005)ActorAn Unfinished Life (2005)ActorUnleashed (2005)ActorThe Big Bounce (2004)ActorMillion Dollar Baby (2004)Actor in a Supporting RoleWinnerActorBruce Almighty (2003)ActorDreamcatcher (2003)ActorLevity (2003)ActorHigh Crimes (2002)ActorThe Sum Of All Fears (2002)ActorAlong Came A Spider (2001)ActorNurse Betty (2000)ActorUnder Suspicion (2000)ActorDeep Impact (1998)ActorSeven (1995)ActorThe Shawshank Redemption  (1994)ActorRobin Hood: Prince of Thieves (1991)
=======================================================
Actor, director, and narrator who won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor in Million Dollar Baby in 2005. He has appeared in hits such as Bruce Almighty, The Dark Knight Trilogy, The Sum of All Fears, and Dolphin Tale. 
When he was nine years old, he played the lead role in a school play. He turned down a drama scholarship at Jason State University to work as a radar mechanic in the U.S. Air Force in 1955. 
He was married to Jeanette Adair Bradshaw from 1967 to 1979. He married his second wife, Myrna Colley-Lee in 1984. The couple separated in 2010. 
