=======================================================
Online and offline reading on the iPhone, iPad, Android, Kindle Fire tablets, Nook tablets and Kobo tablets
                    Read a new release, top best seller or choose from125,000+ other eBooks.                
                    Select two of your favorite eBooks, and we'll predict another you're sure to love.
                    Exploring our online selection is simple and fun. Can't find what you're looking for? Use our
                Additional plans are available after creating your account if you'd prefer more books.
=======================================================
The Museum of the American Revolutions mourns the loss of our board member, Lewis Katz. Our condolences go to his loved ones. To learn more about his remarkable life and enduring legacy, click here.
In 2012 CBS correspondent Anthony Mason explored traveled to Philadelphia for a behind-the-scenes look at MoAR's 100-year-old collection. He explored highlights from the collection with MoAR's Director of Collections and Interpretation, Dr. Scott Stephenson. Historian Dr. Gordon Wood was also interviewed. To watch the feature, click here.
PHILADELPHIA– May 7, 2014 – Today, the Museum of the American Revolution received final approval for its architectural plans from the Philadelphia Art Commission. Designed by Robert A. M. Stern Architects, the Museum will build its new home at Third and Chestnut Streets in the heart of Philadelphia’s historic district.
With Gift From The Church of Jesus Christ Of Latter-Day Saints, Museum of the American Revolution Secures More Than $100 Million in Funding
In a ceremony held in Philadelphia’s City Hall, officials from the Museum of the American Revolution accepted a gift of $1.5 million from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Museum of the American Revolution Releases Refined Architectural Plans and Secures Conceptual Approval from Philadelphia Art Commission
PHILADELPHIA– April 2, 2014 – After working closely with a subcommittee of the Philadelphia Art Commission, the Museum of the American Revolution today released Robert A.M. Stern Architects' revised design for the Museum's new home at Third and Chestnut Streets. Upon review of the updated plans, the Art Commission granted Conceptual Approval. The Museum will go before the Commission in May seeking Final Approval.
Jodi Daynard is the author of The Place Within: Portraits of the American Landscape by 20 Contemporary Writers. Her essays and stories have been widely published. She has taught writing at Harvard University and M.I.T.
June 17, 1775. A shimmer of dawn was just rising to the east, casting faint light across the village, when I found myself knocking at the shack door of Isaac Copeland, who lived behind the small barn on the Adams property. Read more 
Michael C. Quinn delivered the keynote address at the “Tapping of the Bell” ceremony, July 4, 2013, organized by the Pennsylvania Society of Sons of the Revolution and its Color Guard. Read more 
This website is a project of the Museum of the American Revolution under grants from The Lehrman Institute and from The Hertog Foundation.
=======================================================
A spellbinding true story — Raised on Fear by Lee Cox  http://wp.temphost.us/book/purchase/Igniting hope and purpose in peoples lives. The EVE Foundation is impacting teens and adults who have been abused. Our programs open up conversations about hardship and abuse and inspire a positive view of the future, empowering people to go beyond the hurt and pain and to live life with an inspired purpose. http://wp.temphost.us/programs/Who We Are We are committed to a future where children are born into a world of love and acceptance.  
"I grew up in a world of unpredictability and violence. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence." Raised on Fear is a true story by Lee Cox. A self healing, must-read. Buy today and get free shipping.
From Chapter One – “I grew up in a world of violence and unpredictability. I learned to protect myself the best I could. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal, and to cover my fear with anger and violence.
No one knew the abuse that went on in our home, as we all learned to keep it hidden. No one knew my wish to make it stop. And later, no one knew the fear that overwhelmed me and drove me to hit and hurt the ones I loved most.”
This book exposes the thinking, beliefs and actions of a child who grows up to find himself being the abuser in his family. We follow his story from before childhood to the beginning of his journey to stop his violent and abusive behaviors.
Lee Cox offers powerful insights into his journey of healing himself. When he shares his story, his courage, candor and honesty inspire his audience to help stop domestic abuse. Lee speaks to: Students, Teachers, Law Enforcement, Domestic Violence Professionals, Civic organizations, Self Help groups and Community Leaders. Contact the EVE Foundation to have Lee speak at your next event.
“I grew up in a world of unpredictability and violence. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence.” Raised on Fear is a true story by Lee Cox. A self healing, must-read. Buy today and get free shipping.
“I grew up in a world of violence and unpredictability. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence.”
The EVE Foundation is impacting teens and adults who have been abused. Our programs open up conversations about hardship and abuse and inspire a positive view of the future, empowering people to go beyond the hurt and pain and to live life with an inspired purpose. It is our mission to make a real difference with humans by educating and continually re-igniting their flame of hope, inspiration, and purpose, so they can heal themselves.
The EVE Foundation is committed to a future where children are born into a world of love and acceptance. We contribute to that future through programs designed to inspire healing, responsibility, empowerment and hope. Our target audience is at risk teens, abusers and the abused.
Committed to raising money to fund local organizations who focus on child abuse prevention. We achieve this by collecting, repairing, cleaning and selling donated items.
Group of men and women working to make our communities better places to live though programs of service in Americanism, Community  Service, Youth Activities, and it’s national project, the Prevention of Child Abuse.
=======================================================
Benjamin Franklin was born in Boston on January 17, 1706. He was the tenth son of soap maker, Josiah Franklin. Benjamin's mother was Abiah Folger, the second wife of Josiah. In all, Josiah would father 17 children.
Josiah intended for Benjamin to enter into the clergy. However, Josiah could only afford to send his son to school for one year and clergymen needed years of schooling. But, as young Benjamin loved to read he had him apprenticed to his brother James, who was a printer. After helping James compose pamphlets and set type which was grueling work, 12-year-old Benjamin would sell their products in the streets. Learn More: Franklin Timeline
When Benjamin was 15 his brother started The New England Courant the first "newspaper" in Boston. Though there were two papers in the city before James's Courant, they only reprinted news from abroad. James's paper carried articles, opinion pieces written by James's friends, advertisements, and news of ship schedules.
Benjamin wanted to write for the paper too, but he knew that James would never let him. After all, Benjamin was just a lowly apprentice. So Ben began writing letters at night and signing them with the name of a fictional widow, Silence Dogood. Dogood was filled with advice and very critical of the world around her, particularly concerning the issue of how women were treated. Ben would sneak the letters under the print shop door at night so no one knew who was writing the pieces. They were a smash hit, and everyone wanted to know who was the real "Silence Dogood."
After 16 letters, Ben confessed that he had been writing the letters all along. While James's friends thought Ben was quite precocious and funny, James scolded his brother and was very jealous of the attention paid to him.
Before long the Franklins found themselves at odds with Boston's powerful Puritan preachers, the Mathers. Smallpox was a deadly disease in those times, and the Mathers supported inoculation; the Franklins' believed inoculation only made people sicker. And while most Bostonians agreed with the Franklins, they did not like the way James made fun of the clergy, during the debate. Ultimately, James was thrown in jail for his views, and Benjamin was left to run the paper for several issues.
Upon release from jail, James was not grateful to Ben for keeping the paper going. Instead he kept harassing his younger brother and administering beatings from time to time. Ben could not take it and decided to run away in 1723.
Running away was illegal. In early America, people all had to have a place in society and runaways did not fit in anywhere. Regardless Ben took a boat to New York where he hoped to find work as a printer. He didn't, and walked across New Jersey, finally arriving in Philadelphia via a boat ride. After debarking, he used the last of his money to buy some rolls. He was wet, disheveled, and messy when his future wife, Deborah Read, saw him on that day, October, 6, 1723. She thought him odd-looking, never dreaming that seven years later they would be married.
Franklin found work as an apprentice printer. He did so well that the governor of Pennsylvania promised to set him up in business for himself if young Franklin would just go to London to buy fonts and printing equipment. Franklin did go to London, but the governor reneged on his promise and Benjamin was forced to spend several months in England doing print work.
Benjamin had been living with the Read family before he left for London. Deborah Read, the very same girl who had seen young Benjamin arrive in Philadelphia, started talking marriage, with the young printer. But Ben did not think he was ready. While he was gone, she married another man.
Upon returning to Philadelphia, Franklin tried his hand at helping to run a shop, but soon went back to being a printer's helper. Franklin was a better printer than the man he was working for, so he borrowed some money and set himself up in the printing business. Franklin seemed to work all the time, and the citizens of Philadelphia began to notice the diligent young businessman. Soon he began getting the contract to do government jobs and started thriving in business.
In 1728, Benjamin fathered a child named William. The mother of William is not known. However, in 1730 Benjamin married his childhood sweetheart, Deborah Read. Deborah's husband had run off, and now she was able to marry.
In addition to running a print shop, the Franklins also ran their own store at this time, with Deborah selling everything from soap to fabric. Ben also ran a book store. They were quite enterprising.
In 1729, Benjamin Franklin bought a newspaper, the Pennsylvania Gazette. Franklin not only printed the paper, but often contributed pieces to the paper under aliases. His newspaper soon became the most successful in the colonies. This newspaper, among other firsts, would print the first political cartoon, authored by Ben himself.
During the 1720s and 1730s, the side of Franklin devoted to public good started to show itself. He organized the Junto, a young working-man's group dedicated to self- and-civic improvement. He joined the Masons. He was a very busy man socially.
But Franklin thrived on work. In 1733 he started publishing Poor Richard's Almanack. Almanacs of the era were printed annually, and contained things like weather reports, recipes, predictions and homilies. Franklin published his almanac under the guise of a man named Richard Saunders, a poor man who needed money to take care of his carping wife. What distinguished Franklin's almanac were his witty aphorisms and lively writing. Many of the famous phrases associated with Franklin, such as, "A penny saved is a penny earned" come from Poor Richard.
Franklin continued his civic contributions during the 1730s and 1740s. He helped launch projects to pave, clean and light Philadelphia's streets. He started agitating for environmental clean up. Among the chief accomplishments of Franklin in this era was helping to launch the Library Company in 1731. During this time books were scarce and expensive. Franklin recognized that by pooling together resources, members could afford to buy books from England. Thus was born the nation's first subscription library. In 1743, he helped to launch the American Philosophical Society, the first learned society in America. Recognizing that the city needed better help in treating the sick, Franklin brought together a group who formed the Pennsylvania Hospital in 1751. The Library Company, Philosophical Society, and Pennsylvania Hospital are all in existence today.
Fires were very dangerous threat to Philadelphians, so Franklin set about trying to remedy the situation. In 1736, he organized Philadelphia's Union Fire Company, the first in the city. His famous saying, "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure," was actually fire-fighting advice.
Those who suffered fire damage to their homes often suffered irreversible economic loss. So, in 1752, Franklin helped to found the Philadelphia Contribution for Insurance Against Loss by Fire. Those with insurance policies were not wiped out financially. The Contributionship is still in business today.
Franklin's printing business was thriving in this 1730s and 1740s. He also started setting up franchise printing partnerships in other cities. By 1749 he retired from business and started concentrating on science, experiments, and inventions. This was nothing new to Franklin. In 1743, he had already invented a heat-efficient stove — called the Franklin stove — to help warm houses efficiently. As the stove was invented to help improve society, he refused to take out a patent.
Among Franklin's other inventions are swim fins, the glass armonica (a musical instrument) and bifocals.
In the early 1750's he turned to the study of electricity. His observations, including his kite experiment which verified the nature of electricity and lightning brought Franklin international fame.
Politics became more of an active interest for Franklin in the 1750s. In 1757, he went to England to represent Pennsylvania in its fight with the descendants of the Penn family over who should represent the Colony. He remained in England to 1775, as a Colonial representative not only of Pennsylvania, but of Georgia, New Jersey and Massachusetts as well.
Early in his time abroad, Franklin considered himself a loyal Englishman. England had many of the amenities that America lacked. The country also had fine thinkers, theater, witty conversation — things in short supply in America. He kept asking Deborah to come visit him in England. He had thoughts of staying there permanently, but she was afraid of traveling by ship.
In 1765, Franklin was caught by surprise by America's overwhelming opposition to the Stamp Act. His testimony before Parliament helped persuade the members to repeal the law. He started wondering if America should break free of England. Franklin, though he had many friends in England, was growing sick of the corruption he saw all around him in politics and royal circles. Franklin, who had proposed a plan for united colonies in 1754, now would earnestly start working toward that goal.
Franklin's big break with England occurred in the "Hutchinson Affair." Thomas Hutchinson was an English-appointed governor of Massachusetts. Although he pretended to take the side of the people of Massachusetts in their complaints against England, he was actually still working for the King. Franklin got a hold of some letters in which Hutchinson called for "an abridgment of what are called English Liberties" in America. He sent the letters to America where much of the population was outraged. After leaking the letters Franklin was called to Whitehall, the English Foreign Ministry, where he was condemned in public.
He started working actively for Independence. He naturally thought his son William, now the Royal governor of New Jersey, would agree with his views. William did not. William remained a Loyal Englishman. This caused a rift between father and son which was never healed.
Franklin was elected to the Second Continental Congress and worked on a committee of five that helped to draft the Declaration of Independence. Though much of the writing is Thomas Jefferson's, much of the contribution is Franklin's. In 1776 Franklin signed the Declaration, and afterward sailed to France as an ambassador to the Court of Louis XVI.
The French loved Franklin. He was the man who had tamed lightning, the humble American who dressed like a backwoodsman but was a match for any wit in the world. He spoke French, though stutteringly. He was a favorite of the ladies. Several years earlier his wife Deborah had died, and Benjamin was now a notorious flirt.
In part via Franklin's popularity, the government of France signed a Treaty of Alliance with the Americans in 1778. Franklin also helped secure loans and persuade the French they were doing the right thing. Franklin was on hand to sign the Treaty of Paris in 1783, after the Americans had won the Revolution.
Now a man in his late seventies, Franklin returned to America. He became President of the Executive Council of Pennsylvania. He served as a delegate to the Constitutional Convention and signed the Constitution. One of his last public acts was writing an anti-slavery treatise in 1789.
Franklin died on April 17, 1790 at the age of 84. 20,000 people attended the funeral of the man who was called, "the harmonious human multitude."
Copyright ©1999-2014 by the Independence Hall Association, electronically publishing as ushistory.org.The IHA is a nonprofit organization in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, founded in 1942.On the Internet since July 4, 1995.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
For other uses of "Benjamin Franklin", "Ben Franklin" and "Franklin", see Benjamin Franklin (disambiguation) and Franklin (disambiguation).
Benjamin Franklin (January 17, 1706 [O.S. January 6, 1705][Note 1] –  April 17, 1790) was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States and in many ways was "the First American".[1] A world-renowned polymath, Franklin was a leading author, printer, political theorist, politician, postmaster, scientist, inventor, civic activist, statesman, and diplomat. As a scientist, he was a major figure in the American Enlightenment and the history of physics for his discoveries and theories regarding electricity. As an inventor, he is known for the lightning rod, bifocals, and the Franklin stove, among other inventions.[2] He facilitated many civic organizations, including Philadelphia's fire department and a university.
Franklin earned the title of "The First American" for his early and indefatigable campaigning for colonial unity; as an author and spokesman in London for several colonies, then as the first United States Ambassador to France, he exemplified the emerging American nation.[3] Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift, hard work, education, community spirit, self-governing institutions, and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious, with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment. In the words of historian Henry Steele Commager, "In a Franklin could be merged the virtues of Puritanism without its defects, the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat."[4] To Walter Isaacson, this makes Franklin "the most accomplished American of his age and the most influential in inventing the type of society America would become."[5]
Franklin, always proud of his working class roots, became a successful newspaper editor and printer in Philadelphia, the leading city in the colonies.[6] With two partners he published the Pennsylvania Chronicle, a newspaper that was known for its revolutionary sentiments and criticisms of the British policies. He became wealthy publishing Poor Richard's Almanack and The Pennsylvania Gazette. Franklin was also the printer of books for the Moravians of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania (1742 on). Franklin's printed Moravian books (printed in German) are preserved, and can be viewed, at the Moravian Archives located in Bethlehem. Franklin visited Bethlehem many times and stayed at the Moravian Sun Inn.
He played a major role in establishing the University of Pennsylvania and was elected the first president of the American Philosophical Society. Franklin became a national hero in America when as agent for several colonies he spearheaded the effort to have Parliament in London repeal the unpopular Stamp Act. An accomplished diplomat, he was widely admired among the French as American minister to Paris and was a major figure in the development of positive Franco-American relations. His efforts to secure support for the American Revolution by shipments of crucial munitions proved vital for the American war effort.
For many years he was the British postmaster for the colonies, which enabled him to set up the first national communications network. He was active in community affairs, colonial and state politics, as well as national and international affairs. From 1785 to 1788, he served as governor of Pennsylvania. Toward the end of his life, he freed his own slaves and became one of the most prominent abolitionists.
His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement, and status as one of America's most influential Founding Fathers, have seen Franklin honored on coinage and the $100 bill; warships, the names of many towns, counties, educational institutions, namesakes, and companies, and, more than two centuries after his death, countless cultural references.
Franklin's birthplace site directly across from Old South Meeting House on Milk Street is commemorated by a bust above the second floor facade of this building
Benjamin Franklin was born on Milk Street, in Boston, Massachusetts, on January 17, 1706,[Note 1][Note 2] and baptized at Old South Meeting House. He was one of ten children born to Josiah Franklin with his second wife Abiah Folger. Among Benjamin's siblings were his older brother James and his younger sister Jane.
Josiah wanted Ben to attend school with the clergy, but only had enough money to send him to school for two years. He attended Boston Latin School but did not graduate; he continued his education through voracious reading. Although "his parents talked of the church as a career"[7] for Franklin, his schooling ended when he was ten. He worked for his father for a time, and at 12 he became an apprentice to his brother James, a printer, who taught Ben the printing trade. When Ben was 15, James founded The New-England Courant, which was the first truly independent newspaper in the colonies.
When denied the chance to write a letter to the paper for publication, Franklin adopted the pseudonym of "Mrs. Silence Dogood", a middle-aged widow. "Mrs. Dogood"'s letters were published, and became a subject of conversation around town. Neither James nor the Courant's readers were aware of the ruse, and James was unhappy with Ben when he discovered the popular correspondent was his younger brother. Franklin was an advocate of free speech from an early age. When his brother was jailed for three weeks in 1722 for publishing material unflattering to the governor, young Franklin took over the newspaper and had Mrs Dogwood (quoting Cato's Letters) proclaim : "Without freedom of thought there can be no such thing as wisdom and no such thing as public liberty without freedom of speech."[8] Franklin left his apprenticeship without his brother's permission, and in so doing became a fugitive.[9]
At age 17, Franklin ran away to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, seeking a new start in a new city. When he first arrived, he worked in several printer shops around town, but he was not satisfied by the immediate prospects. After a few months, while working in a printing house, Franklin was convinced by Pennsylvania Governor Sir William Keith to go to London, ostensibly to acquire the equipment necessary for establishing another newspaper in Philadelphia. Finding Keith's promises of backing a newspaper empty, Franklin worked as a typesetter in a printer's shop in what is now the Church of St Bartholomew-the-Great in the Smithfield area of London. Following this, he returned to Philadelphia in 1726 with the help of Thomas Denham, a merchant who employed Franklin as clerk, shopkeeper, and bookkeeper in his business.[9]
In 1727, Benjamin Franklin, then 21, created the Junto, a group of "like minded aspiring artisans and tradesmen who hoped to improve themselves while they improved their community." The Junto was a discussion group for issues of the day; it subsequently gave rise to many organizations in Philadelphia.
Reading was a great pastime of the Junto, but books were rare and expensive. The members created a library, initially assembled from their own books. This did not suffice, however. Franklin conceived the idea of a subscription library, which would pool the funds of the members to buy books for all to read. This was the birth of the Library Company of Philadelphia: its charter was composed by Franklin in 1731. In 1732, Franklin hired the first American librarian, Louis Timothee.
Originally, the books were kept in the homes of the first librarians, but in 1739 the collection was moved to the second floor of the State House of Pennsylvania, now known as Independence Hall. In 1791, a new building was built specifically for the library. The Library Company is now a great scholarly and research library with 500,000 rare books, pamphlets, and broadsides, more than 160,000 manuscripts, and 75,000 graphic items.
Benjamin Franklin (center) at work on a printing press. Reproduction of a Charles Mills painting by the Detroit Publishing Company.
Upon Denham's death, Franklin returned to his former trade. In 1728, Franklin had set up a printing house in partnership with Hugh Meredith; the following year he became the publisher of a newspaper called The Pennsylvania Gazette. The Gazette gave Franklin a forum for agitation about a variety of local reforms and initiatives through printed essays and observations. Over time, his commentary, and his adroit cultivation of a positive image as an industrious and intellectual young man, earned him a great deal of social respect. But even after Franklin had achieved fame as a scientist and statesman, he habitually signed his letters with the unpretentious 'B. Franklin, Printer.'[9]
In 1732, Ben Franklin published the first German language newspaper in America – the Philadelphische Zeitung – although it failed after only one year, because four other newly founded German papers quickly dominated the newspaper market.[10]
Franklin saw the printing press as a device to instruct colonial Americans in moral virtue. Frasca argues he saw this as a service to God, because he understood moral virtue in terms of actions, thus, doing good provides a service to God. Despite his own moral lapses, Franklin saw himself as uniquely qualified to instruct Americans in morality. He tried to influence American moral life through construction of a printing network based on a chain of partnerships from the Carolinas to New England. Franklin thereby invented the first newspaper chain. It was more than a business venture, for like many publishers since, he believed that the press had a public-service duty.[11]
When Franklin established himself in Philadelphia, shortly before 1730, the town boasted two "wretched little" news sheets, Andrew Bradford's American Mercury, and Keimer's Universal Instructor in all Arts and Sciences, and Pennsylvania Gazette. This instruction in all arts and sciences consisted of weekly extracts from Chambers's Universal Dictionary. Franklin quickly did away with all this when he took over the Instructor and made it The Pennsylvania Gazette. The Gazette soon became Franklin's characteristic organ, which he freely used for satire, for the play of his wit, even for sheer excess of mischief or of fun. From the first he had a way of adapting his models to his own uses. The series of essays called "The Busy-Body", which he wrote for Bradford's American Mercury in 1729, followed the general Addisonian form, already modified to suit homelier conditions. The thrifty Patience, in her busy little shop, complaining of the useless visitors who waste her valuable time, is related to the ladies who address Mr. Spectator. The Busy-Body himself is a true Censor Morum, as Isaac Bickerstaff had been in the Tatler. And a number of the fictitious characters, Ridentius, Eugenius, Cato, and Cretico, represent traditional 18th-century classicism. Even this Franklin could use for contemporary satire, since Cretico, the "sowre Philosopher", is evidently a portrait of Franklin's rival, Samuel Keimer.
As time went on, Franklin depended less on his literary conventions, and more on his own native humor. In this there is a new spirit—not suggested to him by the fine breeding of Addison, or the bitter irony of Swift, or the stinging completeness of Pope. The brilliant little pieces Franklin wrote for his Pennsylvania Gazette have an imperishable place in American literature.
The Pennsylvania Gazette, like most other newspapers of the period, was often poorly printed. Franklin was busy with a hundred matters outside of his printing office, and never seriously attempted to raise the mechanical standards of his trade. Nor did he ever properly edit or collate the chance medley of stale items that passed for news in the Gazette. His influence on the practical side of journalism was minimal. On the other hand, his advertisements of books show his very great interest in popularizing secular literature. Undoubtedly his paper contributed to the broader culture that distinguished Pennsylvania from her neighbors before the Revolution. Like many publishers, Franklin built up a book shop in his printing office; he took the opportunity to read new books before selling them.
Franklin had mixed success in his plan to establish an inter-colonial network of newspapers that would produce a profit for him and disseminate virtue.[12] He began in Charleston, South Carolina, in 1731. After the second editor died, his widow Elizabeth Timothy took over and made it a success, 1738–46. She was one of the colonial era's first woman printers.[13] For three decades Franklin maintained a close business relationship with her and her son Peter who took over in 1746.[14] The Gazette had a policy of impartiality in political debates, while creating the opportunity for public debate, which encouraged others to challenge authority. Editor Peter Timothy avoided blandness and crude bias, and after 1765 increasingly took a patriotic stand in the growing crisis with Great Britain.[15] However, Franklin's Connecticut Gazette (1755–68) proved unsuccessful.[16]
In 1731, Franklin was initiated into the local Masonic Lodge. He became Grand Master in 1734, indicating his rapid rise to prominence in Pennsylvania.[17][18] That same year, he edited and published the first Masonic book in the Americas, a reprint of James Anderson's Constitutions of the Free-Masons. Franklin remained a Freemason for the rest of his life.[19][20]
In 1723, at the age of 17, Franklin proposed to 15-year-old Deborah Read while a boarder in the Read home. At that time, Read's mother was wary of allowing her young daughter to marry Franklin, who was on his way to London at Governor Sir William Keith's request, and also because of his financial instability. Her own husband had recently died, and Mrs. Read declined Franklin's request to marry her daughter.[9]
While Franklin was in London, his trip was extended, and there were problems with Sir William's promises of support. Perhaps because of the circumstances of this delay, Deborah married a man named John Rodgers. This proved to be a regrettable decision. Rodgers shortly avoided his debts and prosecution by fleeing to Barbados with her dowry, leaving Deborah behind. Rodgers's fate was unknown, and because of bigamy laws, Deborah was not free to remarry.
Franklin established a common-law marriage with Deborah Read on September 1, 1730. They took in Franklin's young, recently acknowledged illegitimate son, William, and raised him in their household. In addition, they had two children together. The first, Francis Folger Franklin, born October 1732, died of smallpox in 1736. Their second child, Sarah Franklin, familiarly called Sally, was born in 1743. She eventually married Richard Bache, had seven children, and cared for her father in his old age.
Deborah's fear of the sea meant that she never accompanied Franklin on any of his extended trips to Europe, despite his repeated requests. She wrote to him in November 1769 saying she was ill due to "dissatisfied distress" from his prolonged absence, but he did not return until his business was done.[21] Deborah Read Franklin died of a stroke in 1774, while Franklin was on an extended mission to England; he returned in 1775.
In 1730, at the age of 24, Franklin publicly acknowledged an illegitimate son named William, and raised him in his household. His mother's identity is not known.[22] He was educated in Philadelphia.
Beginning at about age 30, William studied law in London in the early 1760s. He fathered an illegitimate son, William Franklin, born February 22, 1762. The boy's mother was never identified, and he was placed in foster care. Franklin later that year married Elizabeth Downes, daughter of a planter from Barbados. After William passed the bar, his father helped him gain an appointment in 1763 as the last Royal Governor of New Jersey.
A Loyalist, William and his father eventually broke relations over their differences about the American Revolutionary War. The elder Franklin could never accept William's position. Deposed in 1776 by the revolutionary government of New Jersey and imprisoned for a time, the younger Franklin went to New York in 1782, which was still occupied by British troops. He became leader of the Board of Associated Loyalists—a quasi-military organization, headquartered in New York City. They initiated guerrilla forays into New Jersey, southern Connecticut, and New York counties north of the city.[23] When British troops evacuated from New York, William Franklin left with them and sailed to England. He settled in London, never to return to North America.
In the preliminary peace talks in 1782 with Britain, "... Benjamin Franklin insisted that loyalists who had borne arms against the United States would be excluded from this plea (that they be given a general pardon). He was undoubtedly thinking of William Franklin."[24]
Benjamin Franklin found out about Temple (as he called him), his only patrilineal grandson, on his second mission to England. He got to know the boy and became fond of him, arranging for his education. He never told his wife Deborah about him.[25] Franklin gained custody and brought Temple with him upon return to Philadelphia in 1775. Deborah had died the year before. Franklin brought up Temple within his household.
Beginning at age 16, Temple Franklin served as secretary to his grandfather during his mission to Paris during the Revolutionary War. Although he returned to the United States with his grandfather in the 1780s, he could not find an appointment. He returned to Europe, living for a time in England and then in France. He died in Paris in 1823 and was buried in Père Lachaise Cemetery.
In 1733, Franklin began to publish the noted Poor Richard's Almanack (with content both original and borrowed) under the pseudonym Richard Saunders, on which much of his popular reputation is based. Franklin frequently wrote under pseudonyms. Although it was no secret that Franklin was the author, his Richard Saunders character repeatedly denied it. "Poor Richard's Proverbs", adages from this almanac, such as "A penny saved is twopence dear" (often misquoted as "A penny saved is a penny earned") and "Fish and visitors stink in three days", remain common quotations in the modern world. Wisdom in folk society meant the ability to provide an apt adage for any occasion, and Franklin's readers became well prepared. He sold about ten thousand copies per year (a circulation equivalent to nearly three million today).[9] In 1741 Franklin began publishing The General Magazine and Historical Chronicle for all the British Plantations in America, the first such monthly magazine of this type published in America.
In 1758, the year he ceased writing for the Almanack, he printed Father Abraham's Sermon, also known as The Way to Wealth. Franklin's autobiography, begun in 1771 but published after his death, has become one of the classics of the genre.
Daylight saving time (DST) is often erroneously attributed to a 1784 satire that Franklin published anonymously.[26] Modern DST was first proposed by George Vernon Hudson in 1895.[27]
Franklin was a prodigious inventor. Among his many creations were the lightning rod, glass armonica (a glass instrument, not to be confused with the metal harmonica), Franklin stove, bifocal glasses and the flexible urinary catheter. Franklin never patented his inventions; in his autobiography he wrote, "... as we enjoy great advantages from the inventions of others, we should be glad of an opportunity to serve others by any invention of ours; and this we should do freely and generously."[28]
His inventions also included social innovations, such as paying forward. Franklin's fascination with innovation could be viewed as altruistic; he wrote that his scientific works were to be used for increasing efficiency and human improvement. One such improvement was his effort to expedite news services through his printing presses.[29]
Franklin had a major influence on the emerging science of demography, or population studies.[30] Thomas Malthus is noted for his rule of population growth and credited Franklin for discovering it.[31] Kammen (1990) and Drake (2011) say Franklin's "Observations on the Increase of Mankind" (1755) stands alongside Ezra Stiles' "Discourse on Christian Union" (1760) as the leading works of eighteenth century Anglo-American demography; Drake credits Franklin's "wide readership and prophetic insight."[32][33]
In the 1730s and 1740s, Franklin began taking notes on population growth, finding that the American population had the fastest growth rates on earth.[34] Emphasizing that population growth depended on food supplies—a line of thought later developed by Thomas Malthus—Franklin emphasized the abundance of food and available farmland in America. He calculated that America's population was doubling every twenty years and would surpass that of England in a century.[35] In 1751, he drafted "Observations concerning the Increase of Mankind, Peopling of Countries, &c." Four years later, it was anonymously printed in Boston, and it was quickly reproduced in Britain, where it influenced the economists Adam Smith and later Thomas Malthus. Franklin's predictions alarmed British leaders who did not want to be surpassed by the colonies, so they became more willing to impose restrictions on the colonial economy.[36]
As deputy postmaster, Franklin became interested in the North Atlantic Ocean circulation patterns. While in England in 1768, he heard a complaint from the Colonial Board of Customs: Why did it take British packet ships carrying mail several weeks longer to reach New York than it took an average merchant ship to reach Newport, Rhode Island? The merchantmen had a longer and more complex voyage because they left from London, while the packets left from Falmouth in Cornwall.
Franklin put the question to his cousin Timothy Folger, a Nantucket whaler captain, who told him that merchant ships routinely avoided a strong eastbound mid-ocean current. The mail packet captains sailed dead into it, thus fighting an adverse current of 3 miles per hour (5 km/h). Franklin worked with Folger and other experienced ship captains, learning enough to chart the current and name it the Gulf Stream, by which it is still known today.
Franklin published his Gulf Stream chart in 1770 in England, where it was completely ignored. Subsequent versions were printed in France in 1778 and the U.S. in 1786. The British edition of the chart, which was the original, was so thoroughly ignored that everyone assumed it was lost forever until Phil Richardson, a Woods Hole oceanographer and Gulf Stream expert, discovered it in the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris in 1980.[38][39] This find received front page coverage in the New York Times.[40]
It took many years for British sea captains to adopt Franklin's advice on navigating the current; once they did, they were able to trim two weeks from their sailing time.[41][42] In 1853, the oceanographer and cartographer Matthew Fontaine Maury noted that Franklin only charted and codified the Gulf Stream, he did not discover it:
Though it was Dr. Franklin and Captain Tim Folger, who first turned the Gulf Stream to nautical account, the discovery that there was a Gulf Stream cannot be said to belong to either of them, for its existence was known to Peter Martyr d'Anghiera, and to Sir Humphrey Gilbert, in the 16th century.[43]
His discoveries resulted from his investigations of electricity. Franklin proposed that "vitreous" and "resinous" electricity were not different types of "electrical fluid" (as electricity was called then), but the same electrical fluid under different pressures. He was the first to label them as positive and negative respectively,[44] and he was the first to discover the principle of conservation of charge.[45]
In 1750 he published a proposal for an experiment to prove that lightning is electricity by flying a kite in a storm that appeared capable of becoming a lightning storm. On May 10, 1752, Thomas-François Dalibard of France conducted Franklin's experiment using a 40-foot-tall (12 m) iron rod instead of a kite, and he extracted electrical sparks from a cloud. On June 15 Franklin may possibly have conducted his well known kite experiment in Philadelphia, successfully extracting sparks from a cloud. Franklin's experiment was not written up with credit[46] until Joseph Priestley's 1767 History and Present Status of Electricity; the evidence shows that Franklin was insulated (not in a conducting path, where he would have been in danger of electrocution). Others, such as Prof. Georg Wilhelm Richmann, were indeed electrocuted during the months following Franklin's experiment.
In his writings, Franklin indicates that he was aware of the dangers and offered alternative ways to demonstrate that lightning was electrical, as shown by his use of the concept of electrical ground. If Franklin did perform this experiment, he may not have done it in the way that is often described—flying the kite and waiting to be struck by lightning—as it would have been dangerous.[47] Instead he used the kite to collect some electric charge from a storm cloud, which implied that lightning was electrical.[citation needed] On October 19 in a letter to England with directions for repeating the experiment, Franklin wrote:
When rain has wet the kite twine so that it can conduct the electric fire freely, you will find it streams out plentifully from the key at the approach of your knuckle, and with this key a phial, or Leiden jar, may be charged: and from electric fire thus obtained spirits may be kindled, and all other electric experiments [may be] performed which are usually done by the help of a rubber glass globe or tube; and therefore the sameness of the electrical matter with that of lightening completely demonstrated.[48]
Franklin's electrical experiments led to his invention of the lightning rod. He noted that conductors with a sharp rather than a smooth point could discharge silently, and at a far greater distance. He surmised that this could help protect buildings from lightning by attaching "upright Rods of Iron, made sharp as a Needle and gilt to prevent Rusting, and from the Foot of those Rods a Wire down the outside of the Building into the Ground; ... Would not these pointed Rods probably draw the Electrical Fire silently out of a Cloud before it came nigh enough to strike, and thereby secure us from that most sudden and terrible Mischief!" Following a series of experiments on Franklin's own house, lightning rods were installed on the Academy of Philadelphia (later the University of Pennsylvania) and the Pennsylvania State House (later Independence Hall) in 1752.[49]
In recognition of his work with electricity, Franklin received the Royal Society's Copley Medal in 1753, and in 1756 he became one of the few 18th-century Americans elected as a Fellow of the Society. The cgs unit of electric charge has been named after him: one franklin (Fr) is equal to one statcoulomb.
Franklin was, along with his contemporary Leonhard Euler, the only major scientist who supported Christiaan Huygens' wave theory of light, which was basically ignored by the rest of the scientific community. In the 18th century Newton's corpuscular theory was held to be true; only after Young's well known slit experiment in 1803 were most scientists persuaded to believe Huygens' theory.[50]
On October 21, 1743, according to popular myth, a storm moving from the southwest denied Franklin the opportunity of witnessing a lunar eclipse. Franklin was said to have noted that the prevailing winds were actually from the northeast, contrary to what he had expected. In correspondence with his brother, Franklin learned that the same storm had not reached Boston until after the eclipse, despite the fact that Boston is to the northeast of Philadelphia. He deduced that storms do not always travel in the direction of the prevailing wind, a concept that greatly influenced meteorology.[51]
After the Icelandic volcanic eruption of Laki in 1783, and the subsequent harsh European winter of 1784, Franklin made observations connecting the causal nature of these two separate events. He wrote about them in a lecture series.[52]
Though Benjamin Franklin has been most noted kite-wise with his lightning experiments, he has also been noted by many for his using kites to pull humans and ships across waterways.[53] The George Pocock in the book A TREATISE on The Aeropleustic Art, or Navigation in the Air, by means of Kites, or Buoyant Sails[54] noted being inspired by Benjamin Franklin's traction of his body by kite power across a waterway. In his later years he suggested using the technique for pulling ships.
Franklin noted a principle of refrigeration by observing that on a very hot day, he stayed cooler in a wet shirt in a breeze than he did in a dry one. To understand this phenomenon more clearly Franklin conducted experiments. In 1758 on a warm day in Cambridge, England, Franklin and fellow scientist John Hadley experimented by continually wetting the ball of a mercury thermometer with ether and using bellows to evaporate the ether.[55] With each subsequent evaporation, the thermometer read a lower temperature, eventually reaching 7 °F (−14 °C). Another thermometer showed that the room temperature was constant at 65 °F (18 °C). In his letter Cooling by Evaporation, Franklin noted that, "One may see the possibility of freezing a man to death on a warm summer's day."
According to Michael Faraday, Franklin's experiments on the non-conduction of ice are worth mentioning, although the law of the general effect of liquefaction on electrolytes is not attributed to Franklin.[56] However, as reported in 1836 by Prof. A. D. Bache of the University of Pennsylvania, the law of the effect of heat on the conduction of bodies otherwise non-conductors, for example, glass, could be attributed to Franklin. Franklin writes, "... A certain quantity of heat will make some bodies good conductors, that will not otherwise conduct ..." and again, "... And water, though naturally a good conductor, will not conduct well when frozen into ice."[57]
An aging Franklin accumulated all his oceanographic findings in Maritime Observations, published by the Philosophical Society's transactions in 1786.[58] It contained ideas for sea anchors, catamaran hulls, watertight compartments, shipboard lightning rods and a soup bowl designed to stay stable in stormy weather.
In a 1772 letter to Joseph Priestley, Franklin lays out the earliest known description of the Pro & Con list,[59] a common decision-making technique:
... my Way is, to divide half a Sheet of Paper by a Line into two Columns, writing over the one Pro, and over the other Con. Then during three or four Days Consideration I put down under the different Heads short Hints of the different Motives that at different Times occur to me for or against the Measure. When I have thus got them all together in one View, I endeavour to estimate their respective Weights; and where I find two, one on each side, that seem equal, I strike them both out: If I find a Reason pro equal to some two Reasons con, I strike out the three. If I judge some two Reasons con equal to some three Reasons pro, I strike out the five; and thus proceeding I find at length where the Ballance lies; and if after a Day or two of farther Consideration nothing new that is of Importance occurs on either side, I come to a Determination accordingly.[59]
Franklin is known to have played the violin, the harp, and the guitar. He also composed music, notably a string quartet in early classical style. He developed a much-improved version of the glass harmonica, in which the glasses rotate on a shaft, with the player's fingers held steady, instead of the other way around; this version soon found its way to Europe.[60]
Franklin was an avid chess player. He was playing chess by around 1733, making him the first chess player known by name in the American colonies.[61] His essay on "The Morals of Chess" in Columbian magazine in December 1786 is the second known writing on chess in America.[61] This essay in praise of chess and prescribing a code of behavior for the game has been widely reprinted and translated.[62][63][64][65] He and a friend also used chess as a means of learning the Italian language, which both were studying; the winner of each game between them had the right to assign a task, such as parts of the Italian grammar to be learned by heart, to be performed by the loser before their next meeting.[66] Franklin was inducted into the U.S. Chess Hall of Fame in 1999.[61]
In 1736, Franklin created the Union Fire Company, one of the first volunteer firefighting companies in America. In the same year, he printed a new currency for New Jersey based on innovative anti-counterfeiting techniques he had devised. Throughout his career, Franklin was an advocate for paper money, publishing A Modest Enquiry into the Nature and Necessity of a Paper Currency in 1729, and his printer printed money. He was influential in the more restrained and thus successful monetary experiments in the Middle Colonies, which stopped deflation without causing excessive inflation. In 1766 he made a case for paper money to the British House of Commons.[67]
As he matured, Franklin began to concern himself more with public affairs. In 1743, he set forth a scheme for The Academy, Charity School, and College of Philadelphia. He was appointed president of the Academy on November 13, 1749; the Academy and the Charity School opened on August 13, 1751.
In 1743, Franklin founded the American Philosophical Society to help scientific men discuss their discoveries and theories. He began the electrical research that, along with other scientific inquiries, would occupy him for the rest of his life, in between bouts of politics and moneymaking.[9]
In 1747, he retired from printing and went into other businesses.[68] He created a partnership with his foreman, David Hall, which provided Franklin with half of the shop's profits for 18 years. This lucrative business arrangement provided leisure time for study, and in a few years he had made discoveries that gave him a reputation with educated persons throughout Europe and especially in France.
Franklin became involved in Philadelphia politics and rapidly progressed. In October 1748, he was selected as a councilman, in June 1749 he became a Justice of the Peace for Philadelphia, and in 1751 he was elected to the Pennsylvania Assembly. On August 10, 1753, Franklin was appointed joint deputy postmaster-general of North America. His most notable service in domestic politics was his reform of the postal system, with mail sent out every week.[9]
In 1751, Franklin and Dr. Thomas Bond obtained a charter from the Pennsylvania legislature to establish a hospital. Pennsylvania Hospital was the first hospital in what was to become the United States of America.
Between 1750 and 1753, the "educational triumvirate"[69] of Dr. Benjamin Franklin, the American Dr. Samuel Johnson of Stratford, Connecticut, and the immigrant Scottish schoolteacher Dr. William Smith built on Franklin's initial scheme and created what Bishop James Madison, president of the College of William & Mary, called a "new-model"[70] plan or style of American college. Franklin solicited, printed in 1752, and promoted an American textbook of moral philosophy from the American Dr. Samuel Johnson titled Elementa Philosophica[71] to be taught in the new colleges to replace courses in denominational divinity.
In June 1753, Johnson, Franklin, and Smith met in Stratford.[72] They decided the new-model college would focus on the professions, with classes taught in English instead of Latin, have subject matter experts as professors instead of one tutor leading a class for four years, and there would be no religious test for admission.[73] Johnson went on to found King's College (now Columbia University) in New York City in 1754, while Franklin hired William Smith as Provost of the College of Philadelphia, which opened in 1755. At its first commencement, on May 17, 1757, seven men graduated; six with a Bachelor of Arts and one as Master of Arts. It was later merged with the University of the State of Pennsylvania to become the University of Pennsylvania. The College was to become influential in guiding the founding documents of the United States: in the Continental Congress, for example, over one third of the college-affiliated men who contributed the Declaration of Independence between September 4, 1774, and July 4, 1776, were affiliated with the College.[74]
In 1754, he headed the Pennsylvania delegation to the Albany Congress. This meeting of several colonies had been requested by the Board of Trade in England to improve relations with the Indians and defense against the French. Franklin proposed a broad Plan of Union for the colonies. While the plan was not adopted, elements of it found their way into the Articles of Confederation and the Constitution.
In 1756, Franklin organized the Pennsylvania Militia (see "Associated Regiment of Philadelphia" under heading of Pennsylvania's 103rd Artillery and 111th Infantry Regiment at Continental Army). He used Tun Tavern as a gathering place to recruit a regiment of soldiers to go into battle against the Native American uprisings that beset the American colonies. Reportedly Franklin was elected "Colonel" of the Associated Regiment but declined the honor.
Join, or Die: This political cartoon by Franklin urged the colonies to join together during the French and Indian War (Seven Years' War).
Also in 1756, Franklin became a member of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures & Commerce (now the Royal Society of Arts or RSA, which had been founded in 1754), whose early meetings took place in coffee shops in London's Covent Garden district, close to Franklin's main residence in Craven Street during his missions to England. The Craven street residence, which he used on various lengthy missions from 1757 to 1775, is the only one of his residences to survive. It opened to the public as the Benjamin Franklin House museum on January 17, 2006.
After his return to the United States in 1775, Franklin became the Society's Corresponding Member and remained closely connected with the Society. The RSA instituted a Benjamin Franklin Medal in 1956 to commemorate the 250th anniversary of Franklin's birth and the 200th anniversary of his membership of the RSA.
In 1757, he was sent to England by the Pennsylvania Assembly as a colonial agent to protest against the political influence of the Penn family, the proprietors of the colony. He remained there for five years, striving to end the proprietors' prerogative to overturn legislation from the elected Assembly, and their exemption from paying taxes on their land. His lack of influential allies in Whitehall led to the failure of this mission.
Whilst in London, Franklin became involved in radical politics. He was a member of the Club of Honest Whigs, alongside thinkers such as Richard Price, the minister of Newington Green Unitarian Church who ignited the Revolution Controversy. During his stays at Craven Street between 1757 and 1775, Franklin developed a close friendship with his landlady, Margaret Stevenson, and her circle of friends and relations, in particular her daughter Mary, who was more often known as Polly.
In 1759, he visited Edinburgh with his son, and recalled his conversations there as "the densest happiness of my life".[78] In February 1759, the University of St Andrews awarded him an Honorary Doctor of Laws degree, and in October of the same year he was granted Freedom of the Borough of St Andrews.[79]
In 1762, Oxford University awarded Franklin an honorary doctorate for his scientific accomplishments; from then on he went by "Doctor Franklin". He also managed to secure an appointed post for his illegitimate son, William Franklin, by then an attorney, as Colonial Governor of New Jersey.[9]
He joined the influential Lunar Society of Birmingham, with whom he regularly corresponded and, on occasion, visited in Birmingham.
At this time, many members of the Pennsylvania Assembly were feuding with William Penn's heirs, who controlled the colony as proprietors. After his return to the colony, Franklin led the "anti-proprietary party" in the struggle against the Penn family, and was elected Speaker of the Pennsylvania House in May 1764. His call for a change from proprietary to royal government was a rare political miscalculation, however: Pennsylvanians worried that such a move would endanger their political and religious freedoms. Because of these fears, and because of political attacks on his character, Franklin lost his seat in the October 1764 Assembly elections.
The anti-proprietary party dispatched Franklin to England again to continue the struggle against the Penn family proprietorship. During this trip, events drastically changed the nature of his mission.[80]
In London, Franklin opposed the 1765 Stamp Act. Unable to prevent its passage, he made another political miscalculation and recommended a friend to the post of stamp distributor for Pennsylvania. Pennsylvanians were outraged, believing that he had supported the measure all along, and threatened to destroy his home in Philadelphia. Franklin soon learned of the extent of colonial resistance to the Stamp Act, and he testified during the House of Commons proceedings that led to its repeal.[81] With this, Franklin suddenly emerged as the leading spokesman for American interests in England. He wrote popular essays on behalf of the colonies, and Georgia, New Jersey, and Massachusetts also appointed him as their agent to the Crown.[80]
Franklin in London, 1767, wearing a blue suit with elaborate gold braid and buttons, a far cry from the simple dress he affected at the French court in later years. Painting by David Martin, displayed in the White House.
Franklin spent two months in Germany in 1766, but his connections to the country stretched across a lifetime. He declared a debt of gratitude to German scientist Otto von Guericke for his early studies of electricity. Franklin also co-authored the first treaty of friendship between Germany and America in 1785.
In September 1767, Franklin visited Paris with his usual traveling partner, Sir John Pringle. News of his electrical discoveries was widespread in France. His reputation meant that he was introduced to many influential scientists and politicians, and also to King Louis XV.[82]
While living in London in 1768, he developed a phonetic alphabet in A Scheme for a new Alphabet and a Reformed Mode of Spelling. This reformed alphabet discarded six letters Franklin regarded as redundant (c, j, q, w, x, and y), and substituted six new letters for sounds he felt lacked letters of their own. His new alphabet, however, never caught on, and he eventually lost interest.[83]
In 1771, Franklin made short journeys through different parts of England, staying with Joseph Priestley at Leeds, Thomas Percival at Manchester and Dr. Darwin at Litchfield.[84] Franklin belonged to a gentleman's club (which he called "honest Whigs"), which held stated meetings, and included members such as Richard Price and Andrew Kippis. He was also a corresponding member of the Lunar Society of Birmingham, which included such other scientific and industrial luminaries as Matthew Boulton, James Watt, Josiah Wedgwood and Erasmus Darwin. He had never been to Ireland before, and met and stayed with Lord Hillsborough, whom he believed was especially attentive. Franklin noted of him that "all the plausible behaviour I have described is meant only, by patting and stroking the horse, to make him more patient, while the reins are drawn tighter, and the spurs set deeper into his sides."[85] In Dublin, Franklin was invited to sit with the members of the Irish Parliament rather than in the gallery. He was the first American to receive this honor.[84]
While touring Ireland, he was moved by the level of poverty he saw. Ireland's economy was affected by the same trade regulations and laws of Britain that governed America. Franklin feared that America could suffer the same effects should Britain's "colonial exploitation" continue.[86] In Scotland, he spent five days with Lord Kames near Stirling and stayed for three weeks with David Hume in Edinburgh.
In 1773, Franklin published two of his most celebrated pro-American satirical essays: "Rules by Which a Great Empire May Be Reduced to a Small One", and "An Edict by the King of Prussia".[87] He also published an Abridgment of the Book of Common Prayer, anonymously with Francis Dashwood. Among the unusual features of this work is a funeral service reduced to six minutes in length, "to preserve the health and lives of the living."[82]
In June 1773 Franklin obtained private letters of Thomas Hutchinson and Andrew Oliver, governor and lieutenant governor of the Province of Massachusetts Bay, that proved they were encouraging the Crown to crack down on the rights of Bostonians. Franklin sent them to America, where they escalated the tensions. The British began to regard him as the fomenter of serious trouble. Hopes for a peaceful solution ended as he was systematically ridiculed and humiliated by Solicitor-General Alexander Wedderburn, before the Privy Council on January 29, 1774. He returned to Philadelphia in March 1775, and abandoned his accommodationist stance.[88]
In 1763, soon after Franklin returned to Pennsylvania from England for the first time, the western frontier was engulfed in a bitter war known as Pontiac's Rebellion. The Paxton Boys, a group of settlers convinced that the Pennsylvania government was not doing enough to protect them from American Indian raids, murdered a group of peaceful Susquehannock Indians and marched on Philadelphia. Franklin helped to organize a local militia to defend the capital against the mob. He met with the Paxton leaders and persuaded them to disperse. Franklin wrote a scathing attack against the racial prejudice of the Paxton Boys. "If an Indian injures me," he asked, "does it follow that I may revenge that Injury on all Indians?"[89]
He provided an early response to British surveillance through his own network of counter-surveillance and manipulation. "He waged a public relations campaign, secured secret aid, played a role in privateering expeditions, and churned out effective and inflammatory propaganda."[90]
By the time Franklin arrived in Philadelphia on May 5, 1775, after his second mission to Great Britain, the American Revolution had begun – with fighting between colonials and British at Lexington and Concord. The New England militia had trapped the main British army in Boston. The Pennsylvania Assembly unanimously chose Franklin as their delegate to the Second Continental Congress. In June 1776, he was appointed a member of the Committee of Five that drafted the Declaration of Independence. Although he was temporarily disabled by gout and unable to attend most meetings of the Committee, Franklin made several "small but important"[92] changes to the draft sent to him by Thomas Jefferson.
At the signing, he is quoted as having replied to a comment by Hancock that they must all hang together: "Yes, we must, indeed, all hang together, or most assuredly we shall all hang separately."[93]
On July 26, 1775, the Second Continental Congress established the United States Post Office and named Benjamin Franklin as the first United States Postmaster General. Franklin had been a postmaster for decades and was a natural choice for the position.[94] Franklin had just returned from England and was appointed chairman of a Committee of Investigation to establish a postal system. The report of the Committee, providing for the appointment of a postmaster general for the 13 American colonies, was considered by the Continental Congress on July 25 and 26. On July 26, 1775, Franklin was appointed Postmaster General, the first appointed under the Continental Congress. It established a postal system that became the United States Post Office, a system that continues to operate today.[95]
Franklin, in his fur hat, charmed the French with what they perceived as rustic New World genius.[Note 3]
In December 1776, Franklin was dispatched to France as commissioner for the United States. He took with him as secretary his 16-year-old grandson, William Temple Franklin. They lived in a home in the Parisian suburb of Passy, donated by Jacques-Donatien Le Ray de Chaumont, who supported the United States. Franklin remained in France until 1785. He conducted the affairs of his country toward the French nation with great success, which included securing a critical military alliance in 1778 and negotiating the Treaty of Paris (1783).
Among his associates in France was Honoré Gabriel Riqueti, comte de Mirabeau—a French Revolutionary writer, orator and statesman who in early 1791 would be elected president of the National Assembly.[96] In July 1784, Franklin met with Mirabeau and contributed anonymous materials that the Frenchman used in his first signed work: Considerations sur l'ordre de Cincinnatus.[97] The publication was critical of the Society of the Cincinnati, established in the United States. Franklin and Mirabeau thought of it as a "noble order", inconsistent with the egalitarian ideals of the new republic.[98]
During his stay in France, Benjamin Franklin was active as a freemason, serving as Grand Master of the Lodge Les Neuf Sœurs from 1779 until 1781. His lodge number was 24. He was a Past Grand Master of Pennsylvania. In 1784, when Franz Mesmer began to publicize his theory of "animal magnetism" which was considered offensive by many, Louis XVI appointed a commission to investigate it. These included the chemist Antoine Lavoisier, the physician Joseph-Ignace Guillotin, the astronomer Jean Sylvain Bailly, and Benjamin Franklin.[99]
While in France Franklin designed and commissioned Augustin Dupré to engrave the medallion "Libertas Americana" minted in Paris in 1783.
Franklin's advocacy for religious tolerance in France contributed to arguments made by French philosophers and politicians that resulted in Louis XVI's signing of the Edict of Versailles in November 1787. This edict effectively nullified the Edict of Fontainebleau, which had denied non-Catholics civil status and the right to openly practice their faith.[100]
Franklin also served as American minister to Sweden, although he never visited that country. He negotiated a treaty that was signed in April 1783. On August 27, 1783, in Paris, Franklin witnessed the world's first hydrogen balloon flight.[101] Le Globe, created by professor Jacques Charles and Les Frères Robert, was watched by a vast crowd as it rose from the Champ de Mars (now the site of the Eiffel Tower).[102] This so enthused Franklin that he subscribed financially to the next project to build a manned hydrogen balloon.[103] On December 1, 1783, Franklin was seated in the special enclosure for honoured guests when La Charlière took off from the Jardin des Tuileries, piloted by Jacques Charles and Nicolas-Louis Robert.[101][104]
When he returned home in 1785, Franklin occupied a position only second to that of George Washington as the champion of American independence. Le Ray honored him with a commissioned portrait painted by Joseph Duplessis, which now hangs in the National Portrait Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C. After his return, Franklin became an abolitionist and freed his two slaves. He eventually became president of the Pennsylvania Abolition Society.[105]
In 1787, Franklin served as a delegate to the Philadelphia Convention. He held an honorary position and seldom engaged in debate. He is the only Founding Father who is a signatory of all four of the major documents of the founding of the United States: the Declaration of Independence, the Treaty of Alliance with France, the Treaty of Paris and the United States Constitution.
In 1787, a group of prominent ministers in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, proposed the foundation of a new college named in Franklin's honor. Franklin donated £200 towards the development of Franklin College (now called Franklin & Marshall College).
Between 1771 and 1788, he finished his autobiography. While it was at first addressed to his son, it was later completed for the benefit of mankind at the request of a friend.
"In those wretched countries where a man cannot call his tongue his own, he can scarce call anything his own. Whoever would overthrow the liberty of a nation must begin by subduing the freeness of speech ...
"Without freedom of thought there can be no such thing as wisdom, and no such thing as public liberty without freedom of speech, which is the right of every man ..." (1722)[106]
In his later years, as Congress was forced to deal with the issue of slavery, Franklin wrote several essays that stressed the importance of the abolition of slavery and of the integration of blacks into American society. These writings included:
In 1790, Quakers from New York and Pennsylvania presented their petition for abolition to Congress. Their argument against slavery was backed by the Pennsylvania Abolitionist Society and its president, Benjamin Franklin.
Special balloting conducted October 18, 1785, unanimously elected Franklin the sixth president of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania, replacing John Dickinson. The office of president of Pennsylvania was analogous to the modern position of governor. It is not clear why Dickinson had to be replaced with less than two weeks remaining before the regular election. Franklin held that office for slightly over three years, longer than any other, and served the constitutional limit of three full terms. Shortly after his initial election he was reelected to a full term on October 29, 1785, and again in the fall of 1786 and on October 31, 1787. Officially, his term concluded on November 5, 1788, but there is some question regarding the de facto end of his term, suggesting that the aging Franklin may not have been actively involved in the day-to-day operation of the council toward the end of his time in office.
Like the other advocates of republicanism, Franklin emphasized that the new republic could survive only if the people were virtuous. All his life he explored the role of civic and personal virtue, as expressed in Poor Richard's aphorisms. Franklin felt that organized religion was necessary to keep men good to their fellow men, but rarely attended religious services himself.[107] When Franklin met Voltaire in Paris and asked this great apostle of the Enlightenment to bless his grandson, Voltaire said in English, "God and Liberty," and added, "this is the only appropriate benediction for the grandson of Monsieur Franklin."[108]
Franklin's parents were both pious Puritans.[109] The family attended the Old South Church, the most liberal Puritan congregation in Boston, where Benjamin Franklin was baptized in 1706.[110] Franklin's father, a poor chandler, owned a copy of a book, Bonifacius: Essays to Do Good, by the Puritan preacher and family friend Cotton Mather, which Franklin often cited as a key influence on his life.[111] Franklin's first pen name, Silence Dogood, paid homage both to the book and to a widely known sermon by Mather. The book preached the importance of forming voluntary associations to benefit society. Franklin learned about forming do-good associations from Cotton Mather, but his organizational skills made him the most influential force in making voluntarism an enduring part of the American ethos.[112]
Franklin formulated a presentation of his beliefs and published it in 1728.[113] It did not mention many of the Puritan ideas as regards belief in salvation, the divinity of Jesus, and indeed most religious dogma. He clarified himself as a deist in his 1771 autobiography,[114] although he still considered himself a Christian.[115] He retained a strong faith in a God as the wellspring of morality and goodness in man, and as a Providential actor in history responsible for American independence.[116]
It was Ben Franklin who, at a critical impasse during the Constitutional Convention in June 1787, attempted to introduce the practice of daily common prayer with these words:
... In the beginning of the contest with G. Britain, when we were sensible of danger we had daily prayer in this room for the Divine Protection. – Our prayers, Sir, were heard, and they were graciously answered. All of us who were engaged in the struggle must have observed frequent instances of a Superintending providence in our favor. ... And have we now forgotten that powerful friend? or do we imagine that we no longer need His assistance. I have lived, Sir, a long time and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth – that God governs in the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid? We have been assured, Sir, in the sacred writings that "except the Lord build they labor in vain that build it." I firmly believe this; and I also believe that without his concurring aid we shall succeed in this political building no better than the Builders of Babel: ... I therefore beg leave to move – that henceforth prayers imploring the assistance of Heaven, and its blessings on our deliberations, be held in this Assembly every morning before we proceed to business, and that one or more of the Clergy of this City be requested to officiate in that service.[117]
Franklin was an enthusiastic supporter of the evangelical minister George Whitefield during the First Great Awakening. Franklin did not subscribe to Whitefield's theology, but he admired Whitefield for exhorting people to worship God through good works. Franklin published all of Whitefield's sermons and journals, thereby boosting the Great Awakening.[119]
... Sunday being my studying day, I never was without some religious principles. I never doubted, for instance, the existence of the Deity; that He made the world, and governed it by His providence; that the most acceptable service of God was the doing good to man; that our souls are immortal; and that all crime will be punished, and virtue rewarded, either here or hereafter.[120][121]
Franklin retained a lifelong commitment to the Puritan virtues and political values he had grown up with, and through his civic work and publishing, he succeeded in passing these values into the American culture permanently. He had a "passion for virtue".[122] These Puritan values included his devotion to egalitarianism, education, industry, thrift, honesty, temperance, charity and community spirit.[123]
The classical authors read in the Enlightenment period taught an abstract ideal of republican government based on hierarchical social orders of king, aristocracy and commoners. It was widely believed that English liberties relied on their balance of power, but also hierarchal deference to the privileged class.[124] "Puritanism ... and the epidemic evangelism of the mid-eighteenth century, had created challenges to the traditional notions of social stratification"[125] by preaching that the Bible taught all men are equal, that the true value of a man lies in his moral behavior, not his class, and that all men can be saved.[125] Franklin, steeped in Puritanism and an enthusiastic supporter of the evangelical movement, rejected the salvation dogma, but embraced the radical notion of egalitarian democracy.
Franklin's commitment to teach these values was itself something he gained from his Puritan upbringing, with its stress on "inculcating virtue and character in themselves and their communities."[126] These Puritan values and the desire to pass them on, were one of Franklin's quintessentially American characteristics, and helped shape the character of the nation. Franklin's writings on virtue were derided by some European authors, such as Jackob Fugger in his critical work Portrait of American Culture. Max Weber considered Franklin's ethical writings a culmination of the Protestant ethic, which ethic created the social conditions necessary for the birth of capitalism.[127]
One of Franklin's notable characteristics was his respect, tolerance and promotion of all churches. Referring to his experience in Philadelphia, he wrote in his autobiography, "new Places of worship were continually wanted, and generally erected by voluntary Contribution, my Mite for such purpose, whatever might be the Sect, was never refused."[120] "He helped create a new type of nation that would draw strength from its religious pluralism."[128] The first generation of Puritans had been intolerant of dissent, but by the early 18th century, when Franklin grew up in the Puritan church, tolerance of different churches was the norm, and Massachusetts was known, in John Adams' words, as "the most mild and equitable establishment of religion that was known in the world."[129] The evangelical revivalists who were active mid-century, such as Franklin's friend and preacher, George Whitefield, were the greatest advocates of religious freedom, "claiming liberty of conscience to be an 'inalienable right of every rational creature.'"[130] Whitefield's supporters in Philadelphia, including Franklin, erected "a large, new hall, that ... could provide a pulpit to anyone of any belief."[131] Franklin's rejection of dogma and doctrine and his stress on the God of ethics and morality and civic virtue made him the "prophet of tolerance."[128] While he was living in London in 1774, he was present at the birth of British Unitarianism, attending the inaugural session of the Essex Street Chapel, at which Theophilus Lindsey drew together the first avowedly Unitarian congregation in England; this was somewhat politically risky, and pushed religious tolerance to new boundaries, as a denial of the doctrine of the Trinity was illegal until the 1813 Act.[132]
Although Franklin's parents had intended for him to have a career in the Church,[7] Franklin as a young man adopted the Enlightenment religious belief in deism, that God's truths can be found entirely through nature and reason.[133] "I soon became a thorough Deist."[134] As a young man he rejected Christian dogma in a 1725 pamphlet A Dissertation on Liberty and Necessity, Pleasure and Pain,[135] which he later saw as an embarrassment,[136] while simultaneously asserting that God is "all wise, all good, all powerful."[136] He defended his rejection of religious dogma with these words: "I think opinions should be judged by their influences and effects; and if a man holds none that tend to make him less virtuous or more vicious, it may be concluded that he holds none that are dangerous, which I hope is the case with me." After the disillusioning experience of seeing the decay in his own moral standards, and those of two friends in London whom he had converted to Deism, Franklin turned back to a belief in the importance of organized religion, on the pragmatic grounds that without God and organized churches, man will not be good.[137] Moreover, because of his proposal that prayers be said in the Constitutional Convention of 1787, many have contended that in his later life Franklin became a pious Christian.[138][139]
For without the Belief of a Providence that takes Cognizance of, guards and guides and may favour particular Persons, there is no Motive to Worship a Deity, to fear its Displeasure, or to pray for its Protection ... think how great a Proportion of Mankind consists of weak and ignorant Men and Women, and of inexperienc'd and inconsiderate Youth of both Sexes, who have need of the Motives of Religion to restrain them from Vice, to support their Virtue, and retain them in the Practice of it till it becomes habitual, which is the great Point for its Security; And perhaps you are indebted to her originally that is to your Religious Education, for the Habits of Virtue upon which you now justly value yourself. If men are so wicked with religion, what would they be if without it.[140]
According to David Morgan,[141] Franklin was a proponent of religion in general. He prayed to "Powerful Goodness" and referred to God as "the infinite". John Adams noted that Franklin was a mirror in which people saw their own religion: "The Catholics thought him almost a Catholic. The Church of England claimed him as one of them. The Presbyterians thought him half a Presbyterian, and the Friends believed him a wet Quaker." Whatever else Franklin was, concludes Morgan, "he was a true champion of generic religion." In a letter to Richard Price, Franklin stated that he believed that religion should support itself without help from the government, claiming, "When a Religion is good, I conceive that it will support itself; and, when it cannot support itself, and God does not take care to support, so that its Professors are oblig'd to call for the help of the Civil Power, it is a sign, I apprehend, of its being a bad one."[142]
In 1790, just about a month before he died, Franklin wrote a letter to Ezra Stiles, president of Yale University, who had asked him his views on religion:
As to Jesus of Nazareth, my Opinion of whom you particularly desire, I think the System of Morals and his Religion, as he left them to us, the best the world ever saw or is likely to see; but I apprehend it has received various corrupt changes, and I have, with most of the present Dissenters in England, some Doubts as to his divinity; tho' it is a question I do not dogmatize upon, having never studied it, and I think it needless to busy myself with it now, when I expect soon an Opportunity of knowing the Truth with less Trouble ...[9]
On July 4, 1776, Congress appointed a three-member committee composed of Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and John Adams to design the Great Seal of the United States. Franklin's proposal (which was not adopted) featured the motto: "Rebellion to Tyrants is Obedience to God" and a scene from the Book of Exodus, with Moses, the Israelites, the pillar of fire, and George III depicted as pharaoh. The design that was produced was never acted upon by Congress, and the Great Seal's design was not finalized until a third committee was appointed in 1782.[143][144]
Franklin sought to cultivate his character by a plan of 13 virtues, which he developed at age 20 (in 1726) and continued to practice in some form for the rest of his life. His autobiography lists his 13 virtues as:
"Sincerity. Use no hurtful deceit; think innocently and justly, and, if you speak, speak accordingly."
"Chastity. Rarely use venery but for health or offspring, never to dullness, weakness, or the injury of your own or another's peace or reputation."
Franklin did not try to work on them all at once. Instead, he would work on one and only one each week "leaving all others to their ordinary chance." While Franklin did not live completely by his virtues, and by his own admission he fell short of them many times, he believed the attempt made him a better man contributing greatly to his success and happiness, which is why in his autobiography, he devoted more pages to this plan than to any other single point; in his autobiography Franklin wrote, "I hope, therefore, that some of my descendants may follow the example and reap the benefit."[145]
During Franklin's lifetime slaves were numerous in Philadelphia. In 1750, half the persons in Philadelphia who had established probate estates owned slaves. Dock workers in the city consisted of 15% slaves. Franklin owned as many as seven slaves, two males of whom worked in his household and his shop. Franklin posted paid ads for the sale of slaves and for the capture of runaway slaves and allowed the sale of slaves in his general store. Franklin profited from both the international and domestic slave trade, even criticizing slaves who had run off to join the British Army during the colonial wars of the 1740s and 1750s. Franklin, however, later became a "cautious abolitionist" and became an outspoken critic of landed gentry slavery. In 1758, Franklin advocated the opening of a school for the education of black slaves in Philadelphia. After returning from England in 1762, Franklin became more anti-slavery, in his view believing that the institution promoted black degradation rather than the idea blacks were inherently inferior. By 1770, Franklin had freed his slaves and attacked the system of slavery and the international slave trade. Franklin, however, refused to publicly debate the issue of slavery at the 1787 Constitutional Convention. Similar to Thomas Jefferson, Franklin tended to take both sides of the issue of slavery, never fully divesting himself from the institution.[146][147]
Franklin struggled with obesity throughout his middle-aged and later years, which resulted in multiple health problems, particularly gout, which worsened as he aged. In poor health during the signing of the US Constitution in 1787, he was rarely seen in public from then until his death.
Benjamin Franklin died from pleuritic attack[148] at his home in Philadelphia on April 17, 1790, at age 84. Approximately 20,000 people attended his funeral. He was interred in Christ Church Burial Ground in Philadelphia. In 1728, aged 22, Franklin wrote what he hoped would be his own epitaph:
The Body of B. Franklin Printer; Like the Cover of an old Book, Its Contents torn out, And stript of its Lettering and Gilding, Lies here, Food for Worms. But the Work shall not be wholly lost: For it will, as he believ'd, appear once more, In a new & more perfect Edition, Corrected and Amended By the Author.[149]
Franklin's actual grave, however, as he specified in his final will, simply reads "Benjamin and Deborah Franklin".[150]
In 1773, when Franklin's work had moved from printing to science and politics, he corresponded with a French scientist, Jacques Barbeu-Dubourg, on the subject of preserving the dead for later revival by more advanced scientific methods, writing:
I should prefer to an ordinary death, being immersed with a few friends in a cask of Madeira, until that time, then to be recalled to life by the solar warmth of my dear country! But in all probability, we live in a century too little advanced, and too near the infancy of science, to see such an art brought in our time to its perfection.[151] (Extended excerpt also online.)[152]
His death is described in the book The Life of Benjamin Franklin, quoting from the account of Dr. John Jones:
... when the pain and difficulty of breathing entirely left him, and his family were flattering themselves with the hopes of his recovery, when an imposthume, which had formed itself in his lungs, suddenly burst, and discharged a quantity of matter, which he continued to throw up while he had power; but, as that failed, the organs of respiration became gradually oppressed; a calm, lethargic state succeeded; and on the 17th instant (April 1790), about eleven o'clock at night, he quietly expired, closing a long and useful life of eighty-four years and three months.[153]
A signer of both the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, Franklin is considered one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. His pervasive influence in the early history of the nation has led to his being jocularly called "the only President of the United States who was never President of the United States."[154] Franklin's likeness is ubiquitous. Since 1928, it has adorned American $100 bills, which are sometimes referred to in slang as "Benjamins" or "Franklins." From 1948 to 1963, Franklin's portrait was on the half dollar. He has appeared on a $50 bill and on several varieties of the $100 bill from 1914 and 1918. Franklin appears on the $1,000 Series EE Savings bond. The city of Philadelphia contains around 5,000 likenesses of Benjamin Franklin, about half of which are located on the University of Pennsylvania campus. Philadelphia's Benjamin Franklin Parkway (a major thoroughfare) and Benjamin Franklin Bridge (the first major bridge to connect Philadelphia with New Jersey) are named in his honor.
In 1976, as part of a bicentennial celebration, Congress dedicated a 20-foot (6 m) marble statue in Philadelphia's Franklin Institute as the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial. Many of Franklin's personal possessions are also on display at the Institute, one of the few national memorials located on private property.
In London, his house at 36 Craven Street was first marked with a blue plaque and has since been opened to the public as the Benjamin Franklin House.[155] In 1998, workmen restoring the building dug up the remains of six children and four adults hidden below the home. The Times reported on February 11, 1998:
Initial estimates are that the bones are about 200 years old and were buried at the time Franklin was living in the house, which was his home from 1757 to 1762 and from 1764 to 1775. Most of the bones show signs of having been dissected, sawn or cut. One skull has been drilled with several holes. Paul Knapman, the Westminster Coroner, said yesterday: "I cannot totally discount the possibility of a crime. There is still a possibility that I may have to hold an inquest."
The Friends of Benjamin Franklin House (the organization responsible for the restoration) note that the bones were likely placed there by William Hewson, who lived in the house for two years and who had built a small anatomy school at the back of the house. They note that while Franklin likely knew what Hewson was doing, he probably did not participate in any dissections because he was much more of a physicist than a medical man.[156]
Franklin bequeathed £1,000 (about $4,400 at the time, or about $112,000 in 2011 dollars[157]) each to the cities of Boston and Philadelphia, in trust to gather interest for 200 years. The trust began in 1785 when the French mathematician Charles-Joseph Mathon de la Cour, who admired Franklin greatly, wrote a friendly parody of Franklin's "Poor Richard's Almanack" called "Fortunate Richard". The main character leaves a smallish amount of money in his will, five lots of 100 livres, to collect interest over one, two, three, four or five full centuries, with the resulting astronomical sums to be spent on impossibly elaborate utopian projects.[158] Franklin, who was 79 years old at the time, wrote thanking him for a great idea and telling him that he had decided to leave a bequest of 1,000 pounds each to his native Boston and his adopted Philadelphia. By 1990, more than $2,000,000 had accumulated in Franklin's Philadelphia trust, which had loaned the money to local residents. From 1940 to 1990, the money was used mostly for mortgage loans. When the trust came due, Philadelphia decided to spend it on scholarships for local high school students. Franklin's Boston trust fund accumulated almost $5,000,000 during that same time; at the end of its first 100 years a portion was allocated to help establish a trade school that became the Franklin Institute of Boston, and the whole fund was later dedicated to supporting this institute.[159][160]
Benjamin Franklin is a prominent figure in American history comparable to Washington, Jefferson and Lincoln, and as such he has been honored on U.S. postage stamps many times. The image of Franklin, the first Postmaster General of the United States, occurs on the face of U.S. postage more than any other notable American save that of George Washington.[161]
Franklin appeared on the first U.S. postage stamp (displayed above) issued in 1847. From 1908 through 1923 the U.S. Post Office issued a series of postage stamps commonly referred to as the Washington-Franklin Issues where, along with George Washington, Franklin was depicted many times over a 14-year period, the longest run of any one series in U.S. postal history. Along with the regular issue stamps Franklin however only appears on a few commemorative stamps. Some of the finest portrayals of Franklin on record can be found on the engravings inscribed on the face of U.S. postage.[161]
"Advice to a Friend on Choosing a Mistress" is a letter written by Benjamin Franklin, dated June 25, 1745, in which Franklin gives advice to a young man about channeling sexual urges. Due to its licentious nature, the letter was not published in collections of Franklin's papers in the United States during the nineteenth century. Federal court decisions from the mid- to late- twentieth century cited the document as a reason for overturning obscenity laws, using it to make a case against censorship.
"The Princess and the Patriot: Ekaterina Dashkova, Benjamin Franklin and the Age of Enlightenment" exhibition opened in Philadelphia in February 2006 and ran through December 2006. Benjamin Franklin and Dashkova met only once, in Paris in 1781. Franklin was 75 and Dashkova was 37. Franklin invited Dashkova to become the first woman to join the American Philosophical Society; she was the only woman so honored for another 80 years. Later, Dashkova reciprocated by making him the first American member of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
As a founding father of the United States, Franklin's name has been attached to many things. Among these are:
Several major landmarks in and around Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Franklin's longtime home, including:
Franklin Field, a football field once home to the Philadelphia Eagles of the National Football League and the home field of the University of Pennsylvania Quakers since 1895
Franklin Templeton Investments an investment firm whose New York Stock Exchange ticker abbreviation, BEN, is also in honor of Franklin
Benjamin Franklin Shibe, baseball executive and namesake of the longtime Philadelphia baseball stadium
Benjamin Franklin "Hawkeye" Pierce, the fictional character from the M*A*S*H novels, film, and television program
Several US Navy ships have been named the USS Franklin or the USS Bonhomme Richard, the latter being a French translation of his penname "Poor Richard". Two aircraft carriers, USS Franklin (CV-13) and USS Bon Homme Richard (CV-31) were simultaneously in commission and in operation during World War II, and Franklin therefore had the distinction of having two simultaneously operational US Navy warships named in his honor. The French ship Franklin (1797) was also named in Franklin's honor.
Franklinia alatamaha, commonly called the Franklin tree. It was named after him by his friends and fellow Philadelphians, botanists James and William Bartram.
Franklin's father, Josiah Franklin, was a tallow chandler, a soap-maker and a candle-maker. Josiah was born at Ecton, Northamptonshire, England, on December 23, 1657, the son of Thomas Franklin, a blacksmith-farmer, and Jane White. Benjamin's mother, Abiah Folger, was born in Nantucket, Massachusetts, on August 15, 1667, to Peter Folger, a miller and schoolteacher, and his wife Mary Morrill, a former indentured servant.
Josiah Franklin had 17 children with his two wives. He married his first wife, Anne Child, in about 1677 in Ecton and emigrated with her to Boston in 1683; they had three children before emigrating and four after. After her death, Josiah married Abiah Folger on July 9, 1689, in the Old South Meeting House by Samuel Willard. Benjamin, their eighth child, was Josiah Franklin's 15th child and tenth and last son.
Benjamin Franklin's mother, Abiah Folger, was born into a Puritan family among those that fled to Massachusetts to establish a purified Congregationalist Christianity in New England, when King Charles I of England began persecuting Puritans. They sailed for Boston in 1635. Her father was "the sort of rebel destined to transform colonial America";[162] as clerk of the court, he was jailed for disobeying the local magistrate in defense of middle-class shopkeepers and artisans in conflict with wealthy landowners. Ben Franklin followed in his grandfather's footsteps in his battles against the wealthy Penn family that owned the Pennsylvania Colony.
Becker, Carl Lotus. "Benjamin Franklin", Dictionary of American Biography (1931) – vol 3, with hot links online
Brands, H. W. The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin (2000) - excellent long scholarly biography excerpt and text search
Isaacson, Walter (2003). Benjamin Franklin: An American Life. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-0-7432-6084-8. , well written popular biography
Lemay, J. A. Leo. The Life of Benjamin Franklin, the most detailed scholarly biography, with very little interpretation; 3 volumes appeared before the author's death in 2008
Morgan, Edmund S. Benjamin Franklin (2003) the best short introduction excerpt and text search, interpretation by leading scholar
Wood, Gordon. The Americanization of Benjamin Franklin (2005), influential intellectual history by leading historian. excerpt and text search
Wright, Esmond. Franklin of Philadelphia (1986) – excellent scholarly study excerpt and text search
Asimov, Isaac. The Kite That Won the Revolution, a biography for children that focuses on Franklin's scientific and diplomatic contributions.
Fleming, Candace. Ben Franklin's Almanac: Being a True Account of the Good Gentleman's Life. Atheneum/Anne Schwart, 2003, 128 pages, ISBN 978-0-689-83549-0.
Anderson, Douglas. The Radical Enlightenments of Benjamin Franklin (1997) – fresh look at the intellectual roots of Franklin
Cohen, I. Bernard. Benjamin Franklin's Science (1990) – Cohen, the leading specialist, has several books on Franklin's science
Conner, Paul W. Poor Richard's Politicks (1965) – analyzes Franklin's ideas in terms of the Enlightenment and republicanism
Dray, Philip. Stealing God's Thunder: Benjamin Franklin's Lightning Rod and the Invention of America. (2005). 279 pp.
Ford, Paul Leicester. The Many-Sided Franklin (1899) online edition – collection of scholarly essays
"Franklin as Politician and Diplomatist" in The Century (October 1899) v. 57 pp. 881–899. By Paul Leicester Ford.
Gleason, Philip. "Trouble in the Colonial Melting Pot." Journal of American Ethnic History 2000 20(1): 3–17. ISSN 0278-5927 Full text online in Ingenta and Ebsco. Considers the political consequences of the remarks in a 1751 pamphlet by Franklin on demographic growth and its implications for the colonies. He called the Pennsylvania Germans "Palatine Boors" who could never acquire the "Complexion" of the English settlers and to "Blacks and Tawneys" as weakening the social structure of the colonies. Although Franklin apparently reconsidered shortly thereafter, and the phrases were omitted from all later printings of the pamphlet, his views may have played a role in his political defeat in 1764.
Lemay, J. A. Leo, ed. Reappraising Benjamin Franklin: A Bicentennial Perspective (1993) – scholarly essays
Mathews, L. K. "Benjamin Franklin's Plans for a Colonial Union, 1750–1775." American Political Science Review 8 (August 1914): 393–412.
Olson, Lester C. Benjamin Franklin's Vision of American Community: A Study in Rhetorical Iconology. (2004). 323 pp.
McCoy, Drew R. "Benjamin Franklin's Vision of a Republican Political Economy for America." William and Mary Quarterly 1978 35(4): 607–628. in JSTOR
Newman, Simon P. "Benjamin Franklin and the Leather-Apron Men: The Politics of Class in Eighteenth-Century Philadelphia," Journal of American Studies, August 2009, Vol. 43#2 pp 161–175; Franklin took pride in his working class origins and his printer's skills.
Schiff, Stacy. A Great Improvisation: Franklin, France, and the Birth of America (2005) (UK title Dr Franklin Goes to France)
Schiffer, Michael Brian. Draw the Lightning Down: Benjamin Franklin and Electrical Technology in the Age of Enlightenment. (2003). 383 pp.
Skemp, Sheila L. Benjamin and William Franklin: Father and Son, Patriot and Loyalist (1994) - Ben's son was a leading Loyalist
Sletcher, Michael. 'Domesticity: The Human Side of Benjamin Franklin', Magazine of History, XXI (2006).
Waldstreicher, David. Runaway America: Benjamin Franklin, Slavery, and the American Revolution. Hill and Wang, 2004. 315 pp.
Walters, Kerry S. Benjamin Franklin and His Gods. (1999). 213 pp. Takes position midway between D. H. Lawrence's brutal 1930 denunciation of Franklin's religion as nothing more than a bourgeois commercialism tricked out in shallow utilitarian moralisms and Owen Aldridge's sympathetic 1967 treatment of the dynamism and protean character of Franklin's "polytheistic" religion.
York, Neil. "When Words Fail: William Pitt, Benjamin Franklin and the Imperial Crisis of 1766," Parliamentary History, October 2009, Vol. 28#3 pp 341–374
Silence Dogood, The Busy-Body, & Early Writings (J.A. Leo Lemay, ed.) (Library of America, 1987 one-volume, 2005 two-volume) ISBN 978-1-931082-22-8
Autobiography, Poor Richard, & Later Writings (J.A. Leo Lemay, ed.) (Library of America, 1987 one-volume, 2005 two-volume) ISBN 978-1-883011-53-6
Benjamin Franklin's Autobiography edited by J. A. Leo Lemay and P. M. Zall, (Norton Critical Editions, 1986); 390pp; text, contemporary documents and 20th century analysis
Houston, Alan, ed. Franklin: The Autobiography and other Writings on Politics, Economics, and Virtue. Cambridge University Press, 2004. 371 pp.
Leonard Labaree, and others., eds., The Papers of Benjamin Franklin, 39 vols. to date (1959–2008), definitive edition, through 1783. This massive collection of BF's writings, and letters to him, is available in large academic libraries. It is most useful for detailed research on specific topics. The complete text of all the documents are online and searchable; The Index is also online at the Wayback Machine (archived September 28, 2010).
"Fart Proudly: Writings of Benjamin Franklin You Never Read in School." Carl Japikse, Ed. Frog Ltd.; Reprint ed. May 2003. ISBN 1-58394-079-0
This audio file was created from a revision of the "Benjamin Franklin" article dated 2008-08-04, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help)
Benjamin Franklin and Electrostatics experiments and Franklin's electrical writings from Wright Center for Science Education
Franklin's impact on medicine — talk by medical historian, Dr. Jim Leavesley celebrating the 300th anniversary of Franklin's birth on Okham's Razor ABC Radio National — December 2006
 Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Franklin, Benjamin". Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. 
O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Benjamin Franklin", MacTutor History of Mathematics archive, University of St Andrews .
American Institute of Physics –  Letter IV: Farther Experiments (PDF), and Letter XI: Observations in electricity (PDF)
Abridgement of the Book of Common Prayer (1773), by Benjamin Franklin and Francis Dashwood, transcribed by Richard Mammana
The Historical Society of Pennsylvania Collection of Benjamin Franklin Papers, including correspondence, government documents, writings and a copy of his will, are available for research use at the Historical Society of Pennsylvania.
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Benjamin_Franklin&oldid=611485525"					
Categories: Benjamin Franklin1706 births1790 deaths18th-century United States government officials18th-century American writersAlmanac compilersAircraftAmbassadors of the United States to FranceAmbassadors of the United States to SwedenAmerican abolitionistsAmerican autobiographersAmerican deistsAmerican chess playersAmerican colonial writersMasonic Grand MastersAmerican inventorsAmerican memoiristsAmerican people of English descentAmerican political philosophersAmerican printersAmerican scientistsAmerican typographersContinental Congressmen from PennsylvaniaPeople from PennsylvaniaEditors of Pennsylvania newspapersFellows of the Royal SocietyFounder Fellows of the Royal Society of EdinburghFree speech activistsHonorary Members of the St Petersburg Academy of SciencesFranklin familyGentleman scientistsGovernors of PennsylvaniaInventors of writing systemsKitesLes Neuf SœursPseudonymous writersMembers of the American Philosophical SocietyMembers of the Lunar SocietyMembers of the Pennsylvania Provincial AssemblyMusicians from Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaPennsylvania colonial peoplePennsylvania political activistsPeople associated with the Royal Society of ArtsPeople from colonial Boston, MassachusettsPeople from Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaPeople of Pennsylvania in the American RevolutionPeople of the American EnlightenmentRecipients of the Copley MedalRecreational cryptographersSigners of the United States ConstitutionSigners of the United States Declaration of IndependenceSpeakers of the Pennsylvania House of RepresentativesUnited States Postmasters GeneralUniversity and college foundersUniversity of Pennsylvania peopleWriters from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania18th-century American diplomatsAmerican designersHidden categories: Articles containing Latin-language textWikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource referenceUse mdy dates from October 2013Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pagesWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2011Spoken articlesWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with ULAN identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesCash for College! 54 Scholarships Worth $10&#044;000 or MoreErikson's Psychosocial Stages Summary ChartHow to Control Carpenter BeesQuiz - What's Your Leadership Style? [About Psychology]College Interview Questions
Top Related Searchesjosiah franklincommon law marriageties familyfifteenth childphiladelphia familysarah benjamin
Benjamin Franklin was born on January 17, 1706 in Boston Massachusetts. He was one of twenty children. Franklin’s father Josiah had ten children by his first marriage and ten by his second. Benjamin was the fifteenth child. He also happened to be the youngest boy. Franklin was only able to attend two years of schooling but continued his own education by reading. At the age of 12, he became apprenticed to his brother James who was a printer. When his brother did not allow him to write for his newspaper, Franklin fled to Philadelphia.
Siblings: Nine brothers and sisters and nine half brothers and half sisters. He was apprenticed to his brother James who was a printer.
Wife: Deborah Read. She had actually been married to a man named John Rodgers who fled without giving her a divorce. Therefore, she was unable to marry Franklin. They lived together and had a common law marriage in 1730.
Franklin had one illegitimate child named William who was the last loyalist governor of New Jersey. The mother of his child was never established. William lived with and was raised by his father and Deborah Read. He also had two children with Deborah: Francis Folger who died when he was four and Sarah.
Franklin began apprenticed to his brother who was a printer. Because his brother would not allow him to write for his newspaper, Franklin wrote letters to the paper in the persona of a middle-aged woman named “Silence Dogood.” By 1730, Franklin created “The Pennsylvania Gazette” where he was able to publish articles and essays on his thoughts. From 1732 to 1757, Franklin created a yearly almanac called “Poor Richard’s Almanack.” Franklin adopted the name “Richard Saunders” while he was writing for the almanac. From quotes within the almanac, he created “The Way to Wealth.”
Franklin was a prolific inventor. Many of his creations are still in use today. His inventions included:
Franklin came up with an experiment to prove that electricity and lightning were the same thing. He conducted the experiment by flying a kite in a lightning storm on June 15, 1752. From his experiments he devised the lightning rod. He also came up with important concepts in meteorology and refrigeration.
Franklin was sent to Great Britain by Pennsylvania in 1757. He spent six years trying to get the British to provide Pennsylvania with more self rule. He was well-respected abroad but could not get the king or parliament to budge.
After the beginning of the American Revolution, Franklin went to France in 1776 to gain French aid against Great Britain. His success helped turn the tide of the war. He stayed in France as America’s first diplomat there. He represented America at the treaty negotiations that ended the Revolutionary War which resulted in the Treaty of Paris (1783). Franklin returned to American in 1785.
Even after the age of eighty, Franklin attended the Constitutional Convention and served three years as the president of Pennsylvania. He died on April 17, 1790 at the age of 84.
Benjamin Franklin was extremely important in the history of the move from thirteen individual colonies to one unified nation. His actions as elder statesman and diplomat helped ensure independence. His scientific and literary achievements helped him earn respect at home and abroad. While in England, he also received honorary degrees from St. Andrews and Oxford. His significance cannot be understated.
Franklin began his political career when he was elected to the Pennsylvania Assembly in 1751. In 1754, he presented the significant Albany Plan of Union at the Albany Congress. With his plan, he proposed that the colonies unify under one government to help organize and protect the individual colonies. He worked hard over the years to try and get Great Britain to allow Pennsylvania to have more autonomy and self-rule. As the revolution approached with increasingly strict rules over the colonies, Franklin tried to persuade Britain that these acts would eventually lead to revolt. Seeing the importance of having an effective way to get messages from one town to another and one colony to another, Franklin reorganized the postal system.
Realizing that his beloved Britain would not pull back and provide the colonists with more of a voice, Franklin saw the need to fight back. Franklin was elected to attend the Second Continental Congress that met from 1775 to 1776. He helped draft and signed the Declaration of Independence.
More on Benjamin FranklinTop 10 Founding FathersRevolutionary War OverviewDeclaration of IndependenceSuggested ReadingColonial AmericaGeorge WashingtonJohn AdamsSuggested ReadingTreaty of ParisBenjamin Franklin TimelineThomas Jefferson
Related ArticlesProfile of Benjamin Franklin VideoBenjamin Franklin - Inventor, Statesman, Printer, Franchisor, Philanthropis...Benjamin Franklin BiographyBiography of Benjamin Franklin: Birth & Early ChildhoodBenjamin Franklin: An American Inventor 
13 Original ColoniesTop Causes of the Civil WarPresidents of the USWhat Caused the Great Depression?What Happened Today?
The Top 5 Causes That Led to World War I. Could...Top 5 Causes of the Great Depression5 Things That Caused the U.S. Civil WarWhat Caused the American Revolution?American History Timelines - Wars with American...
See More About:benjamin franklinamerican colonial historyinventorsdeclaration of independenceamerican revolution
Civil War - History of the Civil WarColonial AmericaIndustrial RevolutionWorld War IIEras of American HistoryAmerican CultureEconomic HistoryGovernment and PoliticsHistorical FiguresWars and DiplomacyStates and TerritoriesSocial HistoryScience and TechnologyHistorical Fun & ResourcesScandals and CrimeBlog
American HistoryAbout.comEducationAmerican HistoryHistorical FiguresBiographiesBiographies A FBenjamin Franklin BiographyAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
=======================================================
The American author, politician, scientist, inventor, civic activist, statesman, soldier, and diplomat, Benjamin Franklin was indeed a man of multiple talents. He was also one of the significant Founding Fathers of the United States who for later generations served as both a spokesman and a model for the national character. As a scientist, he was one of the prominent figures in the American Enlightenment and the history of physics for his findings and theories regarding electricity. His inventions include: the lightning rod, bifocals, the Franklin stove, a carriage odometer, and the glass ‘armonica’.  He devoted most of his life towards the development of his people and left an ineffaceable mark on the emerging nation.
Franklin was born in Boston, Massachusetts on January 17, 1706. He was the fifteenth child of Josiah Franklin, candlemaker and a skillful mechanic and Abiah Folger (Josiah’s second wife). He received his primary education from Boston Latin School. At the age of ten he left school because of the poor financial conditions of his family and continued his education through voracious reading. When he was twelve was apprenticed to his older brother James, a printer who taught him the printing trade. Franklin always wanted to be independent and hated being ordered about so he ran away to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania when he was seventeen. There he established his own printing office in partnership with Hugh Meredith in 1728.
Benjamin Franklin was an extraordinary scientist and inventor. His creations that received a lot of recognition include: lightning rod, glass armonica (a glass instrument, not to be confused with the metal harmonica), Franklin stove, bifocal glasses and the flexible urinary catheter. His inventions also comprised of social innovations, such as paying forward. All his efforts towards science were directed towards enhancing competence and bringing human improvement. One such improvement was his effort to expedite news services through his printing presses.
Franklin began his investigations on electricity and was the first person to discover he principle of conservation of charge. He also conducted his famous kite experiment, in which he flew a kite with the wire attached to a key during a thunderstorm. From this experiment he further established that laboratory-produced static electricity was similar to a previously unexplained and frightening natural phenomenon.
Franklin was among the very few scientists who greatly supported the Christiaan Huygens’ wave theory of light. This theory was later proved to be true after experiments performed by other scientists in the 18th century.
Franklin also noted the behavior of winds and he found out storms do not always travel in the direction of the prevailing wind. This concept gained a great significance in meteorology.
Franklin also conducted his experiments on the non-conduction of ice which received a great acceptance by other popular scientists such as Michael Faraday.
At the age of eighty-four this famous personality died on April 17, 1790 and was buried at Christ Church Burial Ground in Philadelphia.
Franklin was a true philosopher who was interested in all facets of the natural world. He learned through his own experimentation and his conversation with those who shared his interests.
Top Mysteries of the Oceans  Henry de la Beche  Ben Roy Mottelson  What is the Multiverse Theory?  5 of the Most Bizarre Underwater Creatures  The Basics of Nanotechnology  5 Worst Volcanic Eruptions of All Time  
=======================================================
=======================================================
                Home & School Magazine. [http://www.incwell.com/Spectrum.html] (date accessed). © K.
=======================================================
Benjamin Franklin is the Founding Father who winks at us. An ambitious urban entrepreneur who rose up the social ladder, from leather-aproned shopkeeper to dining with kings, he seems made of flesh rather than of marble. In bestselling author Walter Isaacson's vivid and witty full-scale biography, we discover why Franklin seems to turn to us from history's stage with eyes...more
Benjamin Franklin is the Founding Father who winks at us. An ambitious urban entrepreneur who rose up the social ladder, from leather-aproned shopkeeper to dining with kings, he seems made of flesh rather than of marble. In bestselling author Walter Isaacson's vivid and witty full-scale biography, we discover why Franklin seems to turn to us from history's stage with eyes that twinkle from behind his new-fangled spectacles. By bringing Franklin to life, Isaacson shows how he helped to define both his own time and ours.  He was, during his 84-year life, America's best scientist, inventor, diplomat, writer, and business strategist, and he was also one of its most practical -- though not most profound -- political thinkers. He proved by flying a kite that lightning was electricity, and he invented a rod to tame it. He sought practical ways to make stoves less smoky and commonwealths less corrupt. He organized neighborhood constabularies and international alliances, local lending libraries and national legislatures. He combined two types of lenses to create bifocals and two concepts of representation to foster the nation's federal compromise. He was the only man who shaped all the founding documents of America: the Albany Plan of Union, the Declaration of Independence, the treaty of alliance with France, the peace treaty with England, and the Constitution. And he helped invent America's unique style of homespun humor, democratic values, and philosophical pragmatism.  But the most interesting thing that Franklin invented, and continually reinvented, was himself. America's first great publicist, he was, in his life and in his writings, consciously trying to create a new American archetype. In the process, he carefully crafted his own persona, portrayed it in public, and polished it for posterity.  Through it all, he trusted the hearts and minds of his fellow "leather-aprons" more than he did those of any inbred elite. He saw middle-class values as a source of social strength, not as something to be derided. His guiding principle was a "dislike of everything that tended to debase the spirit of the common people." Few of his fellow founders felt this comfort with democracy so fully, and none so intuitively.  In this colorful and intimate narrative, Isaacson provides the full sweep of Franklin's amazing life, from his days as a runaway printer to his triumphs as a statesman, scientist, and Founding Father. He chronicles Franklin's tumultuous relationship with his illegitimate son and grandson, his practical marriage, and his flirtations with the ladies of Paris. He also shows how Franklin helped to create the American character and why he has a particular resonance in the twenty-first century.(less)
Get a copy:Amazon INonline stores ▼AmazonBarnes & NobleAudibleAbebooksBook DepositoryKoboIndigoHalf.comAlibrisiBooksBetter World BooksTarget.comGoogle PlayIndieBoundMore…LibrariesMore…
If Alexander Hamilton is one of the most underappreciated of the Founders then Benjamin Franklin is one of the most misunderstood.  Isaacson ends his book with a concluding chapter that details this misundestanding.  Throughout history each generation has taken a new look at Benjamin Franklin.  As the author points out, Thoreau mocked him, Carnegie adored him and D.H. Lawrence despised him.  So who was right, and why?  Isaacson, while pointing out his faults and follies, does not hide his own admirat...more
If Alexander Hamilton is one of the most underappreciated of the Founders then Benjamin Franklin is one of the most misunderstood.  Isaacson ends his book with a concluding chapter that details this misundestanding.  Throughout history each generation has taken a new look at Benjamin Franklin.  As the author points out, Thoreau mocked him, Carnegie adored him and D.H. Lawrence despised him.  So who was right, and why?  Isaacson, while pointing out his faults and follies, does not hide his own admiration for Franklin.  An interesting historical test is to consider that Franklin's style and personal life often overshadow his professional accomplishments and civic contributions.  Because he lived apart from his wife, flirted with women, wrote about the science of farts and beget an illigitimate child the general public has ignored his historical importance.  Rather than donning the frills and wigs of Paris, a trap Jefferson quickly fell into, Franklin purposefully wore plain suits, no wig and often times his famous fur hat.  A man who set trends without trying, one of Franklin's greatest gifts was the ability to accomplish great things without anyone else realizing it.  His feigned naivite, strategic avoidance of conflict and simple appearance made him the perfect man to discover electricity and promote the lightning rod; propose a union of the colonies in 1759; negotiate for the repeal of the Stamp Act; carve out a treaty with and multiple loans from France; negotiate peace with Britain; champion the Connecticut compromise for a bi-cameral legislature, one with representation based on population, the other with equal representation frome each state; and propose the complete abolition of slavery.Isaacson makes clear, and he is quite convincing, that while Franklin had his faults, he was revered in his own time, accomplished as much or more than any other Founder, and deserves to be considerd as one of America's most historically important statesman.  Franklin's personal creed was that doing good things for others was the ultimate form of religion.  In life and in death (in his will he set up a trust fund for young tradesman in Philadelphia and Boston) he practiced his religion dutifully.  A religion that we in America would do well to retrieve.  (less)
An excellent start-to-finish biography, Benjamin Franklin: An American Life begins by touching on his childhood as best as it can considering the lack of material to work with. After that, Isaacson takes the reader through a more detailed account of Franklin's early entrepreneurial life, through his many inventions, and into his later statesmen days. I was struck by the author's well-balanced hand for both time, achievements, personal and professional details, and philosophical and political ide...more
An excellent start-to-finish biography, Benjamin Franklin: An American Life begins by touching on his childhood as best as it can considering the lack of material to work with. After that, Isaacson takes the reader through a more detailed account of Franklin's early entrepreneurial life, through his many inventions, and into his later statesmen days. I was struck by the author's well-balanced hand for both time, achievements, personal and professional details, and philosophical and political ideology. The importance of his work as a diplomat, an enchanting and emotional time in Franklin's life well dramatized by Isaacson, finally struck home to me. Benjamin Franklin provides a nice, concise, well-rounded look at a well-rounded man. (less)
ETA: I decided to change this to four stars since I enjoyed the author's Einstein even more, and I gave that four.***********************Why do YOU want to pick up a book about Benjamin Franklin? If you want his biographical details you need not even read a book, just check out Wikipedia. I wanted more. I wanted to understand his soul. I wanted to get under his skin. I wanted all the historical details in Wikipedia and more. I got what I wanted. Benjamin was an amazing person; people have only a...more
ETA: I decided to change this to four stars since I enjoyed the author's Einstein even more, and I gave that four.***********************Why do YOU want to pick up a book about Benjamin Franklin? If you want his biographical details you need not even read a book, just check out Wikipedia. I wanted more. I wanted to understand his soul. I wanted to get under his skin. I wanted all the historical details in Wikipedia and more. I got what I wanted. Benjamin was an amazing person; people have only a superficial idea of who he really was. He is the guy who invented the lighting pole, that jolly fat man with a twinkle in his eye. He is the only person to have signed (and extensively worked on) the Declaration of Independence, the Peace Accord with England and the Treaty with France following the Revolution and the American Constitution. So this is a man of politics, you surmise. Yes, he was, but he was so much more. It is the breadth of all that he did that is so amazing. This is a man who changed history in not one way or two ways or merely ten ways. The world would not be the same today without this man. He has shaped the American character, given us wide ranging inventions and, yes, signed all those documents.This is not a review of who Benjamin is, for that read this book. It is thorough. It is interesting. It is funny, and this is because Benjamin has made some outrageously amusing comments. He was a fantastic storyteller. We are not only told this but given numerous examples. The book follows a chronological path from birth to death and is concluded with a fantastic epilogue that synthesizes all the diverse threads. The book has everything you may want to know about this man, but not too much either! That is quite a feat.I have one complaint, but it does not warrant the removal of the fifth star. My gut feeling is that the book is amazing. The author clearly admires Benjamin, and yet he does clearly point out his weak characteristics and mistakes. I quite simply wish he had more emphatically underlined the fact that although Benjamin extolled virtue and the merit of helping others, he failed so miserably in how he treated those of his family. He had all these rules of good conduct and yet he failed to be a good father and husband. The author doesn't hide is failings, but I wanted a stronger statement that revealed the disparity between what he preached and what he did! There I have said it. Benjamin was in fact a very cruel person in relation to his family, and sometimes he was very selfish and ungenerous. Why did he abandon his family and remain in Europe for fifteen years? In my mind, it was only when he finally realized he would be given neither the Ohio land grant nor the coveted office in charge of the colonies, that he returned. His reasons for remaining in Europe had been very selfish. I wanted that to be said clearly.The narration of the audiobook by Nelson Runger was good but not excellent. He spoke clearly and slowly. I like slow narrations, but I was slightly irritated by his need to audibly swallow the saliva in his mouth. Neither do I think his female intonations were appealing. I am being very picky. These criticisms should not deter you from listening to the audiobook!An excellent book about Benjamin Franklin. You will be surprised at learning this is a man who has much more depth and importance than you ever imagined.**********************Through chapter fourHaving listened now through chapter four, I am beginning to see both Benjamin's good and bad personality traits. This only makes the book MORE accurate. Parts tend to be a bit preachy. Lists of the adages printed in his Poor Richard Almanacs drone on a bit too long. These almanacs were profitable, definitely a financial success. The moralizing about how to achieve virtue is a bit boring. Benjamin has even devised a "Moral Perfection Project"! He seems sometimes a bit inflated. OK, he also admits to his tendency of being too proud and adds the rule that one must try to remain humble. Anyhow, all this moralizing gets a bit hard to swallow. Enough! The author also makes it very clear that Benjamin employs humor to achieve his goals, but his humor can become quite nasty. He adds gossip columns to his paper. Sex tidbits and crime always attract readers, so they are added too. Somehow all the moralizing about proper behavior is explained away when profits are to be made. Yes, Benjamin is a pragmatist. He usually can find a convenient explanation for why what he does is acceptable. He states that gossip leads to virtue since it puts an end to improper behavior! He does admit though it must be used with discretion.... I am not looking for a fairy tale about Benjamin but the real truth, so I am not complaining.Only through chapter two:Finally a book that really draws my attention and makes me happy to be reading!! I am quite sure that this book will please. The information is clear and the author mentions details that are interesting. I am reading this book because I want to know who Benjamin Franklin was. By that I mean what kind of personality did he have, how would he instinctively react in a given situation and what are his weakness and charms. I want to know him as a blood and flesh friend; friend because I am already enchanted by his directness, dislike of elitism, humor, industriousness and ability to "bend rules". Books were important to Benjamin. He was a youth of the Enlightenment, which appeals to me too. He lived from 1706-1790. He enjoyed Daniel Defoe's writing and shared his principles. Here is an amusing detail: Defoe thought there should be established institutions for the mentally retarded. The amusing part is that he felt a tax should be levied on authors to pay for these residences. Why? Because clearly authors had been blessed with more brain matter than the retarded. They should thus care for those more poorly endowed!Benjamin was a vegetarian, at least for a while. He was not a vegetarian for moral reasons. By saving his money, eating less expensively, he could buy more books. Again, books are important! But then, on a boat trip, the cod sizzling on the grill smell "mmmm" so good! When filleting the fish, smaller fish had been found in the gut of the larger one, the one being cooked. He then conveniently reasoned: "If you eat one another, I don't see why we cannot eat you!" That ended his vegetarianism. Also he was on his way to a better paying job.Clearly it helps that I like Benjamin's ability to poke fun at both himself and what he saw around him. I enjoy his tendency to rationalize, albeit in a manner that is "convenient". He knew quite well he was simply finding a convincing reason for doing exactly what he wanted. I like this book because almost every paragraph throws in extraneous information that interests me. I didn't know that Puritanism was an effort to cleanse remnant Catholic practices from Protestantism. Puritans wanted to "purify" Protestantism. Reading this book, I am given much more than mere facts about Benjamin Franklin's life.I am listening to the audiobook narrated by Nelson Runger. He speaks clearly and very slowly. This allows one time to take small introspective excursions as you listen, and this I like to do. If you do not like glacial narrations, perhaps you should read the paper form of the book. Listening to a book often takes longer than reading the book.(less)
This was a pleasure and just the kind of biography I find trustworthy. The kind that acknowledges other views and controversies and with extensive notes and sources in the back. More than that, it's the rare biography that can inspire smiles and even giggles--I'd mark this up to five stars if I could credit Isaacson for that--but the source of the humor is the frequent quotes from Benjamin Franklin himself. Isaacson said in his introduction that "Benjamin Franklin is the Founding Father who wink...more
This was a pleasure and just the kind of biography I find trustworthy. The kind that acknowledges other views and controversies and with extensive notes and sources in the back. More than that, it's the rare biography that can inspire smiles and even giggles--I'd mark this up to five stars if I could credit Isaacson for that--but the source of the humor is the frequent quotes from Benjamin Franklin himself. Isaacson said in his introduction that "Benjamin Franklin is the Founding Father who winks at us" and that proved to be so--his pragmatism and humor is the keynote to his character. Before reading this, if someone asked me which Founding Father I'd chose to have dinner and conversation with I think I would have chosen Jefferson. After this it's hard not to name Franklin as a favorite and the one with the most winning personality--at least if you weren't married to him. Or one of his children.Franklin has his faults, goodness knows, and Isaacson doesn't gloss over them, but they just make him all the more poignantly human. I've heard it said that the Revolutionary War was really a civil war given how the lines between Patriots versus Loyalists cut through families. Of all the Founding Fathers, the cut was sharpest with Benjamin Franklin--his own son was the King's Governor of New Jersey and chose the opposing side. I did know that before reading this biography but there was plenty I didn't know--for instance that this man so identified with Philadelphia was born and grew up in Boston and spent so many years in England as well as Paris. Isaacson, who wrote biographies of Einstein and Steve Jobs, does justice to not just Franklin the statesman but the inventor and scientist as well. And throughout and especially in his epilogue gives us not just an assessment of the man but the biography of how he was received by others such as Sinclair Lewis, D.H. Lawrence and John Updike. An engaging and lively biography.(less)
Sue wrote: "You give a nice flavor for the book Lisa. Thanks."You're welcome. It really was a fun read!
Nice to know. I almost got it when it was a kindle deal but I did add it to my list and can read it from the library.
Went to the King Tut exhibit in 2007 and was equally impressed by the Ben Franklin museum - where the exhibit was shown in PA.  Loved this book; learned so much - maybe I'm a nerd but it was a page turner that I looked forward to each day!
I loved this book. Isaacson did a fair and balanced job, describing the man without whitewashing over his flaws. By the end, I felt like Franklin was mine, like he somehow belonged to me. I knew he would be an interesting person, but I had no idea how much this man did with his life. Nor did I understand just how involved he was before there was any US at all.  We could still be a British colony without him - or even a French one!  Something else I never learned in school, France's involvement.  Th...more
I loved this book. Isaacson did a fair and balanced job, describing the man without whitewashing over his flaws. By the end, I felt like Franklin was mine, like he somehow belonged to me. I knew he would be an interesting person, but I had no idea how much this man did with his life. Nor did I understand just how involved he was before there was any US at all.  We could still be a British colony without him - or even a French one!  Something else I never learned in school, France's involvement.  This is the opposite of a dry history book. This is real life, described in such a way that you feel like you were a part of it, and know all of the players. When Franklin left France for the last time, toward the end of his life, there were tears in my eyes. This from a confirmed history dummy who has never had an interest!  Well, that's all changed now. Thank you, Mr. Isaacson, for making this old patriot leap off the pages, and for making me know and really care for him, and for history, for the first time in my life. You deserve a gold star for sure.   (less)
This is a throroughly entertaining, well-researched, well-written biography of Benjamin Franklin by Walter Isaacson.  It is lengthy (over 600 pages) and one feels obligated to read the footnotes because they further the work.  The first third of the book moved quickly (childhood, moving to Philadelphia, beginning life as a printer, Poor Richard's Almanac).  The middle third bogs down (life in England and France, the beginning of the Revolution) and the final third picks up (back in France, negotiat...more
This is a throroughly entertaining, well-researched, well-written biography of Benjamin Franklin by Walter Isaacson.  It is lengthy (over 600 pages) and one feels obligated to read the footnotes because they further the work.  The first third of the book moved quickly (childhood, moving to Philadelphia, beginning life as a printer, Poor Richard's Almanac).  The middle third bogs down (life in England and France, the beginning of the Revolution) and the final third picks up (back in France, negotiating the peace etc)  I realized while reading this that I had many preconceptions based on rumor regarding Franklin.  Yes he was flirt and loved women, but there was only one illegitimate child (not the rumored hundreds) and he (William Franklin)  became the Governor of New Jersey. Franklin's wife Deborah (with whom he had 2 children, Sally and a son who died as a child) was "common-law" because she had been abandoned by her husband who disappeared to the Carribean. Divorce was illegal and without a death certificate, she could not remarry. It appears that he loved her but she would not travel with him and never left Philadelphia.  So he went alone, and often stayed away for years.  Sadly, despite her wish for him to return, he was in Europe for the last 15 years of her life.  ???? Hard to fathom.    On a political level much of what our country is can be attributed to Franklin's vision and support of a middle class.  Jefferson, who founded the University of Virginia, believed that the role of education was to train the future leaders of the world by handpicking the best and brightest, and giving them the best education.  Franklin totally disagreed believing that educational opportunities needed to be available to all, and based his founding of the University of Pennsylvania on those principles.  Meritocracy, hard work, frugality...were beliefs he espoused throughout his life.    Isaacson has a great writing style.  He is less dry than David McCullough and Joseph Ellis, but not quite up to Doris Kearns Goodwin in flow.  Not a quick read, but really enjoyable. (less)
Probably the best biographical source on Benjamin Franklin is straight fron the horses mouth . . . his Autobiography. However, Isaacson's book is definitely an engaging read and fairly exhaustive. My initial impression is that the author is careful in not falling into the a trap that so many biographers often do, in that they deify their protagonist. Isaacson takes an objective approach to Franklin and enumerates his many flaws (or at least what most would perceive as flaws when attributed to on...more
Probably the best biographical source on Benjamin Franklin is straight fron the horses mouth . . . his Autobiography. However, Isaacson's book is definitely an engaging read and fairly exhaustive. My initial impression is that the author is careful in not falling into the a trap that so many biographers often do, in that they deify their protagonist. Isaacson takes an objective approach to Franklin and enumerates his many flaws (or at least what most would perceive as flaws when attributed to one of the American founders). More specifically, Franklin is repeatedly, and appropriately, described as less than a perfect father or husband. Furthermore, he is also appropriately described as having a substantial veneration for France, which in today's plotical climate is not an attribute most Americans would want to attribute to one of the leading founders. Summarily, Isaacson's book is an excellent narrative of Franklin's life from beginning to end. It is a great starting point for any study of Franklin. It is a bare bones assessment of the man who was determined to be one of the "Greatest Americans" of all time, though he himself was unsure of his identity until later on in life. (less)
I enjoy providing background in my reviews of how I’ve acquired or read a book, because I believe it helps to paint a picture of my tastes, desires, and it might even give you more information about me. In other words, maybe the books I read act as my own autobiography. I bought this highly anticipated book only a short time after getting a new job as a store manager with FranklinCovey.  Having made good friends with the store manager of the Waldenbooks store down the hall from my old store, I sp...more
I enjoy providing background in my reviews of how I’ve acquired or read a book, because I believe it helps to paint a picture of my tastes, desires, and it might even give you more information about me. In other words, maybe the books I read act as my own autobiography. I bought this highly anticipated book only a short time after getting a new job as a store manager with FranklinCovey.  Having made good friends with the store manager of the Waldenbooks store down the hall from my old store, I spent a fair amount of time in her store. I would learn about new and hot books, as well as best sellers as events unfolded. Four elements, therefore, led me to this book. FranklinCovey, at that time my new employer, was formed by Hyrum Smith and Stephen Covey. Both men have been leaders in business thought and self-improvement fields and both credit their philosophies, in large part, to the “Moral Improvement” project that Ben Franklin crafted to focus his own life. I was attracted to the book, first, because of my new company and their principles and philosophies.Second, I am a fan, if not a well read one, of American history. To me, the founding of our country is the ultimate action story. Winning our independence was so improbable and so hard fought, that it made for great theater and epic stories of adventure and heroism.Third, I try to read as much nonfiction as possible. The older I get, the more I come to understand that it’s a total imperative to learn about the world in which I live. I also see that there is more out there in this world that I don’t know, than the sum of what I do know.Lastly, spending time on my lunch breaks, browsing books down at Waldenbooks meant I saw books before most people could. When the first copies of Benjamin Franklin: An American Life arrived, I couldn’t resist the temptation to pick up a copy.Despite my intentions, though, it sat on my bookshelf, untouched for years. It’s an imposingly thick book and I could never seem to find the time. Flash forward three years and to a different FranklinCovey store; my staff was comprised of avid readers. In down times, they were commonly seen to pull out a book. Since they were diligent about hiding their books when a customer would walk in, there was no reason for me to deny them the freedom to read.It dawned on me that there were many books on my shelf, begging to be read. I always complained about a lack of free time to read; yet I usually had at least half an hour or more of free time every day. If my staff could pull out a book, why couldn’t I? With that in mind, I brought in the book I’d bought three years earlier.After having read and reviewed “Ernie Pyle’s War” last year and having reconsidered my earlier opinion, it occurred to me that reviewing a biography didn’t necessarily involve reviewing a human life. Instead, my reviews, I hope, are a reflection of how I’ve perceived how the book’s author has presented that human life. With that in mind, Walter Isaacson, former CEO of CNN, paints a loving and admiring, as well as a fair view of the life of a truly epic founding father.This book, by and large, is a chronological history of the life of a man who accomplished more than entire branches of many family’s trees. Mr. Isaacson crafts an unmistakably clear depiction of the growth and maturation, as well as the mental and emotion development of this founding father, showing how Ben Franklin’s experiences as a youth and young professional would affect his opinions and roles as a reluctant revolutionary.Ben was born almost three hundred years ago, as I write this, to a typically large family. Without writing a mini version of a great biography, along the way, we travel the world with Ben as he debates philosophy of the common man as a publisher, steals inspiration from future generations as an inventor and scientist, and ultimately acts as the greatest diplomat that America and maybe the world, has ever seen. That statement would be hard to classify as hyperbole.Ben’s story, as presented by Mr. Isaacson, is almost too fantastic and too seemingly superhuman to have happened, but the biography is supremely detailed and referenced up one side of the book’s 500+ page length, and down the other.The book, to be fair, is written on such a high reading level, that it wouldn’t be considered as a quick read by a person with less than an advanced postgraduate degree. Most readers of my reviews almost certainly know that I fall south of that mark, so this book took me much of a year to get through, after fits and starts of reading passages as time allowed. I should have known I was up against a seriously toned book when I learned that Supreme Court Justice Stevens was listening to this book as a book on audio. At least my reading list puts me in the highest company!Mr. Isaacson suggests that Benjamin Franklin’s philosophy matches him to no current major political ideology. Ben was way too complex of thought, but pure of philosophy than either of the two major political parties today would encourage. As a decided partisan myself, I find this a particularly refreshing discovery about the man who both invented bifocal glasses and mediated the constitutional congress of 1787 (and so much more, to be fair). This biography also frames Benjamin Franklin as a very, very likeable, but not perfect man. Mr. Isaacson resorts to none of the fan-boy tactics that many biographers might be inclined to use. He displays Ben’s greatness as well as his foibles and warts, so that the reader is free to bring their own judgments to the events of Franklin’s life.This book is a solid, enjoyable overview of a man who can be described as one of the first truly great Americans. If the style and presentation of this tome had been directed towards a lesser figure, it might have been an even more difficult read, but no fair, complete, and accurate telling of the life of Benjamin Franklin would allow for any such boredom or indifference. The greatness of the book’s subject raises my grade of this book by a single star.(less)
I absolutely loved this book.  I picked this book up in an antique store in Virginia, of all places, and it sat on my shelf for a year and a half before I got around to reading it.  But once I opened it I couldn't get enough of Dr. Franklin.Benjamin Franklin is the MAN.  I was continually amazed to learn about his life and accomplishments.  Did you know that Ben Franklin invented the lightening rod, bifocals, and catheters?  That he discovered the Gulf Stream?  That he was America's first postmaster,...more
I absolutely loved this book.  I picked this book up in an antique store in Virginia, of all places, and it sat on my shelf for a year and a half before I got around to reading it.  But once I opened it I couldn't get enough of Dr. Franklin.Benjamin Franklin is the MAN.  I was continually amazed to learn about his life and accomplishments.  Did you know that Ben Franklin invented the lightening rod, bifocals, and catheters?  That he discovered the Gulf Stream?  That he was America's first postmaster, our first ambassador to France, and the most famous American in the world for much of his life?  How about that he was the only person to sign all four of these: The Declaration of Independence, the American treaty with France and our peace accord with Britain, and the Constitution?  It's crazy and sad that such a brilliant and influential historical figure is reduced in popular memory to a randy old kook flying a kite in the rain.  Although he was that, too.(less)
I bought it for a quarter at Goodwill store (paperback version) and couldn't put it down either. I love it when that  happens.
Comprehensively researched and well balanced biography, in very similar territory as McCullough's highly recommended treatise on John Adams.  Isaacson's 'Benjamin Franklin-An American Life', published 2003, captures the extraordinary and many faceted eighty four year life of this founding father.  A caricature that would be instantly recognisable in The Simpsons, this biography paints a vivid portrait of the man, his times, family, morals, scientific enquiry and political journey.I have long wishe...more
Comprehensively researched and well balanced biography, in very similar territory as McCullough's highly recommended treatise on John Adams.  Isaacson's 'Benjamin Franklin-An American Life', published 2003, captures the extraordinary and many faceted eighty four year life of this founding father.  A caricature that would be instantly recognisable in The Simpsons, this biography paints a vivid portrait of the man, his times, family, morals, scientific enquiry and political journey.I have long wished to read Franklin's 'Autobiography', which doesn't seem to reside in my local library, so I picked this New York Times Bestseller.  Approaching five hundred pages, it comes with almost fifty pages of detailed Notes, a very handy alphabetic cast of characters list and a chronology from 1706 to 1790.A chess playing propagandist, whose moves snatched a king off the board and gave Lord North a rook and two pawns for change. (less)
Ben Franklin is one of the most misunderstood of the Founding Fathers, no doubt because his personality could often be so hard to pin down (Franklin often employed satire and misdirection in his arguments and created fictional characters to voice his opinions). Our image of him now is something like a wizened old favorite uncle, always ready with a wink and nudge and a humorous aphorism.Franklin's place in history has been much more contentious, however. His revolutionary fervor was questioned b...more
Ben Franklin is one of the most misunderstood of the Founding Fathers, no doubt because his personality could often be so hard to pin down (Franklin often employed satire and misdirection in his arguments and created fictional characters to voice his opinions). Our image of him now is something like a wizened old favorite uncle, always ready with a wink and nudge and a humorous aphorism.Franklin's place in history has been much more contentious, however. His revolutionary fervor was questioned by his contemporaries (true to his nature, he sought a compromise that would preserve the British empire long after it became a political impossibility), and his decidedly Enlightenment, middle-class values were looked on skeptically by the Romantics and despised by succeeding generations of Marxists and other radicals.Understanding these passionate reactions to Franklin help us understand his central place in American history - as the chief proponent, and even creator, of a distinct aspect of the American character: a uniquely middle-class ethos of hard work, frugality, community mindedness, pragmatism, and tolerance. Franklin's great contribution to the American character was to disconnect the positive social aspects of Puritanism - equality, pragmatism, hard work, etc. - from its destructive religious vices.Isaacson does a tremendous job of detailing Franklin's extraordinary influence, while wisely presenting the contradictory aspects of his personality for the reader to judge. The book allows us to see Franklin as his contemporaries must have - a brilliant and pragmatic man who, while fully and energetically participating in life, always kept himself as a discreet remove.(less)
I think Franklin is the most influential of the Founding Fathers and possibly the most important American of all-time, if such a title can be applied...more
I think Franklin is the most influential of the Founding Fathers and possibly the most important American of all-time, if such a title can be applied to any one person.I've skimmed through Isaacson's book on Ben after reading H.W. Brands' biography and I like what I saw in Benjamin Franklin.It's funny, I just finished reading Truman by McCullough and Harry S is another of those middle-class Americans with a major impact on U.S history (and the world for that matter).(less)
The only time this book caught my attention was when I fell asleep reading it in bed and dropped it on my face. I stopped reading before I hurt myself further. This fascinating insight on page 82 was the last straw, "For the last 17 years of Deborah's life, Franklin would be away, including when she died. Nevertheless, their mutual affection, respect, and loyalty - and their sense of partnership - would endure."
One of my heroes has always been Ben Franklin. Issacson's treatment of him here is an honest account of his many great triumphs and successes, while not shying away from his many faults and foibles. Frankiln was a deep and complex character and this book does a good job of exploring the many  facets of that character. 
Walter Isaacson has written a book which adds to the huge proliferation of Benjamin Franklin biographies. He has a talent for biographies, having produced a book on Henry Kissinger before this one, and a study of Albert Einstein more recently. He knows how to present the details of a famous person's life in an enjoyable, informative manner. This is not a light version of Franklin's life; it stands on its own among the numerous others as a most respectable effort.There is so much "stuff" that Fra...more
Walter Isaacson has written a book which adds to the huge proliferation of Benjamin Franklin biographies. He has a talent for biographies, having produced a book on Henry Kissinger before this one, and a study of Albert Einstein more recently. He knows how to present the details of a famous person's life in an enjoyable, informative manner. This is not a light version of Franklin's life; it stands on its own among the numerous others as a most respectable effort.There is so much "stuff" that Franklin accomplished. He was the eighth child of the candlemaker Josia Franklin and his second wife, Abiah in Boston. This made him one of Josia's seventeen children from two marriages, and Josia's tenth and last son. This was an age when almost the only recourse of widowers and widows with children was to marry, and have more, in order to survive as a family. The children became, by economic necessity, providers for the family at the earliest age possible. Ben had to leave school at age ten to work as an apprentice at the printing shop of his brother,  James. He fled Boston for Philadelphia (an apprentice who left his employ without permission, in this manner, actually became a fugitive), where he eventually became the owner of the highly successful "Pennsylvania Gazette". His "Poor Richard's Almanac" was a must-read in the Colonies. He retired from his business at the age of 41 to devote his time to dabbling in science, and, increasingly, to the pursuit of politics (an inventor, he is responsible for, among other useful devices, the lightning rod, bifocal glasses, and the flexible urinary catheter). He was one of the few founding fathers who did not become President of the United States (having died before this was possible), but he held elected or appointed offices as a councilman, and Justice of the Peace, in Philadelphia in the 1740's; member of the Pennsylvania Assembly in 1751; joint deputy Postmaster-General of North America in 1753; and delegate to the Second Continental Congress in 1775. He was appointed as representative of the Pennsylvania General Assembly to represent its interests in London from 1757 to 1763, and again starting in 1764, until 1775. He was the only person present at three defining moments of American Independence: the drafting of the Declaration of Independence, the negotiations ending the Revolution with the Treaty of Paris, and the great debates of the Constitutional Convention.Isaacson touches on the perhaps central facet of Franklin's personality, which is that he knew everyone there was to know in Philadelphia before the Revolution, which is to say, everyone of importance in Pennsylvania and most of the other colonies; he was known to everyone holding power in England, from the King down, prior to the Revolution;  he was a highly respected amateur scientist who became internationally respected for his experiments in electricity, having received honorary degrees from Harvard, Yale and Oxford; he was celebrated among the leading scientists in England and France; and he became a sensation in Paris society while he lived there as American ambassador during the Revolution. and, yet, no one, including his many biographers, was ever able to define the core Franklin. He was emotionally very complicated. He could be charming in society but could not get along with his son, William, who became a notorious Tory during the Revolution. People on two continents could find him warm-hearted, yet he lived in Europe for over ten years, separated from his wife, Deborah (her fear of sea travel contributed to this situation). Isaacson seems to suggest the key to understanding Franklin is to be aware of his facility to adjust his persona to meet the needs of the moment. He could be a folksy teller of self-help sayings and a founder of the new science of electricity; he could present the image of a backwoods American rustic complete with fur hat in sophisticated Paris and negotiate in sensitive negotiations bringing French aid to save the American war effort; he could spend years in London trying to find a fit for himself as a central figure in London's management of the American colonies, including the offering of his early support for the Stamp Act, and turn around to be a great American patriot, risking his life to sail across a hostile ocean to represent his country in France. His greatest public service moments showed him to be a great compromiser, the trait most needed to get the French royalist government to support an American revolt against monarchy, to agree to peace terms with the British government, and to help forge a new democracy.The author suggests that Franklin's most notable invention was himself. His different projections of his differing images make him, according to Isaacson, America's first great publicist. He reinforced the Franklin persona with his popular, if not always accurate, autobiography which reinforced his effort to produce a new American archetype. It is interesting that his book was a favorite of another famous American of a later generation, who was also successful in reinventing his image. Davy Crockett allegedly had the book on him when he died at the Alamo.Isaacson analyzes Franklin's legacy in the book's "Conclusions" chapter. He shows how succeeding ages have alternately held Franklin in great respect, or ridiculed him. Shortly after his death, he was praised by friend and former enemy alike. The romantic poets and transcendentalists of the early 1800's, such as Keats, Thoreau and Emerson had no use for the Enlightenment era's worship of reason and intellect from the likes of Franklin, Voltaire and Swift. Franklin's respect for the middle classes and shopkeeping values were becoming derided, even at this early date, as "bourgeois." His reputation revived after the Civil War. He was praised and emulated by the likes of Mark Twain, for his humor, and Horatio Alger for his rags to riches example. The great historian of the late nineteenth century, Frederick Jackson Turner, called him the "first great American." Then the war against the American middle-class ethic waged by quasi-Marxists lambasted the so-called Franklin love of avarice. Critics from Max Weber to D.H. Lawrence savaged Franklin's memory. Later, the Great Depression resurrected the Franklinesque lessons of frugality and helping others as virtues. And so it went. Franklin would no doubt be amused by all of this dissecting of his character. Isaacson shows that Franklin cannot be explained by references to the kitchy images which have survived in the popular culture: the simplistic pincher of pennies and morals jovially dabbling in statecraft while leching after French women. Isaacson asks, first, to consider the benevolence fostered by his personal virtues of diligence, honesty and industry. Consider also the common good which continually derives from his personal example of promotion of community improvement associations (e.g. fire departments, the first hospital in America, the first lending library in America); and his personal example of tolerance in the way he viewed religion. Isaacson explains the subtle contribution of Franklin to the American psyche: the detachment of the Puritan spirit of industriousness from the sect's rigid dogma; the unleashing of energies which built a country without being bound to a state religion. This pragmatic approach to morality without theology promoted the invention  of a society where a belief in the wisdom of the common citizen leads to an appreciation for democracy and a disdain for all forms of tyranny. As Isaacson says, this philosophy was felt more intuitively by Franklin than by most of his fellow founders. (less)
This thoroughly researched biography takes a close look at Benjamin Franklin’s life, particularly exploring his personality and beliefs. It starts with his English ancestors, follows his parents’ emigration to America, then chronicles his life until his death. I enjoyed reading the stories behind his many maxims. The book provides insight into colonial life before, during, and after the American Revolution. It highlights Franklin’s achievements and lasting influence on America.I had considered m...more
This thoroughly researched biography takes a close look at Benjamin Franklin’s life, particularly exploring his personality and beliefs. It starts with his English ancestors, follows his parents’ emigration to America, then chronicles his life until his death. I enjoyed reading the stories behind his many maxims. The book provides insight into colonial life before, during, and after the American Revolution. It highlights Franklin’s achievements and lasting influence on America.I had considered myself a Franklin fan, and I learned more that I like about him, but I also unexpectedly learned even more that soured my view of him. I admire his work ethic, frugality, innovation, self-improvement, entrepreneurship, business sense, negotiating abilities, and rational decision-making. However, although he was personable and a great networker, his relationships were generally shallow, and he was a distant and generally unloving husband and father.I also disagree with Franklin’s religious views. He abandoned Calvinism for Deism, then created his own brand of Deism based on good works. He believed in God, but only as a benevolent but distant deity who was best served by helping others. He believed that religion was really only useful for making people behave and improving society, and that all religions were valid. He always stressed the material over the spiritual.Franklin’s motto could have been “Do well by doing good.” He showed that one could attract wealth by being in the business of serving others. He said that he’d rather “live usefully” than “die rich.” He warned against welfare, and supported trickle-down economics. Franklin retired from business at 42, the midpoint of his life, but he arguably accomplished more in the second half. In fact, he was 69 at the signing of the Declaration of Independence!Franklin was a master diplomat; he knew how to negotiate for mutual benefit, which is why he quickly became involved in politics, then moved from the local to the international level. He used the Socratic method (non-confrontational questioning) to influence people. He also said that a secret to being more revered than resented is to be self-deprecating and unpretentious, which he practiced throughout his life.I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in Benjamin Franklin or the founding of America. I also recommend Franklin's autobiography, or the modern adaptation (my review).(less)
While this biography isn't a quick, light read, it is as interesting and complex as the man himself must have been.  Isaacson goes far beyond the cartoonish image that many of us have of an old guy flying a kite in a thunderstorm, and uncovers the real person, the good, the bad, and the ugly.Franklin had tremendous influence in the way the United States was formed, and the book covers the politics, Franklin's friends and enemies, and the negotiation and compromises that were necessary to accompli...more
While this biography isn't a quick, light read, it is as interesting and complex as the man himself must have been.  Isaacson goes far beyond the cartoonish image that many of us have of an old guy flying a kite in a thunderstorm, and uncovers the real person, the good, the bad, and the ugly.Franklin had tremendous influence in the way the United States was formed, and the book covers the politics, Franklin's friends and enemies, and the negotiation and compromises that were necessary to accomplish so much of what he did.  Just as interesting was Franklin's personal life.  He was a charmer and had ladies fawning over him, sometimes for decades.  But he was often cold to and unnecessarily judgmental of his own family, essentially abandoning some of them.  As Poor Richard, he wrote so many well-known homilies but didn't always follow his own advice.  His inventions were based on what he considered practical, not theoretical, and he wasy always interested in learning more.Mr. Isaacson has included quotes from more obscure sources as well as documents that almost all Americans know.  All in all, the book is well researched and informative, highly entertaining, and very readable.(less)
To say that Benjamin Franklin led an interesting life would be the understatement of the century. Dr. Franklin was the first American to be world famous. He was an American Revolutionary, a theorist on government, a scientist in nearly all fields, and a printer being his first profession. In the end, one can say that there is nothing that the man did not do in his lifetime. Walter Isaacson brings this extraordinary American to life, allowing the reader to explore the world that was with this inc...more
To say that Benjamin Franklin led an interesting life would be the understatement of the century. Dr. Franklin was the first American to be world famous. He was an American Revolutionary, a theorist on government, a scientist in nearly all fields, and a printer being his first profession. In the end, one can say that there is nothing that the man did not do in his lifetime. Walter Isaacson brings this extraordinary American to life, allowing the reader to explore the world that was with this incredible human being. The thirteenth of sixteen children, and a youngest son of a youngest son for five generations, Ben Franklin learned early on that if he wanted to be noticed he would have to work hard. Franklin went to work at an early age as an indentured servant for his brother James's print shop in Boston. He even get his first by-line, after getting in trouble with the state legislature and order to print no more work under his own name, James Franklin decides to publish everything under his brother's. However, life as an indentured servant is no fun even when your master is your own older brother. Ben Franklin decides to escape to Philadelphia, where he opens his own print shop. As a printer, Franklin has tremendous success, his paper, the Pennsylvania Gazette, was popular. He would also publish the famous Poor Richard's Almanac. Franklin, however, does some things okay for his time, but now we would frown upon. For example he, from time to time, makes up stories or writes letters to the editor under pseudonym often to express a political point or to tell a funny tale. "Like most other newspapers of the time, Franklin's Pennsylvania Gazette was filled not only with short news items and reports on public events, but also amusing essays and letters from readers. What made his paper a delight was its wealth of this type of correspondence, much of it written under pseudonyms by Franklin himself. This gimmick of writing as if from a reader gave Franklin more leeway to poke fun at his rivals, revel in gossip, circumvent his personnel pledge to speak ill of no one, and test-drive his evolving philosophies." p.65 Ben Franklin was also an accomplished scientist, even though he was not formally trained. His work in electricity would be revolutionary as his later political ideas. Franklin's most famous invention outside his silly stove was the Lighting Rod. He would also map the Gulf Stream, and would always be fascinated by oil's effect on water.* "In fact, these terms devised by Franklin are the ones we still use today, along with other neologisms that he coined to describe his findings: battery, charged, neutral, condense, and conductor. Part of Franklin's importance as a scientist was the clear writing that he employed. `He has written equally for the uninitiated as well as the philosopher,' the early nineteenth-century English chemist Sir Humphry Davy noted, `and has rendered his details as amusing as well as perspicuous.'" p.135 Ever a political and social creature he was member of local clubs and debating societies. He would marry Deborah Franklin after her first husband abandoned her. He would have also father an illegitimate son who he would personally raise**. As the colonial postmaster general, he would found the origins of what would become the post office. Benjamin Franklin would spend almost an entire decade in Britain trying to be an advocate to the people of Pennsylvania on a variety of issues. He was an opponent of most the tax laws that Britain made during this time. When letters from the colonial Governor Thomas Hutchinson came to Franklin's attention, he leaked them so that the Americans would see that the threat to their liberties was coming from home rather than the mother country. The Privy Council of George III however saw that event differently, and he was brought before them and ridiculed. After this misadventure, he went home and joined the Revolution. Joining the rebels would cause a permanent break with his son William that was never healed. As a member of the Second Continental Congress, he was a strong advocate for Independence for America. He was part of the famous Committee of Five with future presidents John Adams and Thomas Jefferson. There he aided in drafting what would become the Declaration of Independence. Franklin was dispatched by the Congress to try to form an alliance with King Louis XVI of France. There after the Battle of Saratoga, Franklin negotiated the most important military alliance in the young history of the Republic. He would later take part in the signing of the Treaty of Paris the ended the American Revolutionary War. "As he would prove in France, Franklin not only knew how to play a calculated balance-of-power game like the best practitioner of real-politik, but he also knew how to play with his other hand the rousing chords of American exceptionalism, the sense that America stood apart from the rest of the world because of its virtuous nature. Both the hard power that came from its strategic might and the soft power that flowed from the appeal of its ideals and culture would, he realized, be equally important in assuring its influence." p.338 At the end of his life, Franklin would do two more things that are incredible. In 1787, he would take part in the writing of the Constitution of the United States; his plea for unity became a part of his legend. Two years later, as his life was about to end, he became the president of the Pennsylvania Abolition Society and wrote letters to the First Congress urging an end to slavery. Ben Franklin's incredible life ended on April 17, 1790, he was the man who did it all. Everything written in this review and more is covered in Mr. Isaacson's work, and I highly recommend this book to anyone. *Which means Franklin would have quite a bit to say about this latest crisis in the Gulf of Mexico. **William Franklin's mother was most likely a prostitute. (less)
Biographies generally bore me, and this was no exception.So pedestrian, so conventional, so obviously a poor rehashing of much better Franklin biographies that preceded this one. One wonders why Isaacson even bothered to write the book. Money, perhaps? Whatever his motivation, the result is underwhelming.One of the difficulties with biography is that you already know most of the plot, and you probably know how it ends too. To create a sense of suspense and excitement, you need to need to do two...more
Biographies generally bore me, and this was no exception.So pedestrian, so conventional, so obviously a poor rehashing of much better Franklin biographies that preceded this one. One wonders why Isaacson even bothered to write the book. Money, perhaps? Whatever his motivation, the result is underwhelming.One of the difficulties with biography is that you already know most of the plot, and you probably know how it ends too. To create a sense of suspense and excitement, you need to need to do two things. First, you need to construct a "plot" that is more than just a chain of events - you need to turn this life into some kind of story. Second, you need to add enough originality and insight to give the reader something they hadn't thought of before - a new twist on a familiar tale.Isaacson does neither. He follows Franklin from cradle to grave, covering his life with reasonable thoroughness, some attention to alternative sources and points of view, and with excellent command of English grammar and vocabulary. For this he is to be commended - his experience as a successful journalist shows. However, he has not managed to create anything that pulls the reader a long - neither the "what next" plot nor the "what will he tell me next" insights.The fault of the book, then, is its subject, but how Isaacson writes about him. Its chief fault is the lack of narrative flair: With the notable exception of the first and last chapters, we have a chronological account broken into small sections. Here's one particularly mundane succession: "Constitutional Ideas" (a mere 2 pages)," "Meeting Lord Howe Again (5 pages)," "To France, with Temple and Benny (4 pages)." A more satisfying approach would have traced Franklin's domestic political thought in one larger chapter, but this would violate Isaakson's chronological imperative. At times the book's equally weighted, well-ordered facts yield a pace that is both plodding and boring. The book is best when it manages to integrate larger themes with the strictly biographical details.(less)
This book gave me a much broader perspective on Benjamin Franklin.  I had read his autobiography in junior high and loved it.  I determined that he was the genre of person I would have enjoyed as a friend.  The man thinks like me in many respects.  I adopted some of his ideas because they fit me.  While I admired him, this book painted a more thorough picture of who he was, flaws and all.  Now that I am an adult, it seemed appropriate to see the fuller picture of this character I thought so highly of....more
This book gave me a much broader perspective on Benjamin Franklin.  I had read his autobiography in junior high and loved it.  I determined that he was the genre of person I would have enjoyed as a friend.  The man thinks like me in many respects.  I adopted some of his ideas because they fit me.  While I admired him, this book painted a more thorough picture of who he was, flaws and all.  Now that I am an adult, it seemed appropriate to see the fuller picture of this character I thought so highly of.  I discovered he was a words of affirmation guy.  He loved a good practical joke.  He was witty, but struggled with humility and often tried to feign humility.  There are, I discovered, aspects of him that would drive me crazy, and even ones that I would never respect.    The book also explained little connections to my New England roots that I enjoyed learning about.  It inadvertently revealed how I am related to Benjamin, which was so exciting to me.  My overall first take home point was:  Benjamin Franklin was human, just like the rest of us.  But secondly, it made me realize that it is often human nature to put on a pedestal people who do great things, but great things really are accomplished by human beings, flaws and all.     (less)
Franklin has been plucked from the past and inserted into my daily life. I feel like we could have been friends. Of all the founding fathers, he is the easiest to connect too and understand. This book (audio)is a bit daunting to start but ends up being very hard to put down. I found myself bursting into laughter at his lively quips and hilarious writings. I was rather angry with some of his choices especially in regards to his arms length treatment of his family.Sad during the harder times and l...more
Franklin has been plucked from the past and inserted into my daily life. I feel like we could have been friends. Of all the founding fathers, he is the easiest to connect too and understand. This book (audio)is a bit daunting to start but ends up being very hard to put down. I found myself bursting into laughter at his lively quips and hilarious writings. I was rather angry with some of his choices especially in regards to his arms length treatment of his family.Sad during the harder times and loss in his life and ultimately fulfilled at the end of his life that is was well lived. You get Franklin, warts and all. And it's great.I now feel his relevance in my life and the pride and importance that needs to be reinvigorated for the "middling people" in our society. Hearing Franklin having the same arguments that we are are still having today, really puts today's political rhetoric in perspective. Granted, it will have you laughing or at least shaking your head.I can see myself reading this again in the far future if for no other reason than to confirm, that no matter how much things change, they stay the same.(less)
Walter Isaacson has once again written a biography that tells the reader not simply what person X did and when they did it but why this person is important and worth the time taken to try and understand him or her better.  He takes the ubiquitous image of Benjamin Franklin and puts him into focus, not easy after 300 years.  I came away feeling that I finally had an idea of what this guy was like and agreeing that he was an exceptional person who effected a pivotal role in the creation of the Unite...more
Walter Isaacson has once again written a biography that tells the reader not simply what person X did and when they did it but why this person is important and worth the time taken to try and understand him or her better.  He takes the ubiquitous image of Benjamin Franklin and puts him into focus, not easy after 300 years.  I came away feeling that I finally had an idea of what this guy was like and agreeing that he was an exceptional person who effected a pivotal role in the creation of the United States that arguably no one else could have accomplished.  Franklin followed his own road, he left home and an abusive apprenticeship and began to shape his own destiny, very consciously, becoming one of the first documented people who wrote out for himself a list of traits to which he aspired.  He had a wide range of interests and he followed them thoroughly.  By following his road he made a name for himself in the sciences, primarily by his truly breakthrough advances in understanding electricity, that set him up as a great and famous man who could then use the respect and trappings of fame to further the cause of the Colonies as their representative in both England and then France.  The picture Isaacson provides allows us to see the connection from sticking to his personal plan for himself he attained a level effectiveness that a person scheming person could never have achieved.  Franklin wrote a lot of letters and these are drawn on to beautifully by Isaacson to let them shape the emerging portrait of the man.  This is so much more satisfying than reading a biographer who comes in with an idea and then looks around to see what sources can back this up.  He draws on primary sources and is never reluctant or too proud to quote and cite many of the numerous biographies that have come before.  An example is a quote by Barbara Oberg which says so succinctly what he shares as Franklin's achievement in being able to compromise.      "A stand for compromise is not the stuff of heroism, virtue, or moral certainty.      But it is the essence of the democratic process".   These are sentiments that are and always will be relevant to the democracy.  Franklin has been criticizes as having mundane middle class values, too willing to compromise, not having the heroic convictions of a poet.  It is here that Isaacson is at his strongest in pointing out that Franklin was willing to sacrifice the allure of the martyr, the everlasting reputation as a never give an inch hero, to get something lasting for the people, a democracy.  He truly cared about his fellow Americans.  We hear that phrase at every speech but he meant it and showed it through the volunteer organizations he started: public libraries, volunteer fire departments and more.  The final proof of his high regard for his fellow Americans, and fellow human beings of any nation, is that he believed in democracy.  This is, when you look at it hard, a pretty optimistic belief, that the people as a whole will do the right thing.  Implicit in that is that there will be times when the majority goes against what I think is right and I will draw upon this faith in democracy to accept that...maybe they are right!  Damn, not easy.  At the end of the movie the Magnificent Seven, no really stay with me here, one of the gunfighters tells the kid who idolizes the gunfighters and wants to ride off into the sunset with them that he should look to his Dad and the men of the village as his heroes.  The shopkeeper, the man or woman trying to do the right thing, do his part, help the guy next to him, these are the people Benjamin Franklin admired and was willing to trust with the country's future.  Isaacson movingly brings to light Franklin's tireless efforts and innate genius in promoting these values and seeing them established.  (less)
  Walter Isaacson’s 2003 Ben Franklin An American Life makes a wonderful complement to the 1938 Pulitzer Prize winning Benjamin Franklin by Carl Van Doren. Van Doren’s book is dense and exhaustive and admiring of both the man and his work. Isaacson is thorough as well, but more readable, and more critical, especially of Franklin’s personal life. It’s been several years since I read the Van Doren book, and I don’t plan to go back for a point-by-point analysis, but if you want to read just one, I’d...more
  Walter Isaacson’s 2003 Ben Franklin An American Life makes a wonderful complement to the 1938 Pulitzer Prize winning Benjamin Franklin by Carl Van Doren. Van Doren’s book is dense and exhaustive and admiring of both the man and his work. Isaacson is thorough as well, but more readable, and more critical, especially of Franklin’s personal life. It’s been several years since I read the Van Doren book, and I don’t plan to go back for a point-by-point analysis, but if you want to read just one, I’d say  go for Walter.     Pretty much everyone knows something about Franklin’s Horatio Alger beginnings and about his role as a signer of the Declaration of Independence and framer of the Constitution. Folks connect his name with Poor Richard and the Almanac, the Franklin Stove, the lightning rod, and bifocals. Many fewer, probably, know of his business acumen, how he turned one small Philadelphia print shop into a multi-colonial string of franchises that enabled him to retire at age forty-two (1747)  to pursue projects of scientific and community betterment.     He used his “leisure” time to lead the world in the discovery and use of electricity, invent a musical instrument (the Armonica) which became enough of an orchestral standby to warrant compositions by Beethoven and Mozart, correspond with scientists and philosophers worldwide on a huge range of subjects, write the constitution of Pennsylvania, organize fire departments, raise and lead a militia, and organize a postal service that achieved a twenty-four hour turnaround on letters between New York and Philadelphia. All this before the revolution was even a glimmer in Samuel Adams’ eye.      So, why would a man of so many talents and obviously superior intellect be labeled “bourgeois”? Because he was the quintessential Rotarian. He never worked alone. Practically everything he did involved an organization of some sort, usually an organization he founded. Isaacson focuses on Franklin as the community do-gooder. He was neither a Newton nor a Voltaire, would never have invented Calculus or delved deeply into the nature of God. Instead, he loved to gather data and put it to use; and religion was fine as long as it was used to make for better lives and helped people to be kind to one another. You can find his calculations of the speed and patterns of the Gulf Stream Currents on the NASA website. He called his  collection of Leyden jars to store electricity a “battery”, and we still use the word. The terms “positive” and “negative” for electrical poles are his invention. All very interesting knowledge and theory, he would say, now let’s put it to use. Let’s cook a turkey (he did) with electrical current, or fashion a pointed metal rod to keep lightning from destroying your house. He never patented anything, preferring to make his inventions available to the widest possible array of the population. This isn’t even a smidgen of the whole picture. If you wanted to think about it or philosophize about it, talk to someone else. If you want to use it to improve your life, talk to Franklin.      The same went for his advice as for his inventions. Nearly all Poor Richard’s aphorisms (many of them reworked from other sources) are pragmatic hints for getting along in the here and now--”He’s a fool that makes his doctor his heir;” “necessity never mad a good bargain;” “diligence is the mother of good luck;” “no gains without pains;” “there’s a time to wink as well as to see.”  There’s little of the spiritual or abstract. This is the part of Franklin the world knows best and that draws the fire of romantics and theorists who want grand ideas and passions from him instead of the concrete stuff of the daily grind.     And in many ways, Franklin was indeed short on grand and intimate passion and guilty of neglecting familial ties. He acknowledged and cared for his illegitimate son, but was never close to him. In fact, rejected William savagely when he refused to join the revolution. He had an affectionate forty-nine-year marriage (common law because there was no concrete evidence of the death of Deborah’s disappeared husband). But he spent fifteen of the last seventeen years of that marriage abroad and made no effort to get home after she had a stroke and took nearly a year to die. He was more affectionate to some members of the surrogate family he gathered around him in England than to his flesh-and-blood American relatives. He attended the wedding of neither his natural son nor daughter, but made great pains to attend the wedding of his English landlady’s daughter. He engaged in numerous flirtations that seemed never to be consummated, always conducting them with a humorous irony that avoided closing that last intimate gap. He was a rationalist who never opened his heart all the way.     In addition, he never till the end of his life came to terms with slavery. He owned slaves most of his adult life even though he was friends with abolitionists. By the time he became committed to abolition, he was too old to employ any of his acumen to doing anything about it. It seemed that, like his family, it was an issue that he wanted to keep at arm’s length because it stirred emotions that were too intense or unresolveable.     Thus, his family never got out of this giant of the age of reason the closeness or affection they wanted. Two possible exceptions: First--Grandson Temple, the illegitimate son of his own illegitimate son, William, the one from whom he became so bitterly estranged.  But you could argue that BF indulged Temple to the extent that he spoiled the boy, and he never made good use of his grandfather’s largesse. Second exception--Great-grandson Benjy, Temple’s illegitimate son, whom Franklin set up in the printing business and who made a good name for himself at his great-grandfather’s trade. Outside the family, however, Franklin was a great master at bettering lives and societies wherever he went, and not just with his clever inventions.     Not many of us know in any detail his feats as a statesman. His years in Paris are legendary for how he took society by storm. Less known is the decade he spent in London trying hard via America’s English sympathizers to keep the bridges between America and England from burning. He was one of the last to sign on for the revolution, up to and beyond the last minute hoping and working for ways to keep the colonies in the Empire. He endured a terrible drubbing in House of Commons in 1775 over the proper relationship of colonies to masters. Once the war began, however, there was no greater zealot.    He became Congress’ first ambassador to France at age seventy. As celebrated and accomplished as his life had been to that point, his most monumental achievements occurred when he was an old man.     His work in France was far more than social, though it probably couldn’t have been accomplished without the celebrity he cultivated.  The 1778 treaties of alliance and commerce were masterpieces of diplomacy and saved America’s bacon without a doubt. After Yorktown, the final peace treaties could not have been completed without his ameliorating influence over the bellicose tantrums of John Adams and the hard-as-nails obdurance of John Jay. And finally, at the age of eighty-three, fully twice the median age of the other members of the Constitutional Convention, he more than any other individual, made possible the compromises that resulted in our governing document. By changing his own positions to help resolve several conflicts (He fought hard for a unicameral legislature, for example) and by persuading others that rigidity was the enemy of a working republic, he became the model for the document the convention eventually shaped. In the concluding address of the final session,  he said, “I consent. . . to this Constitution because I expect no better, and because I am not sure that it is not the best.“ Not a ringing sales endorsement, but emblematic of the attitude many of us in this strident, opinionated age would do well to copy. We humans can never be as certain as we’d like to be that we’re right.      All of this history Isaacson relates in a lively prose that keeps one’s nose between the pages long after curfew. Clever phrasing such as “the back-channel fandango” (describing some of the maneuvering going on during the negotiations at the end of the War) keep the drama moving without trivializing the gravity of the events. His descriptions of Franklin as the original image-maker and spinmeister are as entertaining as BF himself must have been. They make you want to sit in one of those London or Philadelphia coffee houses, warmed by a Franklin Stove, sipping Madeira, watching the old man read a treatise or article through his bifocals and commenting with one of his parables. It’s a delicious read that makes a legendary figure as down-home and familiar as any  neighborhood storyteller.(less)
Another view reminding us that all people are human with both strengths and weaknesses. I find it exceedingly interesting that some people succeed regardless of their faults, and others of us let our faults dominate. (Now, Discover Your Strengths)Here are a few things that caught my attention as I read this book."Franklin later concluded that the loss of money he was owed was balanced by the loss of the burden of having Ralph as a friend. A pattern was emerging. ... Franklin easily made casual f...more
Another view reminding us that all people are human with both strengths and weaknesses. I find it exceedingly interesting that some people succeed regardless of their faults, and others of us let our faults dominate. (Now, Discover Your Strengths)Here are a few things that caught my attention as I read this book."Franklin later concluded that the loss of money he was owed was balanced by the loss of the burden of having Ralph as a friend. A pattern was emerging. ... Franklin easily made casual friends, intellectual companions, useful patrons, flirty admirers, and circles of genial acquaintances, but he was less good at nurturing lasting bonds that involved deep personal commitments or emotional relationships, even within his own family. (Page 44)"When an Indian child has been brought among us,taught our language and habituated to our customers, yet if he goes to see his relations and make one Indian ramble with them , there is no persuading him ever to return." (Page 153)One Parisian, who added the perfect French complement about his love of silence: "He knew how to be impolite without being rude." (Page 328)"Franklin had won, … The greatest diplomatic victory the United States has ever achieved."… [That] partially points out the paucity of American successes over the years at bargaining tables," (Page 349)He was a sociable man who liked clubs that offered enlightening conversations and activities, but the friendships he formed with his fellow men were more affable than intimate. He had a genial affection for his wife, but not enough love to prevent him from spending 15 of the last 17 years of their marriage an ocean away… With his many women admirers, he preferred flirting rather than making serious commitments, and he retreated into playful detachment at any sign of danger. (Page 487)I found it interesting that his years in England was portrayed as politically unsuccessful, but in France he was eminently successful at winning the hearts of the country and negotiating agreements and treaties both with France and with England.Chapter 18 describes shifting opinions of America regarding Franklin over the decades. Some decades he is in favor and some decades he is out of favor. This chapter reminds me that an assessment of a historical character is continually shifting. The current values of the society determine who they hold in esteem and who they scorn.(less)
Like many larger-than-life history makers, Franklin is much more complex than the legend.I believe that Franklin is one of those unique individuals who would have been successful in any era, not just his.  He shaped events, adapted and turned challenges into advantages.  America would have been a very different place had Franklin not been alive during its creation.Mr. Isaacson builds a fairly complete picture of Franklin, like many biographers, he had the difficult task of pouring through letters...more
Like many larger-than-life history makers, Franklin is much more complex than the legend.I believe that Franklin is one of those unique individuals who would have been successful in any era, not just his.  He shaped events, adapted and turned challenges into advantages.  America would have been a very different place had Franklin not been alive during its creation.Mr. Isaacson builds a fairly complete picture of Franklin, like many biographers, he had the difficult task of pouring through letters and documents, and determining what to include and what not to include.  I wasn't really that interested in Franklin's daily correspondences with his wife, friends and business partners.  However, I understand the need to show Franklin as multifaceted person and understand the importance of including this material in the book.The book describes Franklin's vanities and relationship with his family but avoids editorializing on his failings; it doesn't need to, the reader can draw his/her own conclusions easily enough.  Franklin didn't seem to be too interested in spending time with his wife or his children.  Rather, he sought out people that interested him and sought out surrogate relationships in place of having relationships with his wife and children.Franklin was vain but he was also a realist and a pragmatist.  He was willing to compromise details in order to advance the larger goal.  He saw a bigger picture than anyone.  He was smarter than anyone but he didn't need to prove it.  He could focus on details and the big picture simultaneously.  He had a life-long curiosity for science.  He was an advanced thinker in terms of social issues, the book describes him sponsoring women's education and public education.  He held slaves when he was young but eventually became an abolitionist. I think that I am most impressed with Franklin's willingness to change, compromise and embrace new ideas throughout his life, even in his last years.(less)
Isaacson is getting a lot of attention and reading right now for his Steve Jobs biography and there is some symmetry in his biography of Franklin, surely the Steve Jobs of his day, (a comparison favorable to Jobs, for sure.)Isaacson does a great job in placing Franklin in his startling historical context.  Ben Franklin is old!  He is so old when he was born we even reckoned time by a different calendar - the Julian instead of the Gregorian. He was a contemporary of such old-timey Puritan giants as...more
Isaacson is getting a lot of attention and reading right now for his Steve Jobs biography and there is some symmetry in his biography of Franklin, surely the Steve Jobs of his day, (a comparison favorable to Jobs, for sure.)Isaacson does a great job in placing Franklin in his startling historical context.  Ben Franklin is old!  He is so old when he was born we even reckoned time by a different calendar - the Julian instead of the Gregorian. He was a contemporary of such old-timey Puritan giants as Cotton and Increase Mather!  The Salem Witch Trials had occurred a mere 14 years before his birth.  (Witchburning as as recent past for him almost what Beatlemania was for me...) The America in which he came of age was a truly different place than what it was for men like Washington and Adams.  Thomas Jefferson was young enough to have been his grandson!Isaacson does a great job in bringing this almost exotic American to life and enumerates his many unique accomplishments and contributions to American and world culture. I cannot do justice to it here, but Isaacson explains how many of Franklin's scientific accomplishments (he coined the term "battery" for electrical storage and also came up with "positive" and "negative" charges as concepts) remain impressive and even crucial to today's scientific understandings.  Isaacson also demystifies much of the lore of Ben Franklin's sexual reputations: he was no saint, but nowhere near the libertine his enemies made him out to be.  His advance age and serious gout would have kept him from the kind of shenanigans he is famous for in France.Isaacson also give space to Franklin's constantly evolving spiritual understanding.  He was certainly no orthodox Christian by any understanding, but neither did he die as the Deist he was famous for being in his younger days.Isaacson concludes with a gripping essay on Franklin's importance to American and even world history.  There are perhaps none as versatile and as wide accomplished as Franklin in the annals of any nation.(less)
This is a well-written, engaging biography of "the founding father who winks at us". It's a mostly chronological narrative, with a closing chapter on the way Franklin's reputation has changed over the centuries, tending "to reflect, or refract, the attitudes of each succeeding era."Some random thoughts:Franklin was a more serious and well-respected scientist than I realized. I had always thought of him as a tinkerer.I was surprised (and slightly disappointed) to learn that Franklin was not parti...more
This is a well-written, engaging biography of "the founding father who winks at us". It's a mostly chronological narrative, with a closing chapter on the way Franklin's reputation has changed over the centuries, tending "to reflect, or refract, the attitudes of each succeeding era."Some random thoughts:Franklin was a more serious and well-respected scientist than I realized. I had always thought of him as a tinkerer.I was surprised (and slightly disappointed) to learn that Franklin was not particularly lecherous. He fathered an illegitimate child when he was in his early 20's, but shortly afterwards he entered into a common-law marriage with Deborah Read, and there is no evidence that he ever had a sexual relationship outside of his marriage, or after his wife died. He liked the company of women and he was a huge flirt, but it was all talk, with very little action.I enjoyed reading about his pragmatic philosophy (a sharp contrast with Thomas Jefferson's idealism), his distaste for dogma, and his lack of interest in soul-searching or "spiritual anxiety".What a difference point of view makes: John Adams is my favorite of the founding fathers, but I became annoyed with him while reading this book (Franklin said Adams was "sometimes, and in some things, absolutely out of his senses"). Yet I well remember the negative impression I got of Franklin when I was reading McCullough's biography of Adams.(less)
"Deane sent a reply worthy of an American: he would be in his office, where he would be happy to see anyone who wanted to come by."
Peter Gay, writing in The Science of Freedom (The Enlightenment, Volume 2), assayed the views of the French Philosphes toward Benjamin Franklin.  He quoted Condorcet, who said in his eulogy to Franklin in 1790, “Men whom the reading of philosophic books had secretly converted to the love of liberty became enthusiastic over the liberty of a foreign people while they waited for the moment when they could recover their own, and they seized with joy the opportunity to avow publicly the sentiments whi...more
Peter Gay, writing in The Science of Freedom (The Enlightenment, Volume 2), assayed the views of the French Philosphes toward Benjamin Franklin.  He quoted Condorcet, who said in his eulogy to Franklin in 1790, “Men whom the reading of philosophic books had secretly converted to the love of liberty became enthusiastic over the liberty of a foreign people while they waited for the moment when they could recover their own, and they seized with joy the opportunity to avow publicly the sentiments which prudence had prevented them from expressing.”  Franklin, who had spent years in France representing first the thirteen colonies and later the United States of America, had earlier been embraced by Voltaire who, according to Gay, was joined by spectators who saw him “embrace Franklin and bless Franklin's godson with these charged words: “God and liberty.” By now God had become the guide to American philosphes, and liberty an American specialty.The Benjamin Franklin described in Walter Isaacson's magisterial survey of his life was truly an American philosphe and a friend of liberty.  The image of Franklin that I took away from this biography was all of that, but even more one of a practical man whose never-ending search for knowledge and wisdom was always used to further the ends of practical applications both in his own life and for his country. The early years of his life are probably the most familiar to most Americans, for he is one of the “Founding Fathers” whose life has been elevated to mythical status.  Issacson adds to the familiar story the details of family and the episodes that are less familiar but all-important to Franklin's development.  The prodigal son would be one metaphor for his life.  One event that I found notable was his retirement from business (he had a very successful printing business in Philadelphia) at the age of 42, exactly halfway through his long life.  It was his achievements in the second half of his life, scientific, social, political, diplomatic, and philosophic that made him the man who would be embraced by Voltaire and others within and without his home country.  He would charm philosophers in England as well, persuading David Hume to support the colonial cause. “Of one of Hume's essays favoring free trade with the colonies, Franklin enthused that it would have “a good effect in promoting a certain interest too little thought of by selfish man . . . I mean the interest of humanity, or the common good of mankind.”(p 197)Isaacson uses the theme of “pouring oil on troubled water” to tie together separate sections of the book.  This is originally based on Franklin's observation of the physical effect of oil on the wake of the ship (evidence of his consistently putting to use his powers of observation in the cause of science), but it would take on metaphoric status and could also refer to his diplomatic achievements and, to a lesser degree, his family relations.  Overall the author's journalistic style is fluent enough to keep you going through the less exciting passages until you reach the years of conflict:  Coercive measures, war for independence, and diplomatic intrigue in France.While Franklin labored long in London to maintain the uneasy relationship between the Crown and the colonies he reached a turning point with the intolerable taxes and other coercive acts.  These led him to “abandon his moderation in the colonies' battles with Parliament.  The turning point had been reached.”(p 247)The concluding section tells of Franklin's final and perhaps finest performance as grand old man at the Constitutional Convention in the summer of 1787.  Here he used his status as diplomat emeritus to silently (mostly) help usher into existence the document that would be the foundation for the new Republic to this day.  The combination of his thoughts and actions, the events in which he participated, and the effect he had on family and country lead his life to rightly be called “An American Life”.(less)
Very well-executed biography that managed to bring the man to life out of the American founding father myth-making machine and tell me a few things and then some that I didn't know already (not having read any other B. Franklin bio since his own "Autobiography" as a kid). Wrapped up neatly in the end with an overview of critical views of Franklin both as a scholar/scientist and as a man through the "post-Franklin" portion of American history, putting him into context nicely, at least as viewed t...more
Very well-executed biography that managed to bring the man to life out of the American founding father myth-making machine and tell me a few things and then some that I didn't know already (not having read any other B. Franklin bio since his own "Autobiography" as a kid). Wrapped up neatly in the end with an overview of critical views of Franklin both as a scholar/scientist and as a man through the "post-Franklin" portion of American history, putting him into context nicely, at least as viewed through the prejudices of and interests of later critics. Bottom-line: I enjoyed "meeting" Benjamin Franklin the man and, as an American history enthusiast but not at all a "history buff," revisiting his role in the American Revolution and the design of our Constitution-and learning far more about his work in France than I ever did know before. It does everything a good biography should, but I withhold a star for Isaacson's somewhat dry and workman-like prose style. (less)
It was fascinating to learn about Ben Franklin's early life in addition to his being the foundation for the American Revolution.  His professional life started way back in the 1720s and his descriptions of life in America during that time are very rare.  He was so energetic as a young man and he founded some many discussion groups where they talked about interesting topics.  This has been lost to society and it would have been a great experience to live during that time where people met to have deb...more
It was fascinating to learn about Ben Franklin's early life in addition to his being the foundation for the American Revolution.  His professional life started way back in the 1720s and his descriptions of life in America during that time are very rare.  He was so energetic as a young man and he founded some many discussion groups where they talked about interesting topics.  This has been lost to society and it would have been a great experience to live during that time where people met to have debates about various topics.  He was revolutionary in his ability for hoaxes and it was hilarious to read how he advanced his newspapers and printing based on things he made up.  He would make up an accusation on a competitor printer and then make up a letter to the editor in which it praised Ben Franklin for not critizing the other printer.  What a truly modern level of trickery and sarcasm.  This was a very entertaining read.(less)
Walter Isaacson lives in Washington, DC, where he is the president and CEO of the Aspen Institute. He is the author of acclaimed, best-selling biographies of Albert Einstein, Benjamin Franklin, and Henry Kissinger.
[url=http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10883.Benjamin_Franklin?utm_medium=api&utm_source=blog_book][img]http://d.gr-assets.com/books/1397772877l/10883.jpg[/img][/url]
      [url=http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10883.Benjamin_Franklin?utm_medium=api&utm_source=blog_book]Benjamin Franklin: An American Life by Walter Isaacson[/url]
“Another time, he was playing [chess] with his equal, the Duchess of Bourbon, who made a move that inadvertently exposed her king.  Ignoring the rules of the game, he promptly captured it.  "Ah," said the duchess, "we do not take Kings so."  Replied Franklin in a famous quip: "We do in America.”
=======================================================
BODY { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: 13px; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: 11px; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline; }
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:18px; font-weight:normal; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.left_nav { font-family: Arial, sans-serif; font-size:100%; margin:0; line-height:1.05em; width:100%; border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding-bottom:10px; }
div.left_nav h2 { margin:0 0 0 0; color: #000000; font-weight: bold; line-height: 1.25em; font-size: 100%; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; padding: 3px 6px; background-color: #EAF3FE; }
div.left_nav h3 { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0.5em 0 0.4em 0.5em; color: #E47911; font-weight: bold; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; }
div.left_nav hr { margin: 1em 0.5em; border-top:0; border-left:0; border-right:0; border-bottom: 1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.left_nav a:link, div.left_nav a:visited { color: #003399; text-decoration: none; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; }
div.left_nav p.seeMore { padding-left:0.9em; text-indent:-0.9em; margin-top: 0.35em; margin-bottom: 1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
Online Shopping in India: Shop Online for Books, Mobile, Laptops, Tablets, Computers, Cameras, Watches, Jewellery, Video Games, Kindle E-Readers & Accessories and More - Amazon.in
h1.t9,h2.t9,h3.t9,h4.t9,h5.t9,h6.t9,h1.t10,h2.t10,h3.t10,h4.t10,h5.t10,h6.t10,h1.t11,h2.t11,h3.t11,h4.t11,h5.t11,h6.t11,h1.t12,h2.t12,h3.t12,h4.t12,h5.t12,h6.t12 { font-family: Arial, Verdana, "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, sans-serif;}
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353211_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V138350263_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V138350263_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite.png);
All DepartmentsBabyBeautyBooksClothing & AccessoriesComputers & AccessoriesElectronicsFashion JewelleryHealth & Personal CareHome & KitchenKindle StoreLuggage & BagsMovies & TV ShowsMusicShoes & HandbagsSports, Fitness & OutdoorsToys & GamesVideo GamesWatches
Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe ultimate device for readingKindle Paperwhite 3GWith Free 3GAccessoriesCovers and chargersKindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD7", Dolby audio, ultra-fast Wi-FiKindle Fire HD 8.9"8.9", Dolby audio, ultra-fast Wi-FiAccessoriesCovers and chargers
Kindle eBooksAll Kindle eBookseBook BestsellersFree Kindle eBooksLiterature & FictionBusiness & EconomicsKindle Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserAppstore for AndroidManage Your Kindle
Amazon AppsAmazon Shopping AppShop on the go anytime, anywhereFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreAmazon Appstore for AndroidGet a paid app or game for free
BooksAll BooksBestsellersNew ReleasesPre-ordersBooks in HindiChildren's & Young AdultLiterature & FictionIndian WritingExam PreparationTextbooksBusiness & EconomicsKindle eBooks
Video GamesAll Consoles, Games & AccessoriesConsolesAccessoriesBestsellersPre-orders & New Releases PC Games Gaming PlatformsPS4PS3Xbox 360NintendoPS Vita
Mobiles & TabletsAll Mobiles & TabletsSmartphones & Basic MobilesCases & CoversHeadsetsScreen Protectors Mobile Accessories  All Electronics Discover more products
 Computers & Accessories  All Computers & Accessories LaptopsTabletsData StorageExternal hard drives and pen drivesPrinters & Ink All Electronics Discover more products
  Computer Accessories Bags, cables and moreKeyboards & Mice Networking DevicesRouters, wireless USB adapters and more PC Games 
Cameras & PhotographyAll Cameras & PhotographyDigital SLRsPoint & Shoot CamerasBinoculars & TelescopesCamera AccessoriesLensesFiltersBatteries & Chargers All Electronics Discover more products
Home & Kitchen All Home & Kitchen Small Appliances Induction Cooktops, Irons, Hand BlendersKitchen & DiningHome Improvement
Baby ProductsAll Baby ProductsDiapering & Nappy ChangingNurseryFurniture, Bedding and Room DecorStrollers & PramsNursing & Feeding
Sports, Fitness & OutdoorsAll Sports, Fitness & OutdoorsExercise & FitnessCamping & HikingCyclingCricketBadmintonSwimmingGolfFootballTennis
Health & Personal Care All Health & Personal Care Personal Care Diet & Nutrition Health CareMedical EquipmentHealth Monitors, Body Supports & more
Clothing & AccessoriesWomen's ClothingMen's ClothingJust launchedKids' ClothingJust launchedAll AccessoriesAll Clothing & AccessoriesFeatured StoresWomen's Ethnic WearMen's InnerwearWomen's Intimate Apparel
 Watches All WatchesMen's WatchesWomen's WatchesChildren's WatchesSports WatchesTop Watch GiftsSpecial Offers
Fashion JewelleryAll Fashion JewelleryNecklaces & PendantsEarringsRingsBangles & BraceletsTraditional JewelleryDesigner JewelleryMen's JewellerySpecial Offers
Luggage & BagsAll Luggage & BagsBackpacksBags & BriefcasesLaptop BagsTravel DufflesLuggageTravel Accessories
Men's ShoesAll MenFormal ShoesSports & OutdoorLoafers & MocassinsSneakersSandals & FloatersFlip-flopsKids' ShoesShoe Care & AccessoriesAll Shoes
Kindle & eBooksE-readers, Tablets and eBooksAmazon AppsShopping, Kindle, AppstoreBooks Music, Movies & TV ShowsVideo GamesMobiles & Tablets Computers & Accessories Cameras, Audio & VideoHome & Kitchen Toys & Baby ProductsSports, Fitness & OutdoorsBeauty & HealthJust launched: Health & Personal CareClothing & AccessoriesJust launchedWatches & Fashion JewelleryHandbags & LuggageShoes›Full Store Directory
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V370545367_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  -ms-filter: "progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr=#00FFFFFF,endColorstr=#00FFFFFF)";
  -ms-filter: "progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr=#00FFFFFF,endColorstr=#00FFFFFF)";
  -ms-filter: "progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr=#00FFFFFF,endColorstr=#00FFFFFF)";
Shop by DiscountBooksMovies & TV ShowsWatchesBooks, Movies & TV Shows, MusicVideo GamesHome & KitchenToys & GamesWatchesHealth & Personal CareBooks, Movies & TV Shows, MusicVideo GamesHome & KitchenToys, Baby ProductsBeauty, Health & Personal CareShoes, Fashion JewelleryBooks, Movies & TV Shows, MusicVideo GamesHome & KitchenToys, Baby ProductsBeauty, Health & Personal Care
Experience the convenience of online shopping at Amazon. Our vision, is to be Earth's most customer centric company; to build a place where people can come to find and discover virtually anything they want to buy online. With Amazon.in, we endeavour to build that same destination in India by giving customers more of what they want – vast selection, low prices, fast and reliable delivery, and a trusted and convenient online shopping experience – and provide sellers a world-class e-commerce platform. 
We are committed to ensure 100% Purchase Protection for your shopping done on Amazon.in so that you can benefit from a safe and secure online ordering experience, convenient payment options such as cash on delivery, easy returns and enjoy a completely hassle free online shopping experience.
We launched with Books and Movies & TV Shows and have expanded our offerings  to include the Kindle family of E-Readers, Tablets and eBooks; Music; Computers & Accessories; 
Customers can now buy products from popular brands across categories such as Samsung mobiles, Dell laptops, Canon cameras, Fastrack watches and many more at Amazon.in. Also, shop for 
It is still “Day 1” and we will relentlessly focus on expanding selection and raising the bar for customer experience and online shopping in India. 
        which offers customers a convenient, fast and secure way to search, browse, compare offers, and shop online quickly and easily, at anytime from anywhere. The 
Get to Know UsAbout UsCareersPress ReleasesConnect with UsFacebookTwitterThe Amazon.in BlogMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateFulfilment by AmazonLet Us Help YouYour AccountDelivery Speeds & ChargesReturns Centre100% Purchase ProtectionHelp
=======================================================
BODY { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: 13px; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: 11px; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline; }
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:18px; font-weight:normal; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.left_nav { font-family: Arial, sans-serif; font-size:100%; margin:0; line-height:1.05em; width:100%; border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding-bottom:10px; }
div.left_nav h2 { margin:0 0 0 0; color: #000000; font-weight: bold; line-height: 1.25em; font-size: 100%; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; padding: 3px 6px; background-color: #EAF3FE; }
div.left_nav h3 { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0.5em 0 0.4em 0.5em; color: #E47911; font-weight: bold; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; }
div.left_nav hr { margin: 1em 0.5em; border-top:0; border-left:0; border-right:0; border-bottom: 1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.left_nav a:link, div.left_nav a:visited { color: #003399; text-decoration: none; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; }
div.left_nav p.seeMore { padding-left:0.9em; text-indent:-0.9em; margin-top: 0.35em; margin-bottom: 1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
Online Shopping in India: Shop Online for Books, Mobile, Laptops, Tablets, Computers, Cameras, Watches, Jewellery, Video Games, Kindle E-Readers & Accessories and More - Amazon.in
h1.t9,h2.t9,h3.t9,h4.t9,h5.t9,h6.t9,h1.t10,h2.t10,h3.t10,h4.t10,h5.t10,h6.t10,h1.t11,h2.t11,h3.t11,h4.t11,h5.t11,h6.t11,h1.t12,h2.t12,h3.t12,h4.t12,h5.t12,h6.t12 { font-family: Arial, Verdana, "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, sans-serif;}
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353211_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V138350263_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V138350263_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite.png);
All DepartmentsBabyBeautyBooksClothing & AccessoriesComputers & AccessoriesElectronicsFashion JewelleryHealth & Personal CareHome & KitchenKindle StoreLuggage & BagsMovies & TV ShowsMusicShoes & HandbagsSports, Fitness & OutdoorsToys & GamesVideo GamesWatches
Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe ultimate device for readingKindle Paperwhite 3GWith Free 3GAccessoriesCovers and chargersKindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD7", Dolby audio, ultra-fast Wi-FiKindle Fire HD 8.9"8.9", Dolby audio, ultra-fast Wi-FiAccessoriesCovers and chargers
Kindle eBooksAll Kindle eBookseBook BestsellersFree Kindle eBooksLiterature & FictionBusiness & EconomicsKindle Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserAppstore for AndroidManage Your Kindle
Amazon AppsAmazon Shopping AppShop on the go anytime, anywhereFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreAmazon Appstore for AndroidGet a paid app or game for free
BooksAll BooksBestsellersNew ReleasesPre-ordersBooks in HindiChildren's & Young AdultLiterature & FictionIndian WritingExam PreparationTextbooksBusiness & EconomicsKindle eBooks
Video GamesAll Consoles, Games & AccessoriesConsolesAccessoriesBestsellersPre-orders & New Releases PC Games Gaming PlatformsPS4PS3Xbox 360NintendoPS Vita
Mobiles & TabletsAll Mobiles & TabletsSmartphones & Basic MobilesCases & CoversHeadsetsScreen Protectors Mobile Accessories  All Electronics Discover more products
 Computers & Accessories  All Computers & Accessories LaptopsTabletsData StorageExternal hard drives and pen drivesPrinters & Ink All Electronics Discover more products
  Computer Accessories Bags, cables and moreKeyboards & Mice Networking DevicesRouters, wireless USB adapters and more PC Games 
Cameras & PhotographyAll Cameras & PhotographyDigital SLRsPoint & Shoot CamerasBinoculars & TelescopesCamera AccessoriesLensesFiltersBatteries & Chargers All Electronics Discover more products
Home & Kitchen All Home & Kitchen Small Appliances Induction Cooktops, Irons, Hand BlendersKitchen & DiningHome Improvement
Baby ProductsAll Baby ProductsDiapering & Nappy ChangingNurseryFurniture, Bedding and Room DecorStrollers & PramsNursing & Feeding
Sports, Fitness & OutdoorsAll Sports, Fitness & OutdoorsExercise & FitnessCamping & HikingCyclingCricketBadmintonSwimmingGolfFootballTennis
Health & Personal Care All Health & Personal Care Personal Care Diet & Nutrition Health CareMedical EquipmentHealth Monitors, Body Supports & more
Clothing & AccessoriesWomen's ClothingMen's ClothingJust launchedKids' ClothingJust launchedAll AccessoriesAll Clothing & AccessoriesFeatured StoresWomen's Ethnic WearMen's InnerwearWomen's Intimate Apparel
 Watches All WatchesMen's WatchesWomen's WatchesChildren's WatchesSports WatchesTop Watch GiftsSpecial Offers
Fashion JewelleryAll Fashion JewelleryNecklaces & PendantsEarringsRingsBangles & BraceletsTraditional JewelleryDesigner JewelleryMen's JewellerySpecial Offers
Luggage & BagsAll Luggage & BagsBackpacksBags & BriefcasesLaptop BagsTravel DufflesLuggageTravel Accessories
Men's ShoesAll MenFormal ShoesSports & OutdoorLoafers & MocassinsSneakersSandals & FloatersFlip-flopsKids' ShoesShoe Care & AccessoriesAll Shoes
Kindle & eBooksE-readers, Tablets and eBooksAmazon AppsShopping, Kindle, AppstoreBooks Music, Movies & TV ShowsVideo GamesMobiles & Tablets Computers & Accessories Cameras, Audio & VideoHome & Kitchen Toys & Baby ProductsSports, Fitness & OutdoorsBeauty & HealthJust launched: Health & Personal CareClothing & AccessoriesJust launchedWatches & Fashion JewelleryHandbags & LuggageShoes›Full Store Directory
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V370545367_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  -ms-filter: "progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr=#00FFFFFF,endColorstr=#00FFFFFF)";
  -ms-filter: "progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr=#00FFFFFF,endColorstr=#00FFFFFF)";
  -ms-filter: "progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr=#00FFFFFF,endColorstr=#00FFFFFF)";
Shop by DiscountBooksMovies & TV ShowsWatchesBooks, Movies & TV Shows, MusicVideo GamesHome & KitchenToys & GamesWatchesHealth & Personal CareBooks, Movies & TV Shows, MusicVideo GamesHome & KitchenToys, Baby ProductsBeauty, Health & Personal CareShoes, Fashion JewelleryBooks, Movies & TV Shows, MusicVideo GamesHome & KitchenToys, Baby ProductsBeauty, Health & Personal Care
Experience the convenience of online shopping at Amazon. Our vision, is to be Earth's most customer centric company; to build a place where people can come to find and discover virtually anything they want to buy online. With Amazon.in, we endeavour to build that same destination in India by giving customers more of what they want – vast selection, low prices, fast and reliable delivery, and a trusted and convenient online shopping experience – and provide sellers a world-class e-commerce platform. 
We are committed to ensure 100% Purchase Protection for your shopping done on Amazon.in so that you can benefit from a safe and secure online ordering experience, convenient payment options such as cash on delivery, easy returns and enjoy a completely hassle free online shopping experience.
We launched with Books and Movies & TV Shows and have expanded our offerings  to include the Kindle family of E-Readers, Tablets and eBooks; Music; Computers & Accessories; 
Customers can now buy products from popular brands across categories such as Samsung mobiles, Dell laptops, Canon cameras, Fastrack watches and many more at Amazon.in. Also, shop for 
It is still “Day 1” and we will relentlessly focus on expanding selection and raising the bar for customer experience and online shopping in India. 
        which offers customers a convenient, fast and secure way to search, browse, compare offers, and shop online quickly and easily, at anytime from anywhere. The 
Get to Know UsAbout UsCareersPress ReleasesConnect with UsFacebookTwitterThe Amazon.in BlogMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateFulfilment by AmazonLet Us Help YouYour AccountDelivery Speeds & ChargesReturns Centre100% Purchase ProtectionHelp
=======================================================
BODY { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: 13px; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: 11px; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline; }
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:18px; font-weight:normal; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.left_nav { font-family: Arial, sans-serif; font-size:100%; margin:0; line-height:1.05em; width:100%; border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding-bottom:10px; }
div.left_nav h2 { margin:0 0 0 0; color: #000000; font-weight: bold; line-height: 1.25em; font-size: 100%; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; padding: 3px 6px; background-color: #EAF3FE; }
div.left_nav h3 { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0.5em 0 0.4em 0.5em; color: #E47911; font-weight: bold; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; }
div.left_nav hr { margin: 1em 0.5em; border-top:0; border-left:0; border-right:0; border-bottom: 1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.left_nav a:link, div.left_nav a:visited { color: #003399; text-decoration: none; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; }
div.left_nav p.seeMore { padding-left:0.9em; text-indent:-0.9em; margin-top: 0.35em; margin-bottom: 1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
Online Shopping in India: Shop Online for Books, Mobile, Laptops, Tablets, Computers, Cameras, Watches, Jewellery, Video Games, Kindle E-Readers & Accessories and More - Amazon.in
h1.t9,h2.t9,h3.t9,h4.t9,h5.t9,h6.t9,h1.t10,h2.t10,h3.t10,h4.t10,h5.t10,h6.t10,h1.t11,h2.t11,h3.t11,h4.t11,h5.t11,h6.t11,h1.t12,h2.t12,h3.t12,h4.t12,h5.t12,h6.t12 { font-family: Arial, Verdana, "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, sans-serif;}
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353211_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V138350263_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V138350263_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite.png);
All DepartmentsBabyBeautyBooksClothing & AccessoriesComputers & AccessoriesElectronicsFashion JewelleryHealth & Personal CareHome & KitchenKindle StoreLuggage & BagsMovies & TV ShowsMusicShoes & HandbagsSports, Fitness & OutdoorsToys & GamesVideo GamesWatches
Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe ultimate device for readingKindle Paperwhite 3GWith Free 3GAccessoriesCovers and chargersKindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD7", Dolby audio, ultra-fast Wi-FiKindle Fire HD 8.9"8.9", Dolby audio, ultra-fast Wi-FiAccessoriesCovers and chargers
Kindle eBooksAll Kindle eBookseBook BestsellersFree Kindle eBooksLiterature & FictionBusiness & EconomicsKindle Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserAppstore for AndroidManage Your Kindle
Amazon AppsAmazon Shopping AppShop on the go anytime, anywhereFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreAmazon Appstore for AndroidGet a paid app or game for free
BooksAll BooksBestsellersNew ReleasesPre-ordersBooks in HindiChildren's & Young AdultLiterature & FictionIndian WritingExam PreparationTextbooksBusiness & EconomicsKindle eBooks
Video GamesAll Consoles, Games & AccessoriesConsolesAccessoriesBestsellersPre-orders & New Releases PC Games Gaming PlatformsPS4PS3Xbox 360NintendoPS Vita
Mobiles & TabletsAll Mobiles & TabletsSmartphones & Basic MobilesCases & CoversHeadsetsScreen Protectors Mobile Accessories  All Electronics Discover more products
 Computers & Accessories  All Computers & Accessories LaptopsTabletsData StorageExternal hard drives and pen drivesPrinters & Ink All Electronics Discover more products
  Computer Accessories Bags, cables and moreKeyboards & Mice Networking DevicesRouters, wireless USB adapters and more PC Games 
Cameras & PhotographyAll Cameras & PhotographyDigital SLRsPoint & Shoot CamerasBinoculars & TelescopesCamera AccessoriesLensesFiltersBatteries & Chargers All Electronics Discover more products
Home & Kitchen All Home & Kitchen Small Appliances Induction Cooktops, Irons, Hand BlendersKitchen & DiningHome Improvement
Baby ProductsAll Baby ProductsDiapering & Nappy ChangingNurseryFurniture, Bedding and Room DecorStrollers & PramsNursing & Feeding
Sports, Fitness & OutdoorsAll Sports, Fitness & OutdoorsExercise & FitnessCamping & HikingCyclingCricketBadmintonSwimmingGolfFootballTennis
Health & Personal Care All Health & Personal Care Personal Care Diet & Nutrition Health CareMedical EquipmentHealth Monitors, Body Supports & more
Clothing & AccessoriesWomen's ClothingMen's ClothingJust launchedKids' ClothingJust launchedAll AccessoriesAll Clothing & AccessoriesFeatured StoresWomen's Ethnic WearMen's InnerwearWomen's Intimate Apparel
 Watches All WatchesMen's WatchesWomen's WatchesChildren's WatchesSports WatchesTop Watch GiftsSpecial Offers
Fashion JewelleryAll Fashion JewelleryNecklaces & PendantsEarringsRingsBangles & BraceletsTraditional JewelleryDesigner JewelleryMen's JewellerySpecial Offers
Luggage & BagsAll Luggage & BagsBackpacksBags & BriefcasesLaptop BagsTravel DufflesLuggageTravel Accessories
Men's ShoesAll MenFormal ShoesSports & OutdoorLoafers & MocassinsSneakersSandals & FloatersFlip-flopsKids' ShoesShoe Care & AccessoriesAll Shoes
Kindle & eBooksE-readers, Tablets and eBooksAmazon AppsShopping, Kindle, AppstoreBooks Music, Movies & TV ShowsVideo GamesMobiles & Tablets Computers & Accessories Cameras, Audio & VideoHome & Kitchen Toys & Baby ProductsSports, Fitness & OutdoorsBeauty & HealthJust launched: Health & Personal CareClothing & AccessoriesJust launchedWatches & Fashion JewelleryHandbags & LuggageShoes›Full Store Directory
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V370545367_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  -ms-filter: "progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr=#00FFFFFF,endColorstr=#00FFFFFF)";
  -ms-filter: "progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr=#00FFFFFF,endColorstr=#00FFFFFF)";
  -ms-filter: "progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr=#00FFFFFF,endColorstr=#00FFFFFF)";
Shop by DiscountBooksMovies & TV ShowsWatchesBooks, Movies & TV Shows, MusicVideo GamesHome & KitchenToys & GamesWatchesHealth & Personal CareBooks, Movies & TV Shows, MusicVideo GamesHome & KitchenToys, Baby ProductsBeauty, Health & Personal CareShoes, Fashion JewelleryBooks, Movies & TV Shows, MusicVideo GamesHome & KitchenToys, Baby ProductsBeauty, Health & Personal Care
Experience the convenience of online shopping at Amazon. Our vision, is to be Earth's most customer centric company; to build a place where people can come to find and discover virtually anything they want to buy online. With Amazon.in, we endeavour to build that same destination in India by giving customers more of what they want – vast selection, low prices, fast and reliable delivery, and a trusted and convenient online shopping experience – and provide sellers a world-class e-commerce platform. 
We are committed to ensure 100% Purchase Protection for your shopping done on Amazon.in so that you can benefit from a safe and secure online ordering experience, convenient payment options such as cash on delivery, easy returns and enjoy a completely hassle free online shopping experience.
We launched with Books and Movies & TV Shows and have expanded our offerings  to include the Kindle family of E-Readers, Tablets and eBooks; Music; Computers & Accessories; 
Customers can now buy products from popular brands across categories such as Samsung mobiles, Dell laptops, Canon cameras, Fastrack watches and many more at Amazon.in. Also, shop for 
It is still “Day 1” and we will relentlessly focus on expanding selection and raising the bar for customer experience and online shopping in India. 
        which offers customers a convenient, fast and secure way to search, browse, compare offers, and shop online quickly and easily, at anytime from anywhere. The 
Get to Know UsAbout UsCareersPress ReleasesConnect with UsFacebookTwitterThe Amazon.in BlogMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateFulfilment by AmazonLet Us Help YouYour AccountDelivery Speeds & ChargesReturns Centre100% Purchase ProtectionHelp
=======================================================
BODY { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: 13px; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: 11px; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline; }
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:18px; font-weight:normal; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.left_nav { font-family: Arial, sans-serif; font-size:100%; margin:0; line-height:1.05em; width:100%; border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding-bottom:10px; }
div.left_nav h2 { margin:0 0 0 0; color: #000000; font-weight: bold; line-height: 1.25em; font-size: 100%; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; padding: 3px 6px; background-color: #EAF3FE; }
div.left_nav h3 { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0.5em 0 0.4em 0.5em; color: #E47911; font-weight: bold; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; }
div.left_nav hr { margin: 1em 0.5em; border-top:0; border-left:0; border-right:0; border-bottom: 1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.left_nav a:link, div.left_nav a:visited { color: #003399; text-decoration: none; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; }
div.left_nav p.seeMore { padding-left:0.9em; text-indent:-0.9em; margin-top: 0.35em; margin-bottom: 1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
Online Shopping in India: Shop Online for Books, Mobile, Laptops, Tablets, Computers, Cameras, Watches, Jewellery, Video Games, Kindle E-Readers & Accessories and More - Amazon.in
h1.t9,h2.t9,h3.t9,h4.t9,h5.t9,h6.t9,h1.t10,h2.t10,h3.t10,h4.t10,h5.t10,h6.t10,h1.t11,h2.t11,h3.t11,h4.t11,h5.t11,h6.t11,h1.t12,h2.t12,h3.t12,h4.t12,h5.t12,h6.t12 { font-family: Arial, Verdana, "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, sans-serif;}
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353211_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V138350263_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V138350263_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite.png);
All DepartmentsBabyBeautyBooksClothing & AccessoriesComputers & AccessoriesElectronicsFashion JewelleryHealth & Personal CareHome & KitchenKindle StoreLuggage & BagsMovies & TV ShowsMusicShoes & HandbagsSports, Fitness & OutdoorsToys & GamesVideo GamesWatches
Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe ultimate device for readingKindle Paperwhite 3GWith Free 3GAccessoriesCovers and chargersKindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD7", Dolby audio, ultra-fast Wi-FiKindle Fire HD 8.9"8.9", Dolby audio, ultra-fast Wi-FiAccessoriesCovers and chargers
Kindle eBooksAll Kindle eBookseBook BestsellersFree Kindle eBooksLiterature & FictionBusiness & EconomicsKindle Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserAppstore for AndroidManage Your Kindle
Amazon AppsAmazon Shopping AppShop on the go anytime, anywhereFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreAmazon Appstore for AndroidGet a paid app or game for free
BooksAll BooksBestsellersNew ReleasesPre-ordersBooks in HindiChildren's & Young AdultLiterature & FictionIndian WritingExam PreparationTextbooksBusiness & EconomicsKindle eBooks
Video GamesAll Consoles, Games & AccessoriesConsolesAccessoriesBestsellersPre-orders & New Releases PC Games Gaming PlatformsPS4PS3Xbox 360NintendoPS Vita
Mobiles & TabletsAll Mobiles & TabletsSmartphones & Basic MobilesCases & CoversHeadsetsScreen Protectors Mobile Accessories  All Electronics Discover more products
 Computers & Accessories  All Computers & Accessories LaptopsTabletsData StorageExternal hard drives and pen drivesPrinters & Ink All Electronics Discover more products
  Computer Accessories Bags, cables and moreKeyboards & Mice Networking DevicesRouters, wireless USB adapters and more PC Games 
Cameras & PhotographyAll Cameras & PhotographyDigital SLRsPoint & Shoot CamerasBinoculars & TelescopesCamera AccessoriesLensesFiltersBatteries & Chargers All Electronics Discover more products
Home & Kitchen All Home & Kitchen Small Appliances Induction Cooktops, Irons, Hand BlendersKitchen & DiningHome Improvement
Baby ProductsAll Baby ProductsDiapering & Nappy ChangingNurseryFurniture, Bedding and Room DecorStrollers & PramsNursing & Feeding
Sports, Fitness & OutdoorsAll Sports, Fitness & OutdoorsExercise & FitnessCamping & HikingCyclingCricketBadmintonSwimmingGolfFootballTennis
Health & Personal Care All Health & Personal Care Personal Care Diet & Nutrition Health CareMedical EquipmentHealth Monitors, Body Supports & more
Clothing & AccessoriesWomen's ClothingMen's ClothingJust launchedKids' ClothingJust launchedAll AccessoriesAll Clothing & AccessoriesFeatured StoresWomen's Ethnic WearMen's InnerwearWomen's Intimate Apparel
 Watches All WatchesMen's WatchesWomen's WatchesChildren's WatchesSports WatchesTop Watch GiftsSpecial Offers
Fashion JewelleryAll Fashion JewelleryNecklaces & PendantsEarringsRingsBangles & BraceletsTraditional JewelleryDesigner JewelleryMen's JewellerySpecial Offers
Luggage & BagsAll Luggage & BagsBackpacksBags & BriefcasesLaptop BagsTravel DufflesLuggageTravel Accessories
Men's ShoesAll MenFormal ShoesSports & OutdoorLoafers & MocassinsSneakersSandals & FloatersFlip-flopsKids' ShoesShoe Care & AccessoriesAll Shoes
Kindle & eBooksE-readers, Tablets and eBooksAmazon AppsShopping, Kindle, AppstoreBooks Music, Movies & TV ShowsVideo GamesMobiles & Tablets Computers & Accessories Cameras, Audio & VideoHome & Kitchen Toys & Baby ProductsSports, Fitness & OutdoorsBeauty & HealthJust launched: Health & Personal CareClothing & AccessoriesJust launchedWatches & Fashion JewelleryHandbags & LuggageShoes›Full Store Directory
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/31/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V370545367_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  -ms-filter: "progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr=#00FFFFFF,endColorstr=#00FFFFFF)";
  -ms-filter: "progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr=#00FFFFFF,endColorstr=#00FFFFFF)";
  -ms-filter: "progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr=#00FFFFFF,endColorstr=#00FFFFFF)";
Shop by DiscountBooksMovies & TV ShowsWatchesBooks, Movies & TV Shows, MusicVideo GamesHome & KitchenToys & GamesWatchesHealth & Personal CareBooks, Movies & TV Shows, MusicVideo GamesHome & KitchenToys, Baby ProductsBeauty, Health & Personal CareShoes, Fashion JewelleryBooks, Movies & TV Shows, MusicVideo GamesHome & KitchenToys, Baby ProductsBeauty, Health & Personal Care
Experience the convenience of online shopping at Amazon. Our vision, is to be Earth's most customer centric company; to build a place where people can come to find and discover virtually anything they want to buy online. With Amazon.in, we endeavour to build that same destination in India by giving customers more of what they want – vast selection, low prices, fast and reliable delivery, and a trusted and convenient online shopping experience – and provide sellers a world-class e-commerce platform. 
We are committed to ensure 100% Purchase Protection for your shopping done on Amazon.in so that you can benefit from a safe and secure online ordering experience, convenient payment options such as cash on delivery, easy returns and enjoy a completely hassle free online shopping experience.
We launched with Books and Movies & TV Shows and have expanded our offerings  to include the Kindle family of E-Readers, Tablets and eBooks; Music; Computers & Accessories; 
Customers can now buy products from popular brands across categories such as Samsung mobiles, Dell laptops, Canon cameras, Fastrack watches and many more at Amazon.in. Also, shop for 
It is still “Day 1” and we will relentlessly focus on expanding selection and raising the bar for customer experience and online shopping in India. 
        which offers customers a convenient, fast and secure way to search, browse, compare offers, and shop online quickly and easily, at anytime from anywhere. The 
Get to Know UsAbout UsCareersPress ReleasesConnect with UsFacebookTwitterThe Amazon.in BlogMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateFulfilment by AmazonLet Us Help YouYour AccountDelivery Speeds & ChargesReturns Centre100% Purchase ProtectionHelp
=======================================================
Discover the cutting-edge science and technology on display at our annual Summer Science Exhibition, 1-6 July 2014.
Attend the Croonian Lecture by Professor Brigid Hogan FRS: 'How embryos build organs to last a lifetime'.
Register now for the scientific discussion meeting 'Human evolution: brain, birthweight and the immune system'. 
Watch interviews with ten British scientists with minority ethnic heritage, recorded in partnership with National Life Stories at the British Library.
Find out more about the books shortlisted for the Young People's Book Prize 2014 and send your questions to the authors.
The Royal Society and Institute and Faculty of Actuaries have opened a joint exhibition on the length of human life called Life Beyond Measure: A Short History of Longevity.
The Royal Society is a Fellowship of the world's most eminent scientists and is the oldest scientific academy in continuous existence.
Stay in touch by subscribing to our email newsletters and podcasts or by following us on twitter, facebook and youtube.
                     A report published in Biology Letters today reveals how koalas keep cool in a heat wave - by hugging a tree.
                     The Clangers, Star Trek and broccoli are just some of the things that have inspired British researchers to pursue a career in science according to a collection of video interviews launched by the Royal Society and the British Library today.
                     Sir John Pendry FRS, John O'Keefe FRS and Brenda Milner FRS have been named as recipients of this year's coveted Kavli Prizes.
                 Public lecture by Sophie Wilson FRS as part of The Times Cheltenham Science Festival
                 The Royal Society has responded to the triennial reviews of the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Science Advisory Council and the Advisory Committee on Releases to the Environment.
                 A submission to the Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills (DIUS) on the UK science and innovation strategy.
=======================================================
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #0E658E), color-stop(.5, #0C577A), color-stop(.5, #014D71), to(#003E5C)); 
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #b28b06), color-stop(.5, #9c7705), color-stop(.5, #9c7705), to(#5c4100)); 
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #edbf21), color-stop(.5, #c89b0f), color-stop(.5, #c89b0f), to(#906706)); 
.stab{font-family: 'Days One', sans-serif; text-shadow: 1px 1px 2px #ffffff; filter: dropshadow(color=#ffffff, offx=1, offy=1);  width:500px; line-height:36px; padding-bottom:5px; color:#4c4136; font-size:36px;font-weight:bold; text-transform:uppercase;}
                            Memoro is an international non-profit project, an open archive of audio or video interviews of people born before 1950.
                    You can easily contribute: a camera, a smartphone, a webcam or an audio-recorder is enough. 
                            If you are an Association, a Museum or an Archive, share your contents with more 
                            We need your help to improve the project, to collect more memories and preserve them for the future, to develop Memoro projects in new Countries, to keep the site free from advertising.
=======================================================
The average teacher spends up to $1,000 of their own money every year on supplies for their classrooms.
					"AdoptAClassroom.org has been so beneficial. From purchasing books, to math manipulatives, to pencils, this website has had nothing but a positive effect on each student in my class" - Maggie Deremo, Herzog Pilot Academy				  
					"I am grateful for the support that the AdoptAClassroom.org program provides, making it easy for people who care to contribute and easy for me to use the money where my classroom needs it." - Deborah Mendonca, Templeton Middle School				  
					"If you could spend just five minutes with one of my students, I know you would understand why it is so important to donate to AdoptAClassroom.org"    - Veronica Keefer, Lanier High School				  
					"AdoptAClassroom.org is helping me to continue to teach. It's through generous donations that I will continue to fill my class with general supplies that were lost due to budget cuts." - Jen Sweeters, Brookside				  
=======================================================
Sponsors | Privacy Policy | Technical Questions | Editorial Questions | Usage Policy | Directors & Staff | Site Map  | RSS Feeds 
=======================================================
.style9 {color: #75583A; font-weight: bold; font-family: Georgia, "Times New Roman", Times, serif; font-size: large; }
n the heart of London,  is Benjamin Franklin  House, the world's only remaining Franklin  home. For nearly sixteen years between 1757 and 1775, Dr Benjamin Franklin –  scientist, diplomat, philosopher, inventor, Founding Father of the United States  and more – lived behind its doors. Built circa 1730, it is today a dynamic museum and educational facility.
              Experience presents the excitement and uncertainty of Franklin's London  years using rooms where so much took place as staging for a drama that seamlessly integrates live performance, cutting edge  lighting, sound and visual projection. 
              London science - from lightning rods to hydrodynamics, allowing school children to satifsy their historical and scientific curiosity, free of charge. Outreach, including Ben's Travelling Suitcase, brings our educational activities into schools and the community.
              Centre is a focal point in Europe for Franklin and the myriad subjects with which he is associated, featuring a full set of the Papers of Benjamin Franklin, 
            as catalogued by Yale University, as well as an active internship programme, and nearly 40 public events per year.
Benjamin Franklin  House provides free, active cross-curricular learning activities for primary  and secondary school groups.  Visits to see our children’s Historical  Experience and Student Science Centre take place on Tuesdays.  We also  have extensive in-school outreach other days of the week, along with special  events during the year including an annual Science Day, and family programmes  in summer and school holidays. Learn  more! 
Wednesday–Sunday: Historical Experience shows run at 12  noon, 1pm, 2pm, 3.15pm and 4.15pm (booking is recommended)
Our Box Office (Phone: +44 (0) 207 925 1405) is open 10.30am-5pm everyday, except Tuesdays. Read more about planning your visit to Benjamin Franklin House here. 
Benjamin  Franklin House is recruiting for a new Front of House and  Marketing Supervisor to be responsible for ensuring the highest levels of  visitor satisfaction, broadening awareness via marketing activities, and managing  the volunteer team. Applicants should send a CV and cover letter detailing their suitability for the role to   Ms. Sally James, Operations Manager by email to: info@benjaminfranklinhouse.org. The closing date is Monday 16 June at 5pm. Download the full job description and person specification here.
We will award the inaugural Medal for Leadership to Michael R. Bloomberg. Tickets: £200/VIP £500. Tables of 10 are available. Booking: email info@benjaminfranklinhouse.org or phone +44 (0)20 7839 2006. 
=======================================================
.besps_slides_1_0 div {visibility:hidden;z-index:1;position:absolute;left:0;top:0;width:205px;height:285px;background-color:#transparent;}
                                                Search all published works                            
                                                Quicksearch works in process                            
                                                How should I save important documents?                            
                                                How do I read, print or save ieterna files?                            
                                                How are my files archived?                            
                                                How does ieterna safeguard my files?                            
                                                Comparison of storage media                            
 Ieterna is completely dedicated to preserving and providing free access to your memories, experiences, family history, creative works or anything that you choose to save.
You don't need to be rich or famous to have your life, family, friends or organization remembered!  Browse Read More
Why not consider a "prospective" genealogy? - leave something of yourself for future generations to appreciate your life and times.
 Your life and experiences are valuable and worth remembering! - future generations will be as interested in your life as we are fascinated by the lives of our ancestors.
Let us help you preserve and have free, public access to your life and works for generations to come, indefinitely into the future.  Browse Read More
      	      	Chapter 1. Mr. Sherlock Holmes Mr. Sherlock Holmes, who was usually very late in the mornings, save upon those not infrequent occasions when he was up all night, was seated at the breakfast table. I stood upon the hearth-rug and picked up the stick which our visitor had left behind…      	      
      	      	CHAPTER 1 The family of Dashwood had long been settled in Sussex. Their estate was large, and their residence was at Norland Park, in the centre of their property, where, for many generations, they had lived in so respectable a manner as to engage the general good opinion of their…      	      
      	      	A Runaway ReefTHE YEAR 1866 was marked by a bizarre development, an unexplained and downright inexplicable phenomenon that surely no one has forgotten. Without getting into those rumors that upset civilians in the seaports and deranged the public mind even far inland, it must be said that professional seamen were…      	      
      	      	The Nellie, a cruising yawl, swung to her anchor without a flutter of the sails, and was at rest. The flood had made, the wind was nearly calm, and being bound down the river, the only thing for it was to come to and wait for the turn of the…      	      
      	      	To download a selection right-click on the Download button and select "Save Link As..." or "Save Target As..."
      	      	Journey of our family from the old world to the new worldThe journey to America was divided into three stages; the first part was down the Rhine to Rotterdam, which was slow and time consuming; the second was from Rotterdam to some English port, usually Cowes on the Isle of…      	      
      	      	One of the Millions of Hurricane Katrina StoriesI survived Hurricane Katrina, but it transformed me. I am a different person. I feel more loved than I did a week ago, and I very much appreciate all of the friends and family and even strangers who both helped me directly and…      	      
      	      	Vernon Joseph Baker (December 17, 1919 – July 13, 2010) was a United States Army officer who received the United States military's highest decoration, the Medal of Honor, for his actions in World War II. He was awarded the medal for his actions on April 5–6, 1945 near Viareggio, Italy,…      	      
      	      	DEDICATION.To Brigadier General H. Atkinson:SIR—The changes of fortune and vicissitudes of war made you my conqueror. When my last resources were exhausted, my warriors worn down with long and toilsome marches, we yielded, and I became your prisoner.The story of my life is told in the following pages: it is…      	      
      	      	Remembrance day is a important day of the yearThere were so many soldiers that were in so much fearThey saved all the people that are living this dayIt happened so long ago i don't know what to sayOn Remembrance DayIt reminds us that the soldiers died for our freedomTheir great…      	      
      	      	De cand a inceput scoala m-am schimbat,cu totii ne-am schimbat,dar la mine  e ceva mai mult.Nu mai stau cu Denisa Steffy Lorena...Dar e mai bine asa.Nu ma mai comport ca o usuratica,dar pot spune ca mi-e putin dor de vremurile de demult.Dar..Apoi imi amintesc de faptul ca Lorena i-a spus…      	      
      	      	Beautiful;That was exactly what I thought,The moment I saw you.Sparkling eyes,Glowing smile,Amazing hair,Completely beautiful.You were the most beautiful girl I have ever seen,Except you weren’t a girl,You were an angel.An angel sent down from heaven,To bring me out of my misery,And to make me know what it was like to…      	      
								Birthdate: 11/07/1641 Birthplace: Leiden, Zuid-Holland, Netherlands Deceased: 01/20/1716 Place of…							
=======================================================
Celebrate the birthday of the Stars & Stripes at Flag Fest 2014! The 7th annual celebration of all things red, white & blue starts on Sunday, June 8 at the Betsy Ross House and wraps up on Saturday, 14 with Stars & Stripes Saturday. All week long enjoy patriotic crafts for kids, History Maker meet & greets, and more!
Celebrate Father's Day with a Father-Child mini golf and meal combo including one round of Philly Mini Golf, any single style SquareBurger, fries, and fountain drink for only $30! Golf ticket valid for any public operating day of 2014. Meal coupon only valid June 14 & 15.
Enhance your family's visit to Historic Philadelphia with brand new Colonial for a Day kid's costumes! Colonial-themed outfits for boys and girls, hand-sewn by regional artisans, immerse your kids into their journey to Independence National Historical Park, the Betsy Ross House, and Historic District landmarks.
Tickets are now available for the famous Tippler's Tour Colonial Pub Crawl, including the brand new Ben Franklin-themed tour: Ben's Kites & Flights! Raise a toast with Dr. Franklin as he joins part of this tour of four historic and modern day watering holes.
Tickets are now on sale for Historic Philadelphia, Inc.'s signature tour, Independence After Hours! The year is 1776 and the streets of Philadelphia are buzzing with talk of revolution. Enjoy a three-course meal at City Tavern, then "sneak" into Independence Hall for an after hours tour!
Travel throughout Historic Philadelphia and stop at each of the 10 award-winning Once Upon A Nation Storytelling Benches. Hear free, five minutes stories from our nation's past in the places where it happened!
To designate your United Way workplace program gifts to Historic Philadelphia, Inc., please use our Donor Choice Number: 14106. Contributions made through the United Way support our education outreach program.
