=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Born in Manhattan, New York, on April 4, 1965, Robert Downey Jr. made his debut as an actor at the age of five in the film Pound (1970), written and directed by his father, Robert Downey Sr., and since that early role, Robert Downey Jr. has amassed an enviable list of credits and honors throughout a four-decades-plus career that shows no signs of slowing. Downey Jr.'s laurels include two Academy Award nominations, three Golden Globe wins, numerous other award nominations and wins, and tremendous popular and commercial success, particularly in his roles as Sherlock Holmes in Sherlock Holmes (2009) and Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows (2011) and as Tony Stark in Iron Man (2008), Iron Man 2 (2010), The Avengers (2012) and Iron Man Three (2013). Downey Jr. is married to Susan Downey and has two sons (one from a previous marriage).Born to writer, director and filmographer Robert Downey Sr. and actress Elsie Downey, Downey Jr. and his sister Allyson were immersed in film and the performing arts from a very young age, leading Downey Jr. to study at the Stagedoor Manor Performing Arts Training Center in upstate New York before moving to California with his father following his parents' 1978 divorce. In 1982, he dropped out of Santa Monica High School to pursue acting full time. Downey Sr., himself a drug addict, exposed his son to drugs at a very early age, and Downey Jr. would go on to struggle with abuse for decades.Downey Jr. built his film repertoire throughout the 1980s and 1990s with roles in Tuff Turf (1985), Weird Science (1985), True Believer (1989), Chaplin (1992), Natural Born Killers (1994) and Wonder Boys (2000) among many others, but the actor's drug-related problems escalated from 1996 to 2001, leading to numerous arrests, rehab visits and incarcerations, and he was eventually fired from the hit TV series Ally McBeal (1997).Emerging clean and sober in 2003, Downey Jr. began to rebuild his career with roles in Gothika (2003), Good Night, and Good Luck. (2005) and A Scanner Darkly (2006), and then in 2008 he began a period of remarkable productivity, with starring roles in a string of very successful blockbusters including Tropic Thunder (2008) and the films of the Iron Man, Avengers and Sherlock Holmes franchises.In 2005, Downey Jr. married Susan Downey, who gave birth to their son, Exton Elias Downey, on February 7, 2012. Downey also has another son, Indio Falconer Downey, born September 7, 1993, from his first marriage to Deborah Falconer, from whom he was officially divorced in 2004.In addition to acting, Downey Jr. has also pursued a singing career, releasing a 2004 album called "The Futurist", and in 2010, he and his wife established their own production company, Team Downey.
          Robert Downey Jr. has evolved into one of the most respected actors in Hollywood. With an amazing list of credits to his name, he has managed to stay new and fresh even after three decades in the business. In 1992, Downey received an Academy Award nomination and won the BAFTA (British Academy Award) for Best Actor for his performance in the title role of Chaplin (1992).In August of 2008, Downey starred with Ben Stiller and Jack Black in the comedy Tropic Thunder (2008), and went on to receive an Academy Award®-nomination for Best Supporting Actor for his role as "Kirk Lazarus".Downey was honored by Time Magazine's "Time 100" in 2008, an annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world.In December 2009, Downey starred in the action-adventure Sherlock Holmes (2009). The film, directed by Guy Ritchie, co-starred Jude Law and Rachel McAdams and earned Downey a Golden Globe for Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture - Comedy or Musical in January of 2010. Downey and director Guy Ritchie are preparing to reproduce the success of Sherlock Holmes (2009) as they are working together again on the production of the sequel. In the summer of 2009, Downey achieved critical acclaim and worldwide box office success for his starring role in Iron Man (2008), Jon Favreau's big-screen rendering of the Marvel comic book superhero. The film co-starred Gwyneth Paltrow, Jeff Bridges and Terrence Howard.In early Summer 2010, Downey re-teamed with director Jon Favreau and reprised his role as "Tony Stark/Iron Man" in the hugely successful sequel to the original film, Iron Man 2 (2010), starring Gwyneth Paltrow, Scarlett Johansson, Samuel L. Jackson and Mickey Rourke.Downey has since recently filmed Due Date (2010), a sensational comedy, directed by Todd Phillips, in which he plays the role of an expectant father on a road trip racing to get back in time for the birth of his first child. Due Date (2010), starring The Hangover (2009)'s Zach Galifianakis, was released in November 2010.In addition, Robert Downey Jr. has jump-started the Team Downey Production Company with wife Susan Downey, whose first much-awaited production will be a heist film titled Yucatan, an original development by Steve McQueen intended to propel him to stardom.Another upcoming Team Downey project is Emergency!: This Book Will Save Your Life" - a tale by Neil Strauss that ventures to tell of one man's survival in a dangerous world - which Team Downey will develop into a feature film with producing partner Michael De Luca.But prior to this distinguished global success, Downey starred in powerful yet humbling roles inspired by real-life accounts of some of history's most precious kept secrets, including Richard Linklater's A Scanner Darkly (2006) in 2006 co-starring Keanu Reeves, Winona Ryder and Woody Harrelson, and Fur: An Imaginary Portrait of Diane Arbus (2006) co-starring Nicole Kidman, a film inspired by the life of Diane Arbus, the revered photographer whose images captured attention in the early 1960s. These roles exhibited Downey's unwavering momentum from the previous year of 2005, in which he starred in the Academy Award®-nominated feature film Good Night, and Good Luck. (2005), directed by George Clooney, in Shane Black's action comedy Kiss Kiss Bang Bang (2005) co-starring Val Kilmer, and in David Fincher's suspenseful _Zodiac (2007/I)_ alongside Jake Gyllenhaal and Mark Ruffalo, about the notorious serial killer who haunted San Francisco during the 1970's.Marking his debut into music, Debuting Robert Downey Jr. released his debut album titled "The Futurist" on the Sony Classics Label on November 23rd, 2004. The album's eight original songs, that Downey wrote, and his two musical numbers debuting as cover songs revealed his sultry singing voice and his musical talents. Downey continued to display his versatility in two very different films in October 2003: the musical/drama The Singing Detective (2003), a remake of the BBC hit of the same name, and the thriller Gothika (2003) starring Halle Berry and Penélope Cruz.In 2001, Downey made his prime-time television debut when he joined the cast of the Fox-TV series Ally McBeal (1997) as attorney "Larry Paul". For this role, he won the Golden Globe Award for Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series, Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television, as well as the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male in a Comedy Series. In addition, Downey was nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series.In 2000, Downey co-starred with Michael Douglas and Tobey Maguire in Wonder Boys (2000), directed by Curtis Hanson. In this dramatic comedy, Downey played the role of a bi-sexual literary agent. Also in 2000, he starred alongside Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy in the hit comedy, Bowfinger (1999).In September of 1999, Downey appeared in Black and White (1999), written and directed by James Toback, along with Ben Stiller, Elijah Wood, Gaby Hoffmann, Brooke Shields and Claudia Schiffer. In January of 1999, he starred with Annette Bening and Aidan Quinn in In Dreams (1999), directed by Neil Jordan. In 1998, Downey co-starred with Tommy Lee Jones and Wesley Snipes in U.S. Marshals (1998), directed by Stuart Baird and he starred with Heather Graham and Natasha Gregson Wagner in the critically acclaimed Two Girls and a Guy (1997), directed by James Toback.In 1997, Downey was seen in Robert Altman's The Gingerbread Man (1998), alongside Kenneth Branagh, Daryl Hannah and Embeth Davidtz; in One Night Stand (1997), directed by Mike Figgis and starring Wesley Snipes and Nastassja Kinski; and in Hugo Pool (1997), directed by his father, Robert Downey Sr. and starring Sean Penn and Patrick Dempsey.In 1995, Downey starred in Restoration (1995), with Hugh Grant, Meg Ryan and Ian McKellen, directed by Michael Hoffman. Also that year, he starred in Richard III (1995), in which he appears opposite his Restoration (1995) co-star McKellen. In Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers (1994), with Woody Harrelson and Juliette Lewis, Downey starred as a tabloid TV journalist who exploits a murderous couple's killing spree to boost his ratings. In Robert Altman's Short Cuts (1993), he appeared as an aspiring film make-up artist whose best friend commits murder. For the comedy Heart and Souls (1993), Downey starred as a young man with a special relationship with four ghosts. Downey's other film credits include The Soloist (2009), The Last Party (1993), Soapdish (1991), Air America (1990), Chances Are (1989), True Believer (1989), Johnny Be Good (1988), 1969 (1988), Less Than Zero (1987), The Pick-up Artist (1987), Back to School (1986), Tuff Turf (1985), Weird Science (1985), Firstborn (1984) and Pound (1970), marked as Robert Downey Jr.'s feature film debut, directed by Robert Downey Sr..
      Released from jail to complete his six-month jail sentence at a drug rehabilitation center. Downey caused a stir when he was freed to work on a movie. [March 1998]
      He got into fight with another inmate at the Los Angeles County Jail, where he was serving time for a probation violation, and was treated for a cut over his nose. [February 1998]
      During traffic stop for speeding, he was arrested for drunk driving, possession of heroin, and possession of an unloaded pistol in his pickup truck. This was his first reported brush with the law at age 31. He was given a suspended prison sentence of 3 years, and granted probation with requirements of random drug testing and drug counselling. [August 1996]
      Son Indio Falconer Downey, with his first wife Deborah Falconer, was born on September 7, 1993.
      Sent to a rehab center at the L.A. County jail while waiting for an August 5 hearing. [June 1999]
      While drunk, he wandered into a neighbor's Malibu home that he thought was his own, and fell asleep in their child's bed. He was arrested for being under the influence of drugs, which was a third violation of his probation.
      After Downey's three violations of probation for drug and alcohol abuse in a three-year span of time since he was spared a prison sentence and placed on probation, Malibu Judge Lawrence Mira stated that he was out of options. He was sentencing Downey to prison, he said, to save his life, because he would not take the responsibility of refraining from alcohol and drug use on his own. The Judge invoked the three years' sentence in state prison that had been suspended in 1996. Downey, Dept of Corrections #P50522, spent two weeks in a state prison reception center at Wasco, California, for orientation. On 8/25/99, he was transferred to a Dept. of Corrections prison named "SATF" (Substance Abuse Treatment Facility) for drug dependent prisoners in Corcoran California. Scheduled release date: 11/2/2000. SATF is across the street from the other Corcoran Prison, where inmates were shot to death on the exercise yard during fights in the 1990s. Downey's lawyers have approached the Malibu judge several times in the last 11 months to request Downey's release, but the Judge has refused. [August 1999]
      Downey's lawyers petitioned the State Court of Appeals in Los Angeles, stating that Downey had already served enough time because the Malibu judge had made errors in calculating his sentence. He hadn't given credit for the several times Downey spent in lockdown rehab units and in pre-sentencing confinement. Downey's lawyers claimed that he should have been released in February 2000.
      Downey re-arrested on drugs and weapons charges in Palm Springs, California, at the luxurious Merv Griffin resort, after an anonymous tip to police. Downey was found alone, with cocaine and methamphetamines. He cooperated with police, spent the night in jail, and was released the next morning on $15,000.00 bail. Downey had been on a career upswing with his successful stint on Ally McBeal (1997), and his upcoming stage performance as Hamlet, set for January, 2001 in Los Angeles, to be directed by his friend Mel Gibson. [November 2000]
      Arrested for being under the influence of a controlled substance in Los Angeles after he was found wandering in an alley. He was fired from the TV series Ally McBeal (1997) by producer David E. Kelley after the arrest. [April 2001]
      Downey's attorneys advised the judge that they could not reach a plea bargain in his November 2000 drug arrest. [March 2001]
      Downey pleaded not guilty to the November 2000 drug charges. Next hearing will be on July 16. He is being held in a drug rehab center until his case is decided. [May 2001]
      Downey pleaded no contest to drug charges. The judge sentenced him to remain in rehabilitation for one year and to three years' probation. [July 2001]
      In a symbolic attempt to bury his decadent 1980s Brat Pack image and begin a new phase of his life and career after filming Chaplin (1992) in 1991, he (literally) buried the clothes that he wore in 1987's Less Than Zero (1987) in the backyard of his house.
      As a result of his father's work (Robert Downey Sr. was (and is) an independent filmmaker), Downey the younger spent a great deal of his childhood on the move. He lived at various points in Connecticut, New York, California, London, Paris, and Woodstock.
      At the age of 10, while living in London, Robert attended the Perry House School in Chelsea and studied classical ballet.
      Dropped out of Santa Monica High School at age 17 and moved to New York to become an actor. First jobs in the city included bussing tables at Central Falls restaurant, working in a shoe store, and performing as "living art" at SohHo's notorious underground club Area.
      Downey enjoyed working with the director of the Elton John music video--contemporary artist Sam Taylor-Johnson--so much that he suggested that they work together again on an art piece. The result was an art video called "Pietà," made in the manner of Michelangelo's famous Pietà sculpture in Rome. It was included in Sam Taylor-Johnson's exhibition "Mute" at the White Cube 2 art gallery in London, November 23 to January 12, 2002.
      Starred in Elton John's music video for the song "I Want Love." Downey was let out of rehab for one day in late July specifically to shoot the video (which was filmed in one long continuous take at Greystone Manor in Beverley Hills.) It was Downey's first work since being fired from the TV show Ally McBeal (1997) in April 2001.
      Starred briefly with his first wife Deborah Falconer in the 1992 Robert Altman movie Short Cuts (1993).
      He married his second wife, Gothika (2003) producer Susan Downey, at Amagansett, New York, on 27 August 2005.
      Was approached to do the part as Zaphod Beeblebrox in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (2005).
      He's the first regular cast member of Saturday Night Live (1975) to be nominated for an Academy Award in the category "Best Actor in a Leading Role." Joan Cusack and Dan Aykroyd were also nominated for Academy Awards some years before Downey, but both were nominated for supporting roles.
      Before he starred as Iron Man (2008), Downey had done films with three of the actors who played Batman: with George Clooney in Good Night, and Good Luck. (2005); with Val Kilmer in Kiss Kiss Bang Bang (2005); and with Michael Keaton in Game 6 (2005).
      On the set of A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints (2006) he took co-star Adam Scarimbolo under his wing.
      His father is of half Lithuanian Jewish, one quarter Irish, and one quarter Hungarian, descent. His mother's ancestry is Scottish, German, and Swiss-German.
      Gave life to the same character (Tony Stark) in two movies in the same year (Iron Man (2008) and The Incredible Hulk (2008)) produced by the same studio (Marvel Studios).
      Has worn lifts at his directors' requests in his recent leading man roles, namely Iron Man (2008) and its sequel and in Sherlock Holmes (2009), in order to enhance his height.
      Signed on to voice "The Devil" in the animated television series God, the Devil and Bob (2000). Shortly thereafter, Downey was jailed, so he was replaced by Alan Cumming.
      In order to get over his drug addiction, he began studying Wing Chun in 2003 under Sifu Eric Oram, who served as a fight and martial arts consultant on Guy Ritchie's Sherlock Holmes (2009).
      According to an interview he gave to Newsweek in February 2009, when Downey went to Japan for their opening of Iron Man (2008), he was detained on entry because Japanese authorities ran his passport and found it linked to "some incredible criminal activity" (namely Downey's multiple arrests and incarcerations on drug-related charges in the 1990s and 2000s). For failing to disclose these convictions, Downey was interrogated for six hours and was almost barred from entry into Japan. It was finally decided that he could enter Japan for the Iron Man premiere but he is never to be allowed into Japan again.
      Attended Junior High School 104 in Manhattan with fellow actors Jon Cryer, Erica Gimpel and Kadeem Hardison.
      Mentioned in a Nov. 2010 interview with Playboy Magazine that he studies Kung Fu at the L.A. Wing Chun Kung Fu Academy in West Los Angeles three times a week for three hours a session.
      Starred in the film, Chances Are (1989), and, years later, sang Bob Seger & Martina McBride's Chances Are while appearing in the TV series, Ally McBeal (1997).
      Robert and wife Susan Downey had their first child, Exton Elias Downey, on February 7, 2012. He weighing in at 7 lbs. 5 oz. and measuring 20 inches.
      Wilmington, North Carolina, USA: Shooting for Iron Man 3. RDJ will also be in Raleigh/Durham, North Carolina; Miami, Florida; and China for shooting for Iron Man 3 [June 2012]
      Traveled around the world promoting Iron Man 3 with back-to-back visits to Seoul, South Korea; Beijing, China; Moscow, Russia; Berlin, Germany; Paris, France, and London, England. [April 2013]
      Attended the premiere of his new movie, Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows, on Tuesday (January 10) in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. [January 2012]
      Working as the lead actor on the film The Singing Detective (2003), produced by his friend Mel Gibson (who also has a supporting role in the film). [May 2002]
      A lot of my peer group think I'm an eccentric bisexual, like I may even have an ammonia-filled tentacle or something somewhere on my body. That's okay.
      I've become a picky little bitch. I've never bothered to plan projects before. I just used to throw the script across the room and say, "Why do they keep sending me this horseshit?" And then I'd start rehearsals two weeks later.
      [on his addiction to drugs]: It's like I have a loaded gun in my mouth, and I like the taste of metal.
      It's a blanket statement to say, "That guy's really sharp and amicable and nice," because there's a little bit of a--hole in every nice guy, and there's a little bit of genius in every moron.
      I am putting together some ideas for two or three more things I want to do. Maybe a CD of just my kind of standards, which would be Supertramp and Steely Dan covers with an orchestra. I'm deep into old Genesis. I'm sorry, but these are songs that mean something to me. "Follow You Follow Me" is a song that's about something to me. [on his music]
      It was so nice to go into this fake courtroom [on Ally McBeal (1997)]. I immediately went up into the judge's chair. Nice view. A preferable perspective.
      What I usually hate about these movies when suddenly the guy that you were digging turns into Dudley Do-Right, and then you're supposed to buy into all his "Let's go do some good! That Eliot Ness-in-a-cape-type thing. What was really important to me was to not have him change so much that he's unrecognizable. When someone used to be a schmuck and they're not anymore, hopefully they still have a sense of humor. [on superhero movies]
      [on Black and White (1999)] A stage slap from Mike Tyson is like a shovel whack from a normally fortified male.
      The great thing about Saturday Night Live (1975) was being at 30 Rockefeller Center. And having Belushi and Aykroyd's old office. And me and Michael [Anthony Michael Hall] saying, "We want bunk beds. With NFL Sheets. And we want them now." And Michael was like "Man, it's gonna be great, we're gonna be buddies, we're gonna do a show together, we're gonna ..." Then, "I'm gonna do Out of Bounds (1986)" and he left. As for me, I was doing Back to School (1986) and Saturday Night Live at the same time. So I'd fly back to Los Angeles for a couple of days during the week to shoot the movie and then fly back and, "Live from New York, it's a tired young man!"
      I had four weeks' work in Baby It's You (1983), and I told all my friends I was now, officially, a major talent and film star. And then they cut my scenes out. You don't even see me except in one scene - you see me in the background until this self-indulgent actress leans forward to try and get more camera time. They cut all my scenes out and my friends go, "Hey, Robert - maybe it's you!" Now I don't tell people that I'm in a film until I see it on videocassette.
      Tofu is the root of all evil, and there's only one thing that can change a man's mind, and that's a modified Uzi with an extra-long clip.
      I did Air America (1990) for two reasons: to be in a movie with Mel Gibson and to make a bunch of money. And then underneath there was the hope that in doing this formulaic thing I would be launched into a whole new realm of opportunity to do A-list movies. By the time we were done, the only positive thing was meeting Mel Gibson.
      [on Restoration (1995)] I just thought [Hugh Grant] was a dick, that's all. And I still do. You know, and that could be something that has to do with me, or it could just be that not everyone in this industry is someone I'd care to hang out with.
      [on Weird Science (1985)] I defecated in [Kelly LeBrock's] trailer, much to the chagrin of Bill Paxton and Robert Rusler. It was a real bad scene. Joel Silver freaked. I never admitted it. Joel said, "Downey, did you do it?" and I said I wish I had. Because I'd been threatening everyone that if they didn't treat me right, I was going to take a dump in their trailer, or that I'd go take a shit in Joel's office, on his desk or something.
      [on his childhood] I didn't want to talk about what my dad did because it wasn't like he was directing All in the Family (1971) or anything. He was doing these crazy films. Mom would pick me up at school wearing this big quilted cape. I felt like I was in a J.D. Salinger story. Dad's Jewish and Irish, Mom's German and Scotch. I couldn't say I was anything. My last name isn't even Downey. My dad changed his name when he wanted to get into the Army and was underage. My real name is Robert Elias. I feel like I'm still looking for a home in some way.
      [on Sean Penn] In a relatively short time he was a better friend than some people I'd known for ages. I remember him saying three or four years ago, "You have two reputations. I think you know what both of them are, and I think you'd do well to get rid of one of those reputations. If you don't, it will get rid of the other one." And I was like, "Two reputations, I'll be right back." Just hearing him say that reminded me that I should go score. After that, he was like, forget it. It sucks, too, because someone as honorable as he is, I really should have responded. Jesus, I grew up idolizing this guy. Not only does he consider me a friend, but he's taking time. He's got a family. He's got a career that's going well. He's living his dreams and making time for me, and I'm like, "I can't, I just can't - sorry, busy."
      As soon as I started smoking heroin instead of smoking coke, everything was different, and I knew it was. And it happened around the time I was doing Home for the Holidays (1995). Home for the Holidays is, for me, one of the most relaxed performances in the history of cinema. I can't attribute that to the fact that I was at a serene place in my life, or that there was a real warm feeling on the set. This is a problem for me because I glamorize this stuff. I can't say that it wasn't real dark, real evil and real hurtful to those around me. And yet, practically every take of that film was a print. God bless Jodie Foster. When does she have time to do a handwritten letter telling someone how she genuinely cares about them? She said, "Listen, I'm not worried about you on this film. You're not losing it or nodding out, and you're giving a great performance. I'm worried about your thinking you can get away with doing this on another film."
      [on Chaplin (1992)] When I accepted the part, they didn't tell me that I also had to do the acrobatic stuff of Charlie. That has cost me a lot of blood, sweat and tears. Though I now can say, 'I did all my stunts myself.' Working on Chaplin was really intensive and cost me years of my life, but if I could do it all over again, no doubt I would do it the same way.
      [on Chaplin (1992)] Chaplin was the culmination of an opportunity, and the biggest humiliation I've ever experienced. It was like winning the lottery, then going to prison. I realized that nothing that had worked for me before was going to work here. I'd watch one of Charlie's films, but by the end of it I was wildly depressed, because I realized that what he'd done in this twenty-minute short was more expressive and funnier than everything I've thought about doing my whole life.
      [on U.S. Marshals (1998)] Possibly the worst action movie of all time, and that's just not good for the maintenance of a good spiritual condition. You've had a traumatic year, you've been practically suicidal - what do you think would be really healing for you? How about like twelve weeks of running around as Johnny Handgun? I think that if you talk to a spirit guide, they would say, 'That'll kill you.'
      [on U.S. Marshals (1998)] I thought maybe there was something I was missing, and what I really needed to do was to be in one of those films that I love taking my kid to. It would end up being really depressing. I'd rather wake up in jail for a TB test than have to wake up another morning knowing I'm going to the set of US Marshals.
      [on Mickey Rourke] He's so good. And he's formidable and he's very much reminding me of that kind of charming, confident guy that we know.
      [on Iron Man 2 (2010)] I've never been in a sequel and it's very daunting because I feel the expectation of the millions of people who watched it and enjoyed it and told me that it was a little different than your usual genre picture and that they expected us to not screw it up. So I actually have taken Iron Man 2 (2010) probably more seriously than any movie I've ever done, which is appropriately ridiculous for Hollywood.
Mel Gibson cast me in The Singing Detective (2003), even though an insurance company wouldn't cover it because it was my first film after my release from behind bars. The best part was when Mel gave me a motorcycle while we still had two weeks left to shoot. I go, 'Are you trying to ruin this movie? What if I have an accident?' He goes, 'No, no. I figure if you made it two-thirds of the way through, you can't do anything wrong.'
      [His Golden Globe acceptance speech for Best Actor-Comedy or Musical] If you start playing violins, I will tear this joint apart. First of all, I want to thank my wife Susan Downey for telling me Matt Damon was going to win so don't bother to prepare a speech. That was at about ten AM. I don't have anybody to thank. I'm sorry. Everyone's been so gratuitous, it was a collaboration, we all did this together. Certainly not going to thank Warner Brothers, Alan Horn, and my god, robbing off these guys. They needed me. Avatar (2009) was going to take us to the cleaners. If they didn't have me, we didn't have a shot buddy. What am I going to do? I'm not going to be able to thank Joel Silver. I mean the guy has only restarted my career twelve times since I began twenty-five years ago. I really don't want to thank my wife because I could be busing tables at the daily groom right now if not for her. Jesus, what a gig that would be. Guy Ritchie had a great vision for this film and a lot of great people came together and we worked our asses off. It's just a privilege. The Hollywood Foreign Press has a quote by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who was a genius by the way, and he said "Art is the blood, Is libel to take to the strongest forms". That is also why I would like to thank, or not thank, the Hollywood Foreign Press because they are a strange bunch of people and now I'm one of them. Thank you.
      I thought it was a completely incendiary idea and I blame it all on Ben Stiller and DreamWorks [About his role as an Australian actor playing a black man in Tropic Thunder (2008)]
      I have a really interesting political point of view, and it's not always something I say too loud at dinner tables here, but you can't go from a $2,000-a-night suite at La Mirage to a penitentiary and really understand it and come out a liberal. You can't. I wouldn't wish that experience on anyone else, but it was very, very, very educational for me and has informed my proclivities and politics every since. [Downey in The New York Times in 2008, on why some of his political opinions now lean more conservative than they used to]
      [on producer Joel Silver]: Joel just kept telling me. We've got to get your gun in your hand. Joel is one of the few relationships I care to have with a producer. Look he's vast and voracious, and he definitely has the ability to break into a scream about a point he would like to make. But he can also be incredibly warm and generous.
      [on winning an Oscar] As long as I stick around I'm going to end up with a bunch of them anyway as they're going to run out of people to give them to. And I'm probably going to win it one year when someone else deserves to win it. Why? Because it's my time, goddamit. And that's the way s**t works around here. I'm just an uptight mutt at the top of his game. Welcome to Hollywood, b***h! I'll see you at the Vanity Fair party and I'll be holding that golden statue you deserve 'cause guess what? It happened to me too!
      [on Mel Gibson]: He's a stand-up guy - he's always has been for me - and certainly when I was not hire-able, he put his ass on the line and said, 'I'll take that chance'. He will always have my friendship, and that's just talking about business and Hollywood stuff, which to me is nowhere as important as friendship.
      (2010, on his past problems) Sometimes it's necessary to compartmentalize the different stages of your evolution, both personally and objectively, for the people you have to love and tolerate. And one of those people, for me, is me. I have a very strong sense of that messed-up kid, that devoted theater actor, that ne'er-do-well 20-something nihilistic androgyne and that late-20s married guy with a little kid, lost, lost in narcotics-all as aspects of things I don't regret and am happy to keep a door open on. More than anything I have this sense that I'm a veteran of a war that is difficult to discuss with people who haven't been there. I feel for the kind of zeitgeist diagnoses that are being applied to certain of my peers lately, and I think it's unconscionable.
      (2010, on landing Iron Man (2008)) I prepared for the screen test so feverishly that I literally made it impossible for anybody to do a better job. I had never worked on something that way before; I was so familiar with six or nine pages of dialogue, I had thought of every possible scenario. At a certain point during the screen test, I was so overwhelmed with anxiety about the opportunity that I almost passed out. I watched it later, and that moment came, fluttered and wasn't even noticeable. But, to me, it was this stretched-out moment of what keeps people from doing theater for 30 years - just an unadulterated fear of failure.
      (2010) Discipline for me is about respect. It's not even about self-respect; it's about respect for life and all it offers. And not indulging. I have happily reconsidered my position on a bunch of things I didn't want on my "no" list despite all evidence that I couldn't handle them. At the end of the day, anything I think I'm sacrificing I'm just giving up because it makes me feel better.
      (2010) I've noticed that worrying is like praying for what you don't want to happen. I don't worry, but I observe where my mind tends to go. I have such an overwhelming sense that if you're in the right state of heart, which I have been for a little while, the next right thing appears to you.
      (2010) I find myself fascinated with shows like Bad Girls (1999) and Jerseylicious (2010), and also Inside American Jail (2007) and Lockup (2005). The best one's in the U.K.; I watch it when I'm over there doing Sherlock. It's called Banged Up Abroad (2007), which means "locked up". "Locked Up Abroad" is always fun.
      [on never winning an Oscar] I know it's going to happen. That's just a fact ...because it just doesn't make sense.That's why I don't mind showing up and watching everybody else get them...Look, even if I don't get one directly, eventually they're just going to have to give me one when I get old. So no matter how you slice it, I'm getting one ... I should probably have more, but zero's fine.
      [on the Oscars ceremony] It is amazing to see how people are literally hyperventilating when they get up there, because they have such an attachment to this outcome.
      It's hard for me to watch Kiss Kiss Bang Bang (2005) and not get nostalgic about it. It's not perfect but in some ways, I think it's the best thing I've ever done. I don't know why.
      My intent is to dominate the playing field for as long as I can, with my own challenges, with myself.
=======================================================
This article is about the actor.  For his father, the filmmaker and director, see Robert Downey, Sr..  For all others, see Robert Downey.
Robert John Downey, Jr. (born April 4, 1965)[1] is an American actor who made his screen debut at the age of five, appearing in his father Robert Downey, Sr.'s film Pound. He has appeared in roles associated with the Brat Pack, such as Less Than Zero and Weird Science. Other films he has starred in include Air America, Soapdish, and Natural Born Killers. He starred as Charlie Chaplin, the title character in the 1992 film Chaplin, which earned him a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actor.
After being released in 2000 from the California Substance Abuse Treatment Facility and State Prison where he was on drug charges, Downey joined the cast of the TV series Ally McBeal playing Calista Flockhart's love interest. His performance was praised and he received a Golden Globe Award for Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series, Miniseries, or Television Film. His character was written out when Downey was fired after two drug arrests in late 2000 and early 2001. After one last stay in a court-ordered drug treatment program, Downey finally achieved sobriety.
His more recent films include The Singing Detective, Kiss Kiss Bang Bang, A Scanner Darkly, Gothika, Zodiac and Tropic Thunder, for which he was nominated an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. In 2008, Downey played the role of Marvel superhero Tony Stark / Iron Man in the live action film Iron Man, a role he reprised in Iron Man 2, Marvel's The Avengers, and Iron Man 3; he also made a cameo appearance as the character in The Incredible Hulk. He will again reprise his role in the upcoming films, Avengers: Age of Ultron and another Avengers sequel. In 2009, he played the title character in Guy Ritchie's Sherlock Holmes and again in 2011's Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows.
Downey has starred in six movies that have each grossed over $500 million at the box office worldwide. Two of those films, The Avengers and Iron Man 3, each earned over $1 billion. Downey tops the Forbes list of Hollywood's highest-paid actors with an estimated $75 million in earnings between June 2012 and June 2013.[2]
Downey was born in Manhattan, New York City, New York, the younger of two children. His father, Robert Downey, Sr., is an actor, writer, producer, cinematographer, and director of underground films, and his mother, Elsie (née Ford), is also an actress and appeared in Downey, Sr.'s films. His paternal grandfather was of Lithuanian Jewish ancestry and his paternal grandmother was of Irish Canadian and Hungarian ancestry. His mother is of Scottish, German, and Swiss German descent.[3][4][5] His father was born "Robert Elias", and changed his last name to "Downey" (after his stepfather James Downey), when he was a minor and wanted to enlist in the Army.[4][6] He and his older sister, Allyson, grew up in Greenwich Village.[7]
As a child, Downey was "surrounded by drugs". His father, a drug addict, allowed Downey to use marijuana at aged six, an incident which his father has said he now regrets.[7] Downey stated that drug use became an emotional bond between him and his father: "When my dad and I would do drugs together, it was like him trying to express his love for me in the only way he knew how." Eventually, Downey began spending every night abusing alcohol and "making a thousand phone calls in pursuit of drugs". [8]
During his childhood Downey had minor roles in his father's films. He made his acting debut at the age of five, playing a sick puppy in the absurdist comedy Pound (1970), and then at aged seven appeared in the surrealist Greaser's Palace (1972).[4] At the age of ten, he was living in England and studied classical ballet as part of a larger curriculum.[9] He attended the Stagedoor Manor Performing Arts Training Center in upstate New York as a teenager. When his parents divorced in 1978, Downey moved to California with his father, but in 1982 he dropped out of Santa Monica High School and moved back to New York to pursue an acting career full-time.[10]
Downey and Kiefer Sutherland, who shared the screen together in the 1988 film 1969, were roommates for three years when he first moved to Hollywood to pursue his career in acting.[11]
Downey began building upon theater roles, including in the short-lived off-Broadway musical "American Passion" at the Joyce Theater in 1983, produced by Norman Lear. In 1985, he was part of the new, younger cast hired for Saturday Night Live, but following a year of poor ratings and criticism of the new cast's comedic talents, he and most of the new crew were replaced.[10] That same year, Downey had a dramatic acting breakthrough when he played James Spader's sidekick in Tuff Turf and then a bully in John Hughes' Weird Science. He was considered for the role of Duckie in John Hughes' film Pretty in Pink (1986),[12][13] but his first lead role was with Molly Ringwald in The Pick-up Artist (1987). Because of these and other coming-of-age films Downey did during the 1980s, he is sometimes named as a member of the Brat Pack.[10][14]
In 1987, Downey played Julian Wells, a drug-addicted rich boy whose life rapidly spirals out of his control, in the film version of the Bret Easton Ellis novel Less Than Zero. His performance, described by Janet Maslin in The New York Times as "desperately moving",[15] was widely praised, though Downey has said that for him "the role was like the ghost of Christmas Future" since his drug habit resulted in his becoming an "exaggeration of the character" in real life.[16] Zero drove Downey into films with bigger budgets and names, such as Chances Are (1989) with Cybill Shepherd and Ryan O'Neal, Air America (1990) with Mel Gibson, and Soapdish (1991) with Sally Field, Kevin Kline, and Whoopi Goldberg.[citation needed]
In 1992, he starred as Charlie Chaplin in Chaplin, a role for which he prepared extensively, learning how to play the violin and tennis left-handed. He even had a personal coach in order to imitate Chaplin's posture and way of carrying himself.[17] The role garnered Downey an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor at the Academy Awards 65th ceremony, losing to Al Pacino in Scent of a Woman.[18] His other films in the 1990s included Heart and Souls, Only You, Natural Born Killers, Restoration, Two Girls and a Guy, Black and White, Short Cuts, Richard III, and The Last Party, a documentary written by Downey.[citation needed]
From 1996 through 2001, Downey was arrested numerous times on drug-related charges including cocaine, heroin and marijuana[19] and went several times through drug treatment programs unsuccessfully, explaining in 1999 to a judge: "It's like I've got a shotgun in my mouth with my finger on the trigger, and I like the taste of the gun metal."[20] He explained his relapses by claiming to have been addicted to drugs since the age of eight, due to the fact that his father, also an addict, had been giving them to him.[20]
In April 1996, Downey was arrested for possession of heroin, cocaine and an unloaded .357 Magnum handgun while he was speeding down Sunset Boulevard. A month later, while on parole, he trespassed into a neighbor's home while under the influence of a controlled substance and fell asleep in one of the beds.[21][22] He was sentenced to three years of probation and required to undergo compulsory drug testing. In 1997, he missed one of the court-ordered drug tests and had to spend four months in the Los Angeles County jail.[citation needed]
After Downey missed another required drug test in 1999, he was arrested once more. Despite Downey's lawyer, John Stewart Holden, assembling for his client's 1999 defense the same team of lawyers that successfully defended O.J. Simpson during his criminal trial for murder,[20] Downey was sentenced to a three-year prison term at the California Substance Abuse Treatment Facility and State Prison in Corcoran, California (a.k.a. "Corcoran II"). At the time of the 1999 arrest, all of Downey's film projects had wrapped and were close to release, with the exception of In Dreams, which he was allowed to complete filming. He had also been hired for voicing "The Devil" on the NBC animated television series God, the Devil and Bob, but was fired when he failed to show up for rehearsals.[23][24]
After spending nearly a year in California Substance Abuse Treatment Facility and State Prison in Corcoran, California, Downey, on condition of posting $5,000 bail, was unexpectedly freed when a judge ruled that his collective time in incarceration facilities (spawned from the initial 1996 arrests) had qualified him for early release.[7] A week after his 2000 release, Downey joined the cast of the hit television series Ally McBeal, playing the new love interest of Calista Flockhart's title character.[25] His performance was praised and the following year he was nominated for an Emmy Award in the Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series category and won a Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actor in a mini-series or television film.[26][27] He also appeared as a writer and singer on Vonda Shepard's Ally McBeal: For Once in My Life album, and he sang with Sting a duet of "Every Breath You Take" in an episode of the series. Despite the apparent success, Downey claims that his performance on the series was overrated and said, "It was my lowest point in terms of addictions. At that stage, I didn't give a fuck whether I ever acted again."[16] In January 2001, Downey was scheduled to play the role of Hamlet in a Los Angeles stage production directed by Mel Gibson.[28]
Before the end of his first season on Ally McBeal, over the Thanksgiving 2000 holiday, Downey was arrested when his room at Merv Griffin's Hotel and Givenchy Spa in Palm Springs, California was searched by the police, who were responding to an anonymous 911 call. Downey was under the influence of a controlled substance and in possession of cocaine and Valium.[29][30] Despite the fact that, if convicted, he could face a prison sentence of up to four years and eight months, he signed on to appear in at least eight more Ally McBeal episodes.[31]
In April 2001, while he was on parole, a Los Angeles police officer found him wandering barefoot in Culver City, just outside Los Angeles. He was arrested for suspicion of being under the influence of drugs, but was released a few hours later,[32] even though tests showed he had cocaine in his system.[33] After this last arrest, producer David E. Kelley and other Ally McBeal executives ordered last-minute rewrites and reshoots and dismissed Downey from the show, despite the fact that Downey's character had resuscitated Ally McBeal's ratings.[34] The Culver City arrest also cost him a role in the high-profile film America's Sweethearts,[33] and the subsequent incarceration forced Mel Gibson to shut down his planned stage production of Hamlet, as well. In July 2001, Downey pleaded no contest to the Palm Springs charges, avoiding jail time. Instead, he was sent into drug rehabilitation and put on a three-year probation, benefiting from the California Proposition 36, which had been passed the year before with the aim of helping nonviolent drug offenders overcome their addictions instead of sending them to jail.[7][35]
The book Conversations with Woody Allen reports that director Woody Allen wanted to cast Downey and Winona Ryder in his film Melinda and Melinda in 2005, but was unable to do so because he could not get insurance on them, stating, "We couldn't get bonded. The completion bonding companies would not bond the picture unless we could insure them. We were heartbroken because I had worked with Winona before [on Celebrity] and thought she was perfect for this and wanted to work with her again. And I had always wanted to work with Bob Downey and always thought he was a huge talent."[citation needed]
In a December 18, 2000 article for People Magazine entitled "Bad to Worse", Downey's stepmother Rosemary told author Alex Tresnlowski that Downey had been diagnosed with bipolar disorder "a few years ago" and added that his bipolar disorder was "the reason he has a hard time staying sober. What hasn't been tried is medication and intensive psychotherapy."[36] In the same article, Dr. Manijeh Nikakhtar, a Los Angeles psychiatrist and co-author of Addiction or Self-Medication: The Truth (ISBN 978-1883819576), says she received a letter from Downey in 1999, during his time at Corcoran II, asking for advice on his condition. She discovered that "no one had done a complete [psychiatric] evaluation [on him]...I asked him flat out if he thought he was bipolar, and he said, 'Oh yeah. There are times I spend a lot of money and I'm hyperactive, and there are other times I'm down.'"[36] In an article for the March 2007 issue of Esquire, Downey told author Scott Raab that he wanted to address "this whole thing about the bipolar" after receiving a phone call from "the Bipolar Association" asking him about being bipolar. When Downey denied he had ever said he was bipolar, the caller quoted the People article, to which Downey replied, "'No! Dr. Malibusian said [I said I was bipolar]...', and they go, 'Well, it's been written, so we're going to quote it.'"[37] Downey flatly denied being "depressed or manic" and that previous attempts to diagnose him with any kind of psychiatric or mood disorder have always been skewed because "the guy I was seeing didn't know I was smokin' crack in his bathroom. You can't make a diagnosis until somebody's sober."[37]
After five years of substance abuse, arrests, rehab, and relapse, Robert Downey Jr. was finally ready to work toward a full recovery from drugs and a return to his career. In discussing his failed attempts to control his own addictive behavior in the past, Downey told Oprah Winfrey in November 2004 that "when someone says, 'I really wonder if maybe I should go to rehab?' Well, uh, you're a wreck, you just lost your job, and your wife left you. Uh, you might want to give it a shot."[38] He added that after his last arrest in April 2001, when he knew he would likely be facing another stint in prison or another form of incarceration such as court-ordered rehab, "I said, 'You know what? I don't think I can continue doing this.' And I reached out for help, and I ran with it. You can reach out for help in kind of a half-assed way and you'll get it and you won't take advantage of it. It's not that difficult to overcome these seemingly ghastly problems...what's hard is to decide to do it."[38]
Downey got his first post-rehab acting job in August 2001, lip-syncing in the video for Elton John's single "I Want Love".[39] Video director Sam Taylor-Wood shot 16 takes of the video and used the last one because, according to John, Downey looked completely relaxed, and, "The way he underplays it is fantastic."[40]
Downey was able to return to the big screen only after Mel Gibson, who had been a close friend to Downey since both had co-starred in Air America, paid Downey's insurance bond for the 2003 film The Singing Detective.[41] Gibson's gamble paved the way for Downey's comeback and Downey returned to mainstream films in the mid-2000s with Gothika, for which producer Joel Silver withheld 40 percent of his salary until after production wrapped as insurance against his addictive behavior. Similar clauses have become standard in his contracts since then.[42]
After Gothika, Downey was cast in a number of leading and supporting roles, including well-received work in a number of semi-independent films: A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints, Good Night, and Good Luck, A Scanner Darkly, and Steven Shainberg's fictional biographical film of Diane Arbus, Fur, where Downey's character represented the two biggest influences on Arbus' professional life, Lisette Model and Marvin Israel.[43] Downey also received great notice for his roles in more mainstream fare such as Kiss Kiss Bang Bang, Disney's poorly received The Shaggy Dog, and David Fincher's 2007 film Zodiac, in which he played San Francisco Chronicle journalist Paul Avery.[citation needed]
On November 23, 2004, Downey released his debut musical album, The Futurist, on Sony Classical, for which he designed the cover art and designed the track listing label on the CD with his son Indio.[44] The album received mixed reviews,[45][46] but Downey stated in 2006 that he probably will not do another album, as he felt that the energy he put into doing the album was not compensated.[47]
In 2006, Downey returned to his television roots when he guest-starred on Family Guy in the episode "The Fat Guy Strangler". Downey had previously telephoned the show's production staff and asked if he could produce or assist in an episode creation, as his son Indio is a fan of the show. The producers of the show accepted the offer and created the character of Patrick Pewterschmidt, Lois Griffin's long lost, mentally disturbed brother, for Downey.[48]
Downey signed on with publishers HarperCollins to write a memoir, which in 2006 was already being billed as a "candid look at the highs and lows of his life and career". In 2008, however, Downey returned his advance to the publishers and canceled the book without further comment.[49]
With all of the critical success Downey had experienced throughout his career, he had never appeared in a "blockbuster" film. That changed in the middle of 2008 when Downey starred in two critically and commercially successful films, Iron Man and Tropic Thunder. In the article Ben Stiller wrote for Downey's entry in the 2008 edition of The Time 100, he offered an observation on Downey's commercially successful summer at the box office:
Yes, Downey is Iron Man, but he really is Actor Man.[...]In the realm where box office is irrelevant and talent is king, the realm that actually means something, he has always ruled, and finally this summer he gets to have his cake and let us eat him up all the way to the multiplex, where his mastery is in full effect.
In 2007, Downey was cast as the title character in the film Iron Man,[51] with director Jon Favreau explaining the choice by stating: "Downey wasn't the most obvious choice, but he understood what makes the character tick. He found a lot of his own life experience in 'Tony Stark'."[52] Favreau insisted on having Downey as he repeatedly claimed that Downey would be to Iron Man what Johnny Depp is to the Pirates of the Caribbean series, a lead actor that could both elevate the quality of the film and increase the public's interest in it.[21][53][54][55] For the role Downey had to gain more than 20 pounds of muscle in five months to look like he "had the power to forge iron."[56]
Iron Man was globally released between April 30 and May 3, 2008, grossing over $585 million worldwide[57] and receiving rave reviews which cited Downey's performance as a highlight of the film.[58][59] As a result, both Downey and Favreau stated their interest in making an Iron Man trilogy.[60] By October 2008, Downey had agreed to appear as Iron Man in two Iron Man sequels and The Avengers, the superhero team that Stark joins based on Marvel's comic book series The Avengers.[61] He also made a small appearance as Iron Man's alter ego Tony Stark in the 2008 film The Incredible Hulk, as a part of Marvel Studios' attempt to depict the same Marvel Universe on film by providing continuity among the movies.[62]
After Iron Man, Downey appeared alongside Ben Stiller and Jack Black in another 2008 summer film, the Stiller-directed Tropic Thunder. The three stars each play a Hollywood archetype—with Downey playing a self-absorbed multi-Oscar-winning Aussie method actor Kirk Lazarus—as they star in an extremely expensive Vietnam-era film called Tropic Thunder. Lazarus undergoes a "controversial skin pigmentation procedure" in order to take on the role of African American platoon sergeant Lincoln Osiris, which required Downey to wear dark makeup and a wig. Both Stiller and Downey feared Downey's portrayal of the character could become controversial:
Stiller says that he and Downey always stayed focused on the fact that they were skewering insufferable actors, not African Americans. 'I was trying to push it as far as you can within reality,' Stiller explains. 'I had no idea how people would respond to it.' Stiller screened a rough cut of the film [in March 2008] and it scored high with African Americans. He was relieved at the reaction. 'It seems people really embrace it,' he says.[63]
When asked by Harry Smith on CBS's The Early Show who his model was for Lazarus, Downey laughed before responding, "Sadly, my sorry-ass self."[64]
Released in the United States on August 13, 2008, Tropic Thunder received good reviews with 83% of reviews positive and an average normalized score of 71, according to the review aggregator websites Rotten Tomatoes and Metacritic, respectively.[citation needed] It earned US $26 million in its North American opening weekend and retained the number one position for its first three weekends of release. The film grossed $180 million in theaters before its release on home video on November 18, 2008. Downey was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his portrayal of Lazarus.[citation needed]
Opening in late April 2009 was a film Downey finished in mid-2008, The Soloist. The film was pushed out from a November 2008 release by Paramount Pictures due to the studio's tight end-of-year release schedule.[65] Critics who had seen the film in 2008 were mentioning it as a possible Academy Award candidate.[66] Downey still picked up an Academy Award nomination for the 2008 release year for his role in Tropic Thunder,[67] but did not garner similar recognition for The Soloist after its delayed release.[citation needed]
The first role Downey accepted after Iron Man was the title character in Guy Ritchie's Sherlock Holmes. Warner Bros. released on December 25, 2009.[68] The film set several box office records in the United States for a Christmas Day release, beating the previous record holder, 2008's Marley & Me, by nearly $10M, and finished second only to Avatar in a record-setting Christmas weekend box office. Sherlock Holmes ended up being the 8th highest grossing film of 2009.[69][70] When Downey won the Golden Globe for Best Actor in a Motion Picture Musical or Comedy from the Hollywood Foreign Press Association for his role as Sherlock Holmes, he noted in his acceptance speech that he had prepared no remarks because "my wife (Sherlock Holmes producer Susan Downey) told me at 10:00 this morning that Matt Damon (nominated for his role in The Informant!) was going to win."[citation needed]
With the cast of The Avengers, Joss Whedon and Kevin Feige at the 2010 San Diego Comic-Con International.
Following the tremendous success of 2008's Iron Man, Downey agreed to reprise his role as Tony Stark in two more Iron Man films as well as the superhero team put together by S.H.I.E.L.D., The Avengers. After appearing in a connecting cameo scene at the end of the 2008 version of The Incredible Hulk, Downey returned as Tony Stark in the first of two planned sequels to Iron Man, Iron Man 2, opened in May 2010. It grossed over $623M worldwide, becoming the 7th highest grossing film of 2010.[71]
Downey's other commercial film release of 2010 was the comedy road film Due Date. The movie, co-starring Zach Galifianakis, was released in November 2010[72] and grossed over $211M worldwide, making it the 36th highest grossing movie of 2010.[73] Downey's sole 2011 film credit was the sequel to the 2009 version of Sherlock Holmes, Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows, which opened worldwide on December 16, 2011.[citation needed]
In 2012, Downey reprised the role of Tony Stark in The Avengers. The film received positive reviews[74] and was highly successful at the box office, becoming the third highest-grossing film both in the United States and worldwide.[75] Downey played Tony Stark again in Iron Man 3.[76] His next film will be the David Dobkin dramedy The Judge, a project co-produced by his production company Team Downey; filming started in June 2013.[77][78]
In August 2010, Nissan Motor introduced an Advertising campaign, termed "Innovation for all". The campaign will consist of five messages covering the Nissan 2012 product line, with Downey providing narration for the ads.[79]
Robert Downey Jr. has sung on several soundtracks in his films such as Chaplin, Too Much Sun, Two Girls and a Guy, Friends and Lovers, The Singing Detective and Kiss Kiss Bang Bang. He released a CD in 2004 called The Futurist, and while promoting his film Tropic Thunder, he and his co-stars Ben Stiller and Jack Black were back-up singers "The Pips" to Gladys Knight singing "Midnight Train to Georgia".[citation needed]
Downey's most commercially successful recording venture to date (combining sales and radio airplay) has been his remake of the 1973 Joni Mitchell Christmas song "River", which was included on the Ally McBeal tie-in album Ally McBeal: A Very Ally Christmas, released in 2000; Downey's character Larry Paul performs the song in the Ally McBeal episode "Tis the Season".[80] The song receives heavy radio airplay annually during the Christmas season.[citation needed]
On June 14, 2010, Robert Downey Jr. and his wife Susan, opened their own production company called Team Downey. Their first project will be The Judge.[81]
Downey started dating actress Sarah Jessica Parker after meeting her on the set of Firstborn. They separated in 1991 because of his drug addiction, according to Downey.[82] He married actress/singer Deborah Falconer on May 29, 1992, after a 42-day courtship,[83] and had a son with her, Indio Falconer Downey, born on September 7, 1993[84] in Los Angeles County, California. The strain on their marriage from Downey's repeated trips to rehab and jail finally reached a breaking point; in 2001, in the midst of Downey's last arrest and sentencing to an extended stay in rehab, Falconer left Downey and took Indio with her.[83] Downey and Falconer finalized their divorce on April 26, 2004. Downey now sees his son frequently after settling custody arrangements with Falconer.[83]
In 2003, on the set of Gothika, Downey met producer Susan Levin, an Executive Vice President of Production at Joel Silver's film company, Silver Pictures.[41] Downey and Susan quietly struck up a romance during production, though Susan turned down his romantic advances twice.[85] Despite Susan's worries that the romance would not last after the completion of shooting because "he's an actor; I have a real job",[85] the couple's relationship continued after production wrapped on Gothika, and Downey proposed to Susan on the night before her thirtieth birthday.[85] The couple were married on August 27, 2005, in a Jewish ceremony at Amagansett, New York. They have a son together named Exton Elias Downey, born on February 7, 2012 in Los Angeles, California.[86][87] Downey has credited his wife with helping him kick his drug and alcohol habits. "There's no understanding for me of the bigger picture in real time in a hands-on way without her. Because it was the perfect, perfect, perfect matching of personalities and gifts."[88] A tattoo on one of his biceps reads "Suzie Q" in tribute to her.[89][90]
Downey says he has been drug-free since July 2003,[91] thanks to his family, therapy, meditation, twelve-step recovery programs, yoga and the practice of Wing Chun Kung Fu.[16] He has described his religious beliefs as "Jewish-Buddhist",[92] and in the past has been interested in Christianity and the Hare Krishna ideology.[92] In a panel discussion, Rachel McAdams, who co-starred with Downey in Sherlock Holmes, called him a "superhero" for his "committed" work ethic.[93] On the same panel, Downey described how he worked long hours and many weekends to ensure the accuracy of his portrayal of Holmes so as to help make the film a success.[93]
Downey has been a close friend of Mel Gibson since they starred in Air America. Downey defended Gibson during the controversy surrounding The Passion of the Christ, and said "nobody's perfect" in reference to Gibson's DUI.[94] Said Gibson of Downey: "He was one of the first people to call and offer the hand of friendship. He just said, 'Hey, welcome to the club. Let's go see what we can do to work on ourselves.'"[95]
In October 2011, Robert Downey Jr. was being honored at the 25th American Cinematheque Awards. Downey chose Mel Gibson, fellow actor and good friend, to present him with his award for his life's work. After Gibson's introduction, Downey did not discuss himself, instead he explained why he chose Gibson, and continued to utilize his air time by saying a few kind words about Gibson, his recently down-trodden friend. After relaying how Gibson immensely helped him through his hardships, Downey addressed his fellow entertainers directly, "I humbly ask that you join me - unless you are completely without sin, and in which case you picked the wrong fucking industry - in forgiving my friend of his trespasses and offering him the same clean slate that you have me and allowing him to continue his great and on-going contribution to our collective art without shame." After the speech, the two friends hugged onstage, to a standing ovation.[96]
Downey has indicated that his time in prison changed his political point of view somewhat, saying, "I have a really interesting political point of view, and it's not always something I say too loud at dinner tables here, but you can't go from a $2,000-a-night suite at La Mirage to a penitentiary and really understand it and come out a liberal. You can't. I wouldn't wish that experience on anyone else, but it was very, very, very educational for me and has informed my proclivities and politics ever since."[97]
Robert Downey, Jr., Chris Evans, Mark Ruffalo, Chris Hemsworth, Scarlett Johansson and Jeremy Renner vs. Tom Hiddleston – The Avengers (2013)
Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Comedy Series (1994–2009)
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Robert_Downey,_Jr.&oldid=611119355"					
Categories: 1965 birthsAmerican male child actorsAmerican expatriates in the United KingdomAmerican film producersAmerican male film actorsAmerican people of German descentAmerican people of Irish descentAmerican people of Lithuanian-Jewish descentAmerican people of Scottish descentAmerican male television actorsAmerican Wing Chun practitionersBAFTA winners (people)Best Actor BAFTA Award winnersBest Musical or Comedy Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Supporting Actor Golden Globe (television) winnersBuddhists of Jewish descentLiving peopleOutstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Comedy Series Screen Actors Guild Award winnersAmerican people convicted of drug offensesMale actors from Los Angeles County, CaliforniaMale actors from New York CityPeople from Manhattan20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsAmerican people of Swiss descentHidden categories: Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleUse mdy dates from May 2012Articles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2014Articles with unsourced statements from November 2011Commons category template with no category setCommons category with page title same as on WikidataGood articlesWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Love him or loathe him, Robert Downey Junior always provokes a strong reaction in people. With his dark, brooding looks and rock-star lifestyle, he has spent much of his life in and out of the tabloids, rehabilitation and prison. Living life on the edge, Downey Jr managed to weather his personal storm and finally overcame his addiction to drugs.
As a youngster, he was afraid of mediocrity rather than of failure, and grabbed life with both hands to pursue his dreams of becoming an actor, determined to succeed. In over three decades in the industry, Downey Jr has come to be recognised as an extremely versatile, not to mention award-winning, actor. Further exploring his musical potential, Downey Jr released his debut album ‘The Futurist’ in 2004.
Robert Downey Junior was born in Greenwich Village, New York, to parents already in the entertainment industry. His father, Robert Downey Senior, was an actor, producer, writer, cinematographer and independent filmmaker, and his mother, Elsie Ford, a singer and dancer. His older sister, Allyson, was born two years before him in 1963. Downey Jr made his film debut at the age of five, cast as a puppy in his father’s film, ‘Pound’ (1970). Next he was given a small role, along with his mother, in another of his father’s films, ‘Greaser’s Palace’ (1972).
The family moved frequently, due to Downey Sr’s work, living in New York, California, Woodstock, Connecticut, Paris and London. Whilst in London, at age ten, Downey Jr attended the Perry House School in Chelsea, where he studied classical ballet. The following year, 1977, his parents divorced. Downey Jr moved to New York with his mother whilst his sister, Allyson, moved with their father to California.
A few years later, Downey Jr joined his father and sister in Los Angeles, where he attended the Santa Monica High school. He immediately joined the school theatre club and was cast in several school productions. Once more in a Downey Sr film, the 15-year-old Downey Jr played a bit part in ‘Up the Academy’ (1980). His passion for acting was growing strong and in 1982, aged 17 and with his father’s permission, he dropped out of high school to become a professional actor.
Downey Jr moved to New York City, where he shared accommodation with his sister, whilst trying to get his acting career started. He took on a number of part-time jobs, including working as a restaurant busboy, working in a shoe store and performing in Soho underground nightclubs as ‘living art’. He had also joined his local theatre group and began to earn roles in off-Broadway theatre productions. An agent finally spotted Downey Jr and arranged for him to audition for Hollywood films.
Initially, Downey Jr found himself cast mainly in school-themed romantic comedies, such as ‘Baby It’s You’ (1983), ‘Firstborn’ (1984), ‘Weird Science’ (1985) and ‘Back to School’ (1986). Expanding into television at the age of 20, in 1985 he joined the cast of the ever-popular television series ‘Saturday Night Live’ (1975), but only for one season.
Downey Jr was offered increasingly substantial roles, alongside A-list actors. He played the lead in ‘The Pick-Up Artist’ (1987) with Molly Ringwald, Dennis Hopper and Harvey Keitel; co-starred with Cybill Shepherd and Ryan O’Neal in ‘Chances Are’ (1989); and starred with Uma Thurman in ‘Johnny Be Good’ (1988).
Finally achieving recognition for his acting, Downey Jr played Julian Wells, a rich college boy addicted to drugs, in ‘Less than Zero’ (1987) to critical acclaim. Shortly after starring with Sally Field and Kevin Kline in ‘Soapdish’ (1991), Downey Jr played the title role in Richard Attenborough’s ‘Chaplin’ (1992) for which he received an Academy Award nomination and won a BAFTA award for Best Actor. The star was beginning to shine.
After a six-week whirlwind romance, Downey Jr married Deborah Falconer on 29th May 1992. The couple had a son, Indio, on 7th September 1993. Downey Jr’s acting dreams were being realised and he began working with respected directors and producers. He starred briefly with his wife in Robert Altman’s collage of everyday Los Angeles life, ‘Short Cuts’ (1993), before being cast in the seminal Quentin Tarantino movie ‘Natural Born Killers’ (1994), directed by Oliver Stone. Proving he was adept at other genres, Downey Jr starred in Michael Hoffman’s period drama, ‘Restoration’ (1995), with Sam Neill and Meg Ryan.
It seemed to all observers that everything was going swimmingly in Downey Jr’s life until in August 1996, age 31, he had his first brush with the law. Initially stopped for speeding, he was promptly arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol as well as possession of heroin and an unloaded firearm. He was remanded to a secure drug rehabilitation centre and given a suspended prison sentence of three years. He was granted permission of bail, with requirements of random drug testing and drug counselling.
Despite the dent to his image, negative press and battling his personal demons, the by now well-respected actor continued to receive offers of film roles, including Robert Altman’s ‘The Gingerbread Man’ (1998) and ‘Wonder Boys’ (2000), in which he played a bisexual literary agent. There was ‘Gothika’ (2003), a horror film with Halle Berry and Penelope Cruz and ‘The Singing Detective’ (2003), produced by Mel Gibson, who also had a supporting role.
The story of Downey Jr’s continuing love affair with drugs and the consequences he faced as a result became what most people wanted to know about this interesting and sometimes enigmatic man. He later claimed it all began when his father offered him a cannabis joint at the tender age of eight.
On the set of the first film after his arrest, ‘Two Girls and a Guy’ (1997), Downey Jr was required to take daily drug tests. Whilst he remained ‘clean’ during filming, he was soon back to his old habits and, on 17th October 1997, he had his probation revoked after continued drug use. In December 1997 he was sentenced to 180 days at the Los Angeles County Jail, for violating probation and missing his mandatory drug tests.
Unable to stay out of trouble, even whilst in prison, Downey Jr was involved in a fight with another inmate on 13th February 1998. On 31st March 1998 he was moved from jail to a drug rehabilitation centre to complete his six-month sentence and provoked a flurry of objections when he was released to work on a film.
On 6th August 1999, Malibu Judge Lawrence Mira claimed to have no other option than to sentence Downey Jr to prison, in order to save his life. Following three violations of probation for drug and alcohol abuse in a three-year span, since 1996, it seemed clear that Downey Jr could not give up his destructive habits on his own. Judge Mira invoked Downey Jr’s three-year suspended sentence and he was moved to a state prison Reception Centre in Wasco, California.
He remained there for a two-week orientation programme before being transferred on 25th August 1999 to a Department of Corrections prison, SATF, the Substance Abuse Treatment Facility, for drug dependent prisoners in California. On 2nd August 2000 Downey Jr was released from prison on bail.
In a refreshing boost to both his career and his image, Downey Jr made his primetime television debut in 2000 in the popular Fox series ‘Ally McBeal’ (1997). For the following two years, he played the role of Ally’s attorney boyfriend, Larry Paul, for which he received much critical acclaim. Downey Jr won a Golden Globe Award for Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series, Mini-Series or Motion Picture made for Television; and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male in a Comedy Series. He was also nominated for an Emmy award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series.
Despite his work achievements, Downey Jr could not keep on the right side of the law and was re-arrested on drugs and weapon charges on 25th November 2000. Having received an anonymous tip, police apprehended him at the glamorous Merv Griffin resort in Palm Springs, California. He was searched and found to be in possession of cocaine and diazepam. Proclaiming his innocence, he nonetheless co-operated with the police, was kept overnight in police cells and released on bail the following morning. He was remanded to Wavelengths, a live-in drug rehabilitation centre in Malibu, until his court hearing.
Following the arrest, ‘Ally McBeal’ producer David Kelly dropped Downey Jr from the show on 24th April 2001, claiming he was not being fired but would not be available for filming. On 16th July 2001, Downey Jr was sentenced by Californian Superior Court Judge Randall White to remain in rehabilitation for one year, with three years probation. Judge White reported that Downey Jr appeared to be sincere in his determination to overcome his drug addiction and set another progress hearing for March 2002.
Downey Jr’s somewhat turbulent life and addictive personality had taken its toll on his marriage and on 26th April 2004 he and his wife, Deborah, divorced. Becoming more introspective, Downey Jr turned his attention to writing music. He had already proved to audiences that he could also sing, by performing Joni Mitchell’s ‘River’; ‘Every Breath You Take’ with Sting; and ‘Chances Are’ in a duet with Vonda Shephard. He also sang an original song, ‘Snakes’ on the ‘Ally McBeal’ show, that was released on the ‘Ally McBeal’ ‘For Once in My Life’ (1997) album, as well as writing songs for films. For years, his friends had been begging him to record his own songs and, following his divorce, the time seemed right for Downey Jr to finally do just that.
Heading for the studio, Downey Jr recorded his debut album, ‘The Futurist’, released in November 2004 on Sony’s Classical label. The album consisted of eight original tunes, as well as two unforgettable covers, of Charlie Chaplin’s ‘Smile’ and ‘Your Move’ by Yes. Incredibly proud of his achievement, Downey Jr also designed the cover for the album, which, in his own words, is in the music style of “highbrow pop with jazz and classical influences”.
Having met his second wife, producer, Susan Levin, on the set of ‘Gothika’ (2003), Downey Jr proposed to her on her 30th birthday. They were married in a Jewish ceremony on 27th August 2005 in New York. The couple enjoyed a lavish wedding reception, with Sting and Billy Idol performing for their guests, and are still happily married and living in Los Angeles.
His life finally back on track and his addictions a thing of the past, Downey Jr’s more recent films have included playing a thief posing as an actor in ‘Kiss Kiss Bang Bang’ (2005), with Val Kilmer; ‘Good Night and Good Luck’ (2005), directed by George Clooney; and crime drama ‘A Guide to Recognising Your Saints’ (2006) in which he both played a role and co-produced. Futuristic animated drama ‘A Scanner Darkly’ (2006), co–starring Keanu Reaves, was followed by ‘Zodiac’ (2007), David Fincher’s thriller based on the true story of the infamous San Francisco Zodiac serial killer, co-starring Jake Gyllenhaal and Mark Ruffolo.
Later, Downey Jr starred in ‘Charlie Bartlett’, a comedy drama in which Downey Jr plays the somewhat jaded Principal Gardner at a wealthy public school; ‘Tropic Thunder’, a Ben Stiller comedy starring Stiller and Jack Black and ‘The Soloist’, a fact-based drama about a violin prodigy.
It seems that this talented but troubled man has reached a point in his life where he is able to balance acting success and other creative outlets with a happy and drug-free personal life - he has worked hard to achieve this. Downey Jr sums it up succinctly, “You can make miraculous recoveries from seemingly hopeless situations if you put your mind to it and you have enough support. I think it’s the process of maturing.”
With a relatively quiet private life of late, Downey Jr has focused on his craft, and as a result has starred in some of the biggest films of the last four years.
Probably most notable is his portrayal of multi-millionaire playboy Tony Stark in the film adaption of Marvel's comic book hero 'Iron Man'. Not just playing the character in the title trilogy, the star also reprised the role for 2012’s 'The Avengers' and its sequel.
An adaption of 'Sherlock Holmes' (2009), with Downey Jr in the lead role, secured him firmly in his place at the top of the box office, grossing $62.3million (£40million) in its opening weekend. The sequel 'Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows' was released in late 2011.
Meanwhile, comedy 'Due Date' (2010), in which he starred alongside 'The Hangover' breakout star Zach Galifinakis, allowed a return to his comedy roots, which turned out to be a hit with the audience.
For now, Robert Downey Jr should never be far from our screens, with his position set firm in two of Hollywood’s biggest growing franchises.
Right, so: now that we’ve convinced you Lifetime is a thing you need to have in your life – what now? How do you get this on your telly? Here’s what you have to do.
=======================================================
1970Troubled BeginningsAt 5, Robert Downey Jr. – the son of director Robert Downey and actress Elsie Downey – makes his film debut playing a puppy in his father's film Pound. While his director father introduces him to acting, he also introduces him to marijuana as a kid. "When my dad and I would do drugs together," he says, "it was like him trying to express his love for me in the only way he knew how."1984Young LoveDowney falls for Firstborn costar Sarah Jessica Parker, and the couple soon moves in together. But the actor's drug use causes tension in their relationship. "I liked to drink, and I had a drug problem, and that didn't jibe with Sarah Jessica," he later tells Parade. In 1991, Parker ends their seven-year relationship. "She tried to help me," he says. "She was so miffed when I didn't get my act together."1987FallHollywood's Rising StarAfter briefly appearing on Saturday Night Live in 1985, Downey catches Hollywood's eye with star turns in The Pick-up Artist and Less Than Zero, in which he plays a junkie. Having shot the film at the height of his addiction, the actor later tells the Chicago Tribune, "I didn't know if art was imitating life, or what was imitating what."1992MayTaking the PlungeAfter a 42-day courtship, Downey weds singer Deborah Falconer. "It was really her personality, though it was of great benefit that she happens to be one of the most drop-dead gorgeous women I'd ever seen," he tells Playboy in 1997 of their quickie wedding. On September 7, 1993, the couple welcomes a son, Indio.1993JanuaryOscar CallingDowney beats out A-listers Billy Crystal and Robin Williams to land the role of Charlie Chaplin in the biopic Chaplin. Though the film is a box office disappointment, it earns Downey a Best Actor Oscar nomination.1996SummerDowney Does TimeAfter separating from Falconer, Downey has several run-ins with the law for possession of heroin and cocaine, being under the influence and a bizarre incident in which he breaks into a neighbor's home. The actor, who spends nearly four months in prison in 1997, ends up serving another year in 1999 for another misstep. "You are actually in the safest place on Earth," he later says of prison. "Safe from the intruders."2000October 23Hello, Ally!Following his release from prison, Downey joins the cast of Ally McBeal, eventually earning a supporting actor Golden Globe for his performance as Larry Paul. However, the actor continues to struggle with sobriety, and following arrests that November and in April 2001, he is written off the show.2002JulyA New StartAfter completing a year at a live-in rehab facility, Downey is let off of probation. "It's going to be a long time before I can ever say, 'I'm well on the road to recovery,'" he says in court, "but this past year...there has been progress." The actor returns to work with roles in 2003's The Singing Detective and Gothika, where he meets and begins dating Hollywood producer Susan Levin.2005August 27Wedded BlissWith Levin, Downey takes another trip down the aisle. "[She] has got me in a freakin' choke chain, and I love it," the actor, who credits Levin for helping him clean up his act, says of his new wife. That same year, he stars in the comedy Kiss Kiss Bang Bang and George Clooney's Good Night, and Good Luck.2008May 02Superhero ReturnDowney returns to superstardom with the comic book blockbuster, Iron Man, which rakes in $98 million during its opening weekend. "Nobody appreciates this opportunity more," says director Jon Favreau. "To have another shot at this, after what he's had and lost, is as redemptive a story as the movie itself." That August, the actor takes a risk, donning "black face" for his role in Tropic Thunder, which earns him his second Oscar nomination. 
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): Ron Galella/WireImage; Barry King/Wireimage; Everett; Ron Galella/WireImage; Everett; Splash News Online; FOX; Warner Bros.; Julie Skarratt/Landov; Zade Rosenthal/Marvel Entertainment 
									Susan Downey, wife (2002 to present) Deborah Falconer, ex-wife (1992 to 2004; separated in 1996) Sarah Jessica Parker, ex-girlfriend (1984 to 1991)  
   Sep 04, 2013 STAGE RIGHT  Robert Downey Jr. trades places with Juliet backstage in N.Y.C., where he hangs tight with freshly minted… See Photo   Jul 23, 2013 SET UP  Robert Downey Jr. gets into the Boston (Red Sox) spirit on Monday, greeting fans near the Waltham, Mass.,… See Photo
=======================================================
A piper's lament on the Longest Day: World leaders join D-Day veterans on Normandy beaches where 70 years ago today 150,000 Allied troops mounted the biggest amphibious invasion in history
Back to the beaches of death and deliverance: British D-Day veterans revisit the battlegrounds and villages they liberated 70 years on to meet the French civilians they helped to free from Nazis
Fred and the Paras return to the killing fields... as daredevil veteran, 89, is greeted by Prince Charles after fearless leap from the skies
        A beach that in 1944 was being pulverised by shells and gunfire and strewn with the brave wounded and dying  heard the lament of a lone piper today as the world remembers those who made the ultimate sacrifice in Nazi-occupied France. A day of international commemorations of history's biggest amphibious invasion was started at just after midnight with a vigil at Pegasus Bridge, marking the first assault of the D-Day invasion when Allied soldiers landed in the dead of night exactly 70 years ago. As the sun rose on the beaches serving soldiers stood at attention at exactly 6.30am - the moment on June 6, 1944 when Allied troops first waded ashore. The silence was broken as some shouted 'let's go!' and downed shots of Calvados in a salute to their comrades. This morning the Prince of Wales, the Duchess of Cornwall, Prime Minister David Cameron and his wife Samantha were among those who gathered at a D-Day commemoration service at Bayeux Cathedral, right
Samantha Cameron wears 1940s-inspired suit as she joins Prime Minister at D-Day service of remembrance in France
Back to the beaches of death and deliverance: British D-Day veterans revisit the battlegrounds and villages they liberated 70 years on to meet the French civilians they helped to free from Nazis
       The Prime Minister's wife looked chic and smart in a grey suit and cream blouse as she arrived hand-in-hand with David at the Bayeux Cathedral in Ranville, France. Putting on a united front, the former Smythson creative head held hands with the Prime Minister David, who made a speech at the midnight vigil at Pegasus Bridge.
The British people's greatest day: Today, raise a glass to the ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
      If I had to single out one moment of the struggle which represented the zenith of our national achievement, then it must be D-Day, writes MAX HASTINGS.
The British people's greatest day: Cynics will say it's time to move on. But today raise a glass to the sheer ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
'A battle for life or death is in progress': Read the first breaking news report of D-Day as it happened
      The first breaking news report of D-Day as it happened 70-years-ago has been re-released to mark the anniversary of the beginning of the liberation of Europe.
'The job is not finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite triumph over Farage in Newark by-election
      Declaring the result a 'massive second' for Ukip, Farage said 'tremors are still being felt' two weeks after its triumph in the European Parliament elections. The Conservative candidate Robert Jenrick (pictured inset with David Cameron) attracted 17,431 votes - a comfortable majority over Ukip's Roger Helmer, who received 10,028.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
      The MEP strolled to his hotel with tourism executive Ande Soteri at 3.42am after a gala dinner, with conference delegates reportedly 'gossiping' that they left the party together in capital Valletta.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
Police searching for Madeleine McCann 'carry out DNA tests on scraps of clothing they found in a concealed pit close to the area where she went missing'
      Forensic experts drafted in from the UK are said to be carrying out analysis of the 'non organic' material, which was found near a hole in the ground on wasteland in Portugal's Praia de Luz resort.
Use leftover Melba toast... and other money-saving tips by aristocratic politician who lives in a 13-bed manor
      Tory peer Baroness Rawlings, who is married to a multi-millionaire, suggested people reuse their linen and use a bath to warm the room.
Outrage as Vodafone reveals governments can listen in to private mobile phone calls at the 'flick of a switch' across its entire network
      Vodafone said direct-access wires were connected to its network, allowing authorities in 29 countries - including Italy, Malta and Spain - to monitor conversations.
      Labour MP Stella Creasy says women will have to ‘breed for Britain’ if immigration is restricted - and she has a point, writes RICHARD LITTLEJOHN.
Parents held after son, 11, reaches 15 STONE: Couple arrested on suspicion of child cruelty after 'doctors became concerned about boy's wellbeing
      The parents, from King’s Lynn, Norfolk, claim their son's weight gain is genetic and they have tried to keep his size under control.
Shot twice, stuffed in a sack and dumped in a canal... but Pakistani girl, 18, SURVIVES botched 'honour killing' carried out by her own family for marrying the man she loved
       Saba Maqsood (pictured) was attacked by her father, uncle, brother and aunt before she was tossed into the canal, said Ali Akbar, a spokesman for police in Hafizabad, Punjab province. It comes just a week-and-a-half after the broad daylight 'honour killing' of another woman in a city centre drew worldwide condemnation. Mr Akbar told Reuters that the most recent case was also 'an honour-related incident'. 'The victim, Saba ... married her neighbour Muhammad Qaiser for love five days ago against the wishes of her family,' he said.
'Chaos and mass delays' as power failure grounds flights at Bristol Airport and passengers are told to wait outside terminal
      Passengers have taken to Twitter to voice their frustration as flights are delayed and the terminal fills with grounded passengers.
Brother of Sudanese woman facing death penalty for 'abandoning her Islamic faith' by marrying a Christian says 'she DESERVES to be executed'
      Al Samani Al Hadi said that he had denounced his sister Meriam Ibrahim to the authorities because his family are 'Muslim people.'
Former Crimewatch presenter Sue Cook tells Rolf Harris trial she too forgot a game show appearance in Cambridge in 1970s and the star 'shouldn't be accused of lying'
      Sue Cook, 65, told the jury at Southwark Crown Court in London that she had forgotten 'loads' of events she had been to over the years.
Obama pleads with Scotland to vote 'No' to independence AND for Britain to stay in the European Union
      The US President, who met David Cameron in Paris, said the union between England and Scotland had 'worked pretty well' and should stay together.
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Ferry captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his boat in a storm
      Steve Kingston, who runs a river ferry company in King's Lynn, Norfolk, refused to take the council's advice to leave his ship. In response the authorities sent in police to carry out the heavy-handed arrest.
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his ferry in a storm
Does the amount of make-up you wear affect how people treat you? Student tries three different looks to find out
       Brinton Parker, a 21-year-old student at the University of California, was inspired to conduct her experiment after noticing how her peers critiqued people's looks. So during a single week, she went to school wearing three very different make-up looks - bare-faced, moderate and heavy - in a bid to measure the ways it altered how people treated her.
Back to the beaches of death and deliverance: British D-Day veterans revisit the battlegrounds and villages they liberated 70 years on to meet the French civilians they helped to free from Nazis
      More than 650 ex-servicemen are said to have travelled to Normandy to commemorate the invasion which changed history.
Fred and the Paras return to the killing fields... as daredevil veteran, 89, is greeted by Prince Charles after fearless leap from the skies
      Jock Hutton, 89, who was just 19 when he jumped out of a plane to join the Allied assault on Normandy, performed a tandem jump during the commemorations.
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left three Canadian Mounties dead and put city on day-long lock-down
      Justin Bourque, 24, was taken into custody early Friday morning after a deadly shootout in Moncton, New Brunswick, that left three police officers dead.
Outrage as actors dressed as Nazis takeover West Sussex airport 24 hours before 70th anniversary of D-day to film scenes for Ryan Reynolds film
      Stars of new Second World War film Woman in Gold, starring Helen Mirren and Ryan Reynolds, arrived at Shoreham Airport today dressed in full Nazi uniform.
Outrage as actors dressed as Nazis takeover West Sussex airport 24 hours before 70th anniversary of D-day to film scenes for Ryan Reynolds film
'I thought we were crashing': British holidaymakers' terror as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes dramatic emergency landing after losing cabin pressure
       The Jet 2 flight LS516 (inset, file picture) started to rapidly descend just an hour after departing from Paphos, Cyprus, to Newcastle last night. The plane dropped thousands of feet in minutes, while oxygen masks were deployed for passengers (top). The aircraft was forced to divert to Sofia Airport in Bulgaria, where emergency crews were waiting on the tarmac (bottom). Today, British passengers told of their terror after the plane made an emergency landing due to loss of cabin pressure
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
'Fraudsters hijacked our phone line and then stole £41,000 when we called the bank': Customers scammed and then left stranded by their banks
      In two separate cases investigated customers with Lloyds Bank and Nationwide Building Society lost a total of almost £60,000 to the scam.
Suffocated baby's twin returned to parents after judge clears father of accidentally killing her as they slept on sofa, saying the couple 'deserve to be believed'
      The middle class father came under suspicion from Lancashire County Council following the death of his daughter, but judge Mr Justice Peter Jackson (pictured) cleared him of blame.
More mass baby graves in Ireland?  Prime Minister Enda Kenny orders an investigation as memorial for 800 dead babies is planned
      The Irish premier spoke from San Francisco as fears emerged that the suspected mass grave at the children's home in Tuam, Co. Galway, pictured, may not be the only one.
More mass baby graves in Ireland?  Prime Minister Enda Kenny orders an investigation as memorial for 800 dead babies is planned
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
      Researchers from London's University of Westminster asked 124 men - half of whom were hungry and half well-fed - to rate different women by attractiveness.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
Daughter 'had elderly parents shot dead and buried in their garden after mother admitted sleeping with son-in-law... and then she tricked relatives for 15 years into believing they were still alive'
       Susan and Christopher Edwards (right) 'lied to everybody' for 15 years to cover up the killings of Patricia and William Wycherley, (left) from Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, and diverted a total of £245,000 into their own accounts, Nottingham Crown Court was told. Mr Wycherley, 85, and his 63-year-old wife were both shot twice with a revolver over bank holiday weekend in May 1998 and were buried in the garden (centre) prosecutor Peter Joyce QC said.
Plain tobacco packaging does NOT help you quit: Australian figures show 59 million MORE cigarettes were sold during first year of ban on branded packs
      Plain packaging laws came into effect in December 2012 under Labor health minister Nicola Roxon, as part of an attempt to discourage smoking, which claims 15,000 lives each year.
      Dr Viren Swami from the University of Westminster said those in love also tend to think their partner is better looking than themselves.
      People who match with each other on the app can now send pictures visible for 24 hours to each other.
Why Tetris is so addictive: Playing the game is like 'scratching an itch' and appeals to our brain's desire to tidy up
      A psychologist from the University of Sheffield has revealed that Tetris appeals to our brain's desire to solve mini tasks, while being tantalised by more problems.
       Wheeling in on horses and carts, thousands of travellers have pitched up on a privately owned golf course in the small market town of Appleby, Cumbria, for the largest event of its kind in Europe. The week-long Appleby Horse Fair attracts members of the gypsy community from around the world, and has previously been featured in popular Channel 4 show My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding.
Bergdahl 'declared himself a warrior for Islam and played soccer with his captors after being found by the Taliban wandering along a roadside cursing America'
      Sgt. Bowe Bergdhal converted to Islam during his captivity in Afghanistan, declaring himself a 'mujahid', or warrior for the faith according to secret new documents.
Backlash over Britain's first secret terror trial: MPs call for urgent debate over plans to set 'dangerous precedent' by holding case behind closed doors
      The case - in which a judge declared he would try two suspected terrorists y behind closed doors - was described as a 'dangerous precedent' .
Backlash over Britain's first secret terror trial: MPs call for urgent debate over plans to set 'dangerous precedent' by holding case behind closed doors
The average woman wants to meet ‘the one’ aged 24, have a child at 27 and reach the top of their career by 34
      Nearly two-thirds of those studied had a detailed life plan they try to follow – with targets such as passing their driving test by 19, living healthily by 24 and getting engaged at 26.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
      Vincent Walsh, professor of human brain research at University College London, also proposed they should be allowed to set their own work times, arriving whenever they want.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: How unconventional 25-year marriage to first wife inspired world's greatest living scientist... and a movie
       Eddie Redmayne had books on Albert Einstein in his dressing room when he took on the part of Professor Stephen Hawking for a film about the physicist's 25-year love affair with his first wife Jane (the actor with Felicity Jones in the film, left, and the Hawkings in the 1960s, right). The actor, who shot to stardom in the movie musical Les Miserables, explained that Einstein and Dean were brilliant in their fields and idols to women. Redmayne grinned and said of Hawking (inset): 'Women flock to him, too. He loves women; women love him.'
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
Pregnant woman will give birth in prison after violently attacking a stranger in the street because of her Scottish accent
      Kaily Amess, 22, pictured, violently attacked Wendy Barbour, 44, from behind as she was talking on the phone in Newcastle.
Pregnant woman will give birth in prison after violently attacking a stranger in the street because of her Scottish accent
Lying law graduate who claimed boyfriend raped her 11 times so she had an excuse for failing her bar exams faces jail
      Rhiannon Brooker, 30, from Frampton Cotterell, South Gloucestershire, claimed Paul Fensome, 46, forced her to have sex with him on 11 occasions.
      Not everyone who has terminal cancer can find it in themselves to be so valiant and heroic, to face death with such dignified equanimity.
Britain by numbers: How the United Kingdom is a nation divided by health, wealth and what we call our babies
      From fertility and baby names to life expectancy and immigration, there are stark differences between England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
      Researchers at the University of Rochester, in the U.S., say male brains are affected more significantly than female brains.
      In a bitter attack on the UK, Jean-Claude Juncker also condemned what he described as a British campaign against his presidency.
'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richman poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
       Former Man V. Food host Adam Richman is celebrating is 70lb weight loss with a naked spread in Cosmopolitan UK's July issue. Mr Richman, 40, poses lying down with a soccer ball precariously covering his genitals. He wears soccer cleats and knee socks and is surrounded by a smattering of soccer balls that read 'USA', in reference to this summer's World Cup.
School at centre of alleged Islamist 'Trojan Horse' takeover plot rejects Ofsted report saying it is failing to protect pupils from extremism
      The report - made public yesterday but leaked to the Mail on Monday - said Golden Hillock school in Birmingham (pictured), was doing too little to keep students safe from extremist views.
Sales executives whose boss 'spoke to their breasts not their face' in line for five-figure pay out after tribunal finds he was 'fixated'
      Darren Scott, 55, was obsessed with Diane Nicholl-Pierson’s breasts and regularly spoke to them instead of her face, an employment tribunal found.
Gary Glitter charged with drugging and having sex with girl aged under 13 as he is accused of series of historic sex offences against children
      Gary Glitter is to be charged with eight sexual offences relating to girls aged between 12 and 14, and will appear at Westminster Magistrates Court.
Gary Glitter charged with drugging and having sex with girl aged under 13 as he is accused of series of historic sex offences against children
Mother who was three times over the limit swigged vodka at wheel of her car with her baby daughter sat next to her
      Deborah Poulton, 38, from Poole, Dorset, was pulled over by police after being reported by another driver for dangerous driving.
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney enters the Big Brother house... and claims she has been celibate for a year
          Prison food went down well then! Chris Brown shows off a fuller physique as he arrives at 'get out of jail free' party thrown by lover Karrueche Tran
          Nigella Lawson lets her hair down at charity dinner... as her production company makes £2.5 million profit in a year
          It's over: Jennifer Lopez and dancer boyfriend Casper Smart 'call it quits'... amid transsexual sexting scandal
          Crazy Stupid Stomach! Cheryl Cole reveals her washboard abs in low- cut crop top in stills from video for new single
          Now that's Fancy! Shipshape Iggy Azalea slips into green bikini for luxury yacht holiday to celebrate 24th birthday
          Samantha Cameron wears 1940s inspired suit as she joins husband David at D-Day service of remembrance in France
          Cara Delevingne shows off her supermodel style in plunging printed silk jumpsuit as she attends Stella McCartney party with pal Jourdan Dunn
          She must've Heard it was a fashion event! Amber steals the limelight as she displays her pins in fetching red minidress at Stella McCartney presentation
          Millie Mackintosh highlights her slender frame in snakeskin jumpsuit at Smirnoff Mix It campaign launch
          Moss be having fun! Kate looks worse for wear in clashing prints as she hits Prince gig and Chiltern Firehouse with Nick Grimshaw
          Don't mind us! Michael Sheen and Sarah Silverman make a discreet exit after late night out at celebrity haunt Chiltern Firehouse
          Team green! Brooke Vincent's 22nd birthday celebrations continue as she hits Manchester in sexy jumpsuit flanked by pals
          Fancy meeting you here! Kim Kardashian and Hilary Duff bring their children to same parenting class in Beverly Hills
          'He's struggling!' Kris Jenner opens up about Rob Kardashian's issues, but does not deny daughter Kourtney is pregnant with third child
          Kourtney Kardashian covers up 'baby bump' in baggy black sweater as she and Scott Disick grab lunch in The Hamptons
          Meet first 10 Big Brother 2014 contestants: A former prostitute, a strict catholic and a one-hit wonder amongst those first in house
          When in Ibiza! TOWIE's Mario Falcone puts his washboard abs on display as he greets topless fans during stag do holiday
          Lovely in lace! Kate Beckinsale steals the show in strapless white dress at Macbeth opening night bash
          Doesn't she get a day off? Alesha Dixon shows off her super flat stomach as she dresses up again for UK premiere of Belle
          Here come the girls! Daisy Lowe sports cropped blouse and flared dress trousers for night out at Scott's with fellow fashionista Alexa Chung
          TOWIE's Gemma Collins wears white skinny jeans with confidence after losing nearly two stone ahead of Marbella special
          'He's lost... but he's no racist': Rapper 50 Cent defends Justin Bieber following N-word storm... as singer 'takes responsibility for his actions'
          Still selfie obsessed! Kendall and Kylie Jenner pucker up for picture... despite being mobbed by fans at book signing
          'She has the perfect body!' Kris Jenner says daughter Kendall's topless modelling shots 'comes with the territory'
          Jumping into action! Emma Willis wins the viewers votes as she kicks off Big Brother 2014 in flattering white all-in-one
          Big Brother 2014 Launch: Pauline Bennet goes on a 'power trip' as a playboy bunny and devout Catholic are amongst first stars to enter the house
          Big Brother reveals first twist of the series as Pauline Bennet is told to pick who wins £5,000 and which housemate is excluded on first night
          Lo(han) and behold... she's out again! Flame-haired Lindsay rocks a grungy leather jacket and skirt combo as she enjoys another night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Hot stuff! Sienna Miller shows off her slim pins in red minidress on date night with fiancé Tom Sturridge at Chiltern Firehouse
          He's scored! Phil Neville can't resist kissing bikini-clad wife Julie as family holiday in Barbados continues
          Look, I can do streetwise too! J-Lo is just Jenny From The Block as she steps out in denim after being branded a sell out at Bronx homecoming 
          Time to update the wardrobe! Chantelle Houghton wears her favourite white blazer as she goes shopping with Dolly
          Together again! Eva Longoria reunites with Desperate Housewives co-star Felicity Huffman at Jane Fonda Tribute
          The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
          Rolling Stones stars Mick Jagger, Ronnie Wood and Charlie Watts visit Jerusalem's Western Wall before first ever Israel concert
          Pastel perfection: Lindsay Lohan reveals very slim pins in pale blue skinny jeans and jumper as she steps out to lunch
          Diary of BGT's ditziest finalist: Lettice on auditioning hungover, her outrageous stage costumes and being loaned a £1.5million violin to perform
          George RR Martin makes fundraising appeal to Game Of Thrones fans to name a character he will kill in upcoming novel
          The Queen lights up the Champs-Élysées: Her Majesty - in her FOURTH chic outfit of the day - has red carpet rolled out for her in Paris ahead of D-Day
          Catherine Zeta-Jones and Morgan Freeman share a friendly kiss gone wrong... as she and Michael Douglas arrive at Hollywood event together
          Pins on parade! Jessica Seinfeld and Liv Tyler wear revealing short summer dresses at Stella McCartney presentation
          'She's celestial... I was born into her': Keith Urban on his divine connection with Nicole Kidman... and how her drug intervention saved him
          She's still got it! Jane Fonda, 76, wows as she accepts lifetime achievement award... days after giving sex tips on Conan O'Brien
          Return Of The Jedi! Mark Hamill, 62, shows he can still handle a Lightsaber during visit to Disney World 37 years after first playing Luke Skywalker
          'You don't always have to be naked!' TLC slam Rihanna for using sex to sell records saying it's the easy way to get to the top in the music industry
          Justin Bieber has been 'non-stop crying' after two videos surface showing him singing vile racial slurs at the age of 14
          Escorted by her Goodfella! Robert De Niro's wife Grace Hightower shines in blue dress at documentary premiere in New York
          A cause close to her heart: Demi Lovato speaks about her own personal struggles during mental health event
          Pregnant Jessica-Jane Clement shows off her growing baby bump as she takes her dogs for a leisurely walk
          'People don't want them here': Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian continue to annoy Hamptons locals with 'outrageous filming demands'
          Lupita Nyong'o to star in and produce big screen adaptation of award-winning novel Americanah
          I'll be back... after my cigar break: Arnold Schwarzenegger takes things slowly as he has a sly puff on set of Terminator: Genesis
          Jaime King parades her pins in sporty cardigan and matching mini-skirt at the McDonald's World Cup party in NYC
          'I am not an opportunist!' Fan who bought Whitney Houston's mansion for $1.5m insists he will NOT open it to the public
          Christie Brinkley, 60, proves you're never too old for leather trousers as she stuns on lunch date with her son Jack
          Showing off her street style! Emmy Rossum awaits Stella McCartney presentation on the sidewalk in chic fringe dress
          Orange Is The New White! Taylor Schilling shows off toned pins in pearl-coloured dress at TheWrap's Emmy Celebration
          Did she use those scissors on her skirt? LeAnn Rimes sizzles in slinky white dress with thigh-high slit as she cuts ribbon to kick off CMA Music Festival
          Over already? Jennifer Lopez parties in NY with handsome rapper T.I.... as 'cheating' toy boy Casper Smart is nowhere to be seen
          Carey Mulligan and Helena Bonham Carter chant at a Votes for Women rally in first still from upcoming film Suffragette
          Are those clothes from the Thrift Shop? Macklemore and Ryan Lewis make a cool arrival in dapper attire to Sin City nightclub
          Happy to get his kit off! Robbie Williams gets help to change into his football top during preparations for SoccerAid
          One big happy family! Hilary Swank shows her maternal side as she gives her boyfriend's little girl a kiss at French Open
          'I've had a lot of therapy': Katy Perry talks about getting over exes John Mayer and Russell Brand... and how long she's gone without sex in new interview
          Ricky Gervais and longtime partner Jane Fallon attend Derek event after visiting their Muppet pals on Sesame Street
          Date night! Twilight star Ashley Greene stuns in tiny black playsuit at she takes boyfriend Paul Khoury to glitzy event in West Hollywood
          While they were teaching! Sandra Bullock makes a surprise visit to her son Louis' school as she donates goodies to the faculty
          What will Rita think? Calvin Harris parties with ANOTHER mystery woman on a night out as girlfriend Ora enjoys Mexican getaway
          Evan Rachel Wood sued for $30M after bailing on film 10 Things I Hate About Life... as rep slams lawsuit as 'preposterous' and a 'bullying tactic'
          'With you I will go': Kanye West beams as Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli serenades Kim Kardashian at their lavish Florence wedding
          Newlywed Kim Kardashian to spend up to a month shooting KUWTK spin-off in The Hamptons... but Kanye West isn't sure if he wants to join her
          Deja blue: Rosario Dawson is back in her favorite colour after wowing in that revealing gown at the Cannes Film Festival
          'I'm Sporty Spice!' Gisele Bundchen shows off washboard stomach in a bikini for cover shoot as she admits she loves to exercise
          That's her secret! Jordana Brewster shows off svelte arms pushing her son Julian along in his stroller
          The fight for $50m: Bowling For Columbine filmmaker Michael Moore claims wife of 22 years spent recklessly as they prepare for divorce trial
          She's no shrinking violet! Lorde wears purple lipstick from her new Mac collection during bewitching performance in London
          Looking scarily good! Camilla Belle wears a skull print T-shirt as she arrives at LAX after South America trip
          You'll never take King's Landing with THAT! Game Of Thrones star Kit Harington poses with plastic dragon at Universal Studios
          'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richmand poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
          Shane Warne caught kissing and sharing intimate embrace with Playboy cover girl Emily Scott... but he STILL insists he's single
          Boho babe: Alessandra Ambrosio forgoes make-up as she runs errands in LA clad in a pretty lilac tie-dye maxi-dress
Still clutching their rosaries after hundreds of years, eerie photographs show mummies buried in a Czech underground crypt
       A monastery in the Czech Republic has a ghoulish secret for those willing to venture underground - two dozen corpses clutching rosaries are on display. The bodies in the Capuchin Crypt of the Holy Cross Church, in Brno, date back hundreds of years, but they were only recently rediscovered and opened to public viewing.
Lansley had all the urgency of a snail crossing a hosta leaf: QUENTIN LETTS on Yesterday in Parliament
      Andrew Lansley uses thousands of words to say almost nothing, moving at the speed cold honey drips from a teaspoon.
TOM UTLEY: Yes, I risk a lynching by feminists, but why on earth is a 'family friendly' government paying mums to dump children in nurseries?
      The Queen's Speech contained details about a Childcare Payments Bill, which would offer subsidies of up to £2,000 a year to mothers.
TOM UTLEY: Yes, I risk a lynching by feminists, but why on earth is a 'family friendly' government paying mums to dump children in nurseries?
Newborn who died from contaminated hospital drip was just nine days old it emerges as total number of babies seriously ill from the rogue batch has risen to 18
      The baby boy who died from a suspected contaminated drip in London's St Thomas' hospital was today named as nine-day-old Yousef Al-Kharboush
Ten hospital staff suspended after elderly woman died days after being found with 'unexplained and serious injuries' at hospital
      Tegwen Roderick, 88, was being treated at the Cwm Cynon Hospital in Mountain Ash, South Wales (pictured) when the injury was discovered.
Chinese family of three commit suicide after racking up £900 credit card debt with no means of paying it back
      The deaths in the city of Shanghai have stirred a national debate in China over the easy access to credit that people not used to money now have as the country becomes ever more western in its ways.
That'll definitely help: U.S. Secret Service buys special software that can detect SARCASM on Twitter
      The tender calls for a social media analytics software tool that can analyse Twitter data in real-time, identify statistical patterns and present complex data in a clear, concise way.
      Eddie Davenport managed to get himself out of his sickbed to present an award at last Monday’s London Club & Bar Awards at the Intercontinental Hotel.
      Grayson Perry and his wife Philippa turned up at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition party on Wednesday in what looked like mix ’n’ match wardrobes.
Michael Gove and Theresa May to be grilled over their Cabinet bust-up: As top civil servant steps in, PM vows: 'I'll get to the bottom of this'
      The Home Secretary and the Education Secretary will each be interviewed by Cabinet Secretary Sir Jeremy Heywood, according to government sources.
'It's time for the people to speak': Aunt of Spain’s new Queen Letizia tweets her followers calling for a Republic
      Henar Ortiz Alvarez, the aunt of future queen Letizia Ortiz, made her feelings known on Twitter tweeting: It's time for the people to speak...'
Enjoy summer while it lasts because storms are on the way this weekend... but at least the damp weather means Britain's largest laburnum arch will be in bloom for even longer
       Saturday will see heavy rain along with some of the worst hailstorms in years - but there could be sunshine on Sunday. Twister tornado-like cloud formations were even spotted snaking their way across fields over Lincolnshire yesterday, while other parts of the UK basked in glorious sunshine and high temperatures, pictured. The Met Office has already issued a yellow severe weather warning for the whole of England and Wales, as well as southern parts of Scotland.
      But researchers at the University of Pittsburgh found a man's consumption of alcohol had no influence on their daughter's drinking habits.
Conman jailed for posing as Britain's Steven Spielberg to trick animation companies into giving him £800,000
      David Griffiths, 50, (pictured) from Oreton in Shropshire, conned investors by pretending to be a multi-millionnaire owner of a successful production company with close links to animation giants Pixar.
Conman jailed for posing as Britain's Steven Spielberg to trick animation companies into giving him £800,000
Restaurant rage: Living in an area with lots of fast food stores can make you impatient and unable to savour things, researchers warn
      Toronto researchers say just the presence of the chains was enough to cause people to struggle to slow down and savour things.
The transforming desk that moves up and down to keep you fit - and can even track how much exercise you get at the office
      The $3,900 Stir Kinect desk has a motor to raise and lower itself, converting it into a standing desk or a traditional desk.
Scaffolding company fined £5,000 after worker was caught dangling his legs over the edge five floors up with no safety barrier
      JOS Scaffolding Ltd pleaded guilty to breaking safety laws after pictures of its precariously-perched workers on a busy London street were sent to the Health and Safety Executive.
'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die': New book reveals Roman Polanski's private memories of wife Sharon Tate, slaughtered by Charles Manson's 'Family' when she was pregnant
      Sharon Tate's sister Debra has compiled a book of exclusive photographs and memories dedicated to the actress from her husband Roman Polanski.
Sword-wielding Sikhs clash at India's Golden Temple during prayers to mark the deadly 1984 military assault at Amritsar
       At least six people were injured as dozens of Sikh radicals clashed with supporters of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC) at the Golden Temple, in Amritsar. It is understood the scuffle erupted over who would speak first at the service, held to remember victims of government offensive Operation Blue Star that left hundreds dead on June 6, 1984.
M&S boss takes self-imposed 26% pay cut after failing to turn round profit slump - but he still pockets £1.6m
      Marc Bolland's basic salary was unchanged at £975,000, but his decision to give up a pay rise and to not receive a bonus means his pay package was cut by 26% to £1.59m in 2013/2014.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
      Mr Justice Saunders told the jury a private detective working for the tabloid had accessed the 13-year-old’s phone - but had not deliberately deleted the voicemails.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
Extravagant hen dos now cost guests so much they rival the amount spent on attending the actual wedding!
      Gone are the days of a knees-up down the pub as the average cost of attending a hen do has rocketed and often involves a trip abroad.
      Paula Binns claims the GP at the Gill Medical Centre in Walkden told her to seek advice from a vet instead after taking Lilyanna in when she noticed the parasite.
       Revellers at the rented student house (inset top right) in Fallowfield, Manchester, were plunged into the basement (left) after the floor fell through (right). Students described how 'everyone was screaming' as the boards split, throwing up a cloud of dust. However, nobody was hurt.
Weak pound and high cost of living: Why retiring abroad is now branded 'a luxury' with some popular destinations even pricier than UK
      Experts warned moving abroad is 'no longer an option for the average British person' according to experts, due to rising prices in Europe.
      Ministers are concerned that malicious saboteurs who use the internet to spark civil unrest could get off lightly under current legislation.
Can you tell what it is? From the teeth of a snail and the skin of garlic, microscopic images reveal the world in close up
      British photographer David Maitland took the astonishing pictures to show how the world can look very different close up.
      The new board of the Financial Information Authority has vast international experience and includes a woman for the first time, the Vatican said.
      Annual house price inflation was 8.7 per cent, on Halifax's measure, with the average home costing almost £18,000 more than a year ago.
Tom Sharpe's ashes buried in same Northumberland cemetery as his father where he is laid to rest with bottle of whisky, a cigar and his favourite pen
      The partner of comic author Tom Sharpe who died in Spain last year has driven his ashes 1,200 miles to a small Northumberland church fulfill his dying wish.
This is how you catfight, son! Father teaches his kittens the best way to pack a punch when he sees how terrible they are at brawling
       A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video shot in an unknown location that proves boys will be boys no matter the species. The YouTube clip from user kamzer opens with two very young kitten siblings wrestling on a kitchen counter. Suddenly their papa cat peeps up from the floor below and before they can purr 'TKO,' their dad is in the mix teaching them a proper left hook.
      A new report by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau has confirmed that the original search area along the 'seventh arc' of the southern Indian Ocean for MH370 is the right place to be looking for the missing jet.
Daaadddd! British teenagers stay an average of 6.7 metres away from their 'embarrassing' fathers in public
      The average father also does 627 ‘dad miles’ every year on weekends, ferrying teens to and from parties and other social gatherings, often very late into the evening.
Diabetic put her life at risk to lose weight: Mother stopped taking her insulin injections after ballooning to 19 stone
      Hayleigh Juggins, 20, from Bedfordshire, ignored doctors' advice to take insulin after the birth of her daughter, Angel.
Would YOU eat it? Seaside parlour creates battered fish and chip flavoured ice cream - complete with mushy peas
      Teare Wood's Ice Cream Parlour, in Whitby, North Yorkshire, has combined the traditional holiday tastes to tempt tourists.
Thalidomide survivors launch a fresh legal bid against manufacturers of controversial morning sickness pill
      Papers have been filed at the High Court on behalf of eight people whose mothers took the anti-morning sickness drug when pregnant in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
      Research published in the journal The Obstetrician and Gynaecologist shows a small percentage of headaches were caused by potentially life-threatening neurological conditions.
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at US university, killing one and wounding three
       Students at Seattle Pacific University say Jon Meis (right) saved countless lives when he sprang into action as the shooter stopped to reload his weapon. The gunman has been identified as Aaron Ybarra, 26 (left). Ybarra is a Seattle resident who lives with his parents. He has allegedly confessed to the shootings and even bragged about the carnage he inflicted on the campus.
Flight of a lifetime! 130 tickets go on sale to fly alongside Lancaster bomber that's in UK for last time - but it will set you back £2,150
      The Lancaster will be in the UK, flying from Canada to England, for four days, arriving on August 8, making the 18-hour trip for the first and final time.
      His comments came ahead an International Monetary Fund report, which is expected to warn that potential for runaway house price growth threatens the recovery.
Two people rescued by police after barricading themselves in a bedroom because they were scared of their dog Fluffy
      The dog owners blocked themselves in their home in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, after becoming frightened of their Staffordshire bull terrier, Fluffy (pictured).
Motorcyclist rushed to hospital and bystanders injured by flying debris after crash with a police car
      The motorcyclist suffered left head and leg injuries in the crash at around 1.20pm on the Cotton Street junction with Poplar High Street, in Poplar, east London.
Is this really the best way to woo tourists? Crisis-hit Egypt introduces £15 airport tax ... that will be hidden in cost of flight tickets
      The departure fee - which costs the same amount as a visa for trips up to 30 days - has been criticised as a further deterrent for travellers to visit the destination.
Postal worker posed as Bargain Hunt auctioneer to steal £3,000 from a bank... but was caught when the cashier spotted he was a 'nervous' fake
      Anthony Wolstencroft, 27, from Blackley, Greater Manchester, pictured, pretended to be antiques expert Charles Hanson at a Natwest bank branch.
      After pinpointing three types of stem cells in umbilical cords, Melbourne researchers could be on the verge of a major breakthrough in preventing cerebral palsy.
Woman, 22, seriously hurt in acid attack outside restaurant as 48-year-old female suspect is arrested
      A 48-year-old woman has been arrested on suspicion of causing grievous bodily harm in the attack, which happened in Sandown on the Isle of Wight in the early hours of yesterday.
Woman, 22, seriously hurt in acid attack outside restaurant as 48-year-old female suspect is arrested
Filthy fish and chip shop shut down after dead mice were found rotting while staff cooked meals and droppings were found in spice mix
       Health inspectors investigating an Oldham takeaway discovered rotting mice decaying on a glue trap, left, with a deep fat frying covered in grease and fat, top right, and work surfaces used for preparing food covered in mouse droppings, a court has heard. Owner Sarfaz Rouf told magistrates that he did not have a 'vast knowledge' of food hygiene.
Forget passwords, the future of security is SQUIGGLY LINES: How free-form gestures may replace PINs and grids on phones
      During tests, Rutgers University in New Jersey's free-form gestures (pictured) could not be stolen by hackers.
The end of mouldy bread? Edible film made from oils could extend the life of an everyday loaf by more than two weeks
      Scientists at the Federal University of Viçosa in Brazil used essential oils found in clove and oregano to prolong the life of sliced bread (stock image).
Man and women die from ‘overpowering fumes’ after jumping into cesspit to retrieve ‘expensive phone’
      The woman had dropped her device – worth 2,000 yuan (£190) – in the open-pit toilet, reported Dahe, a website run by the Henan provincial government.
From robotic milk maids to self-driving tractors and drones that monitor crops: Scientists reveal the future of farming
      EXCLUSIVE: A Farmer's Weekly survey has revealed which current and futuristic technologies top the wish lists of British farmers.
You will be happy! Thai junta offers free haircuts and puddings to the masses as part of charm offensive after seizing power in military coup
      Army bosses, who seized power in Bangkok just weeks ago, say cheering up the country is a top priority and want to reinstate Thailand as the ‘Land of Smiles’.
You will be happy! Thai junta offers free haircuts and puddings to the masses as part of charm offensive after seizing power in military coup
      Jobless Andrew Boyce won the money and a Porsche Boxster GTS after he snapped up 50 tickets for a draw at the Westfield shopping centre in Stratford, east London
Thor, god of the lie-in! 'Talking' puppy growls 'no' at his owner as he's told to get out of bed at 3:30am
       Thor the dog from Birmingham, Michigan, is seen in a video peacefully lying in bed before being woken up at 3.30am. But showing that it's not just humans who struggle in the morning, the little pup repeatedly growls what sounds like 'no' as he refuses to get up.
      Brand Fatyo from Japan has ditched the traditional size labels in its garments in favour of more literal descriptions such as - titch, skinny, fat and jumbo.
Zoo worker in gorilla suit shot with tranquiliser dart during 'escape drill' because no-one told the vet it wasn't real
      The 35-year-old zoo employee was shot on Monday at Tenerife's Loro Parque Zoo. Staff were taking part in a drill designed to ensure they had an emergency plan in place in case one of the gorillas escaped.
Builder hired to renovate Oxford Street store stole £30,000 of designer goods including sunglasses and perfume during his first shift
      A builder helped himself to £30,000 of designer goods on his first shift when he was hired to renovate Boots on Oxford Street, London.
Don't REIN on my parade! Moment horse bolted from Whitehall procession throwing off its rider (who still got up and saluted the Queen as she came past seconds later)
      As the Queen made her way from Buckingham Palace, Musaqaleh had other plans, bolting off towards Horse Guards Parade.
Versace, Gucci... il Duce? Wardrobe where Mussolini's corpse was kept for 11 years up for auction on eBay
      The wardrobe itself is worthless but, having been the hiding place for the dictator’s corpse between 1946 and 1957, it has ghoulish value for collectors of fascist memorabilia.
How the moon was made: Researchers reveal new evidence Earth was hit by giant object as big as Mars 4.5 billion years ago
      German researchers say their analysis of Apollo moon rocks rocks show Earth was hit by a huge object called 'Theta' which led to the moon's formation.
Did HUMANS wipe out the woolly mammoth? Study finds a direct link between hunting and the extinction of large Ice Age animals
      Researchers at Aarhus University in Denmark came to the conclusion after looking at the pattern of extinctions for 177 species between 132,000 years and 1,000 years ago.
Sky-high WiFi will soon be available across Europe: Passengers on British Airways flights to get internet within three years
      Internet will be soon be available on British Airways flights (pictured) across Europe. The service will be provided by London-based satellite operator Inmarsat.
Amid urban squalor, Nature's glory takes wing: Just why is this dazzling blue kingfisher slumming it among shopping trolleys in South London?
       These kingfishers, captured by photographer Tomos Brangwyn on the River Wandle, are a tribute to the amazing turn-around in the fortunes of Britain’s urban rivers over the past 50 years.
Amid urban squalor, Nature's glory takes wing: Just why is this dazzling blue kingfisher slumming it among shopping trolleys in South London?
William Hague condemns Assad's election victory as 'an insult to Syrians' that bore 'no relation to genuine democracy'
      Tens of thousands took to the streets in government-held areas even before the results were announced on Wednesday evening, waving portraits of Assad and the official Syrian flag.
I still feel his presence and ... find him in my dreams: Nancy Reagan makes poignant visit to Ronald's grave on 10th anniversary
      Former First Lady Nancy Regan finds it ‘really hard’ to believe former President Ronald Regan has been dead for 10 years on the anniversary of his death.
Trans-cending preconceptions: Thought-provoking new photo series celebrates the lives of trans-identified and gender nonconformist individuals
      Rhys Harper, who is based in Syracuse, New York, is hoping his project will help to shift people's perspective on the subject.
Back to the rock! Adventurer leaves the UK for Britain's loneliest outpost in the Outer Hebrides in second attempt to break record
      Nick Hancock will try again to land on Britain's loneliest island Rockall tomorrow, weather permitting, to break the record of 42 days there.
      Ben Baldwin, 22, from Barnsley, has cerebral palsy, severe epilepsy and learning difficulties and is often too ill to go outside, so Tiger visits him in his bed.
An eggs-traordinary find! Ancient reptile fossils shed light on how mysterious Pterosaurs nested like modern-day birds
      The five intact eggs were found in the Xinjiang province, China and all belonged to a previously unknown pterosaur species, Hamipterus tianshanensis.
You appear to have an ad-blocker running which will prevent this page from functioning as intended. Please disable your ad-blocker or set an exception for this page.Today's hottestfashion findsSee moreRihannaWow like Rihanna in an embellished sheer dressRead more ›KarruecheWork a simple white dress into your summer wardrobeRead more ›JenniferStep up your cool style with a pair of fresh sneakersRead more ›KourtneyGo back to black in monochrome Nike trainersRead more ›
          King Kevin rules supreme: Spacey is magnificent in one-man show Clarence Darrow, writes QUENTIN LETTS
          BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Let's hear it for the Scottsboro Boys! Brandon Victor Dixon to star in West End production of extraordinary show
          Poetic, haunting... these D-Day letters moved me to tears: CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV
          'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die:' Roman Polanski shares private memories of wife Sharon Tate in new book on pregnant beauty's tragic life
          A hit and miss comedy: There are funny moments, but Jump Street's daft cops fail to reach the hilarious heights of their first film
          This won't do Grace any favours: BRIAN VINER reviews Nicole Kidman's latest film Grace of Monaco
          Hollywood's $800 facial: The secret to Angelina Jolie's glowing skin combines microdermabrasion, laser and a peel
          It's DJ Delta! The Voice Kids coach Goodrem jets home from Hollywood with an edgy new look complete with ripped jeans and shiny headphones
          She's certainly a good advertisement! US TV presenter Maria Menounos promotes her diet and fitness book in shiny black shorts in New York City
          'I gave him every bit of advice but now it's up to him': Usher opens up about his friend Justin Bieber's spiral out of control
          It's ON Again! Spring Breakers star Ashley Benson steps out with her beau Ryan Good wearing a bright playsuit
          Put away the bowl! Cindy Crawford reveals her stunning mane of hair was not always her crowning glory in cute flashback photo
          'I almost killed Tom Cruise!' Emily Blunt recalls terrifying moment she nearly crashed a car while shooting scenes for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Still a sex symbol! Raquel Welch, 73, looks decades younger in white jeans and yellow jacket while out to dinner
          Her own best ad! Kate Hudson displays her washboard abs as she models for fitness line... and shares her workout motivation
          Angela Simmons displays toned physique in sexy summery outfit as she hints at new venture following power lunch with her 'fitness gurus'
          The Devil Wears...white! Meryl Streep goes sinister as the Chief Elder of a dystopian society in The Giver
          Nature girl! Vanessa Hudgens shows off her toned tummy in black crop top and shorts during a vigorous hillside hike
          'I'd be open to doing more True Detective': Matthew McConaughey expresses interest in reprising Rust Cohle TV role
          Pretty as a picture! Jessica Alba shows her passion for prints while leaving the studio with takeout lunch
          That's where she gets it from! Leggy Gigi Hadid is chic in short metallic frock while out with her stylish mother Yolanda Foster
          Natalie Portman is fresh-faced and flawless as she touches down at LAX with husband Benjamin Millepied and their adorable son Aleph
          Good news for Miley Cyrus as police 'arrest two people in their 20s' in connection with star's stolen $100k Maserati
          Hot mama! Country singer Jessie James shows off her trim post-baby body at CMT Awards... just three months after giving birth
          Don't mention the outfit! Even Lena Dunham has 'no comment' over her unflattering ensemble as she enjoys a stroll in New York
          'Superhero workout!' Arrow's Stephen Amell shows off his impressive 'parkour' skills on military inspired obstacle course
          Strong sensitive types! Insurgent's Theo James brings Fault In Their Stars book to the gym while Miles Teller pumps some iron
          Farrah Abraham reveals she's writing a Christian parenting book... despite admitting she needs 'space' from her four-year-old and waxes child's eyebrows
          She's glowing: Holly Willoughby shows off growing bump in navy skater dress as she films This Morning segment
          She's anything but PLANE! Carol Vorderman shows off her pins in hot pink and black dress at photocall after jetting herself back from awards show
          'We've got a Christmas bun in the oven! Coronation Street's Paula Lane announces first pregnancy with childhood sweetheart Tom Shaw on Twitter
          'I'm going to get stick for this': Amy Willerton posts bikini selfie... but worries about how her fans will react
          'Squats are the key! Even 10 make me feel better': Victoria's Secret Angel Candice Swanepoel reveals secrets behind that body
          The lady is a vamp! Rihanna unleashes her rock chick side in a skimpy leather two-piece and fierce lace-up heels for Paris charity event
          Explicit content! Lindsay Lohan can't even manage a supporting role in sheer logo top... but at least gives parental advisory warning
          A leggy Lily Allen makes rare appearance with husband Sam Cooper for date night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Think pink! Alex Gerrard shows off her toned figure and glowing tan in bubblegum-hued workout gear
          She's well-heeled: BGT star Lettice Rowbotham whips off her shoes as she heads to BBC studios
          Russell Brand DEFENDS Justin Bieber for making vile racial slurs at the age of 14... claiming he should be 'let off' because it was 'ages ago'
          Whatever the leather: New mum Caprice shows off her post-pregnancy figure in skin-tight leather skirt and top
          Welcome to the strip: Danielle Lloyd and husband Jamie O'Hara jet into Vegas for a holiday with friends
          Not a bad consolation prize! Michael Carrick puts World Cup woes behind him as he and wife Lisa strip to their swimwear to top up their tans in Ibiza
          Graham Norton saves Amanda Holden from revealing more than she intended while doing a handstand in LBD
          It's a very Vogue birthday: Model Bambi Norwood-Blyth celebrates by shooting for fashion magazine with designer husband Dan Single
          J-Wow! Jennifer Lopez doesn't leave much to the imagination as she strips down to sexy latex stockings and suspenders to play first-ever hometown gig
          J.Lo revisits the Bronx and THAT Versace dress for homecoming show... after transsexual bikini model linked to Casper Smart speaks out
          Feeling like a million dollars! Matchmaker Patti Stanger, 53, wears plunging swimsuit as she celebrates her birthday with toyboy fiancé
          Do Ya Thang! Rihanna is sexy in a silky black miniskirt and matching tuxedo jacket as she goes for dinner in Paris
          Here comes the bride! Adam Levine to marry model Behati Prinsloo in 'intimate Mexican ceremony' on July 19
          Politics is the new black: AnnaLynne McCord votes for her spiritual guru as congressional candidate... but she comes in fourth
          She can't resist her man in uniform! Suki Waterhouse gets to grips with Bradley Cooper on set of American Sniper
          Million dollar smile! Victoria Justice beams in an unusual wrap dress at the Spent: Looking For Change premiere
          Strong after 22 years! Woody Allen strolls through Central Park with Soon-Yi Previn... as he prepares to shoot Emma Stone movie in Rhode Island
          Mama June doesn't let her 'forklift foot' get in the way of a family pool day as she goes swimming in socks
          Ramona Singer holds hands with husband Mario on romantic movie date... after firing off legal warning to his mistress over 'lewd messages'
          'Millie Mackintosh and Abbey Clancy already have their eyes on a few pieces': Julien Macdonald unveils glamorous beachwear range for Matalan
          She's stopping traffic: Elsa Pataky wears striking lime green reptilian dress to take over the streets of Madrid for fashion shoot
          Ivana Trump sells her Palm Beach mansion for $18 million - more than FOUR TIMES what she paid for it in 1994
          Table for three! Pregnant Julia Carey displays subtle baby bump as she steps out for dinner with James Corden at Chiltern Firehouse
          Beyonce shows off her amazing legs in pink mini dress as she has a date night with Jay Z in New York
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney set to reveal sex secrets in Big Brother house
          Watch your tan-line! Abbey Clancy wows in a daring cut-out panel swimsuit as she holidays in Hawaii with Peter Crouch
          Now that's a game plan! Gisele Bundchen and Tom Brady's sprawling new Boston mansion takes shape
          Your slip is showing! Leggy Chrissy Teigen heats up New York in black lace lingerie and white knit sweater while heading to dinner
          Looking slinky! Casey Batchelor struts in shiny snakeskin leggings and low-cut top as she models her new fashion collection
          She's got it! Eliza Doolittle is a triumph in plunging leather crop-top and sporty silk trousers at The Other Ball
          'There's quite a bit of blood': The 911 call made after The Brady Bunch housekeeper Ann B Davis has fatal fall is released
          Does she EVER stay in? As Princess Beatrice dines at Roka, we bring you the hotspot-hopping royal's guide to London's smartest restaurants
          From Iceland to ice cool: Sexiest Woman of All Time Rachel Stevens swaps supermarket chic for a semi-sheer top and smart tailoring
          Hawaii-five-WHOAH!! Emma Roberts bares her toned tum in daring crop top... while Lupita Nyong'o is a vision in green at the Maui Film Festival opening 
          Is this Jen 2.0? Meet the 2014 Miss Universe Australia finalist who works as Jennifer Hawkins' body double - and she's from her home town!
          'No more marriages': Pregnant Katie Price vows to never wed again after third husband Kieran Hayler cheated on her
          He's leaving Home! Summer Bay's resident  hottie Lincoln Younes swaps surfing for the 1960s as he takes a new role in Love Child
          Supporting her man! Khloe Kardashian opts for cleavage-baring top as she watches French Montana at J-Lo Bronx show
          Kanye West to take 'drastic measures' to beef up daughter North's security as he 'fears for her safety'
          True Blood star Jim Parrack to divorce wife of six years Ciera... as he 'moves on' with Hunger Games actress Leven Rambin
          Hats you win! Racing fan Jodie Kidd smoulders as she strikes a pose in glamorous headgear ahead of the Derby
          He's clearly nutritious! TOWIE's Gemma Collins can barely keep her lips off mystery new boyfriend as she debuts him on health shop trip
          Belle-y of the ball: Miley stands out in crop top and ripped jeans as she leaves hotel after Copenhagen concert
          He still has the big house! OJ Simpson's Florida home sold for $655,000 in foreclosure auction
          'It's given me a chance to give something back': Cambridge medical student wins swimsuit round of the Miss England
          I got fired for being pregnant: Lara Stone says she was axed for modelling job because she was too fat
          Are they dating? Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Meryl Davis reunite for cosy night on the town two weeks after DWTS win
          Mother of three Elsa Pataky, 37, dazzles in black mini skirt as she unveils her new fitness book and her rock hard abs
          Alessandra Ambrosio shows off her toned tum in black crop top and displays perfect pins in thigh-split skirt as she attends event with fiance Jamie Mazur
          Cashmere from Tesco. Undies from Asda. Posh frocks from Sainsbury's: The ultimate guide to summer style at the supermarket!
          Her faiery tale life! Sam Faiers puts her cleavage on display in plunging dress for Alice In Wonderland themed magazine photo shoot
          Cara Santana puts on a brave face as she hits the gym in midriff baring vest after boyfriend Jesse Metcalfe's ex slammed his bedroom prowess
          'She's being tormented and harassed': Kardashians rent store in The Hamptons and landlord gets 'slammed on internet' and 'snide comments' for doing it
          Kendall Jenner continues to take the plunge as she dons low-cut black number while promoting new sci-fi book with Kylie
          Sheer daring! Pregnant Rebecca Ferguson looks radiant in black gown as she shows off her baby bump ahead of performance at Parkinson's event
          Something to get off your chest? Lily Allen's deep pink hair is overshadowed by keyhole black dress featuring centre split at The Other Ball
          It's there in black and white: Jessica Wright wears chic backless jumpsuit... while Diana Vickers thrills in mini at Parkinson's event
          Former Beverly Hills, 90210 star Rebecca Gayheart goes dotty in see- through shirt as she takes adorable daughter Billie Dane out for the day
          That's why the Sexiest Woman Of All Time goes to Iceland! Rachel Stevens is far cry from title as she goes make-up free in frozen food store
          'Some guys prefer blondes, some brunettes - I like old ladies': 'Extreme toyboy', 31, takes 91-year-old girlfriend home to meet his mother
          'I need to step up and own what I did': Bieber apologises after fresh clip of singer 'changing song lyrics to joke about killing a n****** and joining Ku Klux Klan'
          Getting to grips with the wildlife! Ellie Goulding posts cute Instagram snap cuddling a koala while on tour in Australia
          Let the pageant begin! Miss USA 2014 contestants strut their stuff at the preliminary competition in Louisiana
          Demi Lovato steals the spotlight in a statement black and yellow frock as she picks up Fun Fearless Latina Of The Year Award
          Robin Wright and Mel B prove simplicity is best in elegant black ensembles at magazine bash
          Let's bounce! Hugh Jackman is jumping for joy in a mysterious new video that says shows him hopping around the world
          'I invented the international press tour': Tom Cruise makes claim after whirlwind three-country première feat for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Ooh la la! Kirsten Dunst goes topless for Madame Figaro magazine as she reveals she feels more appreciated in France
Is that an Old Master painting - or Beyonce’s Master Cleanse? Photographer recreates celebrity diets as still lifes
       Italian Dan Bannino reproduced the diets of Gwyneth Paltrow, Kate Moss, Beyonce Knowles, Simon Cowell, Bill Clinton, Lord Byron, and even King Henry VIII. 'My aim was to capture the beauty that lies in this terrible constriction of diets and deprivation', explains Mr Bannino. 'To show how this weirdness hasn’t changed even since the 15th century.'
Fizzy drinks 'loaded with harmful sugars could increase the risk of developing diabetes, cardiovascular and liver disease'
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say the drinks contain more fructose, which is converted to fat in the liver, than people realise.
      Crowds screamed out as the boy, thought to be about three years old, appeared to cling to the ledge of an apartment block in Vila Velha, Brazil.
Meet Pepper, the world's first robot that reads emotions: Cute droid knows if you're upset, cracks jokes and offers support
       Tokyo-based firm, Softbank, recently unveiled the £1,130 robot which uses cloud-based artificial intelligence to study gestures, expressions and speech. The 48 inch (121 cm) (48 inch) tall, 62 lb (28 kg) Pepper (pictured top right) has no hair, but two large doll-like eyes and a flat-panel display stuck on its chest. The machine, which has no legs, but has gently gesticulating hands appeared on a stage in a Tokyo interacting with Softbank's chief executive Masayoshi Son (left and bottom right).
China may have banned Tiananmen Square memorial but the rest of Asia remembers: From Hong Kong to Taiwan thousands hold vigil on 25th anniversary of Beijing massacre
Dont come back, next time you wont get out alive: Talibans taunt as they released deserter POW Bowe revealed in propaganda video
Pictured: Grinning father of famous model moments after he executed his neighbour and minutes before he 'swallowed the gun' in dramatic standoff with Chinese SAS
Suicidal Chinese mother leaps from third floor balcony after her daughter refused to break up with 'lazy' boyfriend (but miraculously survives)
Hundreds of pro-Russian rebels killed in fierce attack by Ukrainian forces as Obama tells Nato allies 'you'll never be alone'
Thousands of anti-monarchist protesters take to streets of Spain calling for a republic after King Juan Carlos abdicates after 39 years
Woolly jumpers, wide collared jackets and unflattering skirts ... the medal for worst Commonwealth Games uniforms goes to Australia
King Juan Carlos of Spain in shock abdication after 40 years as his son and glamourous ex-newsreader wife take on challenge of leading Spain out of the doldrums
Spain harbours highest number of expat benefit cheats with more than 700 believed to be scamming the system while soaking up the sun
Mother of British backpacker missing in Malaysian jungle for six days arrives in country 'to be here when they find him'
Come here you big BULLy! Chinese wrestlers get to grips with giant calves in man over beast competition
China disgust at woman who beheads cat and posts image online - and then blames 'alcohol and domestic misfortune'
Bodies of five French soldiers from WWI found alongside their wallets, rifles and a figurine of the Virgin Mary in French wood 100 years after they were killed
My Big Fat Gypsy horse fair: Traditional gathering begins in Appleby - and is already hit by row over...
'The job isn't finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite...
Obama pleads with Scotland to vote 'No' to independence AND for Britain to stay in the European Union
Back to the beaches of death and deliverance: British D-Day veterans revisit the battlegrounds and villages...
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left...
Home of the free! Father paints his house with stars and stripes in protest at local officials who tried to...
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at Seattle Pacific...
Another shabby day for the marshmallow President: As his Taliban hostage swap sours, why Obama is a pygmy...
Together in life and in death: Devoted couple who died just two hours apart are cremated in a double casket
       Kevin and Christine Shearson (pictured right on their wedding day), both 64, from Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, passed away just a week before they planned to celebrate their 40th wedding anniversary. Mr Shearson had suffered a number of health problems after being diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and his wife was struck down with a chest infection after becoming concerned about his health. They were laid to rest together at West Hertfordshire Crematorium in Watford (left) in a funeral ceremony attended by more than 150 people.
Life on the rubbish dumps of Paranaque: How Filipino children and adults risk their lives to eek out a living recycling waste - but still manage to raise a smile
      These are the men, women and children who spend their days living among rotting garbage, smoke-filled air and polluted water, just so they can survive.
Caught on video: The moment huge Chinese ship ploughed into Vietnamese fishing boat in disputed waters in the South China Sea
      The new footage appears to show the Chinese ship ramming the much smaller vessel last week, in supposedly Vietnamese waters where China has erected a gigantic oil rig.
Female ex-pats in Cambodia warned to be on alert for British ‘conning Casanova’, 19, who befriends women then steals their credits, money and jewellery
      Teenager Liam Strother, from Grantown-on-Spey, Scotland, is said to have won the confidence of British women living in Cambodia before stealing from them.
Female ex-pats in Cambodia warned to be on alert for British ‘conning Casanova’, 19, who befriends women then steals their credits, money and jewellery
Malaysian police refuse to rule out foul play in case of missing backpacker Gareth Huntley as his family await autopsy to determine whether shirtless body found in Malaysian jungle pond is him
      Mr Huntley's mother Janet Southwell, who arrived in Malaysia on Monday was pictured this morning outside Tengku Ampuan Afzan Hospital in Kuantan with his girlfriend Kit Natariga.
Investigation under way after Ryanair plane rolls backwards and crashes into airport building, destroying tail wing
       The force of the impact tore apart the rear stabiliser of the £72m Boeing 737 at Rome Ciampino Airport yesterday. The accident happened shortly after the aircraft, which has been grounded, landed and passengers had disembarked. Witness said the plane suddenly began to roll backwards and smashed into the garage of the fire station at the airport causing external damage there as well.
          Rooney rage: England star raps Scholes for saying he faces axe... and Moyes insists his former player can light up World Cup in Brazil
          Jose Mourinho has admitted Chelsea are interested in signing the former Arsenal captain from Barcelona 
          Jose Mourinho admitted that letting the midfielder go was one of the most difficult acts of his career
          Louis van Gaal has told the former Fulham boss his services will not be required at Old Trafford
          Real Madrid will trigger the latest saga in Luis Suarez's colourful career by bidding around £76m
          Countdown to World Cup hots up as brainbox Riley crunches the numbers to predict winning team
          NICO ROSBERG COLUMN: When there are awkward moments, Lewis and I discuss them and we move on...
          Murray on a mission to dethrone Nadal as he takes on King of Clay in French Open semi-final
=======================================================
Gender: Male Born: April 4, 1965 Birthplace: New York City, New York, USA Nationality: United States 
From All Movie Guide: Hailed by many critics as one of the most brilliant and versatile actors of his generation, Robert Downey Jr. chalked up a formidable onscreen track record that quickly launched the young thesp into the stratosphere. Although, for a time, Downey's stormy offscreen life and personal problems threatened to challenge his public image, he quickly bounced back and overcame these setbacks, with a continued array of impressive roles on the big and small screens that never sacrificed his audience appeal or affability.The son of underground filmmaker Robert Downey, Downey Jr. was born in New York City on April 4, 1965. He made his first onscreen appearance at the age of five, as a puppy in his father's film Pound (1970). Between 1972 and 1990, he made cameo appearances in five more of his father's films. The actor's first significant role, in 1983's Baby, It's You, largely ended up on the cutting-room floor; it wasn't until two years later that he began landing more substantial parts, first as a one-season cast member on Saturday Night Live and then in the comedy Weird Science. In 1987, he landed plum roles in two films that capitalized on the Brat Pack phenomenon, James Toback's The Pick-Up Artist, (opposite Molly Ringwald), and Less Than Zero, for which he won acclaim playing cocaine addict Julian Wells.Through it all, Downey cultivated an enviable instinct for role (and script) selection. His turns in Emile Ardolino's classy reincarnation fantasy Chances Are (1989), Michael Hoffman's Soapdish (1992), Robert Altman's Short Cuts (as the Iago-like Hollywood makeup artist Bill Bush), and Richard Loncraine's Richard III (1995) wowed viewers around the world, and often, on those rare occasions when Downey did choose substandard material (such as the lead in Richard Attenborough's deeply flawed Chaplin (1992), or an Australian media parasite in Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers [1994]), his performance redeemed it. In fact, critics deemed Downey's portrayal as one of the only worthwhile elements in the Chaplin biopic, and it earned the thesp a Best Actor Oscar nomination, as well as Golden Globe and British Academy Award noms.Around this time, Downey's personal life took a turn for the worse. In June 1996, the LAPD arrested the actor (who had already spent time in three rehabilitation facilities between 1987 and 1996) on counts including drug use, driving under the influence, possession of a concealed weapon, and possession of illegal substances, a development which struck many as ironic, given his star-making performance years prior in Less Than Zero. A month after this arrest, police found Downey Jr. unconscious on a neighbor's lawn, under the influence of a controlled substance, and authorities again incarcerated him, taking him -- this time -- to a rehab center. A third arrest soon followed, as did another stint in rehab. His stay in rehab didn't last long, as he walked out, thereby violating the conditions of his bail. More arrests and complications followed -- in fact, the actor had to be released from rehab to make James Toback's Two Girls and a Guy -- but he still landed a few screen appearances and won praise for his work in Mike Figgis' One Night Stand (1997) and Altman's otherwise-disappointing Gingerbread Man (1998). In addition, he starred in one of his father's films, the offbeat Hugo Pool (1997). In 1999, he had three films out in theaters: Friends and Lovers, Bowfinger, and In Dreams. He delivered a particularly chilling performance in the latter, as longhaired psychopathic child murderer Vivian Thompson, that arguably ranked with his finest work. But Downey's problems caught up with him again that same year, when he was re-arrested and sentenced to 12 months in a state penitentiary. These complications led to the actor's removal from the cast of the summer 2001 Julia Roberts/Billy Crystal comedy America's Sweethearts and his removal from a stage production of longtime friend Mel Gibson's {+Hamlet}, although a memorably manic performance in Curtis Hanson's Wonder Boys made it to the screen in 2000. Downey's decision -- after release -- to pursue television work, with a recurring role on Ally McBeal, marked a brief comeback (he won a 2001 Best TV Series Supporting Actor Golden Globe for the performance). Nevertheless, series creator David E. Kelley and the show's other producers sacked Downey permanently when two additional arrests followed. During this period, Downey also allegedly dated series star Calista Flockhart.In 2002, a Riverside, CA, judge dismissed all counts against Downey. In time, the former addict counseled other celebrity addicts and became something of a spokesperson for rehabilitation. He starred as a hallucination-prone novelist in The Singing Detective in 2003, and while the film didn't achieve mainstream success, critics praised Downey for his interpretation of the role, alongside Oscar winners Adrien Brody and Mel Gibson. The same could be said for Gothika (2003), the psychological thriller that placed him opposite Hollywood heavyweight Halle Berry. In 2004, Downey appeared in Steven Soderbergh's portion of the film Eros.Downey achieved success throughout 2005 with appearances in George Clooney's critically lauded Good Night, and Good Luck -- as one of Ed Murrow's underlings -- and he paired up with Val Kilmer in Shane Black's directorial debut Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang. He continued balancing more mainstream fare, such as Disney's Shaggy Dog remake, with challenging films such as Richard Linklater's rotoscoped adaptation A Scanner Darkly. That same year, Downey wrapped production on Hanson's Lucky You, the story of a card shark (Eric Bana) who faces off against his father (Robert Duvall) at the legendary World Series of Poker, while simultaneously attempting to woo a beautiful singer (Drew Barrymore).Downey continued to show his versatility by joining the casts of Zodiac, David Fincher's highly-touted film about the Zodiac Killer, and the Diane Arbus biopic Fur, with Nicole Kidman. A supporting role in Jon Poll's 2007 directorial debut Charlie Bartlett followed. The biggest was yet to come, however, as 2007 found Downey taking on the roles that would make him an even bigger star than he'd been in his youth, as he took on the leading role of sarcastic billionaire and part-time super hero Tony Stark in the big screen adaptation of the comic book Iron Man, as well as self-important actor Kirk Lazarus in the comedy Tropic Thunder. Both films turned out to be not just blockbuster successes at the box office, but breakaway hits with critics as well, and in addition to major praise, the actor also walked away from 2008 with an Oscar nomination for his performance in Tropic Thunder.Wed to actress Deborah Falconer from 1992-2004, Downey married Gothika producer Susan Levin in 2005. He and Falconer have one son, Indigo Downey. ~ Nathan Southern, Rovi      
© 2010 All Media Guide, LLC Portions of content provided by All Movie Guide ®, a trademark of All Media Guide, LLC
