=======================================================
Stephen John Fry (born 24 August 1957) is an English comedian, actor, writer, presenter, and activist.
After a troubled childhood and adolescence, during which he was expelled from two schools and spent three months in prison for credit card fraud, he secured a place at Queens' College, Cambridge, where he studied English literature. While at university, Fry became involved with the Cambridge Footlights, where he met his long-time collaborator Hugh Laurie. As half of the comic double act Fry and Laurie, he co-wrote and co-starred in A Bit of Fry & Laurie, and took the role of Jeeves (with Laurie playing Wooster) in Jeeves and Wooster.
Fry's acting roles include a Golden Globe Award–nominated lead performance in the film Wilde, Melchett in the BBC television series Blackadder, the title character in the television series Kingdom, a recurring guest role as Dr. Gordon Wyatt on the crime series Bones, and as Gordon Deitrich in the dystopian thriller V for Vendetta. He has also written and presented several documentary series, including the Emmy Award–winning Stephen Fry: The Secret Life of the Manic Depressive, which saw him explore his mental illness. He is also the long-time host of the BBC television quiz show QI.
Besides working in television, Fry has contributed columns and articles for newspapers and magazines and written four novels and two volumes of autobiography, Moab Is My Washpot and The Fry Chronicles. He also appears frequently on BBC Radio 4, starring in the comedy series Absolute Power, being a frequent guest on panel games such as Just a Minute, and acting as chairman for I'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue, where he was one of a trio of hosts who succeeded the late Humphrey Lyttelton. Fry is also known for his voice-overs, reading all seven of the Harry Potter novels for the UK audiobook recordings, and narrating the LittleBigPlanet and Birds of Steel series of video games, as well as an animated series of explanations of the laws of cricket.[5]
Fry, upper right, rehearsing a student production of A Midsummer Night's Dream at the Norfolk College of Arts and Technology in 1975
Fry was born in Hampstead, London, on 24 August 1957, the son of Marianne Eve Fry (née Newman) and Alan John Fry, an English physicist and inventor.[6][7][8] Fry was raised in no religious faith.[9]
Fry's mother was Jewish, and his maternal grandparents, Martin and Rosa Neumann,[8] were Hungarian Jews, who emigrated to Britain in 1927; Martin's parents, who originally lived in Vienna, Austria, were sent to a concentration camp in Riga, Latvia and murdered.[8][9][10] His mother's aunt and cousins were sent to Auschwitz and never seen again.[8] Fry's father is English, and his paternal grandmother had roots in Kent and Cheshire.[11][12][13]
Fry grew up in the village of Booton near Reepham, Norfolk, having moved from Chesham, Buckinghamshire, at an early age. He has an elder brother named Roger and a younger sister named Joanna.[14][15]
Fry briefly attended Cawston Primary School in Cawston, Norfolk,[16] before going on to Stouts Hill Preparatory School in Uley, Gloucestershire, at the age of seven, and then to Uppingham School, Rutland, where he joined Fircroft house, and was described as a "near-asthmatic genius".[17] He was expelled from Uppingham when he was 15 and subsequently from the Paston School.
At 17, after leaving Norfolk College of Arts and Technology, Fry absconded with a credit card stolen from a family friend.[18] He had taken a coat when leaving a pub, planning to spend the night sleeping rough, but had then discovered the card in a pocket.[19] He was arrested in Swindon, and, as a result, spent three months in Pucklechurch Prison on remand. While Fry was in Pucklechurch, his mother had cut out the crossword from every copy of The Times since he had been away, something which Fry said was "a wonderful act of kindness". Fry later stated that these crosswords were the only thing that got him through the ordeal.[18]
Following his release, he resumed his education at City College Norwich, promising administrators that he would study rigorously to sit the Cambridge entrance exams. He scored well enough to gain a scholarship to Queens' College, Cambridge. At Cambridge, Fry joined the Cambridge Footlights, appeared on University Challenge,[20] and read for a degree in English literature, graduating with upper second-class honours.[21][22] Fry also met his future comedy collaborator Hugh Laurie at Cambridge and starred alongside him in the Footlights Club.
Fry's career in television began with the 1982 broadcasting of The Cellar Tapes, the 1981 Cambridge Footlights Revue which was written by Fry, Hugh Laurie, Emma Thompson and Tony Slattery. The revue caught the attention of Granada Television, who, keen to replicate the success of the BBC's Not the Nine O'Clock News, hired Fry, Laurie and Thompson to star alongside Ben Elton in There's Nothing to Worry About!. A second series, re-titled Alfresco, was broadcast in 1983, and a third in 1984; it established Fry and Laurie's reputation as a comedy double act. In 1983, the BBC offered Fry, Laurie and Thompson their own show, which became The Crystal Cube, a mixture of science fiction and mockumentary that was cancelled after the first episode. Undeterred, Fry and Laurie appeared in an episode of The Young Ones in 1984, and Fry also appeared in Ben Elton's 1985 series, Happy Families. In 1986 and 1987 Fry and Laurie performed sketches on the LWT/Channel 4 show Saturday Live.
Forgiving Fry and Laurie for The Crystal Cube, the BBC commissioned, in 1986, a sketch show that was to become A Bit of Fry & Laurie. The programme ran for 26 episodes spanning four series between 1986 and 1995, and was very successful. During this time, Fry starred in Blackadder II as Lord Melchett, made a guest appearance in Blackadder the Third as the Duke of Wellington, then returned to a starring role in Blackadder Goes Forth, as General Melchett. In the 1988 television special Blackadder's Christmas Carol, he played the roles of Lord Melchett and Lord Frondo.
Between 1990 and 1993, Fry starred as Jeeves (alongside Hugh Laurie's Bertie Wooster) in Jeeves and Wooster, 23 hour-long adaptations of P. G. Wodehouse's novels and short stories.
Towards the end of 2003, Fry starred alongside John Bird in the television adaptation of Absolute Power, previously a radio series on BBC Radio 4.
In 2010, Fry took part in a Christmas series of short films called Little Crackers. His short was based on a story from his childhood at school.[23] He appeared as the Christian God in 2011's Holy Flying Circus.
Fry has appeared in a number of BBC adaptations of plays and books, including a 1992 adaptation of the Simon Gray play The Common Pursuit (he had previously appeared in the West End stage production); a 1998 Malcolm Bradbury adaptation of the Mark Tavener novel In the Red, taking the part of the Controller of BBC Radio 2; and in 2000 in the role of Professor Bellgrove in the BBC serial Gormenghast, which was adapted from the first two novels of Mervyn Peake's Gormenghast series. In 2011, Fry portrayed Professor Mildeye in the BBC adaption of Mary Norton's 1952 novel The Borrowers.[24]
Fry narrates the first two seasons of the English-language version of the Spanish children's animated series Pocoyo.[25]
From 2007 to 2009, Fry played the lead role in (and was executive producer for) the legal drama Kingdom, which ran for three series on ITV1.[26] He has also taken up a recurring guest role as psychiatrist Dr. Gordon Wyatt in the popular American drama Bones.
In 2010, having learned some Irish for the role,[27] he filmed a cameo role in Ros na Rún, an Irish-language soap opera broadcast in Ireland, Scotland and the United States.[28][29][30]
In 2014 he began starring alongside Kiefer Sutherland and William Devane in 24: Live Another Day as the British Prime Minister.[31]
Fry's first documentary was the Emmy Award-winning Stephen Fry: The Secret Life of the Manic Depressive in 2006.[32] The same year, he appeared in the genealogy series Who Do You Think You Are?, tracing his maternal family tree to investigate his Jewish ancestry.[33] Fry narrated The Story of Light Entertainment, which was shown from July–September 2006.[34] In 2007, he presented a documentary on the subject of HIV and AIDS, HIV and Me.[35]
On 7 May 2008, Fry gave a speech as part of a series of BBC lectures on the future of public service broadcasting in the United Kingdom,[36] which he later recorded for a podcast.[37]
His six-part travel series Stephen Fry in America began on BBC One in October 2008, and saw him travel to each of the 50 US states.[38] In the same year, he narrated the nature documentaries Spectacled Bears: Shadow of the Forest for the BBC Natural World series.
In the 2009 television series Last Chance to See, Fry and zoologist Mark Carwardine sought out endangered species, some of which had been featured in Douglas Adams' and Carwardine's 1990 book and radio series of the same name.[39]
In August 2011, Stephen Fry's 100 Greatest Gadgets was shown on Channel 4 as one of the 100 Greatest strand.[40] His choice for the greatest gadget was the cigarette lighter, which he described as "fire with a flick of the fingers".[40] In the same month, the nature documentary series Ocean Giants, narrated by Fry, premièred.
In September 2011, Fry's Planet Word, a five-part documentary about language, aired on BBC HD and BBC Two.[41][42]
In November 2011, an episode of Living The Life featured Fry in an intimate conversation discussing his life and career with Rolling Stones bass player Bill Wyman.[43]
At the 2012 Pride of Britain Awards, broadcast on ITV on 30 October, Fry, along with Michael Caine, Elton John, Richard Branson and Simon Cowell, recited Rudyard Kipling's poem If—, in tribute to the 2012 British Olympic and Paralympic heroes.
In November 2012, Stephen Fry hosted a gadgets show called Gadget Man, exploring the usefulness of various gadgets in different daily situations to improve the livelihoods of everyone.[44]
In October 2013, Fry presented Stephen Fry: Out There, a two-part documentary in which he explores attitudes to homosexuality and the lives of gay people in different parts of the globe.[45]
On Christmas Day 2013, Fry featured with adventurer Bear Grylls in an episode of Channel 4's Bear's Wild Weekends. Over the course of two days, in the Italian Dolomites, Fry travelled on the skids of a helicopter, climbed down a raging 500-foot waterfall, slept in a First World War trench and abseiled down a towering cliff face.[19]
In 2003, Fry began hosting QI (Quite Interesting), a comedy panel game television quiz show. QI was created and co-produced by John Lloyd, and features permanent panellist Alan Davies. QI has the highest viewing figures for any show on BBC Four and Dave (formerly UKTV G2).[46][47] In 2006, Fry won the Rose d'Or award for "Best Game Show Host" for his work on the series.
Having made his film début in the 1985 film The Good Father, Fry had a brief appearance in A Fish Called Wanda (in which he is knocked out by Kevin Kline, who is posing as an airport security man), and then appeared as the eponymous Peter in Kenneth Branagh's Peter's Friends in 1992. In the 1994 romantic comedy film I.Q., he played the role of James Moreland. Portraying Oscar Wilde (of whom he had been an ardent admirer since the age of 13) in the 1997 film Wilde, he fulfilled to critical acclaim a role that he has said he was "born to play". It also earned him a nomination for Best Actor – Drama in the 1998 Golden Globe Award. A year later, Fry starred in David Yates' small independent film The Tichborne Claimant, and in 2001 he played the detective in Robert Altman's period costume drama, Gosford Park. In the same year, he also appeared in the Dutch film The Discovery of Heaven, directed by Jeroen Krabbé and based on the novel by Harry Mulisch.
In 2003, Fry made his directorial début with Bright Young Things, adapted by him from Evelyn Waugh's Vile Bodies. In 2001, he began hosting the BAFTA Film Awards, a role from which he stepped down in 2006.[48] Later that same year, he wrote the English libretto and dialogue for Kenneth Branagh's film adaptation of The Magic Flute.
Fry continues to make regular film appearances, notably in treatments of literary cult classics. He portrayed Maurice Woodruff in The Life and Death of Peter Sellers, served as narrator in the 2005 film version of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, and in 2005 appeared in both A Cock and Bull Story, based on Tristram Shandy, and V for Vendetta, as a non-conforming TV presenter who challenges the fascist state. They pointed out that it was Fry's "normalcy" in the face of the insanity of the censorship of BTV that makes his character truly powerful and adds a "wholly unexpected dimension to the film".[49] In 2006, he played the role of gadget-master Smithers in Stormbreaker, and in 2007 he appeared as himself hosting a quiz in St Trinian's. In 2007, Fry wrote, for director Peter Jackson, a script for a remake of The Dam Busters.[50]
Fry was offered a role in Valkyrie, but was unable to participate.[51] Fry starred in the Tim Burton version of Alice in Wonderland, as the voice of the Cheshire Cat.[52] He played Mycroft Holmes in the sequel to Sherlock Holmes, directed by Guy Ritchie.[53] In 2010, Fry provided the voice of Socrates the Lion in the environmental animated film Animals United. He portrayed the Master of Lake-town in The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug, the second part of the film adaptation of J. R. R. Tolkien's The Hobbit.[54]
Fry came to the attention of radio listeners with the 1986 creation of his alter-ego, Donald Trefusis, whose "wireless essays" were broadcast on the BBC Radio 4 programme Loose Ends. In the 1980s, he starred as David Lander in four series of the BBC Radio 4 show Delve Special, written by Tony Sarchet, which then became the six-part Channel 4 series This is David Lander in 1988. In 1988, Fry wrote and presented a six-part comedy series entitled Saturday Night Fry. Frequent radio appearances have ensued, notably on panel games Just a Minute and I'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue. In 2000, he began starring as Charles Prentiss in the Radio 4 comedy Absolute Power, reprising the role for three further series on radio, and two on television. In 2002, Fry was one of the narrators of A.A. Milne's Winnie-the-Pooh and The House at Pooh Corner, in which he voiced Winnie-the-Pooh. He presented a 20-part, two-hour series, The Incomplete and Utter History of Classical Music, a "witty guide" to the genre over the past 1,000 years, on Classic FM.
In 2007, he hosted Current Puns, an exploration of wordplay, and Radio 4: This Is Your Life, to celebrate the radio station's 40th anniversary. He also interviewed Tony Blair as part of a series of podcasts released by 10 Downing Street.[55]
In February 2008, Fry began presenting podcasts entitled Stephen Fry's Podgrams, in which he recounts his life and recent experiences.[56] In July 2008, he appeared as himself in I Love Stephen Fry, an Afternoon Play for Radio 4 written by former Fry and Laurie script editor Jon Canter.[57]
Since August 2008, he has presented Fry's English Delight, a series on BBC Radio 4 about the English language.[58] As of 2011, it has been running for five series and 17 episodes.
In the summer 2009 series of I'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue, Fry was one of a trio of hosts replacing Humphrey Lyttelton (the others being Jack Dee and Rob Brydon).[59]
In September 2012, he guest-starred as himself in the audio comedy drama We Are The BBC, produced by the Wireless Theatre Company, written by Susan Casanove.[61]
Fry wrote the play Latin! or Tobacco and Boys for the 1980 Edinburgh Festival, where it won the Fringe first prize.[62] It had a revival in 2009 at London's Cock Tavern Theatre, directed by Adam Spreadbury-Maher.[63] The Cellar Tapes, the Footlights Revue of 1981, won the Perrier Comedy Award. In 1984, Fry adapted the hugely successful 1930s musical Me and My Girl for the West End, where it ran for eight years.
Fry was cast in Simon Gray's The Common Pursuit for its first staging in London's West End on 7 April 1988, with Rik Mayall, John Sessions, Sarah Berger, Paul Mooney and John Gordon Sinclair, directed by Simon Gray.[64] He was also cast in a lead role in Simon Gray's 1995 play Cell Mates, which he left three days into the West End run, pleading stage fright. He later recalled the incident as a hypomanic episode in his documentary about bipolar disorder, The Secret Life of the Manic Depressive. In 2007, Fry wrote a Christmas pantomime, Cinderella, which ran at London's Old Vic Theatre.[65]
Fry is a long-standing fan of the anarchic 1960s British musical comedy group the Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band, and particularly of its eccentric front man, the late Vivian Stanshall. Fry helped to fund a 1988 London re-staging of Stanshall's Stinkfoot, a Comic Opera, written by Vivian and Ki Longfellow-Stanshall for the Bristol-based Old Profanity Showboat. Fry performed several of Stanshall's numbers as part of the Bonzos' 2006 reunion concert at the London Astoria. He also appears as a shiny New Millennium Bonzo on their post-reunion album, Pour l'Amour des Chiens, on which he recites a recipe for "Salmon Proust", plays a butler in "Hawkeye the Gnu", and voices ads for the fictitious "Fiasco" stores.
Following three one-man shows in Australia, Fry announced a "sort of stand-up" performance at The Royal Albert Hall in London for September 2010.[66]
In September 2012,[67] Fry made a return to the stage at Shakespeare's Globe, appearing as Malvolio in a production of William Shakespeare's Twelfth Night, which transferred to the West End in November 2012.[68] He received excellent reviews.[67][68] The production is transferring to Broadway, with previews beginning 15 October 2013, and Opening Night scheduled for 10 November 2013.[69]
In August 2013, he lent his voice to the title role in Britten's operetta Paul Bunyan at the Wales Millennium Centre with the Welsh National Youth Opera.[70]
Fry has been the reader for the British versions of all of J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter series of audio books. He discussed this project in an interview with J. K. Rowling in 2005.[71] He has also been the reader for Douglas Adams's The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy film tie-in edition, and has made recordings of his own books, such as The Stars' Tennis Balls and Moab Is My Washpot, and of works by Roald Dahl, Michael Bond, A. A. Milne and Anthony Buckeridge. Stephen Fry has recorded an audiobook of Eugene Onegin, a famous Russian novel in verse written by Alexander Pushkin, which is available as a free download.
Fry's distinctive voice has been featured in a number of video games, including an appearance as Reaver, an amoral supporting character in Lionhead Studios games Fable II and Fable III, and as the narrator of Sackboy's story in the crossover fighting game PlayStation All-Stars Battle Royale.
He also narrated LittleBigPlanet, LittleBigPlanet 2, LittleBigPlanet PS Vita and LittleBigPlanet Karting,[72][73] and the first four Harry Potter games: (Philosopher's Stone, Chamber of Secrets, Prisoner of Azkaban, and Goblet of Fire).
Fry has lent himself and his voice to many advertisements, starting with an appearance as "Count Ivan Skavinsky Skavar" in a 1982 advert for Whitbread Best Bitter. Fry has said, in his memoirs, that after receiving his payment for this work – £25,000 – he has never subsequently experienced "what one could call serious money troubles".[74] He has since appeared in adverts for products and companies such as Marks and Spencer, Twinings, Kenco, Vauxhall, Honda, Direct Line, Calpol, Heineken, Alliance & Leicester, After Eights, Trebor, Panama cigars, Virgin Media and Orange Mobile.
Since the publication of his first novel, The Liar (1991), Fry has written three further novels, several non-fiction works and two volumes of autobiography. Making History (1997) is partly set in an alternative universe in which Adolf Hitler's father is made infertile and his replacement proves a rather more effective Führer. The book won the Sidewise Award for Alternate History. The Hippopotamus (1994) is about Edward (Ted/Tedward) Wallace and his stay at his old friend Lord Logan's country manor in Norfolk. The Stars' Tennis Balls (2000) is a modern retelling of The Count of Monte Cristo. Fry's book The Ode Less Travelled: Unlocking the Poet Within is a guide to writing poetry.
When writing a book review for Tatler, Fry wrote under a pen name, Williver Hendry, editor of A Most Peculiar Friendship: The Correspondence of Lord Alfred Douglas and Jack Dempsey, a field close to his heart as an Oscar Wilde enthusiast. Once a columnist in The Listener and The Daily Telegraph, he now writes a weekly technology column in the Saturday edition of The Guardian. His blog attracted more than 300,000 visitors in its first two weeks.[38]
In May 2009, Fry unveiled The Dongle of Donald Trefusis, an audiobook series following Donald Trefusis (a fictional character from Fry's novel The Liar and from the BBC Radio 4 series Loose Ends), set over 12 episodes.[75] After its release, it reached No. 1 on the UK Album Chart list.
Fry's use of the word "luvvie" (spelled "lovie" by Fry) in The Guardian on 2 April 1988 is given by the Oxford English Dictionary as the earliest recorded use of the word as a humorous synonym for "actor".[76]
In August 2010, Fry joined the Board of Directors at Norwich City Football Club. A lifelong fan of "the Canaries" and a regular visitor to Carrow Road, he said, on being appointed, "Truly this is one of the most exciting days of my life, and I am as proud and pleased as I could be."[77] In February 2014 Stephen Fry became the honorary president of Proud Canaries, a new club for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender fans.[78]
In October 2008, Fry began posting to the social networking site Twitter,[79] which he regularly updates.[80] On 16 May 2009, he celebrated the 500,000-follower mark: "Bless my soul 500k followers. And I love you all. Well, all except that silly one. And that's not you."[81]
Fry wields a considerable amount of influence through his use of Twitter.[82][83] He is frequently asked to promote various charities and causes, often inadvertently causing their websites to crash because of the volume of traffic generated by his large number of followers; as Fry notes on his website: "Four thousand hits a second all diving down the pipeline at the same time for minutes on end."[84] He uses his influence to recommend underexposed musicians and authors (who often see large increases in web hits and sales)[85][86] and to raise awareness of contemporary issues in the world of media and politics, notably the dropping of an injunction against The Guardian[87][88] and the lambasting of Daily Mail columnist Jan Moir over her article on the death of Boyzone member Stephen Gately.[89][90]
In October 2009, Fry again sparked debate amongst users, when he announced his intention to leave the social networking site after criticism from another user on Twitter. However, he retracted the announcement the following day.[91] In October 2010, Fry left Twitter for a few days, with a farewell message of "Bye bye", following press criticism of a quote taken from an interview he had given. After returning, he explained that he had left Twitter to "avoid being sympathised with or told about an article" he "would otherwise never have got wind of".[92] In some quarters, the general methods Fry uses on Twitter have been criticised.[93]
In November 2009, Fry's Twitter account reached one million followers. He commemorated the million-followers milestone with a humorous video blog in which a 'Step Hen Fry' clone speaks from the year 2034, where MySpace, Facebook and Twitter have combined to form 'Twit on MyFace'.[94] In November 2010, he welcomed his two-millionth follower with a blog entry detailing his opinions and experiences of Twitter.[95] On 11 March 2012, Fry noted his passing of the four-million-followers mark with a tweet: "Lordy I've breasted the 4 million followers tape. Love you all. Yes even YOU. But let's dedicate today to Douglas Adams's diamond jubilee".[96]
In 1995, Fry was presented with an honorary doctorate from the University of Dundee, which named their main Students' Association bar after his novel The Liar. Fry is a patron of its Lip Theatre Company.[97] He also served two consecutive terms – 1992 to 1995 and 1995 to 1998 – as the student-elected Rector of the University of Dundee. Such was his popularity, he was unopposed when he sought re-election to office in 1995, and by the time he completed his second term in office, he had won the widespread admiration of the University's staff and students.[98][99] He was awarded the AoC Gold Award in 2004, and was entered into their Hall of Fame.[100] Fry was also awarded an honorary degree from Anglia Ruskin University in 2005.[101][102] He was made honorary president of the Cambridge University Quiz Society and honorary fellow of his alma mater Queens' College, Cambridge. On 13 July 2010, he was made an honorary fellow of Cardiff University,[103] and on 28 January 2011, he was awarded an honorary doctorate at the University of Sussex, for his work campaigning for people suffering from mental health problems, bipolar disorder and HIV.[104]
He is a Patron of the Norwich Playhouse theatre and a Vice President of The Noël Coward Society.[105] Fry was the last person to be named Pipe Smoker of the Year before the award was discontinued.[106]
In December 2006, he was ranked sixth for the BBC's Top Living Icon Award,[107] was featured on The Culture Show, and was voted Most Intelligent Man on Television by readers of Radio Times. The Independent on Sunday Pink List named Fry the second most influential gay person in Britain in May 2007; he had taken the twenty-third position on the list the previous year.[108] Later the same month, he was announced as the 2007 Mind Champion of the Year,[1] in recognition of the success of his documentary The Secret Life of a Manic Depressive in raising awareness of bipolar disorder. He was also nominated in "Best Entertainment Performance" for QI and "Best Factual Series" for Secret Life of the Manic Depressive at the 2007 British Academy Television Awards.[109] That same year, Broadcast magazine listed Fry at number four in its "Hot 100" list of influential on-screen performers, describing him as a polymath and a "national treasure".[110] He was also granted a lifetime achievement award at the British Comedy Awards on 5 December 2007,[111] and the Special Recognition Award at the National Television Awards on 20 January 2010.[112]
BBC Four dedicated two nights of programming to Fry on 17 and 18 August 2007, in celebration of his 50th birthday. The first night, comprising programs featuring Fry, began with a sixty-minute documentary entitled Stephen Fry: 50 Not Out. The second night was composed of programmes selected by Fry, as well as a 60-minute interview with Mark Lawson and a half-hour special, Stephen Fry: Guilty.[113] The weekend programming proved such a ratings hit for BBC Four that it was repeated on BBC Two on 16 and 17 September 2007.
In 2011, he was the subject of Molly Lewis's song An Open Letter to Stephen Fry, in which the singer jokingly offers herself as a surrogate mother for his child.[114] In February 2011, Fry was awarded the Outstanding Lifetime Achievement Award in Cultural Humanism by the Humanist Chaplaincy at Harvard University, the Harvard Secular Society and the American Humanist Association.[115]
In 2012, Fry wrote the foreword to the Union of UEA Students report on the student experience for LGBT+ members.[116] As recognition of his public support for LGBT+ rights and for the Union's report, the Union of UEA Students awarded him, on 18 October 2012, Honorary Life Membership of the Union.[117]
In March 2014 Fry beat David Attenborough and Davina McCall to win the Best Presenter award at the Royal Television Society Programme Awards. The award was given for his BBC2 programme Stephen Fry: Out There.[118]
He is on cordial terms with Prince Charles (despite a mild parody Fry performed in his role of King Charles I in the comedy programme Blackadder: The Cavalier Years), through his work with the Prince's Trust. He attended the Prince of Wales's and Camilla Parker Bowles' wedding in 2005. Fry is a friend of comedian and actor (and Blackadder co-star) Rowan Atkinson and was best man at Atkinson's wedding to Sunetra Sastry at the Russian Tea Room in New York City. Fry was a friend of British actor John Mills.[119] His best friend is Hugh Laurie,[120] whom he met while both were at Cambridge and with whom he has collaborated many times over the years. He was best man at Laurie's wedding and is godfather to all three of his children.[121]
A fan of cricket, Fry has claimed to be related to former England cricketer C.B. Fry,[122] and was interviewed for the Ashes Fever DVD, reporting on England's victory over Australia in the 2005 Ashes series. Regarding football, he is a supporter of Norwich City, and is a regular visitor to Carrow Road. He has been described as "deeply dippy for all things digital", claims to have bought the third Macintosh computer sold in the UK (his friend Douglas Adams bought the first two) and jokes that he has never encountered a smartphone that he has not bought.[123] He counts Wikipedia among his favourite websites "because I like to find out that I died, and that I'm currently in a ballet in China, and all the other very accurate and important things that Wikipedia brings us all".[124]
Fry has a long-standing interest in Internet production, including having his own website since 1997. His current site, The New Adventures of Mr Stephen Fry, has existed since 2002 and has attracted many visitors following his first blog in September 2007, which comprised a 6,500-word "blessay" on smartphones. In February 2008, Fry launched his private podcast series, Stephen Fry's Podgrams, and a forum, including discussions on depression and activities in which Fry is involved. The website content is created by Stephen Fry and produced by Andrew Sampson. Stephen Fry's weekly gadget column Dork Talk appeared in The Guardian from November 2007 to October 2008.[123] Fry is also a supporter of GNU and the Free Software Foundation.[125] For the 25th anniversary of the GNU operating system, Fry appeared in a video explaining some of the philosophy behind GNU by likening it to the sharing found in science.[126]
When in London, he drives a dark green TX4 London cab.[127][128] This vehicle has been featured in Fry's production Stephen Fry in America.[129]
Fry struggled to keep his homosexuality secret during his teenage years at public school, and by his own account did not engage in sexual activity for 16 years from 1979 until 1995.[130]
When asked when he first acknowledged his sexuality, Fry quipped: "I suppose it all began when I came out of the womb. I looked back up at my mother and thought to myself, 'That's the last time I'm going up one of those'".[131] Fry was in a 15-year relationship with Daniel Cohen, which ended in 2010.[132]
Fry was an active supporter of the Labour Party for many years and appeared in a party political broadcast on its behalf with Hugh Laurie and Michelle Collins in November 1993. He did not vote in the 2005 General Election because of the stance of both the Labour and Conservative parties with regard to the Iraq War. Despite his praise of the Blair/Brown government's work on social reform, Fry has been critical of the Labour Party's "Third Way" concept. Fry appeared in literature to support changing the British electoral system from first-past-the-post to alternative vote for electing Members of Parliament to the House of Commons in the Alternative Vote referendum in 2011.[133]
On 30 April 2008, Fry signed an open letter, published in The Guardian newspaper by some well-known Jewish personalities, stating their opposition to celebrating the 60th anniversary of the founding of the State of Israel.[134] Furthermore, he is a signatory member of the British Jews for Justice for Palestinians organisation, which campaigns for Palestinian rights.[135] Fry was among over 100 signatories to a statement published by Sense About Science on 4 June 2009, condemning British libel laws and their use to "severely curtail the right to free speech on a matter of public interest".[136]
On 7 August 2013, Fry published an "Open Letter to David Cameron and the IOC"[137] calling for a boycott of the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, due to concerns over the state-sanctioned persecution of LGBT persons in Russia. David Cameron however stated on Twitter he believed "we can better challenge prejudice as we attend, rather than boycotting the Winter Olympics".[138][139] Adrian Hilton, writing in the Daily Mail, criticised Fry for not calling for a boycott of all Russian performing arts.[140] Fry responded by accusing the Daily Mail of being "against progress, the liberalising of attitudes, modern art and strangers (whether by race, gender or sexuality)".[141]
In March 2014, Fry publicly backed "Hacked Off" and its campaign towards press self-regulation by "safeguarding the press from political interference while also giving vital protection to the vulnerable."[142]
On 6 October 2009, Fry was interviewed by Jon Snow on Channel 4 News[143] as a signatory of a letter to British Conservative Party leader David Cameron expressing concern about the party's relationship with Poland's opposition national conservative Law and Justice party in the European Parliament.[144] During the interview, he stated:
There has been a history, let's face it, in Poland of a right-wing Catholicism which has been deeply disturbing for those of us who know a little history, and remember which side of the border Auschwitz was on and know the stories, and know much of the anti-semitic, and homophobic and nationalistic elements in countries like Poland.
The remark prompted a complaint from the Polish Embassy in London, an editorial in The Economist and criticism from British Jewish historian David Cesarani.[145][146][147][148] Fry has since posted an apology in a six-page post on his personal blog, in which he stated:
I offer no excuse. I seemed to imply that the Polish people had been responsible for the most infamous of all the death factories of the Third Reich. I didn't even really at the time notice the import of what I had said, so gave myself no opportunity instantly to retract the statement. It was a rubbishy, cheap and offensive remark that I have been regretting ever since. I take this opportunity to apologise now. I said a stupid, thoughtless and fatuous thing. It detracted from and devalued my argument, such as it was, and it outraged and offended a large group of people for no very good reason. I am sorry in all directions, and all the more sorry because it is no one's fault but my own, which always makes it so much worse.[149]
Fry has been diagnosed with bipolar disorder,[150] specifically stating he suffers from cyclothymia, referring to it as "bipolar lite".[151][152] He suffered a nervous breakdown in 1995 while appearing in a West End play called Cell Mates and subsequently walked out of the production, prompting its early closure and incurring the displeasure of co-star Rik Mayall and playwright Simon Gray. Mayall's comedy partner, Adrian Edmondson, made light of the subject in his and Mayall's second Bottom live show. After walking out of the production, Fry went missing for several days while contemplating suicide. He abandoned the idea and left the United Kingdom by ferry, eventually resurfacing in Belgium.[153]
Fry has spoken publicly about his experience with bipolar disorder, which was depicted in the documentary Stephen Fry: The Secret Life of the Manic Depressive.[154] In the programme, he interviewed other sufferers of the illness including Carrie Fisher, Richard Dreyfuss and Tony Slattery. He is involved with the mental health charity Stand to Reason[155] and is president of Mind.[1]
Fry has attempted suicide on a number of occasions, most recently in 2012.[156] In an interview with Richard Herring in 2013, Fry revealed that he had attempted suicide the previous year while filming abroad. He said that he took a "huge number of pills and a huge [amount] of vodka" and had to be brought back to the UK to be "looked after".[157]
In January 2008, Fry broke his arm while filming Last Chance to See in Brazil.[158] He later explained in a podcast how the accident happened: while climbing aboard a boat, he slipped between it and the dock, and, while stopping himself from falling into the water, his body weight caused his right humerus to snap. The damage was more severe than first thought: The resulting vulnerability to his radial nerve – he was at risk of losing the use of his arm – was not diagnosed until he saw a consultant in the UK.[159]
As the host of QI, Fry has stated that he is allergic to both champagne[160] and bumble bee stings.[161]
Appearing on Top Gear in 2009, Fry had lost a significant amount of weight, prompting host Jeremy Clarkson to ask jokingly, "Where's the rest of you?" Fry explained that he had shed a total of 6 stone (84 lb; 38 kg), attributing the weight loss to doing a lot of walking while listening to downloaded audiobooks.[162] Fry is between 6 feet 4 inches (1.93 m) and 6 feet 5 inches (1.96 m) in height.[163][164]
In 2013 he revealed that, in the previous year, he had started taking medication for the first time, in an attempt to control his bi-polar condition.[19]
Fry has repeatedly expressed opposition to organised religion, and has identified himself as an atheist and humanist, while declaring some sympathy for the ancient Greek belief in capricious gods. In his first autobiography he wrote, "I knew I couldn't believe in God, because I was fundamentally Hellenic in my outlook".[165] He has stated that religion can have positive effects: "Sometimes belief means credulity, sometimes an expression of faith and hope which even the most sceptical atheist such as myself cannot but find inspiring".[166]
In 2009, The Guardian published a letter from Fry addressing his younger self, explaining how his future is soon to unfold, reflecting on the positive progression towards gay acceptance and openness around him, and yet not everywhere, while warning on how "the cruel, hypocritical and loveless hand of religion and absolutism has fallen on the world once more."[167] Later that year, he and Christopher Hitchens participated in an "Intelligence Squared" debate in which they argued against Ann Widdecombe and Archbishop John Onaiyekan, who supported the view that the Catholic Church was a force for good. Fry and Hitchens argued that the church did more harm than good. Fry attacked the Catholic Church's teachings on sexuality and denounced its wealth.[168]
In 2010 he was made a Distinguished Supporter of the British Humanist Association, stating: "it is essential to nail one’s colours to the mast as a humanist."[169] Later that year, Fry, along with 54 other public figures, signed an open letter published in The Guardian, stating their opposition to Pope Benedict XVI's visit to the United Kingdom being a state visit.[170] On 22 February 2011, Fry was presented with the Lifetime Achievement Award in Cultural Humanism by the Humanist Chaplaincy at Harvard University.[171][172]
In 2008, Fry formed SamFry Ltd, with long-term collaborator Andrew Sampson, to produce and fund new material, as well as manage his official website.[173]
He is also the co-owner, with Gina Carter and Sandi Toksvig, of Sprout Pictures, an independent film and television company.[174]
Fry uses Ubuntu as his desktop operating system.[175] In 2008 he appeared in a film made by the Free Software Foundation to celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the GNU Project to create a completely free (libre) operating system.[176] In the film Fry explains the principles of software freedom central to the development of the Linux and GNU software projects.[177]
Fry, Stephen (2005). The Ode Less Travelled: Unlocking the Poet Within. Hutchinson. ISBN 978-0-09-179661-7. 
Lloyd, John; Fry, Stephen; Mitchinson, John (2006). John Mitchinson, ed. The Book of General Ignorance. Faber and Faber. ISBN 978-0-571-23368-7. 
Carwardine, Mark; Fry, Stephen (2009). Last Chance to See. HarperCollins Publishers Limited. ISBN 978-0-00-729072-7. 
Gosford Park (2001): Eileen Atkins, Bob Balaban, Alan Bates, Charles Dance, Stephen Fry, Michael Gambon, Richard E. Grant, Tom Hollander, Derek Jacobi, Kelly Macdonald, Helen Mirren, Jeremy Northam, Clive Owen, Ryan Phillippe, Maggie Smith, Geraldine Somerville, Kristin Scott Thomas, Sophie Thompson, Emily Watson, James Wilby
Chicago (2002): Christine Baranski, Ekaterina Chtchelkanova, Taye Diggs, Denise Faye, Colm Feore, Richard Gere, Deidre Goodwin, Queen Latifah, Lucy Liu, Susan Misner, Mýa, John C. Reilly, Dominic West, Renée Zellweger, Catherine Zeta-Jones
The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003): Sean Astin, Sean Bean, Cate Blanchett, Orlando Bloom, Billy Boyd, Bernard Hill, Ian Holm, Ian McKellen, Dominic Monaghan, Viggo Mortensen, John Noble, Miranda Otto, John Rhys-Davies, Andy Serkis, Liv Tyler, Karl Urban, Hugo Weaving, David Wenham, Elijah Wood
Crash (2005): Christopher "Ludacris" Bridges, Sandra Bullock, Don Cheadle, Matt Dillon, Jennifer Esposito, William Fichtner, Brendan Fraser, Terrence Howard, Thandie Newton, Ryan Phillippe, Larenz Tate
Little Miss Sunshine (2006): Alan Arkin, Abigail Breslin, Steve Carell, Toni Collette, Paul Dano, Greg Kinnear
No Country for Old Men (2007): Javier Bardem, Josh Brolin, Garret Dillahunt, Tess Harper, Woody Harrelson, Tommy Lee Jones, Kelly Macdonald
Slumdog Millionaire (2008): Rubina Ali, Tanay Chheda, Ashutosh Lobo Gajiwala, Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail, Anil Kapoor, Irrfan Khan, Ayush Mahesh Khedekar, Tanvi Ganesh Lonkar, Madhur Mittal, Dev Patel, Freida Pinto
Inglourious Basterds (2009): Daniel Brühl, August Diehl, Julie Dreyfus, Michael Fassbender, Sylvester Groth, Jacky Ido, Diane Kruger, Mélanie Laurent, Denis Menochet, Mike Myers, Brad Pitt, Eli Roth, Til Schweiger, Rod Taylor, Christoph Waltz, Martin Wuttke
The King's Speech (2010): Anthony Andrews, Helena Bonham Carter, Jennifer Ehle, Colin Firth, Michael Gambon, Derek Jacobi, Guy Pearce, Geoffrey Rush, Timothy Spall
Categories: Stephen Fry1957 birthsActors of Hungarian descentAlternate history writersAlumni of Queens' College, CambridgeAudio book narratorsBBC radio presentersBBC television presentersBritish atheistsBritish people of Hungarian descentControversies in PolandCritics of CatholicismCritics of ChristianityEnglish atheistsEnglish comedy writersEnglish film directorsEnglish game show hostsEnglish humanistsEnglish JewsEnglish male comediansEnglish male film actorsEnglish male television actorsEnglish novelistsEnglish people of Hungarian-Jewish descentEnglish podcastersEnglish radio writersEnglish television writersFreemen of the City of LondonGay actorsGay writersKentucky colonelsLGBT broadcastersLGBT comediansLGBT directorsLGBT JewsLGBT novelistsLGBT people from EnglandLGBT screenwritersLGBT writers from EnglandLiving peopleOutstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture Screen Actors Guild Award winnersPeople educated at Paston CollegePeople educated at Uppingham SchoolPeople from HampsteadPeople with bipolar disorderQIRectors of the University of DundeeSidewise Award winnersHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from April 2014Articles with dead external links from December 2012Use dmy dates from April 2014Use British English from May 2012Articles with hAudio microformatsInfobox person using boxwidth parameterBiography with signatureArticles with hCardsCommons category with local link same as on WikidataArticles with DMOZ linksWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
The Fry Chronicles: An Autobiography is the 2010 autobiography of Stephen Fry. The book is a continuation from the end of his 1997 publication of his first autobiography, Moab Is My Washpot: An Autobiography. Though without a strict chronology, it concentrates on a seven-year period of Fry's life, taking up the story after his release from prison, his time at the University of Cambridge and his career in comedy by the late 1980s.
The book is Fry's tenth and his second volume of autobiography. Critics[citation needed] have called the book candid, sincere, and charming, with insightful commentary if occasionally flat stories.
It was published by Michael Joseph on 13 September 2010 in the United Kingdom and in the United States. It was simultaneously published as an eBook (in regular and an enhanced version) an audiobook and an iOS application by ePenguin; both imprints of Penguin Books.
Fry travelled to Los Angeles in January 2010 to write his second autobiography, when he publicly announced his "self-imposed exile" from various online services, such as Twitter. Fry returned to Britain and various online services in late April 2010. He publicly announced his return on his blog that there had been a few "exceptions" to his self-imposed exile and that he planned to gradually return to Twitter, so as not to annoy his followers. In it he also described his life while working on his book, saying that he wrote solely in the mornings, from "about 5 AM till lunchtime", leaving afternoons and early evenings for "other things". He acknowledges his "peculiar" lifestyle when writing, saying it is "the only way to coax a book out of me".[citation needed]
Stephen Fry's first memoir, Moab Is My Washpot: An Autobiography, published in 1997, told of his life up to the age of 18, when he was told that, despite his delinquent adolescence, he had won a scholarship to Queens' College in Cambridge.
The Fry Chronicles tells of his life up to his 30th birthday, covering, over 425 pages, his time at university, his rise to success as a writer and performer, meeting Emma Thompson, Hugh Laurie and Rowan Atkinson as he makes his way through sketch shows, and his rise to fame on Saturday Live and Blackadder, while his version of the musical Me and My Girl with Mike Ockrent becoming a global success and making him a modest fortune while he was still in his twenties. Subsequently, many articles he has written are recalled. The book ends in August 1987, his 30th birthday, at his six bedroom house in Norfolk.
Chapters in The Fry Chronicles are organised under headings all beginning with the letter "C". The book ends with Fry taking cocaine, a subject that he intends to discuss further in his third autobiography.
Fry acknowledges that he uses 100 words where "ten would do" and he defends this as showing his "great, generous love of words".[citation needed]
The book was launched with a preview performance on 13 September 2010 at the Royal Festival Hall to promote the release of The Fry Chronicles. The event was broadcast, direct via satellite, to 60 locations across the United Kingdom.[1]
I am as pleased as punch by this wonderful response, but it especially delights me to know that our attempt to offer five such different and distinctive ways of reading and responding to the book has born fruit.
The Fry Chronicles was the first publication to be published simultaneously as a conventionally printed book, an electronically enhanced eBook, a non-enhanced eBook, an audiobook narrated by Fry himself and an iOS application. All five publications were released on 13 September 2010. Fry acknowledged in an interview that the publishing "landscape is changing", but insisted that the conventional "paper book is not dead".[3] This method of publication was described by other publishers as "innovative and groundbreaking".
It was released as a regular eBook with an electronically enhanced version released exclusively via the iBookstore. The enhanced version includes eight exclusive videos of Fry expanding further on the anecdotes he wrote about in the printed text, integrated photography throughout and links to relevant websites and online content; while the other is simply a digital copy of the printed text, without the interactive content and only the photographs published with the printed text.
The iOS application, titled MyFry, can be used on an iPhone, iPad or iPod. The applications interface is centred around a dynamic index that allows readers to explore the book's content in a non-linear fashion.[4]
The photograph on the front cover of the book was taken by David Eustace in June 2010. Eustace was approached by John Hamilton, on behalf of Penguin Books.[5] Fry is dressed in a corduroy jacket and checkered shirt. The pattern used on the hardback book's endpaper coordinates with the socks that Fry is wearing on the book cover.
The Fry Chronicles debuted at No. 1 on The Sunday Times list of non-fiction best-sellers in England. It sold 37,000 copies in the first five days of its release, outselling the next most popular title, Lee Child's 61 Hours, by 8,000 copies.[6]
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Fry_Chronicles&oldid=605168747"					
Categories: Books by Stephen FryBritish autobiographies2010 booksShow business memoirsHidden categories: EngvarB from September 2013Use dmy dates from September 2013Infobox book image param needs updatingInfobox book using deprecated parametersAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2014 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Writer, actor, comedian, doer of good works, excellent good friend to the famous and not, Fry lives in his London SW1 flat and his Norfolk house when not traveling. Famous for his public declaration of celibacy in the "Tatler" back in the 1980s, Emma Thompson has characterised her friend as "90 percent gay, 10 percent other." He grew up in Norfolk (where his parents still reside) and attended Uppingham School and Stout's Hill. After his notorious three months in Pucklechurch prison for credit card fraud, he attended Queens College, Cambridge in 1979, finishing with a 2:1 in English in 1981/2. While at Cambridge, he was a member of the Cherubs drinking club, and Footlights with Thompson, Tony Slattery, Martin Bergman, and Hugh Laurie (to whom he was introduced by E.T.). His prolific writing partnership with Laurie began in 1981 with resulting Footlights revues for (among others) Mayweek, Edinburgh Festival, and a three month tour of Australia. In 1984, Fry was engaged to do the rewrite of the Noel Gay musical "Me and My Girl," which made him a millionaire before the age of 30. It also earned him a nomination for a Tony award in 1987. (Sidenote: It was upon SF's suggestion that Emma Thompson landed a leading role in the London cast of this show.) Throughout the 1980s, Fry did a huge amount of television and radio work, as well as writing for newspapers (e.g. a weekly column in the "Daily Telegraph") and magazines (e.g. articles for "Arena"). He is probably best known for his television roles in Black-Adder II (1986) and Jeeves and Wooster (1990).His support of the Terence Higgins Trust through events such as the first "Hysteria" benefit, as well as numerous other charity efforts, are probably those works of which he is most proud. Fry's acting career has not been limited to films and television. He had successful runs in Alan Bennett's "Forty Years On," Simon Gray's "The Common Pursuit" with John Sessions, Rik Mayall, John Gordon Sinclair, and others. Michael Frayn's "Look Look" and Gray's "Cell Mates" were less successful for both Fry and their playwrights, the latter not helped by his walking out of the play after only a couple of weeks. Fry has published four novels as well as a collection of his radio and journalistic miscellanea. He has recorded audiotapes of his novels (an unabridged version of "The Liar" was released in 1995), as well as many other works for both adults and children.
      He's regarded in the UK as 'Britain's Favourite Teddy Bear' and is a keen teddy bear collector himself.
      He hosted the 2001 and 2002 British Academy Awards (BAFTAS), which have been their 2 most successful years.
      A regular guest on the BBC quiz Have I Got News for You (1990) for many years, he now allegedly refuses to appear on the show as a protest against the sacking of former host, Angus Deayton.
      Narrates the audiobook versions (British releases) of the wildly popular Harry Potter series by J.K. Rowling
      Was nominated for Broadway's 1987 Tony Award as one of several writers, including the deceased L. Arthur Rose and Douglas Furber as well as collaborator Mike Ockrent, as Best Book (Musical) for "Me and My Girl."
      With Nick Green, co-founded the Bear Rescue Foundation, a charitable trust to rescue and nurture distressed bears.
      A book has recently been published in the U.K. entitled 'Tish and Pish: How to Be of a Speakingness Like Stephen Fry' (author: Stewart Ferris). It's a humorous tribute to Stephen's wonderful use of the English language.
      Took part in a special celebrity edition of Blankety Blank on The Prince's Trust 30th Birthday: Live. He won against contestant Chantelle Houghton.
      In the Independent on Sunday 2006 Pink List -- a list of the most influential gay men and women -- he came no. 23, down from 21.
      He was a member of the Cambridge Footlights and in 1981, along with Hugh Laurie, Tony Slattery, Emma Thompson, Penny Dwyer, and Paul Shearer, became the first winner of The Perrier Comedy Award at the Edinburgh fringe festival.
      Is a big fan of the iconic 60s British comedy rock band, the Bonzo Dog Doo Dah Band, and participated in their 40th anniversary reunion show at the Astoria in London on January 28, 2006 along with 'Adrian Edmondson', Paul Merton and Phill Jupitus.
      He has a very wide taste in music, with particular favorites being Richard Wagner, Led Zeppelin and ABBA.
      In the 1980s he shared a house in London with Hugh Laurie. They needed some plastering doing. The plasterers turned out to be Paul Whitehouse and Charlie Higson who were inspired by Fry and Laurie to have a go at comedy.
      He has been described as "deeply dippy for all things digital", claims to have owned the second Apple Macintosh sold in the UK (after friend Douglas Adams) and to have never encountered a smartphone that he has not bought.
      Blacks out his website as part of Internet Blackout Week NZ from Feb 16 to 23 to protest against the controversial New Zealand 'Section 92A' law which has ISPs disconnect users accused of copyright infringement.
      Mentioned on Friday Night with Jonathan Ross (on a night when Tom Cruise was another guest) that he was offered a role in Valkyrie.
      His maternal grandparents were Jewish immigrants from Surany, now in Slovakia. His father's family is English.
      His very recognisable crooked nose is a result of breaking it when he fell over in the school playground at the age of six.
      Recorded an 'outro' for popular You-Tube vlogger, Charlie Mcdonnell. (aka. Charlieissocoollike).
      As good friend of Douglas Adams, he claims to know why Adams chose the number '42' as the Answer to Life, the Universe and Everything in his novel 'The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy'. However, he refuses at length to disclose the reason, or will act as if the microphone magically malfunctions, as if the Universe itself is stopping him from making the revelation.
      Supports Norwich City Football Club, regularly attending games (as his schedule allows) and is on the board of directors.
      He played the Irish author and playwright Oscar Wilde in both Ned Blessing: The Story of My Life and Times (1993) and Wilde (1997).
      Began providing Stephen Fry's Podgrams: free podcasts about his adventures, available via his official website. [February 2008]
      Host of BBC quiz show, "QI", and continues to make regular TV and movie appearances. [December 2006]
      It is quite difficult to feel that I am placed somewhere between Alan Bennett and the Queen Mother, a sort of public kitten.
      On being gay: "My first words, as I was being born... I looked up at my mother and said, 'that's the last time I'm going up one of those.'"
      It only takes a room of Americans for the English and Australians to realise how much we have in common.
      "Comedy always goes up and down but this year's been great. Comedy is immensely strong right now, with the Green Wing (2004) and Nighty Night (2004)." (Speaking in 2005)
      "Complete loose-stool-water. Arse-gravy of the very worst kind." (Speaking about Dan Brown's novel, "The Da Vinci Code.")
      As someone who worked hard for a Labour victory in the Nineties, do I regret it? Not really. It was bound to happen. And it'll happen with the next government, and the one after it. Because all governments serve us. They serve the filth.
      I sometimes wonder if you Americans aren't often fooled by our accent into detecting a brilliance that may not really be there.
      When American TV and movies call for a twist of limey in their cocktail, it's usually a character they're after - supervillain, emotionally constipated academic, effete eccentric, that kind of thing.
      Generally, we admire the thing we are not. On the set of Bones (2005) I have been amazed and impressed by the naturalness of the cast, and berate myself for sounding as if I'm speechifying instead of talking.
      I've always believed Americans have one huge, ready-made gift when it comes to acting in front of a camera - the ability to relax. Take the supreme relaxed authenticity of a James Stewart or a George Clooney compared with the brittle contrivances of a Laurence Olivier or a Kenneth Branagh, marvelous as they are.
      Of course, it would be unfair for me to comment. Douglas (Douglas Adams) told me in the strictest confidence exactly why 42. The answer is fascinating, extraordinary and, when you think hard about it, completely obvious. Nonetheless amazing for that. Remarkable really. But sadly I cannot share it with anyone and the secret must go with me to the grave. Pity, because it explains so much beyond the books. It really does explain the secret of life, the universe, and everything. (On the meaning of 42 in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (2005))
      It is true that I have a great admiration, sometimes only just short of reverence, for the elegances and brilliances that have emerged from my favourite address in the world: 1 Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California, the home of Apple Computers.
      The BBC enriches the country in ways we will only discover when it has gone and it is too late to build it back up again. We actually can afford the BBC, because we can't afford not to. I genuinely cannot see that the nation would benefit from a diminution of any part of the BBC's great whole. It should be as closely scrutinized as possible of course, value for money, due humility and all that, but to reduce its economies of scale, its artistic social and national reach for misbegotten reasons of ideology or thrift would be a tragedy.
      The week before we moved house, the BBC started a new drama, starring William Hartnell. An old man had a police phone box of the kind we saw in the street all the time. It turned out to be a magical and unimaginably wonderful time machine. I had never been so excited in all my life. (On Doctor Who (1963))
      Although, of course, anybody can talk about snouts in troughs, and go on about it, for journalists to do so is almost beyond belief, beyond belief. I know lots of journalists; I know more journalists than I know politicians. And I've never met a more venal and disgusting crowd of people when it comes to expenses and allowances.
John Cleese said to me years ago that "you will never be happy unless you stop being so polite. I have spent much of my life trying to please people, trying to be what they wanted me to be rather than what I actually wanted to be.
      Just as I was leaving prison, starting simultaneously my period on probation and at University, the way you do, the wind changed and Margaret Thatcher, the new Mary Poppins, descended into Downing Street, with new medicines for us to take, but very few spoonfuls of sugar to help them go down. I am not going to blame her or make political points. The wind had changed and she blew in with it and would one day be blown away by another change. But here she was and fundamental questions were asked, genuinely radical unthinkable thoughts were thought in an age of privatisation and anti-dirigiste, anti-statist conservatism.
      I grew up in what seems now to me and to most cultural and broadcast historians to have been a golden age in television.
      Thatcherism had seen the first concerted political opposition, ideological opposition to the way the BBC in particular was seen to run itself and to behave. The administration was perhaps getting its revenge on the BBC for its perceived participation in, and promulgation of, the poisonous ethos of the 1960s. Liberalism, permissive media encroachments on decency, disrespectful satire, outright socialistic dramas and documentaries were all cited as proof of the BBC's undemocratic doctrinaire partiality. The trick was conceived in which the BBC could be blamed for being at one and the same time old-fashioned, stuck in the mud, reactionary, elitist, hidebound, de haut en bas, patriarchal, top/down, patronising and simultaneously left-wing, trendy, bien pensant and unpatriotic, because radical now meant right-wing. Modern and progressive meant consumer-led and market-oriented. The Tebbits and the Thatchers of this world were not about to allow intellectuals, artists, liberals and Oxbridge nomenclatura of decadent self-appointed cultural apparatchiks to decide what was good for the public. The nanny state was bad enough in their eyes but the schoolmaster state, the don state was even worse.
      Television as the nation's fireplace, the hearth and the heart of the country, the focus of our communal cultural identity, that television is surely dead. It seems unlikely ever to return. Instead of being the nation's fireplace, TV is closer to being the nation's central heating. It's conveniently on in every room, it's less discernible, less of a focus, more of an ambient atmosphere.
      I love television in this country. I love the range and richness of the programming. I love its ambition, its scope, its innovation. I love the tradition, the technological innovation, the gossip, the corporate drama on the inside, the reach and influence on the outside. I admire the talent and the commitment of so many working in the field. I love everything about what television has been, what it still is and what it might yet be. If I criticise anything about it, I hope you will be able to see that I do so as with nationhood, from the point of view of love not enmity.
      To be human and to be adult means constantly to be in the grip of opposing emotions, to have daily to reconcile apparently conflicting tensions. I want this, but need that. I cherish this, but I adore its opposite too. I'm maddened by this institution yet I prize it above all others.
      There is as far as I know no profession in this country that likes to talk about itself more than broadcasting.
      I love Britain, like most Britons I get desperately upset at her failings: when it goes wrong, when it gets it totally totally wrong, when it's shoddy, when it's inefficient, incompetent, rude, vulgar, embarrassing, when it slips into national torpor or boils into bouts of embarrassing national fever. I can moan about health and safety gone mad and leaves on the line, rail networks and crap service and crap weather and crap sporting achievements and crap politicians and crap newspapers and crap attitude. I can do all that. In fact it's the defining signature quality of my Britishness to talk like that, to complain and to self-castigate but does it mean that I don't love this damned country? Does it mean that I don't get weepy when I think of its history, its people, its countryside, its richness, its plurality, the cultural and artistic energy, the good humour, tolerance, the ability to evolve for good, achingly slow as that ability might be? Does it mean that I don't as it were stand to attention when I think of the sacrifice of our military, the selfless good of so many working in hospitals and schools and rescue services and the million acts of unremembered kindness, decency and good fellowship practised every day by unsung heroes and heroines in every walk of life? Of course it doesn't mean that I don't love and respect that. One carps and one criticises because one loves.
      The only drama the BBC will boast about are Merlin (2008) and Doctor Who (2005), which are fine, but they're children's programmes. They're not for adults. And they're very good children's programmes, don't get me wrong, they're wonderfully written ... but they are not for adults. They are like a chicken nugget. Every now and again we all like it. Every now and again. If you are an adult you want something surprising, savoury, sharp, unusual, cosmopolitan, alien, challenging, complex, ambiguous, possibly even slightly disturbing and wrong. You want to try those things, because that's what being adult means.
      I don't pretend to be a businessman. Spreadsheets and Powerpoint presentations make me want to scream, gouge out my eyes and stab my ears. I have never been able to read a profit and loss account or a balance sheet, and I go swimmy and feel sick if I have to read a legal document because on the whole I'd rather watch television.
      It is a cliché that most clichés are true, but then, like most clichés, that cliché is untrue.
      I feel sorry for straight men. The only reason women will have sex with them is that sex is the price they are willing to pay for a relationship with a man, which is what they want. Of course, a lot of women will deny this and say, "Oh no, but I love sex, I love it!" But do they go around having it the way that gay men do?
      To repatriate a power takes treaties, rows, enmities, alliances and betrayals. To repatriate a collection of stolen marbles take good will, moral courage and a decisive belief that right can be done. How can we British be proud until we sit down with Greek politicians and arrange for the return of their treasure? It's time we lost our marbles.
      Inevitable George Entwistle would fall on his sword. Damned for stopping a Newsnight (1980), damned for allowing one. A kind, wise man. Heigh ho.
      his mental problems] If unmedicated, there are times when I am so exuberant, so hyper, that I can go three or four nights without sleeping and I'm writing and I'm doing stuff and I'm so grandiose and so full of self-belief that it's almost impossible to deal with me. I can't stop speaking, I'm incredible, I go on shopping sprees...Fortunately one of the common signs of mania, or hyper-mania as it is known, is sexual exhibitionism. I don't have that as one of my brands, but others do. ...There are times when I'm going 'ha ha, yeah yeah' and inside I'm going 'I want to f***ing die. I...want...to...f***ing...die. The fact that I am lucky enough not to have it [mental illness] so seriously doesn't mean that I won't one day kill myself, I may well.
      disclosure in June 2013 that he had tried to commit suicide in 2012] I am the victim of my own moods, more than most people are perhaps, in as much as I have a condition which requires me to take medication so that I don't get either too hyper or too depressed to the point of suicide. I would go as far as to tell you that I attempted it last year, so I'm not always happy - this is the first time I've said this in public, but I might as well. I'm president of Mind, and the whole point in my role, as I see it, is not to be shy and forthcoming about the morbidity and genuine nature of the likelihood of death amongst people with certain mood disorders. It was a close run thing. I took a huge number of pills and a huge [amount] of vodka and the mixture of them made my body convulse so much that I broke four ribs, but I was still unconscious. And, fortunately, the producer I was filming with at the time came into the hotel room and I was found in a sort of unconscious state and taken back to England and looked after. There is no 'why', it's not the right question. There's no reason. If there were a reason for it, you could reason someone out of it, and you could tell them why they shouldn't take their own life.
      [in support of a proposed ban of the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics because of anti-gay legislation in Russia] I am gay. I'm a Jew. My mother lost over a dozen of her family to Hitler's anti-semitism. Every time in Russia - and it is constantly - a gay teenager is forced into suicide, a lesbian 'correctively' raped, gay men and women beaten to death by neo-Nazi thugs while the Russian police stand idly by, the world is diminished and I, for one, weep anew at seeing history repeat itself.
      [to a Ugandan homophobe] Why are you obsessed with anuses? I'm not interested in anuses. I'm interested in men I fall in love with and not with anuses. Can't you understand? It's about love. You are so base and materialistic. I'm not interested in sodomy and buggery, I am not interested, so forget about it, you're so perverted, all you care about is penises and vaginas and anuses. It's so sick. Your obsession with sodomy, it says something very peculiar about you if I may say so. It's quite extraordinary, it's a most peculiar thing. It's not up to you to tell me how to use my penis, my penis was there to give me pleasure. Under the cloak of caring, you have designated homosexuality to be a vicious, perverted disease.
      We're human beings like everybody else and we believe first and foremost in love. At least 260 species of animal have been noted exhibiting homosexual behaviour but only one species of animal ever, so far as we know, has exhibited homophobic behaviour - and that's the human being. So ask which is really natural. There are other faiths like Quakers and Congregationalists and Unitarians and the Liberal Reform part of the Jewish faith who are actually extremely keen. They feel their communion won't be complete unless it includes gay marriage because they believe in social justice and equality too. It's wrong, in a country like ours, which has an established Church, just because their more extreme end is screeching with outrage at the idea of this, that we are not allowed to be married. It's unfair on plenty of other religious people and it is misrepresenting what we require, which is only the same as anybody else, and that's to express our love in the fullest possible way of commitment.
      [on the death of Peter O'Toole] Oh what terrible news. Farewell Peter O'Toole. I had the honour of directing him in a scene. Monster, scholar, lover of life, genius.
      [to Russian homophobe Vitaly Milonov] You really ought to stop because you're making a great fool of yourself on camera. This is going to be shown around the world and if people hear you speaking like this, they're going to think so little of Russia. They're going to think: "Is this man actually allowed to use the street and the telephone, let alone be a politician?"
      Homophobia is still a world problem. Homosexuality isn't and never has been. Homosexuals are not interested in making other people homosexual. Homophobics are interested in making other people homophobic.
      I have a great interest in zoology. There are 480 species of animal that exhibit homosexual behaviour but only one species of animal on earth that exhibits homophobic behaviour. So which is normal?
      What is the point of the Catholic Church if it says, "We didn't know better because nobody else did?" Then what are you for?
=======================================================
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold; text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; } 
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline; }
div#rightcolhidden { clear:right;}div#center1, div#centercol, div#centerrightspancol { overflow: hidden; }
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; } 
.amabot_right .amabot_widget { padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px; padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px; border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4; border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4; border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4; border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; } 
.amabot_left .amabot_widget { padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px; border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4; border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4; border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial, sans-serif; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; } 
.tigerbox { padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4; border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; } 
.hr-leftbrowse { border-top-width: 1px;	border-right-width: 1px;	border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dashed; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; margin-top: 10px; margin-right: 5px; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 5px; } 
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold;}
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; } 
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_Center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; } 
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; } 
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; } 
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; } 
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; } 
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border:1px solid #C9E1F4; padding:8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.left_nav { font-family: Arial, sans-serif; font-size:100%; margin:0; line-height:1.05em; width:100%; border:1px solid #C9E1F4; padding-bottom:10px; } 
div.left_nav h2 { margin:0 0 0 0; color:#000000; font-weight:bold; line-height:1.25em; font-size:100%; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding: 3px 6px; background-color:#EAF3FE; } 
div.left_nav h3 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0.5em 0 0.4em 0.5em; color:#E47911; font-weight:bold; line-height:1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; } 
div.left_nav hr { margin:1em 0.5em; border-top:0; border-left:0; border-right:0; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.left_nav a:link, div.left_nav a:visited { color:#003399; text-decoration:none; font-family:Arial, sans-serif; } 
div.left_nav p.seeMore { padding-left:0.9em; text-indent:-0.9em; margin-top:0.35em; margin-bottom:1em; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    BODY { background-color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; }
    .tinyprice { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color: #990000; font-size: x-small; } 
    .highlight { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color: #990000; font-size: small; } 
  #priceBlock, #priceBlock table td, #primaryUsedAndNew, #primaryClubPrice, #secondaryUsedAndNew, #secondaryClubPrice, #adultWarning, #violenceWarning { font-size: small; }
  table.offersAndRebates th { font-size: small; font-weight: bold; text-align: right; padding-left: 8px; }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-body .wl-pop-left { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_left._V232086925_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-body .wl-pop-right { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_right._V232086925_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-header .wl-pop-left { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_topleft._V232086925_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-header .wl-pop-right { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_topright._V232086925_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-header .wl-pop-middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_top._V232086927_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-footer .wl-pop-left { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_bottomleft._V232086925_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-footer .wl-pop-right { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_bottomright._V232086924_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-footer .wl-pop-middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_bottom._V156433860_.png); }
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite_buybox_drop_sides._V234864356_.png);
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite_wladd_drop_corners._V156421607_.png);
div.nvff_highlight   { font-size:0.9em; margin-top:8px; margin-bottom:10px; padding:7px; border:1px solid #DDDAC0; background:#FFFFDD; }
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprite/wl_bb_sprite_box._V152890262_.png);
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprite/wl_bb_sprite_box._V152890262_.png);
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprite/wl_bb_sprite_box._V152890262_.png);
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprite/wl_bb_sprite_box._V152890262_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite_box_bb._V156421490_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite_box_bb._V156421490_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite_box_bb._V156421490_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite_box_bb._V156421490_.png);
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/down-arrow-shadow-v2-buybox._V134456205_.png) center top no-repeat;
  _background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/down-arrow-v2-buybox._V134458798_.png);
  background-image:url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite-cbox._V152889588_.png); 
     background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/btn_add-to-cart._V149608925_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_gb/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_gb/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_gb/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339352782_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192252891_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192252891_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite.png);
.prime-pBoxBL, .prime-pBoxBR { position:absolute; width:10px; height:10px; z-index:1; bottom:-1px; background-image:url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/x-locale/common/sprite-all-corners._V192561933_.gif); background-repeat:no-repeat; }
    background-image:url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kitchen/scheduled-delivery/sd_bkgd_sprite2._V156428020_.png');
    background-image:url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kitchen/scheduled-delivery/sd_bkgd_sprite2._V156428020_.png'); 
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V388868132_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kindle/rentals/rent-book-promo-image._V152239283_.png');
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kindle/gifting/box-top-left.jpg");
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kindle/gifting/box-top-right.jpg");
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kindle/gifting/box-bottom-left.jpg");
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kindle/gifting/box-bottom-right.jpg");
    #main-image-widget .thumbs .video-alt div { font-size: 10px; border: 1px solid #CCC; border-top: none; }
    #main-image-unavailable .wrapper.not-buyable { border:1px solid #AA0000; height:83px; _height:84px;}
    #main-image-widget .holder.video.hide { top: 0; left: -1px; width: 1px !important; height: 1px !important; }
    #main-image-widget.noflash #main-image{ opacity:0.4; -moz-opacity:0.4; filter:alpha(opacity=40); }
    #recommendations h2 { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size:13px; font-weight: bold; color: #C60; }
    #recommendations li .item { text-align:left; margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;position:relative;padding-right: 10px;}
    #recommendations .item .title { font-family:arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size:11px; }
    background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #fee6b0), color-stop(100%, #eeba37));
    filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#fee6b0', endColorstr='#eeba37',GradientType=0);
    background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #fede97), color-stop(100%, #ecb21f));
    filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#fede97', endColorstr='#ecb21f',GradientType=0);
    background:url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V146303782_.png) no-repeat;
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192237547_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192197121_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V188036086_.gif');
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V211514269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V211514269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V211514269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V211514269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
    background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V211514269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192196091_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V369777521_.png);
.SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:link, #A9AdsMiddleBoxTop .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:link, #SponsoredLinksCustomerMediaPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:link, #SponsoredLinksTagPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:link {
.SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:hover,  #A9AdsMiddleBoxTop .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:hover, #SponsoredLinksCustomerMediaPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:hover, #SponsoredLinksTagPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:hover {
.SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:visited, #A9AdsMiddleBoxTop .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:visited, #SponsoredLinksCustomerMediaPage .SponsoredLinkDescritionUrlLink:visited, #SponsoredLinksTagPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:visited {
div.mp3Enabled a.mp3Asin { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; height: 20px; width: 20px; cursor: pointer; margin: 0; vertical-align: middle; overflow: hidden;
		background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/zeitgeist/mp3player/sprites._V192561915_.gif') repeat-x scroll 0 0; }
.mp3DurationPopover { border: 1px solid black; background-color: #FFFFE1; font-size: 0.8em; padding: 1px 5px 1px 5px; text-align: center}
All DepartmentsAmazon Instant VideoApps for AndroidBabyBeautyBooksCar & MotorbikeClassicalClothingComputers & AccessoriesDIY & ToolsDVD & Blu-rayElectronics & PhotoGarden & OutdoorsGift CardsGroceryHealth & Personal CareJewelleryKindle StoreKitchen & HomeLarge AppliancesLightingLOVEFiLM by PostLuggageMP3 MusicMusicMusical Instruments & DJPC & Video GamesPet SuppliesShoes & BagsSoftwareSports & OutdoorsStationery & Office SuppliesToys & GamesVHSWatches
BooksAdvanced SearchBrowse GenresBest SellersNew & Future ReleasesPaperbacksSeasonal OffersStudy BooksAudiobooksSell Your Books 
Important: Your credit card will NOT be charged when you start your free trial or if you cancel during the trial period. If you're happy with Amazon Prime, do nothing. At the end of the free trial, your membership will automatically upgrade to a full year for £79.
Comment: This book is eligible for free delivery anywhere in the UK. Your order will be picked, packed and dispatched by Amazon. Buy with confidence!
o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o
 Did you know you can use your mobile to trade in your unwanted books for an Amazon.co.uk Gift Card to spend on the things you want? Visit the Books Trade-In Store for more details or check out the          Trade-In Amazon Mobile App Guidelines on how to trade in using a smartphone. Learn more. 
Spanning 1979-1987, The Fry Chronicles charts Stephen Fry's arrival at Cambridge up to his thirtieth birthday.   'Heartbreaking, a delight, a lovely, comfy book' The Times  'Perfect prose and excruciating honesty. A grand reminiscence of college and theatre and comedyland in the 1980s, with tone-perfect anecdotes and genuine readerly excitement. What Fry does, essentially, is tell us who he really is. Above all else, a thoughtful book. And namedroppy too, and funny, and marbled with melancholy' Observer  'Arguably the greatest living Englishman' Independent on Sunday  'Extremely enjoyable' Sunday Times  'Fry's linguistic facility remains one of the Wildean wonders of the new media age. The patron saint of British intelligence' Daily TelegraphWelcome to Stephen Fry's The Fry Chronicles, one of the boldest, bravest, most revealing and heartfelt accounts of a man's formative years that you will ever have the exquisite pleasure of reading.Stephen Fry's film, stage, radio and television credits are so numerous and wide-ranging that there is not space here to do them justice. It is enough to say that he has written, produced, directed, acted in or presented productions as varied as Wilde, the TV series Blackadder and Jeeves and Wooster, the sketch show A Bit of Fry & Laurie, the panel game QI, the radio series Fry's English Delight and documentaries on subjects as varied as manic depression, disappearing animals and the United States of America. He's also the bestselling author of four novels - The Stars' Tennis Balls, Making History, The Hippopotamus and The Liar - as well as a volume of autobiography, Moab is My Washpot, and sundry works of non-fiction.
Spanning 1979-1987, The Fry Chronicles charts Stephen Fry's arrival at Cambridge up to his thirtieth birthday.   'Heartbreaking, a delight, a lovely, comfy book' The Times  'Perfect prose and excruciating honesty. A grand reminiscence of college and theatre and comedyland in the 1980s, with tone-perfect anecdotes and genuine readerly excitement. What Fry does, essentially, is tell us who he really is. Above all else, a thoughtful book. And namedroppy too, and funny, and marbled with melancholy' Observer  'Arguably the greatest living Englishman' Independent on Sunday  'Extremely enjoyable' Sunday Times  'Fry's linguistic facility remains one of the Wildean wonders of the new media age. The patron saint of British intelligence' Daily TelegraphWelcome to Stephen Fry's The Fry Chronicles, one of the boldest, bravest, most revealing and heartfelt accounts of a man's formative years that you will ever have the exquisite pleasure of reading.Stephen Fry's film, stage, radio and television credits are so numerous and wide-ranging that there is not space here to do them justice. It is enough to say that he has written, produced, directed, acted in or presented productions as varied as Wilde, the TV series Blackadder and Jeeves and Wooster, the sketch show A Bit of Fry & Laurie, the panel game QI, the radio series Fry's English Delight and documentaries on subjects as varied as manic depression, disappearing animals and the United States of America. He's also the bestselling author of four novels - The Stars' Tennis Balls, Making History, The Hippopotamus and The Liar - as well as a volume of autobiography, Moab is My Washpot, and sundry works of non-fiction.
{"currencyCode":"GBP","itemData":[{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":6.2,"ASIN":"0141039809","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":6.2,"ASIN":"0099457040","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":5.51,"ASIN":"0099457067","isPreorder":0}],"shippingId":"0141039809::TabYOxANbAdrK3QBTUuYoEqMDRFvJuWH5za6SjnSivoZOQQurQ%2B%2FPphuU6p8KKrHWobDaq7mUEdtitVEl4Hx5bZ2GixDGV2d,0099457040::0YJc%2B07%2BMP5nrMXUChgWBEEEHKbEfYw9bWs6wQIq2UZj5dhyVZrNG0ODE8dk7PJP%2BHh7yxzxJwspgZ8DbXv%2B%2F6rZyg%2BAD7i4,0099457067::3f7De4J5sGacHJiCqrhSP4HVKTJEf0dhRVaJzdpgYn6ftbV1QL0XMA7m%2F1ZAk4o48RcortpMoFb8VVuL7q%2FcwYzNnld4O1tK","sprites":{"addToWishlist":["wl_one","wl_two","wl_three"],"addToCart":["s_addToCart","s_addBothToCart","s_add3ToCart"],"preorder":["s_preorderThis","s_preorderBoth","s_preorderAll3"]},"shippingDetails":{"xz":"same","yz":"same","xy":"same","xyz":"same"},"tags":["x","y","z"],"strings":{"addToWishlist":[null,null,null],"addToCart":["Add to Basket","Add both to Basket","Add all three to Basket"],"showDetailsDefault":"Show availability and delivery details","shippingError":"An error occurred, please try again","hideDetailsDefault":"Hide availability and delivery details","priceLabel":["Price:","Price For Both:","Price For All Three:"],"preorder":["Pre-order this item","Pre-order both items","Pre-order all three items"]}}
0099457040,0099457067,0099457059,0099457024,0099471558,0099457032,0007266359,0091801613,B002XT38GO,009179661X,B008OH0OGQ,B007G6MCZW,0099469391,0061998494,0571246923,0340826843,0091791413,0099509342,0091784123,0571233708,1908717092,B000I2IP2K,1853264768,B000IZK534,B000FS9954,B005EWPG9E,0007110928,009951947X,0091887895,0571233732,0007351747,0099551063,0007232802,0340936177,0241957729,0099551551,0140239243,1849900019,0552166553,0749386061,0571297919,0141045671,1444734164,B006CNQXRS,0486401464,0752826751,0552125555,0330435701,0571308945,1846687349,0141186860,B000NVI2BK,0199535647,B000S399F6,0857501003,0330523627,B00009V900,178219729X,0007420234,0141040343,0099387913,1444727338,0099800209,1593851286,1905026498,0349106533,B00588O9GK,0141394811
      Stephen Fry is one of Britain's national treasures and his television appearances include 'A Bit Of Fry and Laurie', 'Jeeves and Wooster', 'Blackadder', 'QI' and 'Kingdom'. His film roles include 'Peter's Friends' and 'Wilde'; and in the realm of television, the Emmy-award-winning 'The Secret Life of a Manic Depressive'. As a writer, he best known for his novel The Liar as well as his acclaimed autobiography Moab Is My Washpot, and his is the famous voice of the Harry Potter audio books.
       Stephen Fry is an award-winning comedian, actor, presenter and director. He rose to fame alongside Hugh Laurie in A Bit of Fry and Laurie (which he co-wrote with Laurie) and Jeeves and Wooster, and was unforgettable as General Melchett in Blackadder. More recently he presented Stephen Fry: The Secret Life of the Manic Depressive, his groundbreaking documentary on bipolar disorder, to huge critical acclaim. His legions of fans tune in to watch him host the popular quiz show QI each week.
  I loved this book. I have been eagerly awaiting it ever since I read Moab is my Washpot which was wonderful, but left you wanting more. Well I still want more because this book only takes you up to 1987. Nevertheless it is a fantastic combination of funny stories, brutal honesty about himself, loving descriptions of the people he met along the way, a description of university life that made me nostalgic for my own student days, an interesting account of the rise of alternative comedy, and the wonderful use of language for which is is so rightly admired. It is to his credit, and is a measure of the man, that there is barely a bad word uttered about anyone in this book unlike so many celebrity autobiographies.In particular his descriptions of his relationship with, and deep love for, the dedicatee of this book - his partner and friend Hugh Laurie - are extremely moving and brought a tear to my eye.
  Having read "Moab is my Washpot" several years ago, I had been awaiting the next volume of Fry's autobiography with huge anticipation and high expectations. I certainly wasn't disappointed.This book does not bring Fry's story up to the present day - another volume is seemingly promised. Instead it shows us the formative years of Fry's career - actor, writer, comedian - beginning at Cambridge an continuing into his early stage and screen productions, leaving the story around the time of "Blackadder II".Fry is typically honest and self-deprecating - often harshly so, but without ever falling into the trap of self-pity. His affection for his years at Cambridge is very apparent, as is his love and respect for many of those he has worked with - particularly Hugh Laurie, Emma Thompson, Ben Elton and Rowan Atkinson. Fry's feelings of inadequacy when compared to these other talents are particularly fasincating, though I don't doubt that they each felt something similar. There are also wonderful and hilarious anecdotes of the likes of Robbie Coltrane and Miriam Margolyes.Fry wilfully admits that he will use ten words when one will do, but his prose are so elegant and his love of language so infectious, I doubt many readers will mind. This is certainly a more straight-forward narrative than I remember "Moab" being - "Moab" would often veer off into tangents and Stephen would give us his views on life, the universe and everything, and it is a shame that there isn't a bit more of that in this book. But this is a very minor quibble.All in all, anyone who read "Moab" should certainly read this, and everyone else should probably read it too. A genuine and honest insight into the life and the mind of an always interesting, entertaining, and thoroughly likeable man.
  First of all, I enjoyed reading this book. There is no doubt that Stephen's character permeates every page and he has interesting stories to tell. It also includes a wealth of photos. I am a great admirer of Stephen Fry and possibly as a result I found this book a tad disappointing. I'm not saying its a bad book - in many ways its exactly what I would have expected. Yet, somehow, I expected more than this book delivered.Its very Stephen - as much as I can tell from the public persona. And therein, I suspect, lies the problem.The introspection, self analysis and doubt that we know is a part of him becomes a little too much when it regularly surfaces in the book, especially where, in his own words "If a thing can be said in ten words, I may be relied upon to take a hundred to say it."Similarly we know that he can be a "bit of a lovey" and he does heap the praise on his nearest and dearest performing chums.Its yin and yang, I think. I love that Stephen loves words, yet this is at times too wordy. I love that he has a strong sense of loyalty to his friends (a talented and intelligent lot) yet at times it verges on sycophancy. I love that he cares deeply, but do I really want to share the anxst over many pages.Maybe, to indulge in a little introspection of my own, the problem lies with me. As a 'fan' I expect great things from my heroes. But heroes are people, just like the rest of us, and we all have our strengths and our weaknesses.I can see why some people would love this book and I can see why some would not. I suspect it comes down to what you think of the author himself. If you like Stephen's work read this book and you will probably forgive any flaws you care to notice; if you don't then you will no doubt find reasons to dislike the book.
  Having enjoyed his first autobiography quite a lot, I was looking forward to this continuation.  But I really have been disappointed.  Firstly, it doesn't cover enough time.  The whole thing feels like an exercise in fulfilling a book contract, with passages that seem to ramble about things just for the sake of space.  And Fry goes completely overboard this time with all the 'Oh deary me, I'm so successful yet besieged by anxiety and self-hatred.  Don't hate me for my success and misery, but I won't blame you if you do' stuff.  There will always be this element in any of Fry's autobiographical works - I get that it's part of his charm, but I can't stress enough how OTT it is in this instalment.  You do just want him to shut the hell up with all the apologising and get on with it.What's worse, is that frankly, it's boring.  Whereas his first one had moment of real reflection upon his own nature, there really aren't any here.  He sidesteps his neurosis entirely.  There is no emotional honesty.  That's dull - and add the fact that he also doesn't really give us much 'gossip' tidbits about his famous goings-on just adds to the boredom.Finally, I must also admit to feeling greatly disappointed that he seems to hold Ben Elton in such esteem.  He holds enough cache in my mind to make me slightly reconsider my opinion of the man, but not enough to alleviate all of my disappointment.Summary:  All surface, no depth and shockingly dull for such an intrinsically interesting man.
  The Fry Chronicles is the second autobiography from the pen of Stephen Fry, the British icon who’s more well-known as a television personality than as an author, despite the fact... Read more
  If you like Fry you'll enjoy this.  Well written as you'd expect - this was a present and very much enjoyed
  What to make of Stephen Fry's second autobiography, covering roughly his late teens to late twenties? Let's start with the bad points. Read more
  I thought I was the ideal reader for a Stephen Fry product. I'm a pedant, verbose, bookworm fascinated by both dictionary and thesaurus and curious about all kinds of... Read more
  Stephen Fry is a excellent read, his wit and knowledge second to non.  this is the first of his many books that I have got on amazon will use this service again
  The Fry Chronicles is brilliantly written by Steven Fry, however. it is very wordy and I needed a dictionary to understand some of the words.
  Inspiring, funny, sad, written with astonishing honesty. Can't wait for the follow up and more of his other books.THANK YOU STEPHEN..
  Well worth a read - funny and sincere man with so much intellect and warmth. He never ceases to surprise with his insight and his understanding and take on life in general
  I'd recommend this book to anyone -Stephen Fry lover or not! I was both shocked and amazed as to how much he had been through at such a young age. Absolutely loved it!
Amazon Instant VideoAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
MP3s & Cloud PlayerMP3 Music StoreShop 30 million songsCloud Player for WebPlay from any browserCloud Player for AndroidFor Android phones, and tabletsCloud Player for iOSFor iPhone, iPad and iPod touch
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageGet the Desktop AppFor Windows and MacCloud Drive Photos for AndroidFor Android phones and tabletsCloud Drive Photos for iPhoneFor iPhone and iPod touchLearn More About Cloud Drive
Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe ultimate device for readingKindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle device owners read for freeKindle Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Kindle
Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HDAn HD tablet at a breakthrough priceKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Astonishingly light, large HDX displayKindle Fire HDX 4G LTE Tablets
Kindle Fire HDX 4G LTE7" HDX display with ultra-fast 4G LTE technologyKindle Fire HDX 8.9" 4G LTELarge HDX display with ultra-fast 4G LTE technologyKindle AccessoriesCovers, chargers, stylus, audio and more
Appstore for AndroidAppstoreGamesAmazon AppsKindle, mobile shopping, MP3, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
Digital Games & SoftwareDigital GamesFor PC and MacFree-to-Play GamesFor PC and MacDigital SoftwareFor PC and MacYour Games & Software Library
Audible AudiobooksAudible MembershipFirst book free when you try AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreBestsellersNew ReleasesListener Favourites
Movies, TV, Music, GamesAmazon Instant VideoDVD & Blu-rayLOVEFiLM By PostMusicMP3 DownloadsMusical Instruments & DJPC & Video GamesTrade In Your Games & Consoles
ElectronicsCamera & PhotoTV & Home CinemaAudio & HiFiSat Nav & Car ElectronicsPhonesElectronics AccessoriesPC & Video GamesAll Electronics
Computers & OfficeLaptopsTabletsComputer AccessoriesComputer ComponentsSoftwarePrinters & InkAll Computers & AccessoriesStationery & Office Supplies
Home & GardenGarden & OutdoorsHomeware & FurnitureKitchen & DiningKitchen & Home AppliancesLarge AppliancesLightingAll Home & Garden
Toys, Children & BabyToys & GamesBabyBaby Wish ListAmazon Family20% off nappies, delivery benefits and more
Sports & OutdoorsFitnessCamping & HikingCyclingAthletic & Outdoor ClothingWinter SportsGolfWater SportsAll Sports & Outdoors
Health & BeautyAll BeautyLuxury BeautyHealth & Personal CareMen's GroomingGroceryGroceryBeer, Wine & SpiritsSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free delivery and more
Car & MotorbikeCar Accessories & PartsTools & EquipmentSat Nav & Car ElectronicsMotorbike Accessories & Parts
Amazon Instant VideoMP3s & Cloud Player30 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageKindleAppstore for AndroidGet a paid app for free every dayDigital Games & SoftwareAudible AudiobooksBooksMovies, TV, Music, GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden, Pets & DIYToys, Children & BabyClothes, Shoes & JewellerySports & OutdoorsBeauty, Health & GroceryCar & Motorbike›Full Shop Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your KindleYour Cloud PlayerPlay from any browserYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Rental ListYour Games and Software LibraryYour Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish ListWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding ListBaby Wish List
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V370545378_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityMake Money with UsSell on AmazonAssociates ProgrammeFulfilment by AmazonAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment MethodsAmazon Money StoreGift CardsAmazon Currency ConverterPayment Methods HelpLet Us Help YouTrack Packages or View OrdersDelivery Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns Are EasyManage Your KindleHelp
Conditions of Use & SalePrivacy NoticeCookies & Internet Advertising© 1996-2014, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/loading-indicator._V192185253_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif');
        background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/buttons._V243643239_.gif')
    background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/traffic/s9m/alert-small._V195630253_.gif");
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/donsbeak-sm-up._V197474569_.png) no-repeat 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite-mini.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/tile-blue-bg._V46870869_.gif)
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tl._V192184760_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tm._V192184721_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tr._V192184429_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bl._V192184824_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bm._V192184603_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-br._V192545463_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tl2._V192545542_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tr2._V192545537_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-bl._V192545543_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-br._V192545543_.gif);
Help us improve our Author Pages by updating your bibliography and submitting a new or current image and biography.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
   background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/twister/tiny-snake._V192199047_.gif') no-repeat scroll 0px 0px;
  cursor: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-in._V184888790_.bmp'),pointer;
  cursor: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-out._V184888738_.bmp),pointer;
.swSprite { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; margin: 0;padding: 0; position: relative; overflow: hidden; vertical-align: middle; background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler div.disabled-button { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image {  background-position: -60px -80px;background-color: white;}
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image { background-position: -30px -80px; background-color: white;}
.dpSprite { background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-dp-2._V384267953_.png'); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.udpSprite { background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/udp-sprite-dp-2._V358106326_.png') no-repeat; vertical-align: middle; display: inline-block;}
.cmtySprite { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-communities._V136632413_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192250049_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V156431432_.png);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192190832_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite._V192250042_.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192239831_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/customerimage/shuttle-gradient._V192250138_.gif); 
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V192238939_.gif');
    background: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/sprite-carousel-btns-stars2._V376388587_.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_left_17._V248144977_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_right_17._V248144979_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_left._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top._V265110086_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_left._V265110084_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom._V265110084_.png); }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-arrow-v._V219326286_.png);
     #twister .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; } #twister .a-dropdown-container span.a-button-dropdown { display: none !important } 	
     #buybox_feature_div .a-native-dropdown, #buybox .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; font-weight: normal;}
     #buybox_feature_div label.a-native-dropdown, #buybox label.a-native-dropdown {padding-right: 5px;}
     #buybox_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown, #buybox .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown  { display: none !important;} 
     #defaultChildDropdown_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown { display: none !important;}
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York TimesŽ Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
No Kindle device required. Download one of the free Kindle apps to start reading Kindle books on your smartphone, tablet and computer.
FREE Two-Day Shipping is available to Amazon Prime members. To join, select "Yes, I want FREE Two-Day Shipping with Amazon Prime" above the Add to Cart button and confirm your Amazon Prime free trial sign-up during checkout.
Important:  Your credit card will NOT be charged when you start your free trial or if you cancel during the trial period. If you're happy with Amazon Prime, do nothing. At the end of the free trial, your membership will automatically upgrade to an annual membership.
Comment: GREAT SHAPE! Hardcover with dust jacket. No missing / torn pages, highlighting, notes, or other markings. Some light wear. Free shipping on total Amazon fulfilled orders over $25! Free 2-Day shipping with Amazon Prime! 
Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) is a service we offer sellers that lets them store their products in Amazon's fulfillment centers, and we directly pack, ship, and provide customer service for these products. Something we hope you'll especially enjoy: FBA items qualify for FREE Shipping and .
    * https://omni-grok.amazon.com/xref/src/appgroup/websiteTemplates/retail/SoftlinesDetailPageAssets/udp-intl-lock/src/legacy.css?indexName=WebsiteTemplates#40
 Stephen Fry arrived at Cambridge University as a convicted  fraudster and thief, an addict, liar, fantasist, and failed suicide,  convinced that any moment he would be sent away. Instead, he befriended  bright young things like Emma Thompson and Hugh Laurie, and he emerged  as one of the most promising comic talents in the world. This is the  engrossing, hilarious, and utterly compelling story of how the Stephen  the world knows (or thinks it knows) found his way. Tales of champagne,  love, and conspicuous consumption jostle with insights into Broadway  and TV stardom. A feat of trademark wit and verbal brilliance, this is  a book unafraid of confronting the chasm that separates celebrity from  a young man's personal reality.
{"currencyCode":"USD","itemData":[{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":20.38,"ASIN":"1590207149","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":9.87,"ASIN":"1569472025","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":14.74,"ASIN":"1592403115","isPreorder":0}],"shippingId":"1590207149::YRcgj9iAwsorXw8OQBkqE7N0ERdoRIBGNXTKHIp42wIphTyP6wBIDaW9PAguHeiQ1lKNOoAA39BIurepE17tBcVoFe8brg%2FLUlW7Ss%2B4vKQKKJEMeINx2g%3D%3D,1569472025::0iVIcxZGeE%2BCxH0T55FXYKgpA1yoCKSagTU4oKHFxLhRR%2Fhasemrhs2ZzlA9OM53IvM5LQBsPrfWgGrjSW5kbr7tR05IL8szWXXXILXAwLg%3D,1592403115::J1M5KJgSMaDhhuj0AtQ9Z9f4LpXixDvKzvXEUnwNAvtNMrndq9DxAyrET443q9Jql16OCRDFEctuReWhKpGsjnsehBP%2Fq6M6UxMBa4y4Py8%3D","sprites":{"addToWishlist":["wl_one","wl_two","wl_three"],"addToCart":["s_addToCart","s_addBothToCart","s_add3ToCart"],"preorder":["s_preorderThis","s_preorderBoth","s_preorderAll3"]},"shippingDetails":{"xz":"same","yz":"availability","xy":"availability","xyz":"availability"},"tags":["x","y","z"],"strings":{"showDetails":"Show details","differentAvailabilityAll":"Some of these items ship sooner than the others.","addToWishlist":["add to wishlist","Add both to Wish List","Add all three to Wish List"],"shippingError":"An error occurred, please try again","differentAvailability":"One of these items ships sooner than the other.","preorder":["Pre-order this item","Pre-order both items","Pre-order all three items"],"addToCart":["Add to Cart","Add both to Cart","Add all three to Cart"],"showDetailsDefault":"Show availability and shipping details","priceLabel":["Price:","Price for both:","Price for all three:"],"hideDetailsDefault":"Hide availability and shipping details","hideDetails":"Hide details"}}
1569472025,156947012X,1451666179,0679438793,1592403115,B001V7UXG2,0375502645,0812968190,0671746723,0062255657,B00BPEJX12,0199540004,0007351747,0345468902,0307394913,0553593625,0804114900,0679459553,B003KV3E40,B0006J240O,0099457024,000728019X,B00005V5NU,030739493X,B001ADXWY2,1444720783,B000P0J0G0,B00IOHO7TG,1585673927,069115564X,0811853756,030795174X,B003LY66PA,1585679224,1444734148,0061456381,0099457067,B001SFEPMA,0718157745,1592402488,1616954736,0141041803,000742678X,1444720775,0434274089,B004MKEUNC
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V397906885_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-right._V192549178_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_br._V192190565_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_03._V192190907_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-topleft._V192549173_.gif');
"This is, above all else, a thoughtful book. And namedroppy  too, and funny . . . Its camaraderie of tone lets it wear its learning  lightly yet leaves you with . . . new insights, new ways of looking at  things." (- The Guardian )"Mr. Fry is pitiless on the subject of his young self, but he's also wry and tender and hilarious." (--WSJ.com )"Funny, poignant . . . His prose feels like an ideal form of conversation." (--Washington Post )"Fry begins with an unnecessary apology for the ordinariness of his writing, and then proceeds to write masterfully, assessing himself with his signature blend of self-loathing and baffled amusement . . . The memoir stands as proof of the author's intelligence, wit, and insight." (���Entertainment Weekly  )"The Fry Chronicles is so slickly charming it seems churlish to harrumph" (--Wall Street Journal )"Stephen Fry's new volume of memoirs, The Fry Chronicles: An Autobiography is a delightful account of the legendary British comedian/actor's years at Cambridge, and his first years in show business. Even his occasional overwriting is so quickly followed by witty self-deprecation that he never loses the reader's sympathy and interest. To read this book is to fall in love (perhaps not for the first time) with its subjects: one of the world's greatest universities, and the British comic tradition. Strongly recommended." (--National Review )
STEPHEN FRY is an actor, producer, director, and writer who has starred in numerous TV series including Blackadder, Jeeves & Wooster, the sketch show A Bit of Fry and Laurie (with House star Hugh Laurie). He is the bestselling author of four novels as well as several works of nonfiction.
    .quotes-bubble-arrow { height: 0; width: 0; left: 18px; border-color: #EEEEEE rgba(238,238,238,0); border-width: 15px 0 0 19px; border-style: solid; position:relative; content:""; }
  It's absolutely amazing how Stephen Fry himself reads out the book.Tara RIt's the story of a man's soul, and an unforgettable journey to international celebrity with a few friends that Stephen feels lucky enough to have known.Amazon CustomerHis story ends (in this book) in such a way that you are bound to scream "What, I want to know what happens next!!!"F. Goodwin
37 of 38 people found the following review helpfulStephen Fry - The Chronicles of a national treasure
4.5 starsThe written or the spoken word? When it comes to Stephen Fry one of the greatest and learned polymaths of our time it is a difficult choice not least of all following from his brilliant readings with that wonderful voice narrating the Harry Potter series and the added attractions of this book on all sorts of I Apps and gadgets. But written word it is and thank you for the prompt delivery from Amazon pre order system for this book takes up where "Moab is my washpot" left off as Fry troops off to University and takes us on a journey up to his initial appearances on television.I would love to claim credit for the title of this review but it is happily stolen with immense pride from the Daily Telegraph as it speaks volumes about Fry's contribution to our culture (and in any case everything that I thought of seemed to involve a rather obvious Lord Melchett quote -but see below). Fry has built up a reputation since the publication of "Moab" which formally puts him in the category of "national treasure" with a Knighthood so obviously coming down the line that all bets are off, This status has been achieved despite the odd hiccup on the way not least the debacle of Simon Gray's play "The Cell Mates" where Fry essentially did a runner after suffering a nervous breakdown leaving a deeply puzzled and annoyed Rik Mayall and much explaining to do. Yet we can forgive him this not least for his verbal dexterity, his wit, his intellectual depth and breadth, his entering the term "baaaaaaaaaaaaaah" into the English lexicon and his ability to honestly face up to some very personal demons not least his battle with bi polar disorder and his love for Wagner despite being Jewish.Read more ›
  Having read and enjoyed Stephen Fry's first part of his autobiography, (Moab is MY Washpot") I looked forward to reading this further extension of his quite interesting life.Curiously it felt like wading through treacle to me, ....I was quite prepared for his verbosity, which can indeed be fun, but after a while I wanted to shout "Oh just get to the point Stephen!"The MOST annoying feature is his constant repetition of personal apologies for almost everything. It seems he's terrified we'll perceive him as some sort of privileged prat who has enjoyed the good things of life without having to do all that much. Or heaven forbid, ...talented in some way!Point is, we KNOW he's "made it" as an author, actor and raconteur and that's probably why we are reading the book in the first place! WE WANT to hear about his life, ...you may feel differently but the apology preceding almost every new revelation really started to drive me crazy!Then there's the constant hugely flattering assessments of all his many well-known friends' most exceptional talents. Pages and pages of it! Yes we all know that Emma, Rowan, Hugh, etc. etc. ad damn infinitum are "great", .....but this book is supposed to be about you, Stephen Fry! I think its once again his over-apologetic nature saying "Oh I'm NOT talented at all, ...but all my friends are just SO good...! Aren't they so wonderful for including a little old nobody like me?"Anyway, all of this added excess baggage padded around the story made reading this book a VERY drawn out experience for me. It felt like I would NEVER get to the end.If ever the services of a good editor were called for, this is a case in point. Almost got out the blue pen myself!As it is you'll need a large pair of figurative wellies to wade through all those constant assurances he's NOT vain or self-congratulatory. (Is there such a word?)
9 of 9 people found the following review helpful`I really must stop saying sorry; it doesn't make things any better or worse.'
This is the second volume of Stephen Fry's autobiography, covering the eight years immediately after the first volume (entitled `Moab is my Washpot'). I have not yet read the first volume, which covers Stephen Fry's childhood and teenage years, and am keen to do so as soon as I can.Stephen Fry writes this book from a position of relative fame: many of us who have followed British comedy will know at least some of his work from the 1980s, while others may only know his more recent work. But who is the man behind the public figure?Stephen Fry arrived at Cambridge while still on probation from credit card fraud. He quickly discovers that he can sail through examinations without too much effort, befriends other bright young people such as Hugh Laurie and Emma Thompson, and finds that extra-curricular activities are even more interesting than Shakespearean texts. It seems clear that mostly this was happy period in Stephen Fry's life and the way in which he writes of it is a delight to read. It's almost like listening to him speak.But, if publicly all seems to be going well, privately: ` I had lived twenty years convinced that my body was the enemy and that all I had going for me was my brain, my quickness of tongue and my blithe facility with language, attributes that can cause people to be as much disliked as admired.'This questioning of self, combined with a dislike of his appearance and body made it difficult for Stephen Fry to be comfortable. There was a gap between the confident public persona he projected and how he felt:`The sense of failure, the fear of eternal unhappiness, the insecurity, misery, self-disgust and the awful awareness of underachievement... Are you not prey to all of those things also? I do hope so.Read more ›
      Stephen Fry is of the kind of personality that, if he and I were to meet, I'd be absolutely convinced that he must think me a fool.
      Mr. Fry's public persona as a comedian, pundit and all-around witty individual hides the fact that he has the same self-doubts, fears and social paranoia as the rest of us.
      Self discovery and boring details of self awareness were too much of this book's content.It would be especially interesting to a UK based person who may have seen/heard...
      Renaissance man Stephen Fry continues the story of his life, picking up from where "Moab is My Washpot" left off.
      For anyone that is interested in British comedy from Stephen Fry's point of view, then this is the read for you.
      If I had no visual on Stephen Fry and had to read this in braille, not only would  my fingers be on fire but I could picture him in my head with ease.
      This book is a great listen so go for the audio book! It's absolutely amazing how Stephen Fry himself reads out the book.
      I read this book first (before Moab is my Washpot), but it works as a standalone. My favorite bits were about his college days, with his cohorts, Hugh, Rowan and Emma among them.
      I have always enjoyed Stephen Fry`s talented writing and acting skills ever since first seeing his wonderful performance as Oscar Wilde in "Wilde" and am touched to hear him speak...
      think Stephen Fry has been one of England's best commedians in years, with a great, deadpan delivery that makes everything he says come out funny.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMens GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
.ap_classic { border-top:1px solid #ccc;border-left:1px solid #ccc;border-bottom:1px solid #2F2F1D; border-right:1px solid #2F2F1D;background-color:#EFEDD4;padding:3px; }
.ap_classic .ap_content { clear:both;background-color:white;border:1px solid #ACA976;padding:8px;font-size:11px; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png");  
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV  Amazons Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
Stephen Fry is probably best described as a man of many, many talents. He just seems to be a fountain of all knowledge from which we could all do with taking a drink! 
He met Hugh Laurie during this time and the pair went on to become writing partners, starring in their own show, A Bit Of Fry and Laurie and Blackadder. 
A popular 90s drama, Jeeves & Wooster was based on the PG Wodehouse novels and saw Stephen take on the role of the butler with Laurie playing Wooster. 
Stephen had a slight run-in with the press when he suddenly disappeared during his role in the stage show Cell Mates. Nobody knew where he was until he re-appeared a few months later somewhere on the continent. And we're not sure if he ever explained himself, either. Hmmm... 
Stephen's had a stint as a film actor, too ? in particular, Wilde and Peter's Friends. He also sat in the director's chair for Bright Young Things, his 2003 adaptation of the novel Vile Bodies. 
One of his most popular projects at the moment is his pretty intellectual quiz show, QI. To be honest we're a little ashamed to say that we haven't actually seen it, although it seems to be doing very well so he's obviously doing something right. 
Radio Times readers voted Stephen number one in their 'smartest people on TV' poll. Carol Vorderman must be hopping mad, he pipped her to the post!
If you've seen his new show, Stephen Fry in America, you'll know that Stephen proudly drives a black cab. 
	This site uses cookies. If you continue without changing your settings, you're consenting to receive the cookies set by our website.  Find out more 
=======================================================
Stephen Fry is not just a multi-award-winning comedian and actor, but also an author, director and presenter. He is one of the most influential cultural forces in the country. This title details some of the most turbulent and least well known years of his life.
Get a copy:Amazononline stores ▼Barnes & NobleAudibleAbebooksBook DepositoryKoboIndigoHalf.comAlibrisiBooksBetter World BooksTarget.comGoogle PlayIndieBoundMore…LibrariesMore…
This was a quick read as I love Stephen Fry and have been curious about his career. His writing is lyrical, captivating and a linguistic joy to read, he has a seemingly effortless ability to conjure whirling syntax and employ endless alliterations and double rhyme scheme. The downfalls of this work were an inexcusable amount of repetition, self deprecation to the point of farce and mindless name dropping which did tend to disconnect the reader. It also would have served well to be much shorter....more
This was a quick read as I love Stephen Fry and have been curious about his career. His writing is lyrical, captivating and a linguistic joy to read, he has a seemingly effortless ability to conjure whirling syntax and employ endless alliterations and double rhyme scheme. The downfalls of this work were an inexcusable amount of repetition, self deprecation to the point of farce and mindless name dropping which did tend to disconnect the reader. It also would have served well to be much shorter. And yet, I loved his masterful use of language, his honest insights into his own struggles and misgivings and the British mischievousness and turn of phrase many have come to love him for. I liked this book - I just wanted to like it much more. (less)
"Hullo.  Most awfully sorry to bother you and all that, but I'm Stephen Fry and I thought that just possibly - if you are most unutterably consumed with tedium and are simply the most heinous glutton for punishment - you might like to read my second memoir, the story of a liar, a fraud, and a fake.  And a national treasure, apparently.  But I'm not too sure about that last one at all."
For me there are various Stephen Frys.   The Fry of Blackadder, the Fry of Stephen Fry in America and the Fry of QI.   This book seemed very much written by the Fry of QI, diffident, knowledgeable, charming - and at times a tad outrageous.   This is my favourite Fry, so I was fine with that.His original thinking and love of language fill the book with finesse  and wonderfully unpredictable perspectives.   His love of words rather less so.   There are a few cascades and pools of words where you just have to...more
For me there are various Stephen Frys.   The Fry of Blackadder, the Fry of Stephen Fry in America and the Fry of QI.   This book seemed very much written by the Fry of QI, diffident, knowledgeable, charming - and at times a tad outrageous.   This is my favourite Fry, so I was fine with that.His original thinking and love of language fill the book with finesse  and wonderfully unpredictable perspectives.   His love of words rather less so.   There are a few cascades and pools of words where you just have to hold your nose and dive in, in order to get through them.I was particularly smitten with his description of his years as a student in Cambridge, and his love for the city and for that life.   I lived in Cambridge in my late teens – I worked there in a bookshop – and much of what he said resonated with my experiences.   It is a magical place, and it was great to have that magic evoked once again.  He really does this beautifully, and I was quite filled with nostalgia.Fry took to the world of acting with a vengeance, belonging to several clubs in Cambridge and sometimes  literally running from one play to the next.   He is a lovey to the core.   Perhaps the archetypal lovey to end all loveys.   His unfortunate experiences as a book reviewer illustrated to him how impossible it was for him to be rude about anyone.    ”There are all kinds of responses and attitudes that can justify the art and practice of reviewing, but none of them, not a one, addresses the question of how you live with yourself if your wicked wit, shrewd insight and scornful judgement will have hurt someone, will have them crying themselves to sleep.   Or worse still, how you can live with yourself if you realize that you have become the kind of person who does not even care that they regularly cause pain, suffering, discouragement and loss of self-regard in those trying to earn a living in their field?” Instead he prefers looking at people through a veil of unmitigated admiration.   He name drops.   Of course he name drops.   He puts all his friends on pedestals, and is awed by their success.   He wants us to be awed too.More surprising are the passages about the angst that he experiences.   His severe disgust with his own behaviours and acting abilities.  These are interspersed with references to great happiness -   happiness in his friendships, his successes, and all the toys and luxuries that his burgeoning wealth can confer.   He frequently talks about the difference between the image he projects, and what he is actually feeling inside.   These extremes between happiness and self-loathing seem to reflect realistically  his diagnosis of bi-polar disorder.I was also surprised to read about his partner relationships, and lack of these relationships.   But throughout the book Fry is unbendingly honest - in fact that seems the bottom line for his writing - that he will be totally honest about himself.   He therefore talks about his love life or lack of it as candidly as anything else.I personally have a lot of time for nice people,  all the more so when they come with a wallop sensitivity, intelligence and originality.   Stephen Fry has all of these things. Plus a wonderful seasoning of humour.   What a sweet man and what a fabulous writer.   A great read.(less)
 It's interesting that we have never exported Stephen Fry.Try telling that to Australians! They were completely sick of him a year or two ago. (I am a...more
 It's interesting that we have never exported Stephen Fry.Try telling that to Australians! They were completely sick of him a year or two ago. (I am an ex-fan who has been put off partly by his increasing ubiquity so I sympathised...)(less)
Antonomasia wrote: " It's interesting that we have never exported Stephen Fry.Try telling that to Australians! They were completely sick of him a year...more
Antonomasia wrote: " It's interesting that we have never exported Stephen Fry.Try telling that to Australians! They were completely sick of him a year or two ago. (I am an ex-fan who has been put off partly by his in..."Oh shame!   Sorry to hear that...(less)
I was all set to LOVE this book, and then it ends right before he takes his first hit of cocaine -- just stops. I guess he felt the book was long enough, or it would take 2 or 3 times its length to get into his drug abuse (after all the time he devoted to sugar), or he didn't want to go into it all.....but God, it ends so unceremoniously. That's really disappointing.That said, the book is pretty amazing -- everyone told me it's not as good as Moab is My Washpot, and no, it's not, but there are s...more
I was all set to LOVE this book, and then it ends right before he takes his first hit of cocaine -- just stops. I guess he felt the book was long enough, or it would take 2 or 3 times its length to get into his drug abuse (after all the time he devoted to sugar), or he didn't want to go into it all.....but God, it ends so unceremoniously. That's really disappointing.That said, the book is pretty amazing -- everyone told me it's not as good as Moab is My Washpot, and no, it's not, but there are still many amazing passages. Also, every psychiatrist should read this to see pretty much just what a bipolar consciousness feels like from the inside.ETA A dear friend has informed me this is a case of Lady Don't Fall Backwards: http://www.thrillingdetective.com/eye...(less)
I didn’t like this nearly as much as I hoped I would.  Look, it isn’t an awful book – it is nicely put together and is mostly interesting.  I think my main problem with it is that a lot of it is about very well known people Fry knows and has worked with padded out with descriptions of shows he has been in.  Some of this is interesting and even funny.  A lot of it becomes a bit the same after a while.  I became a bit tired of hearing about how incredibly talented or funny or talentedly funny or funnil...more
I didn’t like this nearly as much as I hoped I would.  Look, it isn’t an awful book – it is nicely put together and is mostly interesting.  I think my main problem with it is that a lot of it is about very well known people Fry knows and has worked with padded out with descriptions of shows he has been in.  Some of this is interesting and even funny.  A lot of it becomes a bit the same after a while.  I became a bit tired of hearing about how incredibly talented or funny or talentedly funny or funnily talented someone or other was and I can only assume probably still is.  There are things I like about Fry – I like anyone that can write an autobiography and say honest things about themselves.  However, there is a certain masochistic tendency to Fry that is a bit reminiscent of how I feel about myself too frequently for me to have any sympathy for him.  Fry is someone, and he says this about himself, that everyone wants to project their own image onto.  This image is not necessarily their own image, but an image of what they would like him to be.  In my world he would be better read and more interested in ideas than in the cars and other symbols of success he seems obsessed with.  But this is mainly because I have no interest in those things and find it sad to hear someone going on about them as if they mattered.  Oh, look, I know he is very self-deprecating even about these foibles and when he starts talking about his numerous cars he explains why he thinks he has them – but even that becomes a bit tedious after a while.It is hard not to like him, though.  We Anglo-Celtic-Saxon types generally don’t like or trust intellectuals.  And that could easily be a definition of our ‘race’.  And so to like or trust them we need them to be either witty or eccentric.  Fry has perfected the art of being both, he is witty and eccentric and is considered intellectual as well.  The danger is – as with all comedy and eccentricity – that what people find delightful and charming and wonderful today they find, and in equal measure, the perfect excuse to despise and loathe and ostracise over the next.  There is a part of me that suspects that his life for the eight years or so that this book covers probably was much as he sets out here – lacking in sex, but overflowing in money and success and work.  And I guess it would be hard for him to talk about things other than work as he probably didn’t have much time for much else and anyway, he might have to say things about his famous friends that might complicate matters.  This is a fan’s book.  The stark light is turned inward and often what is shown isn’t terribly attractive, but I guess we are sometimes attracted more to the ugly side of others.  Nevertheless, it wasn’t nearly as interesting a read as Moab is My Washpot – volume one of this continuing saga – and volume three sounds like it may not be much to look forward to.  I’ll probably read it when it comes out, though.  I must get around to watching Blackadder one of these days.  Everyone raved about it when it was on and so some time later I got out the first series and watched that and really couldn’t see what people saw in it – I’ve found out from this book that the first series was crap and it only took off with series two.  Like I said, must get around to watching it at some stage.(less)
I am a Fryophile. The first half of this is perfect! --Until he begins to mercilessly name-drop (moar liek name-bomb). A note to Stephen: we don't care about them. We care about YOU.“I am sure that I am right in locating my first addiction here.  Sugar Puffs were the starting link in a chain that would shackle me for most of my life.  To begin with, as you might imagine, they were a breakfast habit.  But soon I was snacking on them at any time of day until my mother began to sigh at the number of p...more
I am a Fryophile. The first half of this is perfect! --Until he begins to mercilessly name-drop (moar liek name-bomb). A note to Stephen: we don't care about them. We care about YOU.“I am sure that I am right in locating my first addiction here.  Sugar Puffs were the starting link in a chain that would shackle me for most of my life.  To begin with, as you might imagine, they were a breakfast habit.  But soon I was snacking on them at any time of day until my mother began to sigh at the number of packets she was forced to buy.  I would eat the sweet pellets loose from the box.  One after the other, without stopping, into the mouth they would go.  I was like an American at the cinema with popcorn: eyes glazed, hand rising and falling pack-to-mouth, pack-to-mouth, pack-to-mouth like a machine.“ ‘Eyes glazed’.  Is that important?  A child at the breast or bottle has that look.  There is a sexual element to such unfocused fixity.  Until I was about eight or nine I sucked the first two fingers of my left hand.  Almost all the time.  While twiddling the hair on the crown of my head with the fingers of the right hand.  And always with that glazed, faraway look, with parted lips and laboured breath.  Was I giving myself the breast treat that I had been denied?  These are dark waters, Watson.“Cereal-packet lists of ingredients and serving suggestions were my literature; thiamine, riboflavin and niacin my mysterious invisible friends.  Sold by weight not volume.  Contents may have settled during transport.  Insert finger under flap and move from side to side.  They’re Gr-r-r-r-r-r-r-eat!  We like Ricicles, they’re twicicles as nicicles.  And so they were.  In fact, as I liked to say, they were thricicles as nicicles.  Certainly much nicicler than their staid, unsweetened parent, Rice Krispies…” ."All you need know is that I, my 128 kilobyte Macintosh, Imagewriter bitmap printer and small collection of floppy disks were all very, very happy together. What possible need could I have for sex or human relationships when I had this?"."Alan Bennett was out in the street, attaching bicycle clips to his trousers." 'Are you going to join us for spaghetti?' I asked him." 'Yes, do!' said the boys." 'Oh no,' said Alan, in slightly shocked tones, as if we were inviting him to a naked orgy in an opium den. 'I shall cycle home and have a poached egg.' "."Although we were not really well known and certainly like as famous as Harry and Ben were becoming, there was a sizeable enough demand for us in college and university towns, it seemed, and a tour was arranged. We wrote and stared out of the window and paced up and down and bought Big Macs and looked out of the window and went for walks and tore at our hair and swore and watched television and bought more Big Macs and swore again and wrote and screamed with horror as the clock showed that another day was over and we looked at what we had written and groaned and agreed to meet again first thing next day whosever turn it was agreeing to arrive with some coffee and Big Macs."(less)
Didn't finish and had no desire to. I enjoyed Fry's previous volume of autobiography -  Moab My Washpot - although I appreciate that this book was more of a delving into his adult years, it just wasn't anywhere near as entertaining. I was gripped during his narration of his time at Cambridge and was incredibly thrilled by the first appearances of Emma Thompson and Hugh Laurie and a bunch of other famous names, however I lost interest the minute he became a professional - name dropping is fine and...more
Didn't finish and had no desire to. I enjoyed Fry's previous volume of autobiography -  Moab My Washpot - although I appreciate that this book was more of a delving into his adult years, it just wasn't anywhere near as entertaining. I was gripped during his narration of his time at Cambridge and was incredibly thrilled by the first appearances of Emma Thompson and Hugh Laurie and a bunch of other famous names, however I lost interest the minute he became a professional - name dropping is fine and natural when you are becoming famous, but it just gets too much and he does go on about how fabulous other people are, almost to the level that you just start talking at the book, "Yeah, Stephen, we know Emma Thompson is a great actress." or "Oh, you lived near Lady Di when you moved to so and so place in London and met her at a later date - yes, very interesting...." It's the little things that bring this book down and it's a real shame, because Fry has a proven record of being able to write and we definitely know that he can be and is very charming and funny. Really, a disappointment that breaks my heart somehow. (less)
At first I thought I was going to adore this biography. The opening chapter started with a caveat that is extremely close to my heart "in every particular I fail Strunk's Elements of Style or any other manual of 'good writing'. If a thing can be said in ten words, I may be relied upon to take a hundred to say it... I love words and whilst I am fond of the condensed and economical use of them in poetry, in song lyrics, in Twitter, in good journalism and smart advertising, I love the luxuriant pro...more
At first I thought I was going to adore this biography. The opening chapter started with a caveat that is extremely close to my heart "in every particular I fail Strunk's Elements of Style or any other manual of 'good writing'. If a thing can be said in ten words, I may be relied upon to take a hundred to say it... I love words and whilst I am fond of the condensed and economical use of them in poetry, in song lyrics, in Twitter, in good journalism and smart advertising, I love the luxuriant profusion and mad scatter of them too". He then explained his love for sugar.Hallelujah thought I, finally a book which embraces my loquacious sugar- coated spirit. For the first few chapters I thoroughly enjoyed Mr Fry's adventures in ridiculous vocabulary. Then I realised, I might just loathe him as a person. He fully acknowledges that he is an arrogant twit but somehow this self-realisation did very little to quench my desire to biff him in the nose and tell him to wake up to the real world. Unfortunately this urge to biff continued for the majority of the book.Happily, about 3/4s of the way through I began to warm to Stephen again, he became less of unbearable pompous upper-class git to more of a slightly amusing pompous upperclass git and by the end of the book I was enjoying his little rants/forays of inflection. I especially enjoyed the part in which he professes his love for fame and his thorough disappointment at the failure of anyone to recognise him following his first tv performance. This made me laugh a lot because about 10 years ago I happened to spot Mr Fry on Carnaby Street in London and (it being my first celebrity spot ever) exclaimed to my friend "Hey is that Stephen Fry?".  He clearly overheard and shot me a look that would make milk curdle. Love fame my arse. It was a fun book and I did enjoy it. It was a little much, perhaps, for one sitting and is something that should be dipped in and out of. (less)
A quote that's been regurgitated again and again this year is the most arrogant and smug thing I've read this year year, that Stephen Fry is "A stupid person’s idea of what an intelligent person looks like". I can't ever recall anyone regarding him with genius status. He's well learned and quite knowledgeable. Someone with a thirst for knowledge and a great memory. Yes, of course that doesn't equate to intelligence, but why be so arrogant about it? There's a lot of Fry Haters out there. I guess...more
A quote that's been regurgitated again and again this year is the most arrogant and smug thing I've read this year year, that Stephen Fry is "A stupid person’s idea of what an intelligent person looks like". I can't ever recall anyone regarding him with genius status. He's well learned and quite knowledgeable. Someone with a thirst for knowledge and a great memory. Yes, of course that doesn't equate to intelligence, but why be so arrogant about it? There's a lot of Fry Haters out there. I guess it's the inevitable backlash because he's well liked by so many. I'm one of the latter. Anyway - the book. It's good but nothing of any breathtaking depth. It's mostly about the career path of him and his chums. He barely touches on subjects like mental health. I did enjoy the bit of probing he does on personality types such as himself but would have preferred to hear a bit more rather than haring so much about other people. Was surprised to hear he was in prison for stealing and that's not a spoiler, it's the very start of the book but otherwise no major surprises or revelations.To be chalked up along side Mark Kermode, that's one more author who's the perfect narrator for his own audio book. Wouldn't have been right for anyone else to do it. (less)
It is a rare individual who warrants multiple volumes of autobiography – Stephen Fry joins the heady society of Russell Brand and Chris Moyles in such a belief. Whereas 
 covers his childhood years – growing up, family life, schools, getting thrown out of schools, and ending up in prison – 
 tells of the later years – teaching, Cambridge, drama clubs, relationships, The Fringe, and so on, through to his success as playwright, columnist, actor and comedian.This...more
It is a rare individual who warrants multiple volumes of autobiography – Stephen Fry joins the heady society of Russell Brand and Chris Moyles in such a belief. Whereas 
 covers his childhood years – growing up, family life, schools, getting thrown out of schools, and ending up in prison – 
 tells of the later years – teaching, Cambridge, drama clubs, relationships, The Fringe, and so on, through to his success as playwright, columnist, actor and comedian.This volume begins with an explanation of Stephen's addictive personality. We are introduced to his addictions to Sugar Puffs, sweets, cigarettes, coffee, in fact he appears to be able to become addicted to almost anything beginning with C (C12H22O11 is used to refer to all sugars generically and candy is also used for sweets). Obviously, the additional addictions to computers (the purchase of) and the implied addiction to another C substance come later; but disappointingly I was waiting with bated breath for his admission of debasing addictions to eating cabbage and chicken, visits to Cairo and dressing up as Chewbacca, none of which get even a mention. Strangely, not only does Stephen only seem to become addicted to things that begin with the letter C, but the letter seems to be the compass of his entire life. The book is broken into two halves: College to Colleague and Comedy. These two sections are further broken down into a number of sub-chapters each of which begins with the letter C. He's addicted to the use of the letter C apparently. The reason for this alliteration is never explained, nor is its existence ever referred to. Very strange indeed.As you'd expect for Stephen, and indeed for almost any autobiography, the book is self-indulgent. We are treated to repeated sections describing his borderline self-loathing, his lack of self-belief and his need to continuously seek acceptance from others. His continual name dropping throughout the book is presumably part of that. We're supposed to be, not exactly impressed, but slightly 'wowed' that Stephen knows all these people as friends. Mostly because Stephen himself is 'wowed' by them himself. That said, his life does read a lot like a who's who of modern comedians, actors, writers, luvvies etc. There doesn't seem to be many people he hasn't met or worked with. Having really only come to him during his time on Saturday Live, and later A Bit of Fry and Laurie, the amount of work he appears to have generated prior to this staggered me. I thought I was a reasonably early fan, but was in fact quite late to the party.This second volume feels a lot slicker and more grown up than the previous one – as it should – but that's also it's weakness. It's not as raw or revealing. Stephen seems a lot more comfortable with this part of his history than the earlier sections, and the book frequently risks falling into a stream of self-indulgent name dropping. There were some genuinely laugh-out-loud moments – I snorted loudly a couple of times which disconcerted a number of fellow passengers – but it's Stephen Fry dammit, he's a national treasure or institution or whatever, we love him both because and in spite of what he is.(less)
Let's just say that if I weren't happily married, and if Stephen Fry weren't happily gay, I'm pretty sure we'd be soulmates. 
I loved this, the second installment in Fry's quest to document his life, loves and complete mishaps.  Stephen is brutally, unashamedly and occasionally ashamedly honest about his time at Cambridge and his initial forays into the world of comedy writing and performing.  While this period does not have quite the same instensity as his first book it still has plenty of moments where you can't help but go 'Oh Stephen, really?'  He is one of the few writers whose voices I can imagine as I read, which s...more
I loved this, the second installment in Fry's quest to document his life, loves and complete mishaps.  Stephen is brutally, unashamedly and occasionally ashamedly honest about his time at Cambridge and his initial forays into the world of comedy writing and performing.  While this period does not have quite the same instensity as his first book it still has plenty of moments where you can't help but go 'Oh Stephen, really?'  He is one of the few writers whose voices I can imagine as I read, which shows how his use of the written word matches that of the spoken word and for that I love him all the more.  Yes, there is a fair amount of name dropping in the later chapters but to me this came across mildly embarassing yet necessary as we follow Stephen's career from the small stage to the large.  I can't wait until the next book (and in the meantime I'll continue to attack his fictional works and obsessively watch QI, Blackadder and others).  He may not be everybody's national treasure but he is certainly one of mine.(less)
People who are professionally funny often have very serious histories, and Stephen Fry is no exception. I hope I don't have to rehearse in too much detail here all of the funny business with which Fry has been associated—Blackadder, The Young Ones and A Bit of Fry and Laurie being three well-known titles that show up in these particular pages.And more, of course—although most of Fry's better-known work actually comes after the mere slice through the 1980s that this volume covers, during his year...more
People who are professionally funny often have very serious histories, and Stephen Fry is no exception. I hope I don't have to rehearse in too much detail here all of the funny business with which Fry has been associated—Blackadder, The Young Ones and A Bit of Fry and Laurie being three well-known titles that show up in these particular pages.And more, of course—although most of Fry's better-known work actually comes after the mere slice through the 1980s that this volume covers, during his years at Cambridge and shortly thereafter. Addiction, self-pity and self-deprecation feature much more frequently than hilarious anecdotes within the large-print pages of this book... although his flight of fancy about the coming of women to Cambridge (starting on p.158) did have me laughing aloud.Fry also turns out to be a dab hand with an epigram—not surprising, perhaps, given that he was once Punster General (or some similar title) for the British monthly The Tatler. Some quips of Fry's own include:"Education is the sum of what students teach each other in between lectures and seminars." (p.83)And this:"Incuriosity is the oddest and most foolish failing there is." (p.87)He loves words in general, in fact—the Table of Contents reveals that, its chapter headings all starting with the same letter (a T. of Cs, indeed).Fry is also, endearingly, a geek—a Mac geek, at that, with a marked preference for the graphical operating system that Apple pioneered. He betrays himself as unusually technically literate for someone in "show-biz," saying for example (on p.300) that "To be the only person you know with a fax machine is a little like being the only person you know with a tennis racket." This observation strikes at the heart of the significance of network devices, and while I've seen the same sort of sentiment expressed elsewhere, I do believe that Fry's simile here is original to him. This avocation of Fry's led to friendship with the late, great Douglas Adams, and a dozen or so pages of The Fry Chronicles are devoted to that bond.And, of course, there are loads of details about the many lives of Fry—student theatre at Cambridge, breaking into television and radio and motion pictures, first-hand reminiscences about the stellar actress Emma Thompson (a very early compatriot), Rowan Atkinson, Rik Mayall, Robbie Coltrane and other names now as well-known across the pond as in England. You won't find a lot of dirt about Fry's friends, acquaintances and occasional enemies in these pages, though... he reserves his most savage and cutting wit for himself, ironically self-aware of the falseness of modesty while displaying a touching insecurity that definitely does not come across on-screen. From his sexuality (or lack thereof—his 400-word defense of celibacy, published in the aforementioned Tatler, appears in full) to his abuse of mind-altering substances (starting in childhood with a sugar habit), Fry spares no aspect of his existence from at least some scrutiny. This honesty—and it does truly appear to be an honest account Fry's writing here—is refreshing and engaging.The Fry Chronicles does end abruptly, very much in medias res. What came before is chronicled elsewhere (in Moab Is My Washpot: An Autobiography, to be precise), and what is to come after about 1996 is to be published elsewhere too."How differently I might behave, if immortality were an option."—Tom Stoppard, quoted on p.64I, too, might behave differently—might read differently, better or worse—if I were immortal. But I'd still want to have read this partial memoir from one of Britain's funniest actors and writers.(less)
I enjoyed his first book, "Moab is my Washpot", because it's a surprise.  He comes across as urbane and to the manor born, but he had a wild discontented youth and the incongruity (combined with his ruthless self-honesty) makes for a great read.  This book, which covers his university years and ends at the end of the 80s, is less incongruous.  To be blunt, life was great: he found his niche, he made good friends, he worked everywhere on everything, and he became fairly famous.  It's not exactly the...more
I enjoyed his first book, "Moab is my Washpot", because it's a surprise.  He comes across as urbane and to the manor born, but he had a wild discontented youth and the incongruity (combined with his ruthless self-honesty) makes for a great read.  This book, which covers his university years and ends at the end of the 80s, is less incongruous.  To be blunt, life was great: he found his niche, he made good friends, he worked everywhere on everything, and he became fairly famous.  It's not exactly the stuff of conflict and misery, though there are a few delightful anecdotes.That said, he is merciless when he turns his eye upon himself.  The book begins by talking about his addiction to sugar, how his friends didn't have the compulsion that he did, and where it led him.  Not many authors begin Vol. 2 of their autobiography by talking about stuffing their face with boiled sweets, stealing to buy candy, and declare the defining emotion of their youth to be a mixture of sugary ecstasy and guilt.  And he gets more ruthless from there.The bit that really rang home was where he talked about his diversity of work.  He feels he's betrayed his talents by never writing The Novel or starring in The Play or ....  Instead, he does a lot of a lot but never does the magnificent work in a particular field that defines the age.  As a generalist myself, I empathize deeply with that.  I've often felt that I could have and should have done more and been more.  Not because I think I'm as clever as Stephen Fry, but because I don't think I've achieved to the 1/Nth of Fry's talent that I have.  This sense of unmet obligation, duty, expectation is as crushing as depression.  In fact, we haven't got to Fry's depression years (the book does end with the titillatory promise that there'll be something less cheery happening in his next volume) but I wouldn't be surprised if they were connected somehow.Should you read the book?  Yes, because the anecdotes are glorious and his writing is always a pleasure.  I would have loved to have seen more detailed portraits of the people he encountered, and less of the VH1 "I Love the 80s" essays, but I didn't grumble too much about what I got.  Did I mention the anecdotes?(less)
I enjoyed this autobiography and although it is quite thick, I got through it pretty quickly. I've always liked Fry due to his openness about his past issues - particularly those concerning his adolescence and so 'Moab is My Washpot' would be a better read to learn more about that. However, this book documents his 'adulthood' and I found it very interesting. I wouldn't normally enjoy reading about someone's experiences going through university or reading about an acting career, but thanks to Fry...more
I enjoyed this autobiography and although it is quite thick, I got through it pretty quickly. I've always liked Fry due to his openness about his past issues - particularly those concerning his adolescence and so 'Moab is My Washpot' would be a better read to learn more about that. However, this book documents his 'adulthood' and I found it very interesting. I wouldn't normally enjoy reading about someone's experiences going through university or reading about an acting career, but thanks to Fry's writing, it was a very enjoyable read. Fry's sense of humour is fantastic and you can sense this and his personality through his writing - there is no mistaking who is writing when you read through it - I simply adore his writing and the way he puts things. I found myself laughing out loud at parts and reading as though I was a 'friend' of Fry. A really good read.(less)
I understand that this is the second biographical account of Mr Fry. Moab is my Washpot covered the first 20 years of his life and published in 1997.  while I can understand the logic of producing a 'developing years' biography, then penning the rest later on I'm not sure why Fry has to go all The Hobbit on us with his life's tale.Frustrations with the conclusion of this piece aside - what is it actually like?Well to be perfectly honest, I'm not sure.The book starts with an apology for being apol...more
I understand that this is the second biographical account of Mr Fry. Moab is my Washpot covered the first 20 years of his life and published in 1997.  while I can understand the logic of producing a 'developing years' biography, then penning the rest later on I'm not sure why Fry has to go all The Hobbit on us with his life's tale.Frustrations with the conclusion of this piece aside - what is it actually like?Well to be perfectly honest, I'm not sure.The book starts with an apology for being apologetic, not a great start in my opinion. However Fry does deliver as promised, not a polished positive spin on himself, but a genuine expose. The problem is between Fry's predictable verbosity and florid prose I suspect he has succeeded in keeping much of who he is secret. Sure he candidly reveals many parts of his life, such as his reaction to fame (sometimes perceived fame) and his famous colleagues. However I often found myself wondering if Fry was skipping over much of what I thought biographies were about, namely the relationships in his life, and the moments those relationships changed.Fry does discuss his entire platonic admiration of Hugh Laurie (House,) his envy and worship of Rowan Atkinson (Bean) and others such as Emma Thomson and Rik Mayall. But somehow I felt like much was missing. Perhaps as Fry begs mercy for, his life is indeed plain, or more likely he simply did not wish to delve too deeply into content which related to those closest to him.I'm also none too sure how Fry chose his material for discussion, at times I felt bored by the long lists of names, and while his QI-esque forays into historical or factoid discussion were often enjoyable, they were just as equally dull and diminished the true interest of the piece (Fry himself) although as suspected above Fry may have intentionally been avoiding this subject.If it sounds like I totally hated this book, this simply isn't the case. The Fry Chronicles are by no means a bad read - Fry's languid prose is such that the book is an ease to read from cover to cover. Fry's insights into the human and his own condition are often not only astute but at times heart-rendering. Despite being frustrated that this piece has a to be continued I am enthused enough to wait with baited breath for the next, and pickup his previous to delve into more Fry-insight...  (less)
I read Moab is My Washpot and found it interesting, so I thought I'd really like this one. I was wrong. I'm not at all sure if I liked or even enjoyed this book. I wanted to because I really like Stephen Fry, but it was at times painful to read. Firstly, autobiographies are morally tricky for me to read. I always as if I'm opening up another person's secret diary and I can't help but to shudder and feel ashamed for reading it. I really like Fry, but some things I didn't want to know. And it's no...more
I read Moab is My Washpot and found it interesting, so I thought I'd really like this one. I was wrong. I'm not at all sure if I liked or even enjoyed this book. I wanted to because I really like Stephen Fry, but it was at times painful to read. Firstly, autobiographies are morally tricky for me to read. I always as if I'm opening up another person's secret diary and I can't help but to shudder and feel ashamed for reading it. I really like Fry, but some things I didn't want to know. And it's not my business to know this.Secondly, I don't like mentioning things just to mention it. Sometimes the book falls into a gleeful harangue of name-dropping (all probably very famous people and successful at what they do) sometimes with adjectives attached to them. To me, it seemed really indignified and petty. The reason this book receives two stars instead of one is the language. It had me smiling, gasping and laughing out loud at times, even though some of what it conveyed wasn't interesting. The way Fry can turn a phrase is quite remarkable and is probably why I kept at it.The book hints at continuation with a cliffhanger (if there ever can be such a thing in a biography). The question is, am I willing to go through the same agony again to know what happens? Perhaps. That will probably be revealed in a future review, if ever. I the meantime, I'll be off to other books.(less)
A little background before the actual review:This book was, for quite a while, my personal Holy Grail.  I sought in every new bookstore, used bookstore, book-swap (both in-person and online), and even actually ordered it online, only to have the order cancelled when the site sheepishly admitted they couldn't find it.  I tried to find it in e-book format, despite some lingering prejudice against the medium I can't seem to excise from myself (even when all good sense would point to it being a positi...more
A little background before the actual review:This book was, for quite a while, my personal Holy Grail.  I sought in every new bookstore, used bookstore, book-swap (both in-person and online), and even actually ordered it online, only to have the order cancelled when the site sheepishly admitted they couldn't find it.  I tried to find it in e-book format, despite some lingering prejudice against the medium I can't seem to excise from myself (even when all good sense would point to it being a positive thing. I simply can't overcome the feeling, the smell of an actual solid book in my hands. It doesn't help that I'm a book-petter, and e-readers and computer screens don't lend themselves to that tactile experience), but even that I could not lay virtual hands on.  But finally, finally, 
...I found it.  I went somewhere I rarely ever go and stumbled across a bookstore I'd never been to before.  While wandering around, I laid eyes on it--two hardcover copies sitting innocently on the top shelf.  
, as they say.So then I started reading it, but I had to stop for a week while I went on vacation.  After the epic quest to find the darn thing, I wasn't about to lose it while adventuring elsewhere, so it stayed safely at home.  Not to mention that mass market paperbacks are easier to transport than their bulky hardcover brethren.  But I returned from vacation, I sat down with it, and I've finally finished it!  Hurrah!  Now then, on with the review:Mr. Fry is, as always, delightfully witty, funny, and thought-provoking.  That last is most important to me.  A writer who can engage you is a good writer.  A writer who can make you think is a great writer.  A writer who can make you think about yourself is one of the best writers of all.  As odd as that may sound, it's true.  'Oh, but I think about myself all the time!' you may say, or perhaps you know someone who fits that description.  What I mean is not the self-absorbed kind of thinking about oneself where no one else matters and your opinions are the only ones that count, but the kind where you are examining and questioning yourself and your personality and behavior and opinions.  It's a rare writer who can do that.  Mr. Fry is one of them.I will say that this book was a little less ordered, a little messier than his first autobiography--or maybe it just seemed that way because it wasn't always chronological.  At any rate, it does jump around a bit.  Regardless, this was just as excellent as the first book.Both books have one particular quality that endears them to me....  It's comforting to find out that even someone who appears to have it all is still subject to feeling embarrassed and fearing failure and worrying about their appearance and the million other things that torment the average person.  It's comforting to know that someone else fell down (through no fault of anyone else's) and still managed to pick themselves up.  Very comforting.Also, I discovered something heartening about myself while reading Moab and Paperweight and this book.  I can totally and completely disagree with someone about something, and still admire and respect them anyway.  What a lovely thing to discover about oneself.Anyway, enough about me.  This book is excellent.  I wouldn't recommend it for everyone, but if you're a Stephen Fry fan, go for it!(less)
Wonderful review! I think I will have to enjoy your view as I don't really get British humor or anything else British either, though I do admire them,...more
Wonderful review! I think I will have to enjoy your view as I don't really get British humor or anything else British either, though I do admire them, I just don't understand them!(less)
Mom wrote: "Wonderful review! I think I will have to enjoy your view as I don't really get British humor or anything else British either, though I do...more
Mom wrote: "Wonderful review! I think I will have to enjoy your view as I don't really get British humor or anything else British either, though I do admire them, I just don't understand them!"Why, thank you!  :)  Lol, that's true, so you can just enjoy it that I enjoy it! ;) hehehe(less)
If you live in the UK it is highly likely that at some point you will have come across one our most treasured sons – Stephen Fry. Where do you start with him? Comedian, writer of fiction and non-fiction, quiz show host, blogger, radio, television, films, audio books, you’re probably starting to get the message that he does a lot. With such notable credits as Blackadder, Kingdom (2007-9), A Bit of Fry and Laurie (1987-95) on television and Wilde (1997), Gosford Park (2001) and V For Vendetta (200...more
If you live in the UK it is highly likely that at some point you will have come across one our most treasured sons – Stephen Fry. Where do you start with him? Comedian, writer of fiction and non-fiction, quiz show host, blogger, radio, television, films, audio books, you’re probably starting to get the message that he does a lot. With such notable credits as Blackadder, Kingdom (2007-9), A Bit of Fry and Laurie (1987-95) on television and Wilde (1997), Gosford Park (2001) and V For Vendetta (2006) on the big screen, and his own Twitter account, you’ll have done well not to hear anything about him, but with The Fry Chronicles, a sequel of sorts to Moab is my Washpot (1997), we are given further insight into the life of one of the UK’s greatest ever entertainers.While Moab is my Washpot focussed on the first 20 years of Stephen’s life, The Fry Chronicles looks at his time at Cambridge University which led to his first appearances on stage and later a career in comedy while dabbling in plenty of other pursuits including adverts and writing plays. The book ends in 1987 when Stephen has filmed the second series of Blackadder and he and best friend, Hugh Laurie, are beginning work on their sketch show, A Bit of Fry and Laurie. It might seem like a small period of time initially but at 400+ pages there is so much information here about Fry’s life, interposed with many memories that fall outside the book’s main timeframe. I’d previously only read The Star’s Tennis Balls from Stephen’s collection of books so was eager to see how an autobiography would read. Unsurprisingly, it is witty, with a delightful use of the English language throwing in many words I’ve never come across, but the main strength is to be found in Fry’s honesty. I often smiled at his frequent apologies for speaking of his career, particularly when revealing he has little if any problems when it comes to money, yet felt the need to keep saying sorry to those of us that may have felt he was showing off. I wasn’t the least offended, Stephen, you’re worth every penny. The book is divided into four sections, the first dealing with Fry’s childhood addiction to sugar in whatever form it was manifest. His love of all things sugary impacted years later with his weight ballooning to over 20 stone, though a change of lifestyle has now seen Fry shed much of this. The second section focuses on another addiction and this one is even more serious – tobacco. In both cases Fry talks about the moments he decided it was time to give up on both addictions. How did he fare? It’s not for me to tell.The autobiography moves onto Fry’s time at Cambridge University. Having previously spent some time in prison, this was a fresh start and I found it amusing that such an undoubtedly intelligent man lived in fear of being found out he wasn’t clever and subsequently booted out of the university. Fry’s attendance at lectures was not good to say the least but his ingenuity in facing coursework and exams was simply amazing. Fry had a basic argument in mind that he could chop and change in his mind to suit just about any question under that particular subject. For example he may have had a general argument about a play by Shakespeare but when faced with a tough exam question Fry could just use the same material each time, rephrasing it in such a way that it answered the question perfectly. His high marks and cunning in applying himself to the many essays and exams meant he could ignore lectures and focus on the theatre which became his primary interest. A play, Latin! (1980) was a great success for Fry and highlighted his writing credentials. This part of the book also deals with Fry’s early sexual relationships and his friendships with some familiar names such as Emma Thompson and, of course, Hugh Laurie, who was a brilliant athlete and part of the rowing team. Hearing mention of familiar names on the comedy circuit in their early days was really interesting. Fry’s reservations about seeing a young comedian named Rowan Atkinson live one day and emerging from the show in agony from laughing made me smile. His appraisals of Emma Thompson and, in particular, Hugh Laurie, were also moving to read. The third section ends with Fry’s work on The Cellar Tapes, a series of sketches that included Hugh and Emma, winning a Perrier Award in 1981 and setting the trio on the road to stardom.The final section is all about Stephen’s early career and even then his versatility was incredible. As well as working on The Crystal Cube (1983), Alfresco (1983-4), Saturday Live (1985-7), Fry also worked on a revised script for 1930s musical, Me and My Girl, which not only reached the West End but Broadway as well. Fry’s early career saw him encounter the likes of Ben Elton, Rik Mayall, Robbie Coltrane, Douglas Adams, Harry Enfield, Paul Whitehouse (very interesting background story as well), Alan Bennett, Rowan Atkinson, Richard Curtis and many more. I won’t deny that with Blackadder being my favourite comedy series of all time I was fascinated to hear Stephen’s account of work on that second series, in my opinion the best of the lot. For such a great performance as Lord Melchett, Fry plays down his contribution instead citing the honour and privilege he had of working with the likes of Tim McInnery, Tony Robinson, Miranda Richardson, Hugh Laurie and Rik Mayall. His greatest appraisal which I thoroughly approved of was for Rowan Atkinson as Blackadder who was simply outstanding as Edmund (that’s mine and Stephen’s opinion by the way.) The book ended on something of a cliffhanger with Blackadder II not yet aired and Stephen and Hugh working on A Bit of Fry and Laurie. The Fry Chronicles has a series of quality photos to accompany Fry’s writing. It’s always frightening looking back on pictures of ourselves when we were younger and even more so seeing a young Stephen Fry particularly one snap where his hair is very long indeed. Unsurprisingly, this photo is accompanied by a less than flattering caption. Other photos include many of the actors and actresses Stephen has worked with over the years, as well as family photos as well, which are always interesting to see celebrities in their home environment. I can’t really think of any complaints with The Fry Chronicles other than I hope Stephen releases the next instalment of his autobiography sooner than he did with this one. There is a hint that a new book will appear one day but how long we’ll have to wait is difficult to say especially given how busy Stephen Fry is. For fans of Stephen Fry this is an absolute must. Accounts of his time at Cambridge are great reading while his early forays into comedy and his reservations given the undoubted talents of his comedic contemporaries make Fry all the more likable. There is no arrogance in the writing or about his achievements. Everything is just complete honesty which makes for a refreshing read. Those who know little of Fry or his work will find an interesting autobiography. In short: this is not to be missed.(less)
Oh, Stephen.  I wanted to like it, love it, adore it.  I really did.  His essays, columns, novels, and arguments are always brilliantly concise, laconic, and profound.  But make him sit at the other end of the microscope and all the wit and conviction for which I adore Stephen Fry is displaced by the rambling streams of consciousness I first encountered in MOAB IS MY WASHPOT.  The book is part sugary sweet awards-acceptance-speech, buckling under the weight of dropped names, and part therapy session,...more
Oh, Stephen.  I wanted to like it, love it, adore it.  I really did.  His essays, columns, novels, and arguments are always brilliantly concise, laconic, and profound.  But make him sit at the other end of the microscope and all the wit and conviction for which I adore Stephen Fry is displaced by the rambling streams of consciousness I first encountered in MOAB IS MY WASHPOT.  The book is part sugary sweet awards-acceptance-speech, buckling under the weight of dropped names, and part therapy session, overrun with denial and the deflection of any awards or praise for himself.  I was determined to finish the book and did so having culled this message from the 200+ pages: "Everyone I've ever worked with is an absolute darling.  Let me give you a list of those with whom I have worked.  I, however, am worthless.  Why you are reading this in the first place is beyond me.  Have I convinced you that I'm an idiot yet?  No?  Well, then I'll repeat this fact throughout the book."  Those hoping for his extended opinions of life, death, politics, philosophy, ethics, or art should look elsewhere.  If you really care about what he thinks of himself and his colleagues, I suppose it could be an intriguing read.  But isn't that what Twitter and Facebook are for?  (less)
so here's the thing.  i'm in London.  i love London, i really do.  and i love bookstores.  so i go to a bookstore in London (um, actually several) and this book is everywhere.  and i like Stephen Fry.  so there ya go.  came home with this book.  (and, if i have to be honest, a couple -- er, okay, a few more.)this particular book covers the period from around the time he went to Cambridge and his early career.  it ends before the career that i'm familiar with starts -- i.e. Laurie & Fry, Jeeves &...more
so here's the thing.  i'm in London.  i love London, i really do.  and i love bookstores.  so i go to a bookstore in London (um, actually several) and this book is everywhere.  and i like Stephen Fry.  so there ya go.  came home with this book.  (and, if i have to be honest, a couple -- er, okay, a few more.)this particular book covers the period from around the time he went to Cambridge and his early career.  it ends before the career that i'm familiar with starts -- i.e. Laurie & Fry, Jeeves & Wooster, etc.  he writes just the way that you would imagine.  he's wryly funny; very English.  and there are no big revelations.  he doesn't tell you nasty secrets about his colleagues and friends, which is fine with me.  i hate reading petty bullshit and gossip from somebody who has lived a very fortunate life.  Fry knows how fortunate he has been and that comes across in this gentle and gentlemanly memoir.(less)
I am very surprised and slightly disappointed to be giving this book a 1 star review ( really, it should have been a zero star review).I had read Moab is my Washpot and loved it. I like Fry's forays into comic writing and acting on British television. But I found reading this book an extremely aversive experience- so much so that I barely finished it. Fry descends into the sort of verbose narcissism that is hard work to enjoy.If I were to summarise my review a la Fry it would read as follows: 'H...more
I am very surprised and slightly disappointed to be giving this book a 1 star review ( really, it should have been a zero star review).I had read Moab is my Washpot and loved it. I like Fry's forays into comic writing and acting on British television. But I found reading this book an extremely aversive experience- so much so that I barely finished it. Fry descends into the sort of verbose narcissism that is hard work to enjoy.If I were to summarise my review a la Fry it would read as follows: 'His prolix pomposity encouraged the deviation of my attention from the examination of this exposition'On the upside though, and maybe worth the one star after all, I did learn some new words.(less)
Bless my sister for giving me this book.  I loved it from cover to cover; I could hear Fry telling me his story out loud (even though this was not an audio book).Stephen Fry had led the most interesting, funny, unexpected and inspiring life that all I can say is read this.  Told in Fry's usual witty, droll and self-effacing manner but also with a somewhat painful honesty, it's a great story that kept me hooked because I just couldn't get enough.  I am headed off to the bookstore to hunt down the ne...more
Bless my sister for giving me this book.  I loved it from cover to cover; I could hear Fry telling me his story out loud (even though this was not an audio book).Stephen Fry had led the most interesting, funny, unexpected and inspiring life that all I can say is read this.  Told in Fry's usual witty, droll and self-effacing manner but also with a somewhat painful honesty, it's a great story that kept me hooked because I just couldn't get enough.  I am headed off to the bookstore to hunt down the next instalment of his life.  (less)
Loved the Cambridge Footlights parts, the Hugh Laurie parts, the Blackadder parts and the inner-workings-of-my-psyche parts ... the first two times at least. Didn't enjoy the Broadway stuff, but that's just me, or the maudlin repetitiveness of some of the psyche stuff, and I especially didn't like the heart-plummeting way it ended. What a downer. Interesting man, though, and I love his work in general.
“Information is all around us, now more than ever before in human history. You barely have to stir or incommode yourself to find things out. The only reason people do not know much is because they do not care to know. They are incurious. Incuriosity is the oddest and most foolish failing there is.” Ever since the first time I saw a QI episode I have been in complete awe of this man’s immense vocabulary and general knowledge.  The fact that he narrated this audio book made it almost feel as if he...more
“Information is all around us, now more than ever before in human history. You barely have to stir or incommode yourself to find things out. The only reason people do not know much is because they do not care to know. They are incurious. Incuriosity is the oddest and most foolish failing there is.” Ever since the first time I saw a QI episode I have been in complete awe of this man’s immense vocabulary and general knowledge.  The fact that he narrated this audio book made it almost feel as if he is sitting right next to me having a little chat and I loved it!The first 1/3 of the book focused on Fry’s addictive personality.  From his first love of sugar to more grown up addictions.   I absolutely loved this section and it made me realize that I should rather have started with his first book Moab Is My Washpot as I enjoyed the stories of his childhood much more than those of his life as an adult.Unfortunately there are also some things I did not like…. I have to agree with a lot of other reviewers that the ridiculous amount of names of people he met/worked with/admired were listed so frequently that it tainted my overall enjoyment of this book somewhat.   The charm of this book really does not lie in the story but rather in the storytelling.  His love of language and insatiable curiosity is what I admire and enjoyed mostI can only recommend this to die-hard Stephen Fry fans.(less)
I am not really into autobiographies, but I do like Stephen Fry and I adore wordsmiths and people who can play with words the way he does. At times it seems like name dropping- he has worked with so many famous people- including Emma Thompson and Ben Elton- but it is a pleasant and amusing read. 
“No, but hush.”[As the title suggests] Stephen Fry herein chronicles his life, or another section of it at least (see Moab is my Washpot for a more comprehensive biography of Fry’s younger years) and including the beginnings of his launch into television, but not quite his launch into stardom.  There is, it seems, another volume to come.  Excuse me while I wriggle impatiently in my seat.  There. I’m already an unashamed and inveterate Fry fan, but I think this book would serve as a reinforcement to...more
“No, but hush.”[As the title suggests] Stephen Fry herein chronicles his life, or another section of it at least (see Moab is my Washpot for a more comprehensive biography of Fry’s younger years) and including the beginnings of his launch into television, but not quite his launch into stardom.  There is, it seems, another volume to come.  Excuse me while I wriggle impatiently in my seat.  There. I’m already an unashamed and inveterate Fry fan, but I think this book would serve as a reinforcement to anyone circling the Fry fandom; it’s the man’s quirks, vulnerabilities, flaws, endearing traits, towering and extraordinary strengths, story, connections and influences laid bare; an essence du Fry (I have no idea if that means what I think it means, sorry) as much as a written history.  He’s one of few subjects, to my mind, whose biography might maintain your interest, but whose autobiography will fascinate, delight and entertain you, while imparting a certain introspective wisdom (and some pitiful moping, which will either annoy you or make you want to pat him gently) and plenty of pertinent facts.  There are the hoped for anecdotes - two students meeting and saying ‘hullo’ a few times never took on more significance – and unexpected byways.  And, of course, it’s a potted history of an era of British Comedy.  And all of it is written in Fry’s own paradoxical brand of humility (which, he claims, stems from a perceived whomping arrogance, which is wrought from hideous insecurity which… well, read the book) and, more importantly, with that lunatic and lovely wordiness for which we value him, and gladly consider him one of our ambassadors of British brain and wit.(less)
This took longer than I thought, partly as I have been very busy, but partly because I have a bit of a thing about Autobiographies. I can’t get into them. I find them boring and usually not very well written, and the few good ones I have read, I still find difficult. I think it’s because they tend to be a series of anecdotes, and these don’t grab me and my attention in the same way a good plotline will.This book was a little different though, it was well written, and I read most of it with Steph...more
This took longer than I thought, partly as I have been very busy, but partly because I have a bit of a thing about Autobiographies. I can’t get into them. I find them boring and usually not very well written, and the few good ones I have read, I still find difficult. I think it’s because they tend to be a series of anecdotes, and these don’t grab me and my attention in the same way a good plotline will.This book was a little different though, it was well written, and I read most of it with Stephen Fry’s voice in my head. It was fantastic prose, and I wouldn’t have expected anything less from Stephen Fry, and because of this I read it quite lazily, as I wanted to linger in the lovely words. I still had a bit of an issue in that I found it difficult to put down, until I got to the end of an anecdote, and then I could quite easily come back to the book later. It was very interesting, and I enjoyed it thoroughly, but it was easy to just dip into it.It is not a book chronicling Stephen Fry’s life, it is a series of stories from his mid teens to his late twenties. However, it didn’t feel like Volume 2 of Stephen’s life, it felt like a nice little collection of stories from his youth. He is modest and apologetic, and talks a lot about his faults and neuroses, but not in a “woe is me, my life is difficult” way, more as a way of trying to explain some of his behaviour.The anecdotes don’t have that sickly celeb feel too them either, despite the many stories of himself and his colleagues (all famous people too) it was quite gracious. It is interesting the way he describes himself, as this shy, scared, depressed man with no self esteem who is “chronically overmastered as a sense of failure, underachievement…” when most of us see him as “English. Tweedy. Pukka. Confident. Establishment. Self Assured. In charge.” He is very honest about this, and his fantastic life, but how worried he is that he’s not good enough. He is also very careful not to tell stories on his friends and people he has worked with, making this a book very much about him, not dishing dirt on other celebrities.All in all, a very good book, especially considering that I do not usually like this genre. I would recommend it to anyone who likes Stephen Fry, in fact, I would recommend it to anyone.(less)
I’ve looked forward to reading this book for some time and quite enjoyed it. I’m not particularly a ‘Fry’ fan unlike many of my friends and colleagues but thought I would appreciate a little Fry wisdom and light humour – to some extent this was provided.This book is great for any lover of language as Fry is quite masterful at being able to express himself clearly and aptly. I wonder though if, at times, he tries to overplay his language skills and also if his justifications can be a little patro...more
I’ve looked forward to reading this book for some time and quite enjoyed it. I’m not particularly a ‘Fry’ fan unlike many of my friends and colleagues but thought I would appreciate a little Fry wisdom and light humour – to some extent this was provided.This book is great for any lover of language as Fry is quite masterful at being able to express himself clearly and aptly. I wonder though if, at times, he tries to overplay his language skills and also if his justifications can be a little patronising to the reader. Surely, he regards his readers as more than simpletons?This book is also enjoyable to those who enjoy reading about England. Fry talks again at length about people and places and his reflections back on life in London and Cambridge (I am a lover of and familiar with both) are nostalgic and beautifully etched. Autobiographically speaking however, Fry does not seem to commit himself fully to the pages. Whilst he praises friends, comics and comedic-related cornucopia he does seem to be quite guarded around some of his personal hopes and fears in life (am I the only reader who thinks this?) and covers this with intelligence and self-deprecating guffaw. There is method in this camouflage, I’m sure! As a keen autobiography reader I do appreciate a more risk-taking approach by writers although his efforts do tick some boxes.I would recommend this book to any lover of English nostalgia, comedy and intelligent writing. This book will, of course, have more definite appeal for ‘Fry’ fans and many of my friends love it a little more than I do. I still wonder however if Fry hits more praise and wonder on too many subjects other than himself. At times I felt like I was reading the autobiography of the wonderful Ben Elton or the marvellous Rowan Atkinson. I also found myself reminiscing about the much-understated natural comic genius of Tony Slattery. An altruistically appealing autobiography for sure but interesting all the same. (less)
Stephen John Fry is an English comedian, writer, actor, humourist, novelist, poet, columnist, filmmaker, television personality and technophile. As one half of the Fry and Laurie double act with his comedy partner, Hugh Laurie, he has appeared in A Bit of Fry and Laurie and Jeeves and Wooster. He is also famous for his roles in Blackadder and Wilde, and as the host of QI. In addition to writing fo...more
Stephen John Fry is an English comedian, writer, actor, humourist, novelist, poet, columnist, filmmaker, television personality and technophile. As one half of the Fry and Laurie double act with his comedy partner, Hugh Laurie, he has appeared in A Bit of Fry and Laurie and Jeeves and Wooster. He is also famous for his roles in Blackadder and Wilde, and as the host of QI. In addition to writing for stage, screen, television and radio he has contributed columns and articles for numerous newspapers and magazines, and has also written four successful novels and an autobiography, Moab Is My Washpot.(less)
[url=http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8649656-the-fry-chronicles?utm_medium=api&utm_source=blog_book][img]http://d.gr-assets.com/books/1376317909l/8649656.jpg[/img][/url]
      [url=http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8649656-the-fry-chronicles?utm_medium=api&utm_source=blog_book]The Fry Chronicles by Stephen Fry[/url]
“The only reason people do not know much is because they do not care to know. They are incurious. Incuriousity is the oddest and most foolish failing there is.”
“I will defend the absolute value of Mozart over Miley Cyrus, of course I will, but we should be wary of false dichotomies. You do not have to choose between one or the other. You can have both. The human cultural jungle should be as varied and plural as the Amazonian rainforest. We are all richer for biodiversity. We may decide that a puma is worth more to us than a caterpillar, but surely we can agree that the habitat is all the better for being able to sustain each.”
