=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Administration AboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor Information Arts, Health & Society AboutProgramsProspective StudentsSummer ResidenciesResearch Database Media & Communication AboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & Scholarships Admission Online ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer Students Students OverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest Documents Faculty Faculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and Positions 
Admission» Application & Deadlines» Tuition & Scholarships» Questions & Answers» Financial Aid» AccreditationStudents» Overview» Student Email» Student News» Event Calendar» Student Directory» Students Gateway» Request DocumentsAlumni» Overview» Alumni Association» Alumni Directory» Alumni News» Event Calendar» Request Transcripts» Giving to EGSFaculty» Faculty Overview» Faculty News» Event Calendar» Video Lectures» Jobs and PositionsMedia» EGS Publications» EGS on Facebook» EGS on YouTube» EGS on Google+» EGS on Flickr» EGS on Twitter» Conferences & Festivals» Library / Encyclopedia» Research DatabaseResources» News» Event Calendar» Information Technology» Health Services» A-Z Index» Sitemap» Contacts
François-Marie Arouet, or Voltaire, was born in 1694 in Paris, France and died 83 years later in the same city. Throughout his 83 years of life, Voltaire wrote numerous philosophical works, works in history, plays, and is considered as, next to Montesquieu, Locke, Rousseau and others, one of the greatest name of the French Enlightenment. He is known as a defender of religious freedom, free trade, civil liberties, social reform. He was also fighting against the limitiations of censorship, religious dogma, intolerance, and the institutions of his time. His works, and the works of fellow Enlightenment writers, influenced both the French and the American revolutions.
Voltaire was the youngest of five children and, after having studied at he Collège Louis-le-Grand, decided to become a writer, against the will of his father that rather wanted to see him as a notary. This disagreement with his father was a conflict that was very present in Voltaire's early adulthood. He pretended to be working as a notary assistant in Paris, while he in fact was writing, and when his father found out, he was sent to study law. Later on, his father found him employment as the secretary of the French ambassador in the Netherlands where Voltaire fell in love with a French protestant refugee and was once more forced by his father to return to Paris. Voltaire also developed a tense relation with the authorities of the time through his critical views on religious intolerance and the governmental practices in general, views that costed him several imprisonments and exiles. In one of such imprisonments, at the Bastille, he wrote his first play entitled dipe, a success that sealed his reputation. It was also after the time spent at la Bastille that François-Marie Arouet adopted the pen name Voltaire, a mixture of a latinized anagram of his name and the initial letters of "the younger" (le jeune). The adoption of the name Voltaire is seen as a break from his past, specially from his family.
In 1725, following an insult exchange with the French nobleman Chevalier de Rohan, Voltaire was imprisoned and, uncertain as to the duration of the sentence, suggested his own exile to Britain. In Britain, where Voltaire spent his next three years, he was curious about the country's relative freedom of speech and religion, about Shakespeare, as well as its constitutional monarchy, as opposed to the absolute monarchy of the French. His three years in Britain resulted in a collection of essays called Lettres Philosophiques sur les Anglais (Philosophical Letters on the English), released in his return to Paris which caused outrage for his defense of the British system instead of the French one and Voltaire was yet again forced to flee. This time he went to the Château de Cirey, not far from Paris, where he started a relationship with a married woman, Émilie du Châtelet, which was to last for 15 years. The Marquise and Voltaire owed a big collection of books ans studied them together experimenting with natural science, reading physics, history, and philosophy. Voltaire's essay Eléments de la philosophie de Newton (Elements of Newton's Philosophy), which was most likely written in partnership with the Marquise, is seen as the work that made accessible Newton's gravitational theory. It was also still at the Châteu de Cirey that Voltaire wrote his Essay upon the Civil Wars in France which is one of his first works to attack what he saw as the intolerance of the religious establishments, as well as to propose the separation of the church and the state.
Bored at the life at the château and in love with his niece, Voltaire decided to return to Paris. The king Frederick the Great, and admirer of Voltaire's work, invited him to Potsdam and offered him a substantial salary. In Potsdam Voltaire wrote perhaps one of the first science-fiction novels involving representatives from other planets looking at humans on earth. But his tranquility wasn't to last. Following a controversy with Maupertuis, the president of the Berlin Academy of Science, Voltaire was banned by Frederick the Great and left to Paris where he was once again banned, this time by king Louis XV. He finally landed in Geneva where he purchased a big estate, called Les Délices. In Geneva he didn't last long as the local law forbid theater performances and by the end of 1758 he moved to Ferney, just across the French border, where he wrote Candide, ou l'Optimisme (Candide, or Optimism), a satirical work on the philosophy of Leibniz which is known to be one of his greatest works. In 1764, still in Ferney, he published Dictionnaire Philosophique, his most important philosophical work. At the same time Voltaire became more and more involved in the defense of people unjustly persecuted by the church.
After 20 years away from Paris, Voltaire finally resolved to return and see the premiere of his latest tragedy Irene. But a five day trip was a too tortuous venture for an aging man and Voltaire, expected to die soon, wrote the farewell words "I die adoring God, loving my friends, not hating my enemies, and detesting superstition." He nevertheless survived and succeeded in attending the performance of Irene, only to die two months later, on the 30th of May 1778. In his second farewell he said "For God's sake, let me die in peace." He was denied a proper burial by the church but his friends managed to bury him at the abbey of Scellières. In 1791 the National Assembly, which saw him as one of the forerunners of the French revolution, had his body transported to the Panthéon in Paris, in a procession that attracted an estimate one million people.
Voltaire's writings in history challenged the common conception at the time that historiography dealt with big political, military, and diplomatic events. He instead emphasized in the cultural history, the arts, the sciences, the customs. He is known to be the first thinker to try to write a history of the world based on cultural, political and economic facts rejecting any kind of theological framework. Voltaire's works on history, most notably The Age of Louis XIV (1751), and Essay on the Customs and the Spirit of the Nations (1756) helped to deviate historiography from the narration of great deeds performed by great man, of wars, and of Eurocentrism.
Voltaire was also a fierce critique of religious traditions but that is not to say that he was averse to the idea of a supreme being. His understanding of God was deist, he reasoned that the existence of God was a question of reason and observation rather than of faith. In his words "It is perfectly evident to my mind that there exists a necessary, eternal, supreme, and intelligent being. This is no matter of faith, but of reason." He therefore favored an understanding of God beyond institutionalized religion and defended, in A Treatise on Toleration (1763), that all men are brothers, regardless of religion, as they are the same creature created by the same God.
As for slavery, Voltaire in one hand harshly criticized it and in the other hand, together with fellow philosophers Guillaume Thomas Raynal, Denis Diderot, and Buffon, he speculated and tried to explain that the different races had separate origins and at times seemed to doubt that black people possessed the same intelligence as white people. He has also been charged as an anti-semite although most of his critiques are actually directed towards religion as such and the bible, rather than Judaism in specific.
Voltaire also wrote plays, prose, and poetry. His most famous play is dipe, an adaptation of Oedipus the King, by Sophocles, where he tried to rationalize the motivations of the characters of the original work. His major poetic works are Henriade and The Maid of Orleans, although critics point out that his minor pieces are of superior quality. In Candide, his most famous work of prose, Voltaire develops a critique of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz's philosophy of metaphysical optimism through the naive main character Candide, that after a misfortune start rejecting metaphysical optimism.
» Giorgio Agamben» Pierre Alferi» Hubertus von Amelunxen» Alisa Andrasek» Alain Badiou» Judith Balso» Jason Barker» Jean Baudrillard» Philippe Beck» Geoffrey Bennington» Robert Bramkamp» Benjamin Bratton» Catherine Breillat» Judith Butler» Eduardo Cadava» Hélène Cixous» Simon Critchley» Diane Davis» Claire Denis» Manthia Diawara» Suzanne Doppelt» Anne Dufourmantelle» Elie During» Atom Egoyan» Bracha Ettinger» Mike Figgis» Alessandro De Francesco» John Frazer» Christopher Fynsk» Heiner Goebbels» Antony Gormley» Peter Greenaway» Boris Groys» Werner Hamacher» Barbara Hammer» Graham Harman» Michael Hardt» Martin Hielscher» Brian Holmes» Mitchell Joachim» Tom Kalin» Friedrich Kittler» Chris Kraus» Manuel De Landa» Katarzyna Lazari-Radek» Neil Leach» Sylvère Lotringer» Geert Lovink» Catherine Malabou» Lev Manovich» Elissa Marder» Clem Marshall » Colum McCann» Achim Menges» Jean-Luc Nancy» François Noudelmann» Mathieu Potte-Bonneville» Peter Price» Stephen & Timothy Quay» Jacques Rancière» Laurence Arthur Rickels» Denise Riley» Avital Ronell» Wolfgang Schirmacher» Volker Schlöndorff» Michael Schmidt» Patrik Schumacher» Peter Singer» DJ Spooky - Paul Miller» Bruce Sterling» Caspar Stracke» Elia Suleiman» Leslie Thornton» Ilija Trojanow» Margarethe von Trotta» Agnès Varda» Paul Virilio» Victor Vitanza» Samuel Weber» Klaus Wyborny» Caveh Zahedi» Siegfried Zielinski» Slavoj Zizek» Thomas Zummer» Alenka Zupancic
AdministrationAboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor InformationMedia & CommunicationAboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & ScholarshipsAdmissionOnline ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer StudentsStudentsOverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest DocumentsAlumniOverviewAlumni AssociationAlumni DirectoryAlumni NewsEvent CalendarRequest TranscriptsGiving to EGSFacultyFaculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and PositionsResourcesNewsEvent CalendarInformation TechnologyHealth ServicesA-Z IndexSitemapContactsMediaEGS PublicationsEGS on FacebookEGS on YouTubeEGS on Google+EGS on FlickrEGS on TwitterConferences & FestivalsLibrary / EncyclopediaResearch Database
=======================================================
François-Marie Arouet (French: [fʁɑ̃.swa ma.ʁi aʁ.wɛ]; 21 November 1694 – 30 May 1778), known by his nom de plume Voltaire (pronounced: [vɔl.tɛːʁ]), was a French Enlightenment writer, historian and philosopher famous for his wit, his attacks on the established Catholic Church, and his advocacy of freedom of religion, freedom of expression, and separation of church and state. Voltaire was a versatile writer, producing works in almost every literary form, including plays, poems, novels, essays, and historical and scientific works. He wrote more than 20,000 letters and more than 2,000 books and pamphlets. He was an outspoken advocate, despite the risk this placed him in under the strict censorship laws of the time. As a satirical polemicist, he frequently made use of his works to criticize intolerance, religious dogma, and the French institutions of his day.
François-Marie Arouet was born in Paris, the youngest of the five children[1] (three of whom survived) of François Arouet (1650 – 1 January 1722), a lawyer who was a minor treasury official, and his wife, Marie Marguerite d'Aumart (ca. 1660 – 13 July 1701), from a noble family of the province of Poitou. Some speculation surrounds his date of birth, which Voltaire always claimed to be 20 February 1694. Voltaire was educated by the Jesuits at the Collège Louis-le-Grand (1704–1711), where he learned Latin and Greek; later in life he became fluent in Italian, Spanish and English.[2]
By the time he left school, Voltaire had decided he wanted to be a writer, against the wishes of his father, who wanted him to become a lawyer. Voltaire, pretending to work in Paris as an assistant to a notary, spent much of his time writing poetry. When his father found out, he sent Voltaire to study law, this time in Caen, Normandy. Nevertheless, he continued to write, producing essays and historical studies. Voltaire's wit made him popular among some of the aristocratic families with whom he mixed. His father then obtained a job for him as a secretary to the French ambassador in the Netherlands, where Voltaire fell in love with a French Protestant refugee named Catherine Olympe Dunoyer. Their scandalous elopement was foiled by Voltaire's father and he was forced to return to France.[3]
Most of Voltaire's early life revolved around Paris. From early on, Voltaire had trouble with the authorities for even mild critiques of the government and religious intolerance. These activities were to result in numerous imprisonments and exiles. One satirical verse about the Régent led to his imprisonment in the Bastille for eleven months.[4] While there, he wrote his debut play, Œdipe. Its success established his reputation.
The name "Voltaire", which the author adopted in 1718, is an anagram of "AROVET LI," the Latinized spelling of his surname, Arouet, and the initial letters of "le jeune" ("the young").[5] The name also echoes in reverse order the syllables of the name of a family château in the Poitou region: "Airvault". The adoption of the name "Voltaire" following his incarceration at the Bastille is seen by many to mark Voltaire's formal separation from his family and his past.
Richard Holmes[6] supports this derivation of the name, but adds that a writer such as Voltaire would have intended it to also convey its connotations of speed and daring. These come from associations with words such as "voltige" (acrobatics on a trapeze or horse), "volte-face" (a spinning about to face one's enemies), and "volatile" (originally, any winged creature). "Arouet" was not a noble name fit for his growing reputation, especially given that name's resonance with "à rouer" ("to be broken on the wheel" – a form of torture then still prevalent) and "roué" (a "débauché").
In a letter to Jean-Baptiste Rousseau in March 1719, Voltaire concludes by asking that, if Rousseau wishes to send him a return letter, he do so by addressing it to Monsieur de Voltaire. A postscript explains: "J'ai été si malheureux sous le nom d'Arouet que j'en ai pris un autre surtout pour n'être plus confondu avec le poète Roi", (I was so unhappy under the name of Arouet that I have taken another, primarily so as to cease to be confused with the poet Roi.)[7] This probably refers to Adenes le Roi, and the 'oi' diphthong was then pronounced like modern 'ouai', so the similarity to 'Arouet' is clear, and thus, it could well have been part of his rationale. Indeed, Voltaire is additionally known to have used at least 178 separate pen names during his lifetime.[8]
In 1726, Voltaire responded to an insult from the young French nobleman Chevalier de Rohan, whose servants beat him a few days later. Since Voltaire was seeking compensation, and was even willing to fight in a duel, the aristocratic Rohan family obtained a royal lettre de cachet, an often arbitrary penal decree signed by the French King (Louis XV, in the time of Voltaire) that was often bought by members of the wealthy nobility to dispose of undesirables. This warrant caused Voltaire to be imprisoned in the Bastille without a trial and without an opportunity to defend himself.[9] Fearing an indefinite prison sentence, Voltaire suggested that he be exiled to England as an alternative punishment, which the French authorities accepted.[10] This incident marked the beginning of Voltaire's attempts to reform the French judicial system.
From 1726 to 1728 he lodged in Maiden Lane, Covent Garden, now commemorated by a plaque at 10 Maiden Lane.[11] Voltaire's exile in Great Britain lasted nearly three years, and his experiences there greatly influenced his thinking. He was intrigued by Britain's constitutional monarchy in contrast to the French absolute monarchy, and by the country's greater support of the freedoms of speech and religion. He was also influenced by several neoclassical writers of the age, and developed an interest in earlier English literature, especially the works of Shakespeare, still relatively unknown in continental Europe. Despite pointing out his deviations from neoclassical standards, Voltaire saw Shakespeare as an example that French writers might emulate, since French drama, despite being more polished, lacked on-stage action. Later, however, as Shakespeare's influence began growing in France, Voltaire tried to set a contrary example with his own plays, decrying what he considered Shakespeare's barbarities. He was present at the funeral of Isaac Newton, and praised the British for honoring a scientist of heretical religious beliefs with burial at Westminster Abbey.
After almost three years in exile, Voltaire returned to Paris and published his views on British attitudes toward government, literature, and religion in a collection of essays in letter form entitled Letters Concerning the English Nation (London, 1733). In 1734, they were published in French as Lettres philosophiques in Rouen. A revised edition appeared in English in 1778 as Lettres philosophiques sur les Anglais (Philosophical Letters on the English). Most modern English editions are based on the one from 1734 and typically use the title Philosophical Letters, a direct translation of that version's title.[12]
Because the publisher released the book without the approval of the royal censor and Voltaire regarded the British constitutional monarchy as more developed and more respectful of human rights (particularly religious tolerance) than its French counterpart, the French publication of Letters caused a huge scandal; the book was burnt. After the book was banned, Voltaire was forced again to flee.[13] Later, this book was banned, and Voltaire had to flee to Paris.[14]
In the frontispiece to Voltaire's book on Newton's philosophy, Émilie du Châtelet appears as Voltaire's muse, reflecting Newton's heavenly insights down to Voltaire.
Voltaire's next destination was the Château de Cirey, on the borders of Champagne and Lorraine. The building was renovated with his money, and here he began a relationship with the Marquise du Châtelet, Gabrielle Émilie le Tonnelier de Breteuil (famous in her own right as Émilie du Châtelet). Cirey was owned by the Marquise's husband, Marquis Florent-Claude du Chatelet, who sometimes visited his wife and her lover at the chateau. The relationship, which lasted for fifteen years, had a significant intellectual element. Voltaire and the Marquise collected over 21,000 books, an enormous number for the time. Together, they studied these books and performed experiments in the "natural sciences" in his laboratory. Voltaire's experiments included an attempt to determine the elements of fire.
Having learned from his previous brushes with the authorities, Voltaire began his habit of keeping out of personal harm's way, and denying any awkward responsibility. He continued to write plays, such as Mérope (or La Mérope française) and began his long research into science and history. Again, a main source of inspiration for Voltaire were the years of his British exile, during which he had been strongly influenced by the works of Sir Isaac Newton. Voltaire strongly believed in Newton's theories, especially concerning optics (Newton's discovery that white light is composed of all the colours in the spectrum led to many experiments at Cirey), and gravity (Voltaire is the source of the famous story of Newton and the apple falling from the tree, which he had learned from Newton's niece in London and first mentioned in his "Essai sur la poésie épique", or "Essay on Epic Poetry").
Although both Voltaire and the Marquise were curious about the philosophies of Gottfried Leibniz, a contemporary and rival of Newton, they remained essentially "Newtonians", despite the Marquise's adoption of certain aspects of Leibniz's arguments against Newton.[citation needed] She translated Newton's Latin Principia in full, adjusting a few errors along the way, and hers remained the definitive French translation well into the 20th century. Voltaire's book Eléments de la philosophie de Newton (Elements of Newton's Philosophy), which was probably co-written with the Marquise, made Newton accessible to a far greater public. The Marquise also wrote a celebratory review in the Journal des Savants.[13] It is often considered the work that finally brought about general acceptance of Newton's optical and gravitational theories.[15]
Voltaire and the Marquise also studied history, particularly those persons who had contributed to civilization. Voltaire's second essay in English had been "Essay upon the Civil Wars in France". It was followed by La Henriade, an epic poem on the French King Henri IV, glorifying his attempt to end the Catholic-Protestant massacres with the Edict of Nantes, and by a historical novel on King Charles XII of Sweden. These, along with his Letters on the English mark the beginning of Voltaire's open criticism of intolerance and established religions. Voltaire and the Marquise also explored philosophy, particularly metaphysics, the branch of philosophy that deals with being and with what lies beyond the material realm such as whether or not there is a God or souls, etc. Voltaire and the Marquise analyzed the Bible, trying to discover its validity for their time. Voltaire's critical views on religion are reflected in his belief in separation of church and state and religious freedom, ideas that he had formed after his stay in England.
In the fall of 1735, Voltaire was visited by Francesco Algarotti, preparing a book about Newton. In 1736 Frederick the Great started to write letters to Voltaire. Two years later Voltaire lived in Holland and became acquainted with Herman Boerhaave and 's Gravesande. In first half of 1740 Voltaire lived in Brussels and met with Lord Chesterfield. He went to see a dubious publisher Jan van Duuren in the Hague, because of the Anti-Machiavel, written by the crown prince, and ordered it back. Voltaire lived in Huis Honselaarsdijk belonging to his admirer. In September they met for the first time in Moyland Castle near Cleve; in November Voltaire went to Rheinsberg Castle for two weeks; in August 1742 Voltaire and Frederick met in Aix-la-Chapelle. Voltaire was sent to Sanssouci by the French government, as an ambassador/spy and find out more about Frederick plan's after the First Silesian War.[16]
Though deeply committed to the Marquise, Voltaire by 1744 found life at the château confining. On a visit to Paris that year, he found a new love–his niece. At first, his attraction to Marie Louise Mignot was clearly sexual, as evidenced by his letters to her (only discovered in 1937).[17] Much later, they lived together, perhaps platonically, and remained together until Voltaire's death. Meanwhile, the Marquise also took a lover, the Marquis de Saint-Lambert.[18]
Die Tafelrunde by Adolph von Menzel. Guests of Frederick the Great at Sanssouci, including members of the Prussian Academy of Sciences and Voltaire (third from left)
After the death of the Marquise in childbirth in September 1749, Voltaire briefly returned to Paris and in 1750 moved to Potsdam to meet Frederick the Great for the fifth time.[19] The king now gave him a salary of 20,000 francs a year. Though life went well at first—in 1752 he wrote Micromégas, perhaps the first piece of science fiction involving ambassadors from another planet witnessing the follies of humankind—his relationship with Frederick the Great began to deteriorate and he encountered other difficulties. An argument with Maupertuis, the president of the Berlin Academy of Science, provoked Voltaire's "Diatribe du docteur Akakia" ("Diatribe of Doctor Akakia"), which satirized some of Maupertuis' theories and his abuse of power in his persecutions of a mutual acquaintance, Johann Samuel König. This greatly angered Frederick, who had all copies of the document burned and Voltaire arrested at an inn where he was staying along his journey home.
Voltaire headed toward Paris, but Louis XV banned him from the city, so instead he turned to Geneva, near which he bought a large estate (Les Délices) in 1755.[20] Though he was received openly at first, the law in Geneva, which banned theatrical performances, and the publication of The Maid of Orleans against his will made him move at the end of 1758 across the French border to Ferney, where he had bought an even larger estate, and led to Voltaire's writing of Candide, ou l'Optimisme (Candide, or Optimism) in 1759. This satire on Leibniz's philosophy of optimistic determinism remains the work for which Voltaire is perhaps best known. He would stay in Ferney for most of the remaining 20 years of his life, frequently entertaining distinguished guests, such as James Boswell, Adam Smith, Giacomo Casanova, and Edward Gibbon.[21] In 1764, he published one of his best-known philosophical works, the Dictionnaire Philosophique, a series of articles mainly on Christian history and dogmas, a few of which were originally written in Berlin.[9]
From 1762, he began to champion unjustly persecuted people, the case of Jean Calas being the most celebrated. This Huguenot merchant had been tortured to death in 1763, supposedly because he had murdered his son for wanting to convert to Catholicism. His possessions were confiscated and his remaining children were taken from his widow and were forced to become members of a monastery. Voltaire, seeing this as a clear case of religious persecution, managed to overturn the conviction in 1765.[9]
Voltaire was initiated into Freemasonry the month before his death. On 4 April 1778 Voltaire accompanied his close friend Benjamin Franklin into Loge des Neuf Soeurs in Paris, France and became an Entered Apprentice Freemason.[22][23][24]
In February 1778, Voltaire returned for the first time in 20 years to Paris, among other reasons to see the opening of his latest tragedy, Irene. The five-day journey was too much for the 83-year-old, and he believed he was about to die on 28 February, writing "I die adoring God, loving my friends, not hating my enemies, and detesting superstition." However, he recovered, and in March saw a performance of Irene, where he was treated by the audience as a returning hero.[9]
He soon became ill again and died on 30 May 1778. The accounts of his deathbed have been numerous and varying, and it has not been possible to establish the details of what precisely occurred. His enemies related that he repented and accepted the last rites given by a Catholic priest, or that he died under great torment, while his adherents told how he was defiant to his last breath.[25] According to one story, his last words were, "Now is not the time for making new enemies." It was his response to a priest at the side of his deathbed, asking Voltaire to renounce Satan.[26]
Because of his well-known criticism of the Church, which he had refused to retract before his death, Voltaire was denied a Christian burial, but friends managed to bury his body secretly at the Abbey of Scellières in Champagne before this prohibition had been announced. His heart and brain were embalmed separately.
On 11 July 1791, the National Assembly of France, which regarded him as a forerunner of the French Revolution, had his remains brought back to Paris to enshrine him in the Panthéon. It is estimated that a million people attended the procession, which stretched throughout Paris. There was an elaborate ceremony, complete with an orchestra, and the music included a piece that André Grétry had composed specially for the event, which included a part for the "tuba curva" (an instrument that originated in Roman times as the cornu but had recently been revived under a new name[27]).
A widely repeated story, that the remains of Voltaire were stolen by religious fanatics in 1814 or 1821 during the Pantheon restoration and thrown into a garbage heap, is false. Such rumours resulted in the coffin being opened in 1897, which confirmed that his remains were still present.[28]
Voltaire had an enormous influence on the development of historiography through his demonstration of fresh new ways to look at the past. His best-known histories are The Age of Louis XIV (1751), and his Essay on the Customs and the Spirit of the Nations (1756). He broke from the tradition of narrating diplomatic and military events, and emphasized customs, social history and achievements in the arts and sciences. The Essay on Customs traced the progress of world civilization in a universal context, thereby rejecting both nationalism and the traditional Christian frame of reference. Influenced by Bossuet's Discourse on the Universal History (1682), he was the first scholar to make a serious attempt to write the history of the world, eliminating theological frameworks, and emphasizing economics, culture and political history. He treated Europe as a whole, rather than a collection of nations. He was the first to emphasize the debt of medieval culture to Middle Eastern civilization, but otherwise was weak on the Middle Ages. Although he repeatedly warned against political bias on the part of the historian, he did not miss many opportunities to expose the intolerance and frauds of the church over the ages. Voltaire advised scholars that anything contradicting the normal course of nature was not to be believed. Although he found evil in the historical record, he fervently believed reason and educating the illiterate masses would lead to progress.
Voltaire explains his view of historiography in his article on "History" in Diderot's Encyclopédie: "One demands of modern historians more details, better ascertained facts, precise dates, more attention to customs, laws, mores, commerce, finance, agriculture, population." Voltaire's histories imposed the values of the Enlightenment on the past, but at the same time he helped free historiography from antiquarianism, Eurocentrism, religious intolerance and a concentration on great men, diplomacy, and warfare.[29][30] Yale professor Peter Gay says Voltaire wrote "very good history", citing his ""scrupulous concern for truths", "careful sifting of evidence", "intelligent selection of what is important", "keen sense of drama", and "grasp of the fact that a whole civilization is a unit of study".[31]
From an early age, Voltaire displayed a talent for writing verse and his first published work was poetry. He wrote two book-long epic poems, including the first ever written in French, the Henriade, and later, The Maid of Orleans, besides many other smaller pieces.
The Henriade was written in imitation of Virgil, using the Alexandrine couplet reformed and rendered monotonous for modern readers but it was a huge success in the 18th and early 19th century, with sixty-five editions and translations into several languages. The epic poem transformed French King Henry IV into a national hero for his attempts at instituting tolerance with his Edict of Nantes. La Pucelle, on the other hand, is a burlesque on the legend of Joan of Arc. Voltaire's minor poems are generally considered superior to either of these two works.
Frontispiece and first page of an early English translation by T. Smollett et al. of Voltaire's Candide, 1762
Many of Voltaire's prose works and romances, usually composed as pamphlets, were written as polemics. Candide attacks the passivity inspired by Leibniz's philosophy of optimism; L'Homme aux quarante ecus (The Man of Forty Pieces of Silver), certain social and political ways of the time; Zadig and others, the received forms of moral and metaphysical orthodoxy; and some were written to deride the Bible. In these works, Voltaire's ironic style, free of exaggeration, is apparent, particularly the restraint and simplicity of the verbal treatment. Candide in particular is the best example of his style. Voltaire also has, in common with Jonathan Swift, the distinction of paving the way for science fiction's philosophical irony, particularly in his Micromégas and the vignette Plato's Dream (1756).
In general, his criticism and miscellaneous writing shows a similar style to Voltaire's other works. Almost all of his more substantive works, whether in verse or prose, are preceded by prefaces of one sort or another, which are models of his caustic yet conversational tone. In a vast variety of nondescript pamphlets and writings, he displays his skills at journalism. In pure literary criticism his principal work is the Commentaire sur Corneille, although he wrote many more similar works – sometimes (as in his Life and Notices of Molière) independently and sometimes as part of his Siècles.
Voltaire's works, especially his private letters, frequently contain the word "l'infâme" and the expression "écrasez l'infâme", or "crush the infamous". The phrase refers to abuses of the people by royalty and the clergy that Voltaire saw around him, and the superstition and intolerance that the clergy bred within the people.[32] He had felt these effects in his own exiles, the burnings of his books and those of many others, and in the hideous sufferings of Calas and La Barre. He stated in one of his most famous quotes that "Superstition sets the whole world in flames; philosophy quenches them."
The most oft-cited Voltaire quotation is apocryphal. He is incorrectly credited with writing, "I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it." These were not his words, but rather those of Evelyn Beatrice Hall, written under the pseudonym S. G. Tallentyre in her 1906 biographical book The Friends of Voltaire. Hall intended to summarize in her own words Voltaire's attitude towards Claude Adrien Helvétius and his controversial book De l'esprit, but her first-person expression was mistaken for an actual quotation from Voltaire. Her interpretation does capture the spirit of Voltaire's attitude towards Helvetius; it had been said Hall's summary was inspired by a quotation found in a 1770 Voltaire letter to an Abbot le Riche, in which he was reported to have said, "I detest what you write, but I would give my life to make it possible for you to continue to write."[33] Nevertheless, scholars believe there must have again been misinterpretation, as the letter does not seem to contain any such quote.[34]
Voltaire's first major philosophical work in his battle against "l'infâme" was the Traité sur la tolérance (Treatise on Tolerance), exposing the Calas affair, along with the tolerance exercised by other faiths and in other eras (for example, by the Jews, the Romans, the Greeks and the Chinese). Then, in his Dictionnaire philosophique, containing such articles as "Abraham", "Genesis", "Church Council", he wrote about what he perceived as the human origins of dogmas and beliefs, as well as inhuman behavior of religious and political institutions in shedding blood over the quarrels of competing sects. Amongst other targets, Voltaire criticized France's colonial policy in North America, dismissing the vast territory of New France as "a few acres of snow" ("quelques arpents de neige").
Voltaire also engaged in an enormous amount of private correspondence during his life, totaling over 20,000 letters. Theodore Besterman's collected edition of these letters, completed only in 1964, fills 102 volumes.[35] One historian called the letters "a feast not only of wit and eloquence but of warm friendship, humane feeling, and incisive thought."[36]
Like other key thinkers during the European Enlightenment, Voltaire might have considered himself a deist, expressing the idea: "What is faith? Is it to believe that which is evident? No. It is perfectly evident to my mind that there exists a necessary, eternal, supreme, and intelligent being. This is no matter of faith, but of reason."[37][38]
In the Scottish Enlightenment, the Scots began developing a uniquely practical branch of humanism to the extent that Voltaire said "We look to Scotland for all our ideas of civilisation".[39][40]
As for religious texts, Voltaire's opinion of the Bible was mixed. Although influenced by Socinian works such as the Bibliotheca Fratrum Polonorum, Voltaire's skeptical attitude to the Bible separated him from Unitarian theologians like Fausto Sozzini or even Biblical-political writers like John Locke.[41]
This did not hinder his religious practice, though it did win for him a bad reputation in certain religious circles. The deeply Christian Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart wrote to his father the year of Voltaire's death, saying, "The arch-scoundrel Voltaire has finally kicked the bucket ...".[42]
In his tragedy Le Fanatisme ou Mahomet, Voltaire described Mohammed as an "imposter", a " false prophet", a "fanatic" and a "hypocrite".[43][44] Voltaire defended the play, he said that he "tried to show in it into what horrible excesses fanaticism, led by an impostor, can plunge weak minds".[45]
Voltaire wrote in 1742 to César de Missy, here he described Mohammed a "deceitful character."[46][47]
In 1748, after having read Henri de Boulainvilliers et Georges Sale,[48] he wrote again about Mohammed and Islam in an article "De l'Alcoran et de Mahomet" (On the Quran and on Mohammed). In the article, Voltaire maintained that Mohammed was a "sublime charlatan"[49] and wrote that furthermore he was not an illiterate.[50] Drawing also on complementary information in the "Oriental Library" of Herbelot, Voltaire, according to René Pomeau, had a judgement of Qur'an where he found the book in spite of "the contradictions, the absurdities, the anachronisms", "rhapsody, without connection, without order, and without art".[51][52][53][54] Thus he "henceforward conceded" [54] that "if his book was bad for our times and for us, it was very good for his contemporaries, and his religion even more so. It must be admitted that he removed almost all of Asia from idolatry" and that "it was difficult for such a simple and wise religion, taught by a man who was constantly victorious, could hardly fail to subjugate a portion of the earth." He considered that "its civil laws are good; its dogma is admirable which it has in common with ours" but that "his means are shocking; deception and murder".[55]
In his play, Mohammed was "whatever trickery can invent that most atrocious and whatever fanaticism can accomplish that is most horrifying. Mahomet here is nothing other than Tartuffe with armies at his command."[56][57] After later having judged that he had made Mohammed in his play "somewhat nastier than he really was",[58] Voltaire claims that Muhammad stolen the idea of an angel weighing both men and women from Zoroastrians, who are often referred as "Magi", Voltaire continues about Islam that;-
"Nothing is more terrible than a people who, having nothing to lose fight in the united spirit of rapine and of religion."[59]
In his Essai sur les mœurs et l'esprit des Nations in which he consecrated, as a historian this time, several chapters to Islam,[60][61][62] Voltaire highlighted the Arabian, Turkish courts, and conducts.[54][63][64] Here he called Mohammed a "poet", and furthermore he was not an illiterate.[65] as a "legislator" who "changed the face of part of Europe, one half of Asia",[66][67][68] In the chapter VI, Voltaire finds similarities Arabs and ancient Hebrews, that they both kept running to battle in the name of god, and sharing the passion for booty and spoils.[69] Voltaire continues that, "It is to be believed that Mohammed, like all enthusiasts, violently struck by his ideas, first presented them in good faith, strengthened them with fantasy, fooled himself in fooling others, and supported through necessary deceptions a doctrine which he considered good."[70][71]
However, Voltaire was fundamentally a Deist and clearly denounced Islam and monotheistic religions in general. Taking advantage of the definition of theism in his "Philosophical Dictionary", he put Islam and Christianity back to back with each other:
(the theist) believes that religion consists neither in the opinions of an unintelligible metaphysics, nor in vain apparatus, but in worship and in justice. To do good, that is his prayer; to be submitted to God, that is his doctrine. The Mohammedan calls to him 'Beware if you do not make your pilgrimage to Mecca!' 'Woe on you, says a recoller to him, if you do not make a journey to Notre-Dame de Lorette!' He laughs at Lorette and at Mecca, but he helps the poor and defends the oppressed.[72]
Thus there are number of representations of Mohammed in Voltaire, a religious one, according to which Mohammed is a prophet like the others, who exploits people's naivety and spreads superstition and fanaticism and the other a political one, according to which Mohammed was a legislator who brought his contemporaries out of idolatry.[73][74] According to Diego Venturino the figure of Mohammed is uncertain or negative in Voltaire's view, as Voltaire applaud the legislator but hates the conqueror and the pontiff, who established his religion through violence.[75][76][77] In his Essai sur les mœurs, he highlighted the Arabian, Turkish courts, and conducts.[54][64] He thus compares "the genius of the Arab people" with "the genius of the ancient Romans".[78] His statements about religions also brought down on him the fury of the Jesuits and in particular Claude-Adrien Nonnotte.[79][80][81][82]
Voltaire's views about Islam remained negative, he considered Quran to be ignoring the laws of physics.[83] In a 1740 letter to Frederick II of Prussia, Voltaire ascribes to Muhammad a brutality that "is assuredly nothing any man can excuse" and suggests that his following stemmed from superstition and lack of enlightenment. Voltaire continued in his letter, "But that a camel-merchant should stir up insurrection in his village; that in league with some miserable followers he persuades them that he talks with the angel Gabriel; that he boasts of having been carried to heaven, where he received in part this unintelligible book, each page of which makes common sense shudder; that, to pay homage to this book, he delivers his country to iron and flame; that he cuts the throats of fathers and kidnaps daughters; that he gives to the defeated the choice of his religion or death: this is assuredly nothing any man can excuse, at least if he was not born a Turk, or if superstition has not extinguished all natural light in him." – Referring to Muhammad, in a letter to Frederick II of Prussia (December 1740), published in Oeuvres complètes de Voltaire, Vol. 7 (1869), edited by Georges Avenel, p. 105[84]
In a 1745 letter recommending his play Fanaticism, or Mahomet to Pope Benedict XIV, Voltaire described the founder of Islam, Muhammad as "the founder of a false and barbarous sect" and "a false prophet." Voltaire wrote that "Your holiness will pardon the liberty taken by one of the lowest of the faithful, though a zealous admirer of virtue, of submitting to the head of the true religion this performance, written in opposition to the founder of a false and barbarous sect. To whom could I with more propriety inscribe a satire on the cruelty and errors of a false prophet, than to the vicar and representative of a God of truth and mercy?".[85][86]< His view was modified slightly for Essai sur les Moeurs et l'Esprit des Nations, however they remained negative.[87][88][89][90][91] In 1751, Voltaire performed his play Mohamet once again, with great success.[92]
La nôtre [religion] est sans contredit la plus ridicule, la plus absurde, et la plus sanguinaire qui ait jamais infecté le monde.[93]
("[Christianity] is assuredly the most ridiculous, the most absurd and the most bloody religion which has ever infected this world. Your Majesty will do the human race an eternal service by extirpating this infamous superstition, I do not say among the rabble, who are not worthy of being enlightened and who are apt for every yoke; I say among honest people, among men who think, among those who wish to think. ... My one regret in dying is that I cannot aid you in this noble enterprise, the finest and most respectable which the human mind can point out.."[94][95]
It is characteristic of fanatics who read the holy scriptures to tell themselves: God killed, so I must kill; Abraham lied, Jacob deceived, Rachel stole: so I must steal, deceive, lie. But, wretch, you are neither Rachel, nor Jacob, nor Abraham, nor God; you are just a mad fool, and the popes who forbade the reading of the Bible were extremely wise.[96]
Despite the criticism of Abrahamic religions, Voltaire had a positive view of Hinduism,[97] the sacred text Vedas, were remarked by him as:-
He regarded Hindus, as "A peaceful and innocent people, equally incapable of hurting others or of defending themselves."[99] Voltaire was himself supporter of animal rights, he used the ancient times of Hinduism to land a devastating blow to the Bible's claims, he acknowledged that the Hindus' treatment of animals shown a shaming alternative to the immorality of European imperialists.[100]
According to the rabbi Joseph Telushkin, the most significant of Enlightenment hostility against Judaism was found in Voltaire;[101] thirty of the 118 articles in his Dictionnaire philosophique dealt with Jews and described them in consistently negative ways.[102][103]
On the other hand, Peter Gay, a contemporary authority on the Enlightenment,[101] also points to Voltaire's remarks (for instance, that the Jews were more tolerant than the Christians) in the Traité sur la tolérance and surmises that "Voltaire struck at the Jews to strike at Christianity". Whatever anti-semitism Voltaire may have felt, Gay suggests, derived from negative personal experience.[104] Bertram Schwarzbach's far more detailed studies of Voltaire's dealings with Jewish people throughout his life concluded that he was anti-biblical, not anti-semitic. His remarks on the Jews and their "superstitions" were essentially no different from his remarks on Christians.[105]
Telushkin states that Voltaire did not limit his attack to aspects of Judaism that Christianity used as a foundation, repeatedly making it clear that he despised Jews.[101] Arthur Hertzberg claims that Gay's second suggestion is also untenable, as Voltaire himself denied its validity when he remarked that he had "forgotten about much larger bankruptcies through Christians".[106]
In a 1763 essay, Voltaire supported the toleration of other religions and ethnicities: "It does not require great art, or magnificently trained eloquence, to prove that Christians should tolerate each other. I, however, am going further: I say that we should regard all men as our brothers. What? The Turk my brother? The Chinaman my brother? The Jew? The Siam? Yes, without doubt; are we not all children of the same father and creatures of the same God?"[107]
Voltaire rejected the Christian Adam and Eve story and was a polygenist who speculated that each race had separate origins.[108] Like other philosophes, such as Buffon, he divided humanity into varieties or races and attempted to explain the differences between these races. He wondered if blacks fully shared in the common humanity or intelligence of whites because of their participation in the slave trade.[109][110]
His most famous remark on slavery is found in Candide, where the hero is horrified to learn "at what price we eat sugar in Europe" after coming across a slave in French Guinea who has been mutilated for escaping, who opines that, if all human beings have common origins as the Bible taught, it makes them cousins, concluding that "no one could treat their relatives more horribly". Elsewhere, he wrote caustically about "whites and Christians [who] proceed to purchase negroes cheaply, in order to sell them dear in America".[111][112]
Voltaire perceived the French bourgeoisie to be too small and ineffective, the aristocracy to be parasitic and corrupt, the commoners as ignorant and superstitious, and the Church as a static and oppressive force useful only on occasion as a counterbalance to the rapacity of kings, although all too often, even more rapacious itself. Voltaire distrusted democracy, which he saw as propagating the idiocy of the masses.[113] Voltaire long thought only an enlightened monarch could bring about change, given the social structures of the time and the extremely high rates of illiteracy, and that it was in the king's rational interest to improve the education and welfare of his subjects. But his disappointments and disillusions with Frederick the Great changed his philosophy somewhat, and soon gave birth to one of his most enduring works, his novella Candide, ou l'Optimisme (Candide, or Optimism, 1759), which ends with a new conclusion: "It is up to us to cultivate our garden." His most polemical and ferocious attacks on intolerance and religious persecutions indeed began to appear a few years later. Candide was also burned and Voltaire jokingly claimed the actual author was a certain 'Demad' in a letter, where he reaffirmed the main polemical stances of the text.[114]
He is remembered and honoured in France as a courageous polemicist who indefatigably fought for civil rights (as the right to a fair trial and freedom of religion) and who denounced the hypocrisies and injustices of the Ancien Régime. The Ancien Régime – according to common opinion – involved an unfair balance of power and taxes between the three Estates: clergy and nobles on one side, the commoners and middle class, who were burdened with most of the taxes, on the other. He particularly had admiration for the ethics and government as exemplified by Confucius.[115]
Voltaire is also known for many memorable aphorisms, such as "Si Dieu n'existait pas, il faudrait l'inventer" ("If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent him"), contained in a verse epistle from 1768, addressed to the anonymous author of a controversial work on The Three Impostors. But far from being the cynical remark it is often taken for, it was meant as a retort to atheistic opponents such as d'Holbach, Grimm, and others.[116] He has had his detractors among his later colleagues. The Scottish Victorian writer Thomas Carlyle argued that "Voltaire read history, not with the eye of devout seer or even critic, but through a pair of mere anti-catholic spectacles."[117]
The town of Ferney, where Voltaire lived out the last 20 years of his life, is now named Ferney-Voltaire in honour of its most famous resident. His château is a museum. Voltaire's library is preserved intact in the National Library of Russia at Saint Petersburg, Russia. In the Zurich of 1916, the theatre and performance group who would become the early avant-garde movement Dada named their theater The Cabaret Voltaire. A late-20th-century industrial music group then named themselves after the theater. Astronomers have bestowed his name to the Voltaire crater on Deimos and the asteroid 5676 Voltaire.[118]
Besides, Voltaire was also known to have been an advocate for coffee, as he was purported to have drunk it 50–72 times per day. It has been suggested that high amounts of caffeine acted as a mental stimulant to his creativity.[119] His great-grand-niece was the mother of Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, a catholic philosopher and Jesuit priest.[120][121] His book Candide was listed as one of The 100 Most Influential Books Ever Written, by Martin Seymour-Smith.
Letters concerning the English nation (London, 1733) (French version entitled Lettres philosophiques sur les Anglais, Rouen, 1734), revised as Letters on the English (circa 1778)
Le Koran est une rapsodie sans liaison, sans ordre, sans art ; on dit pourtant que ce livre ennuyeux est un fort beau livre ; je m'en rapporte aux Arabes, qui prétendent qu'il est écrit avec une élégance et une pureté dont personne n'a approché depuis. C'est un poème, ou une espèce de prose rimée, qui contient six mille vers. Il n'y a point de poète dont la personne et l'ouvrage aient fait une telle fortune. On agita chez les musulmans si l'Alcoran était éternel, ou si Dieu l'avait créé pour le dicter à Mahomet. Les docteurs décidèrent qu'il était éternel ; ils avaient raison, cette éternité est bien plus belle que l'autre opinion. Il faut toujours avec le vulgaire prendre le parti le plus incroyable.
On l'excuse sur la fourberie, parce que, dit-on, les Arabes comptaient avant lui cent vingt-quatre mille prophètes, et qu'il n'y avait pas grand mal qu'il en parût un de plus. Les hommes, ajoute-t-on, ont besoin d'être trompés. Mais comment justifier un homme qui vous dit « Crois que j'ai parlé à l'ange Gabriel, ou paye-moi un tribut ? »
Combien est préférable un Confucius, le premier des mortels qui n'ont point eu de révélation ; il n'emploie que la raison, et non le mensonge et l'épée. Vice-roi d'une grande province, il y fait fleurir la morale et les lois : disgracié et pauvre, il les enseigne il les pratique dans la grandeur et dans l'abaissement ; il rend la vertu aimable ; il a pour disciple le plus ancien et le plus sage des peuples.
Le comte de Boulainvilliers, qui avait du goût pour Mahomet, a beau me vanter les Arabes, il ne peut empêcher que ce ne fût un peuple de brigands ; ils volaient avant Mahomet en adorant les étoiles ; ils volaient sous Mahomet au nom de Dieu. Ils avaient, dit-on, la simplicité des temps héroïques ; mais qu'est-ce que les siècles héroïques ? c'était le temps où l'on s'égorgeait pour un puits et pour une citerne, comme on fait aujourd'hui pour une province.
App, Urs. The Birth of Orientalism. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2010 (hardcover, ISBN 978-0-8122-4261-4); contains a 60-page chapter (pp. 15–76) on Voltaire as a pioneer of Indomania and his use of fake Indian texts in anti-Christian propaganda.
Durant, Will, The Story of Civilization. Vol. IX: The Age of Voltaire. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1965.
Hadidi, Djavâd, Voltaire et l'Islam, Publications Orientalistes de France, 1974. ISBN 978-2-84161-510-0
McElroy, Wendy (2008). "Voltaire (1694–1778)". In Hamowy, Ronald. The Encyclopedia of Libertarianism. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE; Cato Institute. pp. 521–2. ISBN 978-1-4129-6580-4. LCCN 2008009151. OCLC 750831024. 
Muller, Jerry Z., 2002. The Mind and the Market: Capitalism in Western Thought. Anchor Books. 978-0385721660
Pearson, Roger, 2005. Voltaire Almighty: a life in pursuit of freedom. Bloomsbury. ISBN 978-1-58234-630-4. pp. 447
Quinones, Ricardo J. Erasmus and Voltaire: Why They Still Matter (University of Toronto Press; 2010) 240 pages; Draws parallels between the two thinkers as voices of moderation with relevance today.
PRÉSENTATION DES OEUVRES COMPLÈTES DE VOLTAIRE EN CD-ROM, Voltaire: Édition Electronique[dead link]
Gabrielle Émilie Le Tonnelier de Breteuil Marquise du Châtelet, School of Mathematics and Statistics, University of St Andrews, Scotland
Hewett, Caspar J. M. (August 2006). "The Great Debate: Life of Voltaire.". Retrieved 2 November 2008. 
Online Library of Liberty – The Works of Voltaire (1901). Some volumes, including mostly the unabridged Dictionnaire philosophique, translated by William F. Fleming
Categories: 1694 births1778 deathsWriters from ParisVoltaireDeist philosophersEarly modern philosophersFrench philosophersEnlightenment philosophersPhilosophers of sexualityFrench deistsFrench dramatists and playwrightsFrench historiansFrench poetsFrench essayistsFrench satiristsFrench science fiction writersFrench fantasy writersMembers of the Académie françaiseFrench monarchistsLycée Louis-le-Grand alumniBurials at the Panthéon, ParisPhilosophesPeople of the Regency of Philippe d'OrléansPeople of the Ancien RégimeAge of EnlightenmentFrench memoiristsLes Neuf SœursRecipients of the Pour le Mérite (civil class)French anti–death penalty activistsCritics of IslamMembers of the Prussian Academy of SciencesFellows of the Royal SocietyHonorary Members of the St Petersburg Academy of SciencesPseudonymous writersFrench Freemasons17th-century French people18th-century French writers18th-century philosophers18th-century French novelistsCritics of CatholicismFrench encyclopedistsContributors to the Encyclopédie (1751–72)People imprisoned by lettre de cachetHidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersUse dmy dates from April 2011Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesWikipedia pages with incorrect protection templatesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2011All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from April 2010Articles with French-language external linksArticles containing French-language textAC with 14 elementsWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with ULAN identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
=======================================================
						Francois Marie Arouet (pen name Voltaire) was born on November 21, 1694 in Paris. Voltaire's intelligence, wit and style made him one of France's greatest writers and philosophers. Voltaire was the embodiment of the 18th-century Enlightenment.
Young Francois Marie received his education at "Louis-le-Grand," a Jesuit college in Paris from 1704-11. From 1711 to 1713 he studied law, and then worked as a secretary to the French ambassador in Holland before devoting himself entirely to writing.  He soon made friends among the Parisian aristocrats. His humorous verses made him a favorite in society circles. In 1717, his sharp wit got him into trouble with the authorities. He was imprisoned in the Bastille for eleven months for writing a scathing satire of the French government. During his time in prison Francois Marie wrote Oedipe which was to become his first theatrical success and adopted his pen name "Voltaire."
In 1726, Voltaire insulted the powerful young nobleman, "Chevalier De Rohan," and was given two options: imprisonment or exile. He chose exile and from 1726 to 1729 lived in England. While in England Voltaire was attracted to the philosophy of John Locke and ideas of mathematician and scientist, Sir Isaac Newton. He studied England's Constitutional Monarchy and its religious tolerance. Voltaire was particularly interested in the philosophical rationalism of the time, and in the study of the natural sciences. After returning to Paris he wrote a book praising English customs and institutions. It was interpreted as criticism of the French government and  was forced to leave Paris again.
At the age of thirty-nine, Voltraire started his famous sixteen-year liaison with Mme du Châtelet. She was twenty-seven, married, and the mother of three children. "I found, in 1733, a young woman who thought as I did," Voltaire wrote in his memoirs, "and who decided to spend several years in the country, cultivating her mind." The Marquis du Châtelet was well aware of the affair. With madame du Châtelet Voltaire lived at the Château de Cirey in Luneville,(in eastern France) in 1734-36 and 1737-40. Together they studied the natural sciences for several years. In 1746, Voltaire was voted into the "Academie Francaise." In 1749, after the death of "Marquise du Chatelet" and at the invitation of the King of Prussia, "Frederick the Great," he moved to Potsdam (near Berlin in Germany). In 1753, Voltaire left Potsdam to return to France.
In 1759, Voltaire purchased an estate called "Ferney" near the French-Swiss border where he lived until just before of his death. Ferney soon became the intellectual capital of Europe. Voltaire worked continuously throughout the years, producing a constant flow of books, plays and other publications. Voltaire left behind him over fourteen thousand known letters and over two thousand books and pamphlets. Among his best-known works is the satirical short story Candide (1759). In addition to Candide, Voltaire treated the problem of evil among others in his classic tale Zadig (1747), set in the ancient Babylon, and in Poem of the Lisbon Earthquake Voltaire asks: 
Voltaire returned to a hero's welcome in Paris at age 83. Voltaire died in Paris on May 30, 1778, as the undisputed leader of the Age of Enlightenment. He had suffered throughout his life from poor health, but at the time of his death he was eighty-four.  Because of his criticism of the church Voltaire was denied burial in church ground. He was finally buried at an abbey in Champagne. In 1791 his remains were moved to a resting place at the Pantheon in Paris.
							You may redistribute it, verbatim or modified, providing that you comply with the terms of the CC-BY-SA.
						If you would have me love once more,The blissful age of love restore;From wine's free joys, and lovers' cares,Relentless time, who no man spares,Urges me quickly to retire,And no more to such bliss aspire.From such austerity exact,Let's, if we can, some good extract;Whose way of thinking with this age
			© Poems are the property of their respective owners. All information has been reproduced here for educational and informational purposes to benefit site visitors, and is provided at no charge...
=======================================================
Cosi-sancta (1715), An Incident of Memory (1773), The Travels of Reason (1774), The Man with Forty Crowns (1768), Timon (1755), The King of Boutan (1761), and The City of Cashmere (1760).
Vol. 3: Micromegas (1738), Candide, or Optimism (1758), The World as it Goes (1750), The White and the Black (1764), Jeannot and Colin (1764), The Travels of Scarmentado (1756), The White Bull (1772), Memnon (1750), Plato's Dream (1737), Bababec and the Fakirs (1750), and The Two Consoled Ones (1756).
The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy is copyright © 2014 by The Metaphysics Research Lab, Center for the Study of Language and Information (CSLI), Stanford University
=======================================================
Voltaire Biography - life, family, children, story, death, history, mother, young, son, old, information, born, husband
.Comments_messagebox {text-align:center;color:#C52525;background-color:#FFEAEA;border:1px dotted #DB8686;width:100%;padding:10px;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;margin-bottom:15px;}#Comments_form input { margin-left:10px;margin-right:10px;margin-top:5px;display:block;width:150px;}#Comments_form textarea { margin-left:10px;display:block;width:95%;height:140px;}#Comments_form div.Comments_name {float:left;}#Comments_form div.Comments_mail {float:left;position:relative;}#Comments_form div.Comments_showmail {margin-left:8px;color:gray;font-size:8pt;}#Comments_form div.Comments_text {clear:left;}#Comments_form div.Comments_captcha { float:left;}#Comments_form img.Comments_captcha { margin-left:10px;margin-top:15px;border:1px solid #BCC6D6;padding:2px;}#Comments_form .Comments_showmail label {display:inline;margin:2px;width:auto;}#Comments_form .Comments_showmail input {display:inline;margin:0px;width:auto;border:none;background-color:transparent;}div.Comments_form {width:96%; padding:10px 20px; margin: auto;}div.Comments_commentsbox {width:100%;margin:auto;padding:8px;margin-bottom:8px;line-height:normal;}#Comments_section h4 {margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px;}div.Comments_comment {width:96%; border-top: 4px solid #C4DAE5; border-right: 1px solid #E8F1F7; border-left: 1px solid #E8F1F7; padding:2px; padding-top:8px;  margin: auto; background-repeat:repeat-x;background-position:top;margin-bottom:12px; background-color:#FBFBFB;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_info {height:28px;overflow:hidden;position:relative;top:-17px;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_link  { z-index:2;text-align:center;width:13px;position:relative;left:5px;top:-17px;}div.Comments_comment a.Comments_link   { font-family:Tahoma,Arial;font-weight:bold;text-decoration:none;color:#CC0000;font-size:7pt;border:none;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_balloon { z-index:1;width:23px;height:21px;position:relative;top:0px;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_date {float:right;font-family:Tahoma,Arial;font-size:7pt;color:gray;display:inline;position:relative;top:-20px;left:-7px;opacity:0.5;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_moderate {float:right;display:inline;position:relative;top:-19px;left:-2px;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_user { font-family:Tahoma,Arial;font-size:8pt;display:inline;position:relative;top:-19px;left:29px;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_user a { font-weight:bold;text-decoration:none;color:#006699; }div.Comments_comment div.Comments_text { margin-left:30px;color:#666666;position:relative;top:-10px;font-size:96%;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_clear {clear:both;line-height:1px;height:1px;display:inline;}div.Comments_comment {background-image:url('/images/comments.back.1.png')}div.Comments_comment_alt {background-image:url('/images/comments.back.2.png')}#qaComments {text-align:left;}
 Comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about this topic:Name:E-mail:Show my email publiclyType the code shown:Public Comment:&nbsp (50-4000 characters)  
=======================================================
Voltaire is one of greatest French writers: playwright, satirical polemist, philosopher, historian and moralist. François-Marie Arouet, otherwise known as Voltaire, is born in a middle class family; her father was a notary. He follows brilliant studies among the Jesuits of the high school Louis-Le-Grand, in Paris. Disrespectful verses oblige him to remain in province before his imprisonment in the Bastille (1717). An altercation with the knight Rohan-Chabot leads him again to the Bastille, then constrains him to a three years exile in England. Getting in touch with the philosophers of this country where the freedom of expression is larger than in France, he commits himself in a reforming philosophy of justice and society.  
Of return in France, Voltaire continues his literary career. His objective is the research of truth and to make it known to transform society. In Cirey (in Lorraine, France), he writes tragedies ("Zaire", "The Death Of Caesar"...) and, with less success, comedies ("Nanine"). He criticizes war in "The History of Charles XII" (1731) then attacks the Christian dogmas in "Epistles to Uranie"(1733) and the political system in France, founded on the divine right, in "Philosophical Letters"(1734). 
"Official" poems allow him to join the French Academy and the royal court as historiographer of the king in 1746. However, "Zadig" obliges him to go into exile in Potsdam on the invitation of Frederic II of Prussia, then in Geneva. He settles definitively in Ferney, close to the Swiss border, where he receives all the intellectual elite of this time. In 1759, he publishes Candide, one of his most famous and completed works. Indignant by intolerance, wars and injustices weighing on humanity, he denounces there the providentialist thought and metaphysics far from reality. With corrosive lampoons, Voltaire fights untiringly for justice and for the triumph of reason (The Calas case, Sirven, knight de La Barre). In 1778, he finally comes back in Paris, in the French Academy and in the French Comedy, but, exhausted by his triumph, he dies there not long after. 
Anti-religious, Voltaire denounces by virulent way clericalism and the dogmas of religions. However, he believes in a Creator, but not a revealed  God. Therefore, his positions are close to those of the English deists. For him, the smallness of man, lost in the vastness of Universe, makes vain and ridiculous his search after absolute or the understanding of God's purposes. Voltaire may be considered as one of the greatest defenders of freethinking as well as secularity being a condition for happiness of man. 
Voltaire leaves a considerable works. Because of censure, the majority of his writings were prohibited. They were published by anonymous ways, printed abroad and introduced clandestinely in France.
Bibliography : Oedipe (1718), Henriade (or the League, 1723),  Brutus (1730), History of Charles XII (1731), Zaire (1732), Philosophical Letters (1734), The Death of Caesar (1735), Discourse on Man (1738), Epistles to Uranie (1733), Zadig (1747), Nanine (1749), The Century of Louis XIV (1751), The Maid of Orleans (1752), Micromegas (1752), Essay on the Manner and Spirit of Nations (1756), Candide or Optimism (1759), A Treatise on Toleration (1763), Jeannot and Colin (1764), Philosophical Dictionary (1764), L'Ingénue (1767),  The Princess of Babylon (1768). 
=======================================================
