=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Cate Blanchett was born on May 14, 1969 in Australia to an American father and an Australian mother. She has an older brother and an younger sister. When she was ten years old, her 40-year old father died of a sudden heart attack. Her mother never remarried, and her grandmother moved in to help her mother. Cate graduated from Australia's National Institute of Dramatic Art in 1992 and, in a little over a year, had won both critical and popular acclaim. On graduating from NIDA, she joined the Sydney Theatre Company's production of Caryl Churchill's "Top Girls", then played Felice Bauer, the bride, in Tim Daly's "Kafka Dances", winning the 1993 Newcomer Award from the Sydney Theatre Critics Circle for her performance. From there, Blanchett moved to the role of Carol in David Mamet's searing polemic "Oleanna", also for the Sydney Theatre Company, and won the Rosemont Best Actress Award, her second award that year. She then co-starred in the ABC Television's prime time drama Heartland (1994), again winning critical acclaim. In 1995, she was nominated for Best Female Performance for her role as Ophelia in the Belvoir Street Theatre Company's production of "Hamlet". Other theatre credits include Helen in the Sydney Theatre Company's "Sweet Phoebe", Miranda in "The Tempest" and Rose in "The Blind Giant is Dancing", both for the Belvoir Street Theatre Company. In other television roles, Blanchett starred as Bianca in ABC's Bordertown (1995), as Janie Morris in G.P. (1989) and in ABC's popular series Police Rescue (1994). She made her feature film debut in Paradise Road (1997). She also married writer Andrew Upton in 1997. She had met him a year earlier on a movie set, and they didn't like each other at first. He thought she was aloof, and she thought he was arrogant, but then they connected over a poker game at a party, and she went home with him that night. Three weeks later he proposed marriage and they quickly married before she went off to England to play her breakthrough role in films: the title character in Elizabeth (1998) for which she won numerous awards for her performance, including the Golden Globe for Best Actress in a Drama. Cate was also nominated for an Academy Award for the role but lost out to Gwyneth Paltrow. 2001 was a particularly busy year, with starring roles in Bandits (2001), The Shipping News (2001), Charlotte Gray (2001) and playing Elf Queen Galadriel in the "Lord Of The Rings" trilogy. She also gave birth to her first child, son Dashiell, in 2001. In 2004, she gave birth to her second son Roman. Also, in 2004, she played actress Katharine Hepburn in Martin Scorsese's film "Aviator" (2004), for which she received an Academy Award as Best Supporting Actress. Two years later, she received an Academy Award nomination as Best Supporting Actress for playing a teacher having an affair with an underage student in "Notes on a Scandal" (2006). In 2007, she returned to the role that made her a star in "Elizabeth: The Golden Age" (2007). It earned her an Oscar nomination as Best Actress. She was nominated for another Oscar that same year as Best Supporting Actress for playing Bob Dylan in "I'm Not There" (2007). In 2008, she gave birth to her third child, son Ignatius. She and her husband became artistic directors of the Sydney Theatre Company, choosing to spend more time in Australia raising their children.
        Known for playing many different roles with multifarious personalities, such as the young sensible English queen Elizabeth in Elizabeth (1998), the rude, hustling wife in The Shipping News (2001), and the dangerous Russian villain in Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (2008).
      1993: She was the first person to win the Sydney Theatre Critic's Circle Theatre award for Best Newcomer (for her role in "Kafka Dances"), and Best Lead Actress (for her role in David Mamet's "Oleanna", with the Sydney Theatre Company, opposite Shine (1996) star Geoffrey Rush in the same year.
      Has an older brother named Bob who works in the computer field, and a younger sister, Genevieve who is a theater designer.
      When she was 18, Cate was on vacation in Egypt. A fellow guest at a cheap hotel in Cairo asked if she wanted to be an extra in a movie, the Egyptian boxing movie Kaboria [Crabs (1990)], directed by Khairy Beshara. She appeared in 3 scenes in that movie, in one of them she was dancing to the main song of the movie.
      Attended Methodist Ladies College (MLC) in Melbourne, Australia and was the School Drama Captain.
      Her father, (Robert Blanchett) a Texan advertising executive, died of a heart attack when she was ten years old.
      After completing work on the Lord of the Rings trilogy in the role of Galadriel, she kept and bronzed her elf ear prosthetics.
      Was considered for the role of Clarice Starling in Hannibal (2001). The part eventually went to Julianne Moore.
      In an interview she gave to Fox Television Network, she admitted blushingly that she had accepted the role of Galadriel, the Elf Queen, in the Lord of the Rings trilogy because she always wanted to appear in a movie wearing pointed ears.
      Has been in 7 movies where the title contains the name of the character she plays: Veronica Guerin (2003), Charlotte Gray (2001), Elizabeth (1998), Thank God He Met Lizzie (1997), Oscar and Lucinda (1997), Elizabeth: The Golden Age (2007) and Blue Jasmine (2013). [February 2008]
      Was originally going to play the role of Anna in Mike Nichols's latest film Closer (2004), but due to her second pregnancy she had to drop out, so it was recast with Julia Roberts instead.
      September 2004: Flew back home to Melbourne, Australia to launch the skincare range from SK-II at Australia's leading department store Myer. As of September 2011, she was still featured in full-page print ads for the same cosmetic.
      Was set to play "Portia" in Michael Radford's adaptation of William Shakespeare's The Merchant of Venice (2004), thus reuniting with actor Joseph Fiennes, her co-star from the blockbuster Elizabeth (1998), but had to drop out after discovering her pregnancy. This also would have reunited her with Ian McKellen, with whom she appeared in "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy, who would have played "Shylock". He too ultimately left the project.
      By winning the Oscar for her portrayal of Katharine Hepburn, she became the first person to give an Oscar-winning portrayal of a previous Oscar winner.
      In The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou (2004), she appears with Anjelica Huston, and in The Aviator (2004), she works with Danny Huston, the daughter and son, respectively, of director John Huston. In addition to having played Katharine Hepburn, who appeared in The African Queen (1951), directed by John Huston, she also appeared in a remake of a film that John Huston appeared in: The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003).
      In The Aviator (2004), she works opposite Leonardo DiCaprio, who plays Howard Hughes. The year before, she appeared in The Missing (2003) with Tommy Lee Jones. Jones played Hughes years earlier in The Amazing Howard Hughes (1977).
      1995: Nominated for Best Female Performance by the Melbourne Green Room Awards, for the Belvoir St Theatre Company's production of "Hamlet".
      Was unknowingly pregnant while portraying the pregnant journalist in The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou (2004).
      Four of her six Oscar nominations are for playing real people (Queen Elizabeth I, Katharine Hepburn and Bob Dylan). The latter two are both Oscar winners themselves.
      Appeared next to Hugo Weaving in 9 different projects: Bordertown (1995), Drama School (2000), Little Fish (2005), The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001), The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003), The Lord of the Rings: The Third Age (2004), The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (2002), The Making of 'The Lord of the Rings' (2002), Quest for the Ring (2001).
      Her father, who was from Texas, had remote French ancestry. Much of Cate's other ancestry is British Isles (English and some Scottish).
      In "The Lord of the Rings", she worked with Elijah Wood and Sean Astin, who played "Frodo" and "Sam", respectively. Also appearing with her in those films, as well as in The Aviator (2004), was Ian Holm, who played "Frodo" in the BBC radio series. In Notes on a Scandal (2006), she worked with Bill Nighy, who played "Sam" in the BBC radio series. In Elizabeth: The Golden Age (2007), she worked with Samantha Morton, who is engaged to Ian Holm's son, Harry Holm.
      She participated in 7 films nominated for the Best Picture Academy Award, four of them in a row: Elizabeth (1998), The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001), The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (2002), The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003), The Aviator (2004), Babel (2006), and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008).
      In Bandits (2001), she works with Troy Garity. In The Aviator (2004), she plays Katharine Hepburn, who appeared with Garity's mother, Jane Fonda and grandfather, Henry Fonda, in On Golden Pond (1981).
      15th February 2005: Attended the 2005 Elle Style Awards held at London's trendy Spitalfields Market. Posed for photos with fellow Australian Kylie Minogue, who was presented with a Lifetime Achievement Award.
      Was officially in the BAFTA longlist (Equivalently, the semi-finals) for Best Actress in a Leading Role, for her role in Notes on a Scandal (2006) (unlike the Oscars, where she was competing for Supporting Role), which consisted of 15 finalists for each category (except Animated Film). However, she was eliminated in the next round, which the five official nominees were selected.
      She and her The Shipping News (2001) and Notes on a Scandal (2006) co-star Judi Dench both received Oscar-nominations for playing Queen Elizabeth I in 1999. Dench won for her supporting role in Shakespeare in Love (1998) while Blanchett was nominated for Elizabeth (1998).
      Was Steven Spielberg's first choice for the role or Agatha in Minority Report (2002). After the death of Stanley Kubrick, he made Artificial Intelligence: AI (2001) his first priority, and she moved on to other projects. She was later able to work with Spielberg in Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (2008).
      She is one of the elite eleven thespians to have been nominated for both a Supporting and Lead Acting Academy Award in the same year for their achievements in two different movies. The other nine are Fay Bainter, Sigourney Weaver, Teresa Wright, Barry Fitzgerald (he has been nominated in both categories for the same role in the same movie), Jessica Lange, Al Pacino, Emma Thompson, Holly Hunter, Julianne Moore and Jamie Foxx.
      She, Linda Hunt and Felicity Huffman are the only performers to be nominated for an Oscar for playing a member of the opposite sex.
      She is one of five actors (and the only female actor) to be nominated for an Oscar twice for playing the same role in two separate films. She played "Queen Elizabeth I" in Elizabeth (1998) and in Elizabeth: The Golden Age (2007). The others are Bing Crosby as "Father Chuck O'Malley" in Going My Way (1944) and The Bells of St. Mary's (1945), Paul Newman as "Fast Eddie Felson" in The Hustler (1961) and The Color of Money (1986), Peter O'Toole as "King Henry II" in Becket (1964) and The Lion in Winter (1968) and Al Pacino as "Michael Corleone" in The Godfather (1972) and The Godfather: Part II (1974).
      Was listed as a potential nominee for the 2008 Razzies (but did not make the final ballot) for her performance as "Queen Elizabeth I" in Elizabeth: The Golden Age (2007), a performance that earned her another Oscar nomination. Had she earned a Razzie nod, she would have been one of the few actors to have a Razzie and Oscar nomination for the same performance.
      Got the role in The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008) after Rachel Weisz backed out, because of scheduling problems.
      Did not return to work until six months after giving birth to her son Ignatius in order to take to the stage for a Broadway revival of "A Streetcar Named Desire", where she portrayed Blanche DuBois.
      She was awarded a Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for Motion Picture at 6712 Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, California on December 5, 2008.
      She was awarded the Australian Centenary Medal in the 2001 Queen's New Years Honours List for her services to acting and Australian society.
      Was originally cast as Mrs. Fox in Fantastic Mr. Fox (2009), but was later replaced by Meryl Streep.
      Her portrayal of Irina Spalko in Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (2008) is director Steven Spielberg's favorite villain in the Indiana Jones series.
      Was originally cast as Izzi Creo in The Fountain (2006), but was forced to drop out of the film due to scheduling conflicts with Little Fish (2005). Rachel Weisz was then cast instead.
      Returned to work seven months after giving birth to her son Dashiell in order to begin filming Veronica Guerin (2003).
      Returned to work six months after giving birth to her son Roman in order to begin filming Little Fish (2005).
      Was three months pregnant with her son Ignatius when she completed filming Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (2008).
      Admitted to not hitting it off with her husband when she first met him. Apparently he thought she was aloof and she thought he was arrogant.
      Gave birth to her first child at age 32, a son Dashiell John Upton on December 3, 2001. Child's father is her husband, Andrew Upton.
      Gave birth to her second child at age 34, a son Roman Robert Upton on April 23, 2004. Child's father is her husband, Andrew Upton.
      Gave birth to her third child at age 38, a son Ignatius Martin Upton on April 13, 2008. Child's father is her husband, Andrew Upton.
      She was on set for only 8 days to shoot her scenes for The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey (2012) and the two follow-ups.
      New York, NY: It was announced that she, as well as Ralph Fiennes, will be honored by gala tributes (separately) in October by the Film Society of Lincoln Center during its annual film festival. [August 2013]
      Sydney Theatre Company announced that husband and wife Cate Blanchett and Andrew Upton would become artistic directors, beginning in 2008. [November 2006]
      (France) Promoting Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (2008) at the Cannes Film Festival. [May 2008]
      Washington, D.C: Performing in Anton Chekhov's "Uncle Vanya" at The Kennedy Center with her and husband Andrew Upton's group, the Sydney Theatre Company. [August 2011]
      Five directors cast her more than once in their films: Gillian Armstrong, Shekhar Kapur, Steven Soderbergh, Todd Haynes, and Peter Jackson.
      Her older brother Bob is smart but has a mild form of cerebral palsy. When they were growing up, Cate always stuck up for him when the other children made fun of him. Later, when she gave birth to her second child Roman, she gave him the middle name of Bob, named after Cate's brother and her deceased father Bob, Sr.
      In 2008, although she was nominated for an Oscar for Best Actress for her performance in Elizabeth: The Golden Age (2007), she publicly declared that she had voted for Marion Cotillard in La môme (2007), and described her performance as Édith Piaf as "astonishing and inspiring". When Cotillard was announced as the winner, Blanchett was visibly happy for her win. In 2012, Blanchett wrote an article for Variety praising Cotillard's performance in De rouille et d'os (2012).
      Claimed that people mispronounce her last name all the time. She said the correct way to pronounce it is BLAN-chit, not chet.
      The longest she has gone without an Oscar nomination is the 6 years between both Elizabeth (1998) and The Aviator (2004) and Elizabeth: The Golden Age (2007), I'm Not There. (2007) and Blue Jasmine (2013).
      Is only the sixth actress to win both leading and supporting actress Oscars. The other five are Maggie Smith, Meryl Streep, Jessica Lange, Helen Hayes and Ingrid Bergman.
      The only actor to be nominated and win Oscars for both of the iconoclast New York directors Martin Scorsese and Woody Allen.
      Was the 126th actress to receive an Academy Award; she won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for The Aviator (2004) at The 77th Annual Academy Awards (2005) on February 27, 2005.
      When asked what colour her hair is: "Look, it's one of the great mysteries of the world, I cannot answer that question. I think I'm vaguely blonde. To be perfectly frank, I don't know."
      [on the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy] I had never done anything with blue screen before, or prosthetics, or anything like that. Lord of the Rings was like stepping into a videogame for me. It was another world completely. But, to be honest, I basically did it so that I could have the ears. I thought they would really work with my bare head.
      If I had my way, if I was lucky enough, if I could be on the brink my entire life - that great sense of expectation and excitement without the disappointment - that would be the perfect state.
      It's part of my job. You can't play Veronica Guerin s on heavy Strine] sounding like this. It just wouldn't wash. But what I find fascinating about doing an accent - unless it's a farce - is that it's not slapped on. [on doing many accents]
      [on working with Ron Howard in The Missing (2003)] I loved making it, I had a ball - cowboys and Indians. This is the thing, I love doing things which I'd never envisaged before. And so getting me on the back of a horse, with Tommy Lee Jones and shooting guns and chasing Indians, it's just not something that I would have expected myself to be doing.
      The more you do it, the more you learn to concentrate, as a child does, incredibly intensively and then you sort of have to relax. I remember the first film I did, the lead actor would in between scenes be reading a newspaper or sleeping and I'd think, "How can you do that?"
      Thank you. I so didn't expected this. I wore a really tight dress that's very ungracious walking up those stairs. Thank you very much, I sort of don't know where to begin. Playing Katharine Hepburn, I absolutely did not expect to be standing here in front of you all. But Hepburn aside, I actually would like to say, as an actor coming from another country to this country, I am so astounded and amazed, and grateful, at the power of the SAG union and what it does for its members. And I hope that other countries, mine own included, you know, is inspired by that I think it's incredible. (SAG acceptance speech Feb. 5, 2005)
      [on her disgust of how so many of her Hollywood peers have succumbed to using face-paralyzing Botox] It's not just women on film, 18-year-old girls feel pressure to do preventative injecting. I see someone's face, someone's body who'd had children and I think they're the song lines of your experience, and why would you want to eradicate that? I look at people sort of entombing themselves and all you see is their little pin holes of terror... and you think, just live your life, death is not going to be any easier just because your face can't move.
      You know, when you see yourself on a big screen, I tend to watch from behind my hands. There is absolutely the regret. You always get that at the end of every project. That's what's great about theater: at least every night you get the chance to go out and re-offend. I'm endlessly disappointed, which is what propels me into the next project, probably, not to repair the damage but to kind of hopefully keep developing. Otherwise there's no reason to keep doing it, is there?
      There's this sense that of course you want to be famous. When you're a performer, of course you want an audience, but it's very, very different from courting fame.
      [on her first Oscar loss, in 1999] Sometimes I think it's so good not to win those things. And, anyway, who wants to peak when they're 28?
      Of course one worries about getting older--we're all fearful of death, let's not kid ourselves. I'm simply not panicking as my laugh lines grow deeper. Who wants a face with no history, no sense of humor?
      Don't you think like most things, like comedy, like sex, like anything, it's about timing? I think [my husband and I] collided with each other at what turned out to be the perfect time. We knew each other socially and we didn't get on and we played poker one night and I don't know how we ended up kissing but we did and he asked me to marry him about three weeks later and we got together in the same spirit. . . . Maybe I've got a lack of consequence, a healthy lack of consequence.
      [In 2012, on collaborating with husband Andrew Upton]: We've had some doozies and we've had some stinkers. No one sets out to have a stinker.
      [I have] this strange, probably unachievable fantasy about performing in German in Berlin. [But] I don't speak German.
      [on being directed by Woody Allen in Blue Jasmine (2013)] I found him forthcoming, generous and refreshingly honest. It can be brutal when people are honest, but I much prefer to know if it's not working, because you can do something with it - rather than people who go, 'Oh, we'll fix it up in post [-production].' There is no post in a Woody Allen movie. If it doesn't happen then, it doesn't happen at all.
      I love Brighton. We lived in Lewes Crescent and it was the genesis of the rabbit hole in Alice in Wonderland; so magical.
      No one is ever who they purport to be. And I suppose I'm most interested in the gap between who we project socially and who we really are.
      I don't know if I ever really wanted to be an actor. I'm an active person - the thought of waiting for the phone to ring wasn't something that sat happily with me. But I kept doing it, trying not to do it, and then doing it. There's such a blessed unrest that you feel all the time, but maybe that's what keeps you going.
      I can be a real pessimist. You know that when you win an Oscar and you walk offstage and your first thought is: "Oh God, I've peaked."
      I've done a lot of talking over the past six years. My husband and I have been running the Sydney Theatre Company and it's been magic - my kids have been able to see so many of those transient moments between acting and real life behind the scenes. But now that I've given it up I'm looking forward to being a bit quieter. I'm very conscious of that. There have been times when I've heard myself in the past and thought: "Aw, just shut up."
      You don't ever really get to know Woody Allen. He's not the sort of person where you can knock on his door and say: "I've got this really interesting idea." You just have to hope that he's written your name on a little scrap of paper somewhere and that one day he will call and say: "I've got a script I want you to read."
=======================================================
Catherine Élise "Cate" Blanchett (/ˈblɑːn.tʃət/; born 14 May 1969) is an Australian actress of screen and stage. She has received critical acclaim and many accolades throughout her career, including two Academy Awards, three Screen Actors Guild Awards, three Golden Globe Awards and three BAFTA Awards.
She came to international attention for her role as Elizabeth I of England in the 1998 film Elizabeth, for which she won the British Academy Award for Best Actress (BAFTA) and a Golden Globe award, and earned her first Academy Award nomination. Her portrayal of Katharine Hepburn in Martin Scorsese's 2004 film, The Aviator, brought her critical acclaim and various accolades, including an Academy Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role. In 2013, she starred in Woody Allen's Blue Jasmine, for which she won an Academy Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role. She is one of only six actresses to win Oscars for both Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress and the only Australian actor to win two Academy Awards.
Blanchett's other notable films include Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings trilogy (2001–2003) and The Hobbit trilogy (2012–2014), Elizabeth: The Golden Age, Veronica Guerin (2003), Babel (2006), Notes on a Scandal (2006), I'm Not There (2007), Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (2008), and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008).
Blanchett has also had an extensive career on stage, including starring as Susan in Plenty in the West End in 1999 and the title role in Hedda Gabler with the Sydney Theatre Company in 2004. From 2007-2012, she and her husband Andrew Upton were artistic directors of the Sydney Theatre Company, with her roles including Blanche DuBois in A Streetcar Named Desire in Sydney, Brooklyn Academy of Music in NY, and Washington D.C, at the Kennedy Center (2006), Yelena in Uncle Vanya in Sydney, Washington D.C, at the Kennedy Center, and New York, at the Lincoln Center (2010) and The Maids in Sydney (2013) and New York, at the Lincoln Center (scheduled for August 2014), alongside French actress Isabelle Huppert.
Blanchett was appointed Chevalier of the Order of Arts and Letters by the French government on 30 March 2012.[1]
Cate Blanchett was born on 14 May 1969 in the Melbourne suburb of Ivanhoe.[2] Her mother, June (née Gamble), was an Australian property developer and teacher, and her father, Robert DeWitt Blanchett, Jr., was a Texas native who was a United States Navy petty officer and later worked as an advertising executive.[3][4][5] The two met while Blanchett's father's ship, USS Arneb, was in Melbourne. When Blanchett was ten, her father died of a heart attack.[6] She is the middle of three children with an older brother, Bob, who is a computer systems engineer, and a younger sister, Genevieve, who worked as a theatrical designer.[7] Her ancestry includes English, and more distant French and Scottish forebears.[8]
Blanchett has described herself as being "part extrovert, part wallflower" during childhood.[7] She attended a primary school in Melbourne at Ivanhoe East Primary School. For her secondary education, she attended Ivanhoe Girls' Grammar School and then Methodist Ladies' College, where she explored her passion for acting.[9] She studied economics and fine arts at the University of Melbourne before leaving Australia to travel overseas.
Her first major stage role was opposite Geoffrey Rush in the 1992 David Mamet play Oleanna, for which she won the Sydney Theatre Critics' Best Newcomer Award.[10] She also appeared as Ophelia in an acclaimed 1994–95 Company B production of Hamlet, directed by Neil Armfield, starring Rush and Richard Roxburgh. Blanchett appeared in the TV miniseries Heartland opposite Ernie Dingo, the miniseries Bordertown with Hugo Weaving, and in an episode of Police Rescue entitled "The Loaded Boy". She also appeared in the 1994 telemovie Police Rescue as a teacher taken hostage by armed bandits, and in the 50-minute drama Parklands (1996), which received a limited release in Australian cinemas. Also in 1994, she played a role in an episode of the long-running Australian TV series GP, as Janie Morris, a woman living with her brother (Daniel Lapaine as Sean Morris) in a consensual incestuous relationship. Their relationship is torn apart when their mother comes to visit, and notices that only one bed appears to be slept in regularly.[11]
She made her international film debut with a supporting role as an Australian nurse captured by the Japanese Army during World War II, in Bruce Beresford's 1997 film Paradise Road, which co-starred Glenn Close and Frances McDormand.[6] Her first leading role, also in 1997, was as Lucinda Leplastrier in Gillian Armstrong's production of Oscar and Lucinda, opposite Ralph Fiennes.[6] Blanchett was nominated for her first Australian Film Institute Award as Best Leading Actress for this role, but lost out to Pamela Rabe in The Well. She did, however, win an AFI Award as Supporting Actress in the same year for her role as Lizzie in the romantic comedy Thank God He Met Lizzie, co-starring Richard Roxburgh and Frances O'Connor. Her first high-profile international role was as Elizabeth I of England in the 1998 movie Elizabeth, which earned her an Academy Award nomination for Best Actress. She became the first and only actress in the history of The Academy Awards, to be nominated in this category for the part.[6] Blanchett lost out to Gwyneth Paltrow for her role in Shakespeare in Love, but won a British Academy Award (BAFTA) and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture Drama. The following year, Blanchett was nominated for another BAFTA Award for her supporting role in The Talented Mr. Ripley.[6]
Already an acclaimed actress, Blanchett received a host of new fans when she appeared in Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings. She played the role of Galadriel in all three films.[6] The trilogy holds the record as the highest grossing film trilogy of all time.[12] In addition to The Lord of the Rings, 2001 also saw Blanchett diversify her portfolio with dramas Charlotte Gray and The Shipping News alongside the American comedy Bandits, for which she earned a second Golden Globe nomination.[13] In 2005, she won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for playing Katharine Hepburn in Martin Scorsese's The Aviator. This made Blanchett the first person to garner an Academy Award for playing a previous Oscar-winning actor/actress.[14] That same year, Blanchett won the Australian Film Institute Award for Best Actress for her role as Tracy Heart, a recovering heroin addict in the Australian film Little Fish. Though lesser known globally than some of her other films, Little Fish received tremendous critical acclaim in Blanchett's native Australia.
In 2006, she starred in Babel opposite Brad Pitt, The Good German with George Clooney and Notes on a Scandal opposite Dame Judi Dench. Blanchett received her third Academy Award nomination for her performance in the latter film.[15]
In 2007, Blanchett was named as one of Time magazine's 100 Most Influential People in the World and also one of the most successful actresses by Forbes magazine.[16] In 2007, she won the Volpi Cup Best Actress Award at the Venice Film Festival and the Best Supporting Actress Golden Globe Award for portraying one of six incarnations of Bob Dylan in Todd Haynes' feature film I'm Not There and reprised her role as Elizabeth I in the sequel Elizabeth: The Golden Age.[17] At the 80th Academy Awards Blanchett received two Academy Award nominations—Best Actress for Elizabeth: the Golden Age and Best Supporting Actress for I'm Not There--becoming the eleventh actor to receive two acting nominations in the same year, and the first female actor to receive another nomination for the reprisal of a role.[18]
She next starred in Steven Spielberg's Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, as the villainous KGB agent Col. Dr. Irina Spalko, and in David Fincher's The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, appearing on screen with Brad Pitt for a second time. On 5 December 2008, Blanchett was honoured with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6712 Hollywood Boulevard in front of Grauman's Egyptian Theatre.[19]
As of 2011, Blanchett has been featured in seven films that were nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture: Elizabeth (1998), The Lord of the Rings trilogy (2001, 2002 and 2003), The Aviator (2004), Babel (2006), and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008). Blanchett provided a voice for the film Ponyo,[20] and appeared opposite Russell Crowe in Ridley Scott's Robin Hood, released on 14 May 2010. She attended the premiere of her film Hanna directed by Joe Wright at the Sydney Film Festival.[21]
Blanchett reprised her role as Galadriel in Jackson's adaptations of The Hobbit, filmed in New Zealand.[22] Also in 2012, Blanchett voiced the role of "Penelope" in the Family Guy episode "Mr. and Mrs. Stewy". Blanchett is set to appear in a film directed by Terrence Malick, Knight of Cups. Both are scheduled to be filmed in 2012.[23]
Blanchett played the lead role in Blue Jasmine (2013), written and directed by Woody Allen, and costarring Alec Baldwin and Sally Hawkins. Blanchett received rave reviews for her performance, with some saying it was the best role of her career (surpassing her acclaimed starring role in Elizabeth).[24] The performance earned her more than 30 critics awards (including LAFC (tied), NYFCC, NSFC, Golden Globe and Critic's Choice Awards), the Santa Barbara International Film Festival Outstanding Performance of the Year award, an Australian Academy Award (AACTA), a BAFTA award, a SAG award, an Independent Film Spirit Award and an Academy Award for Best Actress. Blanchett's win makes her just the sixth actress to win an Oscar in both of the acting categories. She is the first Australian actor to win more than one acting Oscar.[25]
Blanchett co-starred in George Clooney's film, The Monuments Men. The film featured an ensemble cast, including Clooney, John Goodman, Bill Murray, Hugh Bonneville, and Jean Dujardin, and was about a crew of art historians and museum curators who recover renowned works of art stolen by Nazis. She will play Lady Tremaine, the Wicked Stepmother, in a live-action re-imagining of Cinderella.[26][27][28]
She is also confirmed to star opposite Rooney Mara in Carol, an adaptation of Patricia Highsmith's The Price of Salt, directed by Todd Haynes.[29] She will also star as Marisa Acocella Marchetto, a cartoonist for the New Yorker who is diagnosed with cancer, in the HBO movie Cancer Vixen, written and directed by Julie Delpy.[30]
Blanchett's husband is playwright and screenwriter Andrew Upton, whom she met in 1996 on the set of a TV show.[31] They were married on 29 December 1997[32] and have three sons: Dashiell John (born 3 December 2001),[33] Roman Robert (born 23 April 2004),[34] and Ignatius Martin (born 13 April 2008).[35]
After making Brighton, England, their main family home for much of the early 2000s, she and her husband returned to their native Australia.[36] In November 2006, Blanchett stated that this was due to a desire to decide on a permanent home for her children, and to be closer to her family as well as a sense of belonging to the Australian (theatrical) community.[37] She and her family live in Bulwarra, an 1877 sandstone mansion once owned by Halse Rogers Arnott, in the harbourside Sydney suburb of Hunters Hill.[38] It was purchased for A$10.2 million in 2004 and underwent extensive renovations in 2007 to be made more "eco-friendly".[39][40]
In 2006, a portrait of Cate Blanchett and family painted by McLean Edwards was a finalist for the Archibald Prize.[41] Blanchett is a Patron of the Sydney Film Festival.[42] She works as the face of SK-II, the luxury skin care brand owned by Procter & Gamble.[43] In 2007, Blanchett became the ambassador for the Australian Conservation Foundation's online campaign – trying to persuade Australians to express their concerns about climate change.[44] She is also the Patron of the development charity SolarAid.[45] Opening the 2008 9th World Congress of Metropolis in Sydney, Blanchett said: "The one thing that all great cities have in common is that they are all different."[46]
In early 2009, Blanchett appeared in a series of special edition postage stamps called "Australian Legends of the Screen", featuring Australian actors acknowledged for the "outstanding contribution they have made to Australian entertainment and culture".[47] She, Geoffrey Rush, Russell Crowe, and Nicole Kidman each appear twice in the series: once as themselves and once in character; Blanchett is depicted in character from Elizabeth: The Golden Age.[47] At the beginning of 2011, Blanchett lent her support for a carbon tax.[48] She received some criticism for this, especially from conservatives.[49] Blanchett and her husband are currently artistic directors of the Sydney Theatre Company.[50][51] She has announced that the 2013 season at the Sydney Theatre Company will be her final one as artistic director.[52] Blanchett has said: "Theatre: the making of it, the consumption of it, at its best has an aspect of the ambulance chase. It's walking the precipice of an imminent disaster, the crash, the missteps, the cock-up, the collapse. That energy and secret hope in the audience has to be harnessed ... Anything live, and truly 'alive' will contain seeds of danger." [53]
Blanchett has spoken passionately about feminism and politics, telling Sky News in 2013 that she was concerned that "a wave of conservatism sweeping the globe" was threatening women's rights.[54] She has also commented on the pressures women in Hollywood face now: "Honestly, I think about my appearance less than I did ten years ago. People talk about the golden age of Hollywood because of how women were lit then. You could be Joan Crawford and Bette Davis and work well into your 50s, because you were lit and made into a goddess. Now, with everything being sort of gritty, women have this sense of their use-by date." [55]
In January 2014, Blanchett took part in the Green Carpet Challenge,[56] an initiative to raise the public profile of sustainable fashion, founded by Livia Firth[57] of Eco-Age. Blanchett wore a pair of Fairmined earrings set with responsibly-sourced diamonds by the luxury Jeweller Chopard.[58]
This production was remounted at the Sydney Theatre Company the following year; won Sydney Theatre Critics Circle Newcomer Award
Opposite Geoffrey Rush; Company B Production, directed by Neil Armfield; nominated for Melbourne Green Room Best Lead Actress Award
With Hugo Weaving; Company B production, directed by Neil Armfield, with music composed by Paul Charlier; play by Stephen Sewell
Travelled to Brooklyn Academy of Music's Harvey Theatre for a 4 week run March 2006; there, she was awarded the Ibsen Centennial Commemoration Award. 2005 Helpmann Award for Best Female Actor in a Play.
part of the Sydney Festival 2009 ; 2009 Sydney Theatre Awards Best Leading Actress in a Mainstage Production [NOMINATION – lost to herself for Streetcar Named Desire]; 2009 Helpmann Awards Best Female Actor in a Play [NOMINATION]
With Joel Edgerton; directed by Liv Ullmann; Travelled to John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, DC, USA, 29 October – 21 November 2009; then Travelled to Brooklyn Academy of Music's Harvey Theatre, Brooklyn, NY, 27 November – 20 December 2009; 2009 Helen Hayes Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Non-Resident Production, Washington, DC; 2009 Sydney Theatre Awards Best Leading Actress in a Mainstage ProductioN
Adaptation by A. Upton; with Richard Roxburgh (Vanya), John Bell (Professor Serebryakov), Hugo Weaving (Astrov); Travelled to John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, DC, USA, 4–27 August 2011; Travelled to Lincoln Center Festival in NY, USA, 19–28 July 2012; 2011 Helen Hayes Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Non-Resident Production, Washington, DC; 2010 Sydney Theatre Awards Best Supporting Actress in a Mainstage Production [NOMINATION]; 2011 Helpmann Awards Best Female Actor in a Play.
Directed by Benedict Andrews; new translation by Martin Crimp of Botho Strauß's 1978 play Groß und klein; co-commissioned by the Barbican Centre, London 2012 Festival, Théâtre de la Ville, Paris, Vienna Festival and Ruhrfestspiele Recklinghausen ; 2011 London Evening Standard Theatre Award Best Actress [NOMINATION]; 2011 Sydney Theatre Awards Best Leading Actress in a Mainstage Production. 2012 Helpmann Awards Best Female Actor in a Play.
With Isabelle Huppert as Solange, Elizabeth Debicki as Madame; directed by Benedict Andrews; 2013 Sydney Theatre Awards Best Leading Actress in a Mainstage Production [NOMINATION].
With Isabelle Huppert as Solange, Elizabeth Debicki as Madame; directed by Benedict Andrews; Scheduled for 6–16 August 2014.
List of actors who won the Academy, BAFTA, Golden Globe, SAG, and Critic's Choice Award for a single performance
Blanchett, Catherine (Cate) Elise in The Encyclopedia of Women and Leadership in Twentieth-Century Australia
Gosford Park (2001): Eileen Atkins, Bob Balaban, Alan Bates, Charles Dance, Stephen Fry, Michael Gambon, Richard E. Grant, Tom Hollander, Derek Jacobi, Kelly Macdonald, Helen Mirren, Jeremy Northam, Clive Owen, Ryan Phillippe, Maggie Smith, Geraldine Somerville, Kristin Scott Thomas, Sophie Thompson, Emily Watson, James Wilby
Chicago (2002): Christine Baranski, Ekaterina Chtchelkanova, Taye Diggs, Denise Faye, Colm Feore, Richard Gere, Deidre Goodwin, Queen Latifah, Lucy Liu, Susan Misner, Mýa, John C. Reilly, Dominic West, Renée Zellweger, Catherine Zeta-Jones
The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003): Sean Astin, Sean Bean, Cate Blanchett, Orlando Bloom, Billy Boyd, Bernard Hill, Ian Holm, Ian McKellen, Dominic Monaghan, Viggo Mortensen, John Noble, Miranda Otto, John Rhys-Davies, Andy Serkis, Liv Tyler, Karl Urban, Hugo Weaving, David Wenham, Elijah Wood
Crash (2005): Christopher "Ludacris" Bridges, Sandra Bullock, Don Cheadle, Matt Dillon, Jennifer Esposito, William Fichtner, Brendan Fraser, Terrence Howard, Thandie Newton, Ryan Phillippe, Larenz Tate
Little Miss Sunshine (2006): Alan Arkin, Abigail Breslin, Steve Carell, Toni Collette, Paul Dano, Greg Kinnear
No Country for Old Men (2007): Javier Bardem, Josh Brolin, Garret Dillahunt, Tess Harper, Woody Harrelson, Tommy Lee Jones, Kelly Macdonald
Slumdog Millionaire (2008): Rubina Ali, Tanay Chheda, Ashutosh Lobo Gajiwala, Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail, Anil Kapoor, Irrfan Khan, Ayush Mahesh Khedekar, Tanvi Ganesh Lonkar, Madhur Mittal, Dev Patel, Freida Pinto
Inglourious Basterds (2009): Daniel Brühl, August Diehl, Julie Dreyfus, Michael Fassbender, Sylvester Groth, Jacky Ido, Diane Kruger, Mélanie Laurent, Denis Menochet, Mike Myers, Brad Pitt, Eli Roth, Til Schweiger, Rod Taylor, Christoph Waltz, Martin Wuttke
The King's Speech (2010): Anthony Andrews, Helena Bonham Carter, Jennifer Ehle, Colin Firth, Michael Gambon, Derek Jacobi, Guy Pearce, Geoffrey Rush, Timothy Spall
Categories: 20th-century Australian actresses21st-century Australian actressesAustralian actresses1969 birthsActresses from MelbourneAustralian film actressesAustralian people of American descentAustralian people of English descentAustralian people of French descentAustralian people of Scottish descentAustralian stage actressesAustralian television actressesBest Supporting Actress BAFTA Award winnersBest Actress BAFTA Award winnersBest Actress Empire Award winnersBest Drama Actress Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Supporting Actress Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Supporting Actress Academy Award winnersHelpmann Award winnersIndependent Spirit Award winnersLiving peopleOutstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture Screen Actors Guild Award winnersNational Institute of Dramatic Art alumniVolpi Cup winnersOutstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role Screen Actors Guild Award winnersPeople educated at Methodist Ladies' College, MelbourneAustralian environmentalistsAustralian republicansAustralian theatre directorsOutstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role Screen Actors Guild Award winnersAustralian feministsIndependent Spirit Award for Best Female Lead winnersBest Actress Academy Award winnersHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from November 2010CS1 errors: datesArticles with dead external links from October 2010Use Australian English from May 2013All Wikipedia articles written in Australian EnglishUse dmy dates from November 2013Articles with hCardsWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
One of Australia's greatest exports, she's made her name taking on versatile roles in some of the decade's biggest films, including the Lord Of The Rings trilogy. Who will she become next?
Catherine Elise Blanchett was born to Robert Blanchett, an American naval officer, and June, an Australian schoolteacher.
One of three children (she has an older brother, Bob, and a younger sister Genevive), Cate was raised by her mother following her father's death from a heart attack when she was 10. She has described her childhood as normal, while seeing herself as "part extrovert, part wallflower".
It was this extroverted side that gave her an early passion for music and drama. Attending Melbourne's Methodist Ladies College, she became the school drama captain, appearing in many shows such as The Odyssey Of Runyon Jones, and even directing her fellow students in a production of They Shoot Horses, Don't They?. From here, she moved on to Melbourne University to study Fine Arts and Economics, but soon left to travel around the world before deciding upon a career.
After returning to her homeland, she enrolled in Australia's National Institute of Dramatic Art. She graduated in 1992 and planned to pursue a career in theatre. She won almost instant acclaim, playing Felice Bauer in Timothy Daly's Kafka Dances and winning the 1993 Newcomer Award from the Sydney Theatre Critics' Circle for her performance.
From there, she went on to star alongside Geoffrey Rush in the 1993 David Mamet play Oleanna. Two years later, she was nominated for Best Female Performance for her turn as Ophelia in the Belvoir Street Theatre Company's production of Hamlet.
Cate’s early career wasn’t restricted to the stage. After a couple of television appearances she took on Heartland, a controversial drama in which she played divorcee Beth Ashton, who conducts an affair with an Aborigine Liaison Officer. She received widespread acclaim for a performance which brought bigotry into the spotlight in Australia. Heartland was described as ABC's "most significant production to date".
Next came a role in the short-lived series Bordertown, set in a 1950s migrant camp populated by European immigrants. However, she made her film debut as a nurse captured by the Japanese during World War II in the drama Paradise Road, before going on to star opposite Ralph Fiennes in the sublimely surreal Oskar & Lucinda.
In 1997, while playing Nina in Chekov's The Seagull, she met screenwriter and continuity editor Andrew Upton. The pair soon married and subsequently had two sons Dashiell John, named after the crime writer Hammett, and Roman Robert.
Her first high-profile role came a year later when she played Elizabeth I of England in the 1998 feature Elizabeth. The part earned her a Golden Globe Award and British Academy Award (Bafta) for best actress, although she lost out on an Oscar to Gwyneth Paltrow.
The following year, Blanchett was nominated for another Bafta award for her supporting role in The Talented Mr Ripley. Work quickly followed in the form of the well-received Pushing Tin and horror tale The Gift.
In 2001, she starred in Bandits with Bruce Willis, before embarking on her biggest yet least challenging part, when she appeared as the elf queen Galadriel in Peter Jackson's Lord Of The Rings trilogy (2001-2003).
Tougher was the role of Charlotte Gray, an adaptation of Sebastian Faulks’ bestseller, where she played a young Scot who joins the French resistance to save her RAF boyfriend who's been shot down over France. Unfortunately the movie – which was the most expensive British film ever made – was a failure at the box office.
Undaunted, Blanchett moved on to star alongside Kevin Spacey in The Shipping News, based on the novel by E. Annie Proulx. The story centers on Quoyle, a New York journalist. Shortly after the suicide of his parents, Quoyle's unfaithful and abusive wife Petal sells their daughters to a child pornographer and attempts to leave the city and her husband.
The diversity of her work continued in 2003, when she took the title role in the true story of Irish journalist Veronica Guerin and her campaign against Dublin's major drug dealers. The film, directed by Joel Schumacher, opened with Guerin's assassination in 1996 and then retraced her path to this point.
Parts in a number of successful movies followed, including Wes Anderson’s Life Aquatic, the satirical tale of a Jacques Cousteau-style documentary maker; and Martin Scorsese’s biopic of Howard Hughes, The Aviator. Cate would face the challenge of delivering a believable Katherine Hepburn.
2006 proved to be a fairytale year for the Australian actress, as all three of her films were Oscar-nominated. First came Babel, Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu's searing analysis of humans under pressure. Blanchett appeared alongside Brad Pitt as tourists in Morocco trying to get over the loss of a baby. This was followed by her role as a prostitute in Steven Soderbergh’s The Good German, which was set in Berlin during World War II. Her final movie of the year was Notes On A Scandal. Here she played a pottery teacher married to older man Bill Nighy, who slips into an affair with a 15-year-old pupil.
2007 saw the multi-talented actress reprise her role as Elizabeth I in the sequel titled Elizabeth: the Golden Age. The film tells the story of one woman's crusade to control love, crush enemies and secure her position as a beloved icon of the western world.
The actress received two Academy Award nominations in 2007 – Best Actress for Elizabeth: the Golden Age and Best Supporting Actress for the film I'm Not There. Blanchett became only the 11th actor ever to receive two Oscar nominations in the same year.
In 2008, the Australian star appeared alongside Brad Pitt in The Curious Case of Benjamin Button. She was later that year presented with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
The following year, she was honoured in her home country when her face appeared on a postage stamp as part of a collection featuring actors who have made an "outstanding contribution they have made to Australian entertainment and culture".
Blanchett starred opposite Russell Crowe in a remake of the film Robin Hood in 2010. She took on the role of Lady Marian in the film, which was produced and directed by Ridley Scott.
It was announced in 2011 that the star was to reprise her role as Galadriel in the new movie trilogy based on the book The Hobbit.
Right, so: now that we’ve convinced you Lifetime is a thing you need to have in your life – what now? How do you get this on your telly? Here’s what you have to do.
=======================================================
late 1970sJanuary 01An Early LossAt 10, Blanchett loses her father, Robert, who dies of a heart attack. Her mother June raises her and her two siblings in Melbourne, Australia. "I do feel that loss," Blanchett tells the Sydney Morning Herald in 1994. "I have always believed there isn't enough time."1992Cate the GreatBlanchett studies at the National Institute of Dramatic Art and Sydney Theatre Company (pictured with costar Aden Young). She appears in many stage productions, including Oleanna with Geoffrey Rush. "There was a buzz about Cate even when she was in drama school," Rush tells the Los Angeles Times in 1998. "There was always just something special about Cate, an excitement, an aura." 1997Beyond TheatreBlanchett jumps to film as a sympathetic nurse in Paradise Road with Frances McDormand (right). She also lands her first major role opposite Ralph Fiennes in Gillian Armstrong's Oscar and Lucinda. The film's trailer, which features Blanchett as a 19th century gambling heiress, grabs the attention of director Shekhar Kapur, who fights to cast the unknown actress in his Queen Elizabeth I biopic.JuneWedding Plus BabiesBlanchett marries screenwriter Andrew Upton, whom she met through friends. In December 2001, they welcome their first child, Dashiell (left). "It's sort of nice, because having a child is the most unpredictable thing you can do – apart from getting married, that is," she tells the Los Angeles Times. "It's a sort of hopeful insanity." They welcome Roman in 2004 and Ignatius in 2008. 1998November 06A Crowning AchievementBlanchett plays the title role in Kapur's biopic Elizabeth, with Geoffrey Rush and Joseph Fiennes. Variety says of Blanchett's performance as Elizabeth I, "Alternately gaunt and angular and ethereally beautiful, Blanchett conveys [Elizabeth] with grace, poise and intelligence...The Australian actress builds the juicy character almost imperceptibly…" Blanchett earns a Golden Globe for Best Actress and a Best Actress Oscar nomination. In 2007, she reprises her role for The Golden Age, with Clive Owen and Rush. 1999Steadily SupportingBlanchett follows up Elizabeth with a string of eclectic supporting roles: she perfects a Long Island accent for Pushing Tin and plays Matt Damon's love interest in The Talented Mr. Ripley (left). But the star treatment on set is new to the in-demand actress. "Now when a contract is negotiated, they say, 'What do you want in your trailer?'" she tells New York's Daily News, and "all I can think of is water and Diet Coke." March 21Fashionably BeautifulAlthough Blanchett doesn't win the Best Actress Oscar at the 71st Annual Academy Awards, she does win the style award for wearing a John Galliano dress with hummingbird and flower embroidery. The knit dress (right), which is knocked-off and goes on sale shortly thereafter, begins her reign as a fashion risk-taker. That same year, she is named one of PEOPLE's 50 Most Beautiful. "There are times when I've looked at Cate and I go, 'My God, you're beautiful!' It just suddenly hits you," costar Geoffrey Rush tells PEOPLE. 2001December 29Queen of the RingsBlanchett dons prosthetic ears to play Galadriel, the elf queen, in Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring with Orlando Bloom and Liv Tyler. "I did [the role] for my husband; he's obsessed by my ears," she tells the AP. The film grosses more than $313 million in the U.S. Blanchett reprises her role for 2002's The Two Towers and 2003's The Return of the King.2001-2003Playing the HeroineBlanchett takes on some mighty hefty real-life heroes from Gillian Armstrong's Charlotte Gray to a slain Irish journalist in Joel Schumacher's Veronica Guerin (right). "I'm very pleased being Veronica," she tells WWD. "She had integrity, bravery in her writing – but she was also voted the best legs in Ireland!"2004December 25First Oscar WinIn Martin Scorsese's The Aviator, Blanchett portrays Hollywood icon Katharine Hepburn opposite Leonardo DiCaprio's Howard Hughes. When she wins the Best Supporting Actress Oscar, Blanchett becomes the first performer to win an Oscar for playing an Oscar winner. "Thank you, of course, to Miss Hepburn. The longevity of her career I think is inspiring to everyone," Blanchett says during her Oscar acceptance speech. Then, she adds thanks to Scorsese, saying, "I hope my son will marry your daughter." 
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): Heidrun Lohr/AP; Sarah Dunn/Wireimage; Everett Collection; Kobal Collection/Wireimage; Kevin Mazur/WireImage; Everett Collection; Kobal Collection/Wireimage; George Pimentel/WireImage 
									Dashiell John Upton, son (12/6/2001) Roman Robert Upton, son (4/23/2004) Ignatius Martin Upton, son (4/13/08) 
   Sep 18, 2013 BLUE PERIOD  Cate Blanchett brightens up her all-black ensemble with some sparkle at Tuesday's London premiere of… See Photo   Sep 17, 2013 THE HAUTE SEAT  Cate Blanchett and Colin Firth snag a prime spot at London Fashion Week's Tom Ford show on Monday.
=======================================================
Catherine Élise “Cate” Blanchett was born on May 14, 1969 at the Jessie McPherson Hospital in Melbourne, Australia. Her father, Robert “Bob” Blanchett, was a Texan and ex-US Navy man who’d met Cate’s mother, a teacher named June, while Bob’s ship, USS Arneb, was in Melbourne. The couple fell in love and Bob moved into advertising in Melbourne. His American accent made him an exotic figure to his elder daughter as she grew up in Melbourne. Cate has two siblings: an her older brother, Bob, is a computer systems engineer, and her younger sister, Genevieve, worked as a theatrical designer and received her Bachelor of Design in Architecture in April 2008. According to Cate, there is some French ancestry in their heritage, one antecedent being Louis Bleriot, the first aviator to fly across the English Channel. 
A tragedy struck Cate’s life at a young age when her father Bob Blanchett died in a cinema from a heart attack at the age of 40. Cate was mere 10-years old at the time. “The night of the day he died, I thought, Wow — I’m up so late, and I haven’t eaten all day,” she recalls. “It’s hard to compute something so massive. I just sort of rolled with it. You sort of see it from other people’s perspective. I could see that my sister was so young, and I felt it was tragic that she might not remember him. I could see how it affected my brother, who was 11 or 12. I saw what a struggle it was for my mother. I think about my father and how sad it was that he never had grandchildren.” But she utters not a word about her own grief. “Maybe this is just me trying to live with the loss.” At the hospital, Cate was left in a room with one of her dad’s co-workers who told the kids: “This is going to be a very, very hard time for your mother. You have to be very, very good.” Cate believes that this “framed my whole relationship with the family.” It also made her a perfectionist. When Bob died suddenly, the mystique Cate felt towards her father increased. She did not see his body. Cate once said she imagined for a while he had been abducted by the CIA – although she now insists she was joking to the interviewer. But she must have had unfinished business with her father? “I guess so. I mean, it’s hard to say. When you’re 10 years old you don’t really – I mean, children assimilate those changes perhaps more than if it had happened to me when I was 21.” That loss left Cate with an enduring sense that “the presence of death can coexist in life. I just don’t take things for granted. I know that time is very short.”
Cate and her siblings were raised by June following Bob’s death. Cate has described her childhood as normal, while seeing herself as “part extrovert, part wallflower.” The extrovert part was fuelled early when, at a friend’s birthday party at age 6, she was hugely impressed by a magician and began to dream of life as a performer. Her parents encouraged her, particularly in the field of music. She has a great love for classical music, even now appearing regularly on ABC Classic FM radio in Sydney, both playing and discussing. Blanchett attended a primary school in Melbourne at Ivanhoe East Primary School. For her secondary education, she attended Ivanhoe Girls’ Grammar School and then Methodist Ladies’ College, from which she graduated, where she explored her passion for acting. She became the school drama captain, appearing in many shows, including The Odyssey of Runyon Jones, and directing her fellow students in a production of They Shoot Horses, Don’t They? She also studied Economics and Fine Arts at the University of Melbourne. Blanchett discovered the pleasures of playacting long before her father died, but she never intended to make it her career. “Acting was fun, but I don’t think it crossed my mind that I could do it,” she says. “I thought the most important thing was security, because of my mother; it was insecure bringing up three children by herself. I thought, I want to do something more practical, so I decided to study economics and fine arts.” After studying at the University of Melbourne she left Australia to travel overseas and gain life experience.
Visiting England at the age of 18, Cate was forced to leave when her visa expired, and she moved on to Egypt. A fellow guest at a hotel in Cairo asked if she wanted to be an extra in a movie, and the next day she found herself in a crowd scene cheering for an American boxer losing to an Egyptian in the film Kaboria, starring the Egyptian actor Ahmad Zaki. She dreaded the experience and walked off from the movie. However, Cate found she couldn’t get away from acting, and she ended up studying in Sydney at the National Institute of Dramatic Art. “It was inescapable,” she says. “I loved the looseness and freedom. Some ideas, like what you’re going to do with your life, take time to form. When something is a vocation, you don’t really make a decision about it.” During Cate’s final year at the National Institute of Dramatic Art in 1992, she starred in a production of Sophocles’ Electra and made one very important fan. Her drama teacher and director, Lindy Davies, was then sharing a house with another actor, Geoffrey Rush, and urged him to come see this “astonishing young woman”. He did – and he never forgot Cate’s performance.
After graduating from NIDA, Cate joined the Sydney Theatre Company in 1993 for a production of Caryl Churchill’s Top Girls, then moved on to play the bride Felice Bauer in Timothy Daly’s Kafka Dances. Her spectacular work was noted immediately as she won the Best Newcomer of 1993 Award from the Sydney Theatre Critics Circle. Her first major stage role was opposite Geoffrey Rush in the 1993 David Mamet play Oleanna. She played Carol in the controversial and demanding play, in which a university professor is accused of sexual harassment by a student. Initially believing the play to be “a misogynist piece of crap”, she did it because it made her so angry – moving people was, after all, what she wanted to do. It worked. Cate was named Best Actress, becoming the first to ever win Best Newcomer and Best Actress in the same year. Between 1994 and 1995 she also appeared as Ophelia in an acclaimed Company B production of Hamlet, directed by Neil Armfield, starring Rush and Richard Roxburgh. It was clear that Cate was making waves and taking names as a serious stage actress in her home country.
Cate also co-starred an episode of Police Rescue entitled “The Loaded Boy”, in 1993. She also appeared in the 1994 television movie of Police Rescue as a teacher taken hostage by armed bandits, and in the 50-minute drama Parklands (1996), which received a limited release in Australian cinemas. Cate next starred in the eight-episode TV miniseries Heartland (1994) opposite Ernie Dingo, which won the AFI Award for Best Direction in a Television Drama. In the show, the mysterious death of an Aborigine girl in a small coastal town brought bigotry into the spotlight. As divorcee Beth Ashton, conducting an affair with an Aborigine Liaison Officer, Cate stirred up controversy. Heartland was described as ABC’s “most significant production to date”. She next appeared in ten episodes of Bordertown (1995), with Hugo Weaving, a miniseries set in a 1950′s migrant camp peopled by European immigrants. In 1994 Cate also appeared in an episode of G.P., titled “Natural Selection”.
1997 was a big year for Blanchett, who made her international film debut with a supporting role as an Australian nurse captured by the Japanese Army during World War II in Bruce Beresford’s Paradise Road, which co-starred such big names as Glenn Close and Frances McDormand. Cate’s first leading role in a movie, also in 1997, was the role of Lucinda Leplastrier in Gillian Armstrong’s Oscar and Lucinda, opposite Ralph Fiennes. Interestingly, Peter Carey, the Booker Prize-winning Australian author of Oscar and Lucinda, had known Blanchett’s father, Bob, when both worked in the advertising industry in Melbourne. Blanchett was nominated for her first Australian Film Institute Award as Best Leading Actress for the role. The film was also nominated for an Academy Award for Best Costume Design. Cate herself did, however, win an AFI Award as Supporting Actress in 1997 for her role as Lizzie in the Australian romantic comedy Thank God He Met Lizzie, co-starring Richard Roxburgh and Frances O’Connor. The director, Cherie Nowlan, had had her eye on Cate for some time, having spotted her in Kafka Dances a couple of years before. “I couldn’t stop looking at her,” Nowlan later recalled. “She’d covered her face in white pancake makeup, but I could see that underneath she was very beautiful. It was a performance from a pretty original, unusual actor. And, like everyone else, I thought ‘This girl will go off – it’s just a matter of time’.”
Cate met her future husband Andrew Upton in the mid-90s as members of Sydney’s small theater community but got to know each other on a film set in 1996 while working on Thank God He Met Lizzie – but it was hardly love at first sight. “It was kind of animosity at first,” Blanchett says. “It was a bit like Beatrice and Benedict.” And yet when they finally got involved, Upton asked her to marry him within a few weeks. Why did she say yes? “I couldn’t not,” she says. “We were in exactly the same place at exactly the same time. He turned to me after a few days and said, ‘Cate…,’ and I thought, Oh, god, he’s going to ask me to marry him — and I’m going to have to say yes! He didn’t, in fact; he asked me what I wanted for dinner or something like that. But I’d never had that thought before. I thought, This is extraordinary! I’ve never felt this before. What an adventure! It was a leap, but I wasn’t leaping by myself. It was a leap into the future.”  Now they make decisions jointly, never spend more than a few days apart, and share not just a desk but an e-mail address. “We do live in each other’s pockets a bit,” Blanchett admits, “but that feels natural. It doesn’t feel cramped in there at all.” As for Upton, he says simply: “We sort of clicked. With other people, maybe they don’t get you. But with someone who does, you go, ‘Ooh — I’m got! Someone’s got me!’ It’s a relief and a pleasure.” Cate and Andrew married on December 29, 1997, in the Blue Mountains National Park of New South Wales.
Blanchett’s first high-profile international role came as Elizabeth I of England in Shekhar Kapur’s Elizabeth (1998), a film that depicts the early years of the reign of Elizabeth and her difficult task of learning what is necessary to be a monarch. The lead role was reportedly turned down by a number of high profile actresses, including Nicole Kidman, Kristin Scott Thomas, Emily Watson, Juliette Binoche and Helena Bonham Carter. Blanchett was chosen to play Elizabeth after Kapur saw the trailer for Oscar and Lucinda. She shaved her forehead for just the right look for the role and went through intense research on the monarch. “I researched her letters because I felt that a lot of Elizabeth’s biographies were colored by the historian’s political perspective and how they felt about women. For me, the initial historical source is better to read because there is no barrier between the reader and the historical fact. The more I read about her, however, the more I realized just how large an impact she had on Britain. It’s incredibly humbling as an actor to think of how you could you ever replicate that impact on screen,” she said. Elizabeth premiered in September 1998 at the Venice Film Festival and was also shown at the Toronto International Film Festival. The film was a great success and Cate’s compelling and powerful performance earned her an Academy Award nomination for Best Actress. Unfortunately Blanchett lost out to Gwyneth Paltrow for her role in Shakespeare in Love, but won a British Academy Award (BAFTA) and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture Drama.
In 1999, Cate returned to the stage to perform in a charity performance of The Vagina Monologues at the Old Vic in London, alongside Kate Winslet, Julianne Moore, Melanie Griffith and Gillian Anderson. Next Blanchett refused to take big starring roles and instead joined a series of excellent ensembles, prompting her friend and co-star Geoffrey Rush to say: “It suggests that she’s laying down a long-term plan to be an actress, not a star.” She starred in Bangers (1999), a 9-minute short film directed by husband Andrew Upton. Next came Oscar Wilde’s An Ideal Husband (1999), where she played Lady Gertrude Chiltern, the wife of Jeremy Northam. Then there was Pushing Tin (1999), in which Cate played a role radically different again. She played the wife of hot-headed air traffic controller John Cusack and she got herself up in tight pants, gold bracelets and big hair – more Dolly Parton than Elizabeth I – even sporting a special bra for that cleavage emphasizing look. Also in the same year Cate co-starred as Meredith Logue in The Talented Mr Ripley. Director Anthony Minghella really wanted her for the part of a girl who falls for Matt Damon’s sinister lead, but thought she’d refuse a part so small. Liking the script, Cate took it anyway and, once she had, Minghella extended the role to make better use of her. Blanchett was nominated for another BAFTA Award for her supporting role in the movie.
In 2000 Cate co-starred in Sally Potter’s The Man Who Cried opposite Christina Ricci, Johnny Depp and John Turturro, playing a Russian cabaret dancer. She starred in Sam Raimi’s horror film The Gift as Annabelle ‘Annie’ Wilson, as a woman with extrasensory perception. She is asked to help find a young woman who has disappeared. Then she starred alongside her Pushing Tin co-star Billy Bob Thornton once again, as Kate Wheeler, a girl kidnapped by two bank robbers played by Billy Bob and Bruce Willis – and winning both their hearts – in the comedy thriller Bandits (2001). Already an acclaimed actress and a household name, Blanchett received a legion of new fans when she appeared in Peter Jackson’s The Lord of the Rings. “I wanted to work with Peter Jackson. The role was oddly secondary and the consequence of playing it was beside the point,” Cate said later on. She played the role of Galadriel, an Elf Queen of power and wisdom who assists the Fellowship, in all three films; The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001), The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (2002) and The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003). The hugely successful trilogy holds the record as the highest grossing film trilogy of all time and went on to win multiple Academy Awards. Cate next took on the title role of Charlotte Gray (2001), an adaptation of Sebastian Faulks bestseller. Cate plays a young Scot who joins the French resistance to save her RAF boyfriend who’s been shot down over France. According to reports, Blanchett and Andrew Upton conceived their first son, Dashiell John, during the filming of the movie. However, at $27 million, Charlotte Gray was the most expensive British film ever made. But, making just $3 million in the UK and only $700,000 in the States, it was a painful financial failure. Cate, however, had delivered another powerful performance and remained untainted by the financial disaster. She moved on to The Shipping News (2001), based on E. Annie Proulx’s bestseller, in which she starred opposite Kevin Spacey. The year 2001 ended on a high note for Cate Blanchett and Andrew Upton as the couple welcomed Dashiell John Upton on December 3, 2001 in London.
Following the birth of Dashiell, Cate took some time off from work. Her next film project was Heaven (2002), directed by Tom Tykwer from a Kieslowski script. Heaven sees Blanchett as an English teacher in Turin who takes the law into her own hands after police ignore her pleas to arrest the man responsible for her husband’s death. She finds herself not only under arrest for murder but falling in love with an officer. In 2003 Cate played the title role in Joel Schumacher’s Veronica Guerin, an Irish journalist who embarks on a campaign against Dublin’s major drug dealers. The actress found Guerin “so enigmatic and incredibly passionate,” she explains. In addition, Blanchett recalls being “fascinated by the whole socio-political environment she was working in. Most of the films I had seen about Ireland were about the clergy and the IRA. To learn about the rampant drug problem in the 80′s and 90′s, because the government was so concerned about the IRA and the subversives, paramilitaries, the drug barons were left to rampage about unchecked. I was fascinated by the circumstances.” Next Cate starred in the segment “Cousins” in Coffee and Cigarettes (2003), which largely involved characters discussing the likes of movies, art and Paris. Cate would appear in a double role, as a svelte actress and her own gawky, trailer-trash cousin. She next took on the role of Magdalena Gilkeson in The Missing, Ron Howard’s take on a classic Western. Here Cate played frontier rancher and devout Christian, who’s bringing up two daughters on the high plains of New Mexico in the late 1800s. “I saw it the other day and it’s one of the scariest films I’ve seen. It’s pretty unusual for a Ron Howard film,” Cate noted about the film. In late 2003 the actress also kept busy promoting the final part of the Lord of the Rings trilogy, The Return of the King.
The following year Blanchett moved on to The Life Aquatic (2004), directed by Wes Anderson. This was the tale of a Jacques Cousteau-style documentary maker (Bill Murray) who enjoys a series of wild adventures with his formerly estranged son (Owen Wilson), tracking down a rare shark who killed his crew-mate. Cate played Jane Winslett-Richardson, a pregnant journalist onboard to research and write a profile on Murray’s character, and would become the object of both men’s affections. For her pregnancy scenes she was fitted with a prosthetic belly. However, Cate actually became pregnant with Roman Robert during the filming of the movie. The Blanchett-Upton family welcomed Roman on April 23, 2004, who, like his older brother, was born in London. Before giving birth, however, Cate took on a major co-starring role in Martin Scorsese’s The Aviator (2004), portraying another real person, this time classic screen actress Katharine Hepburn, opposite Leonardo DiCaprio’s Howard Hughes. Cate stepped in for Nicole Kidman who was contracted to a remake of The Stepford Wives and faced the challenge of delivering a believable Hepburn (one of Hughes’ lovers), with Kate Beckinsale taking on Ava Gardner and singer Gwen Stefani trying Jean Harlow. Cate did a huge amount of research on Hepburn having accepted the role. “Firstly I scoured all her films. Scorsese has an encyclopaedic knowledge of cinema and part of the joy was rediscovering Hepburn and Cary Grant on the big screen at his place, analyzing performances which I’d only ever seen on the small screen.” Her research extended to more than just watching classic films: “I read everything written about her. Lauren Bacall was generous with her memories and it was beguiling to be hearing about a friendship between two goddesses.” Yet while there was serious pressure on Blanchett to do justice to one of the silver screen’s best loved stars. “She is beyond legendary as far as I was concerned, but sometimes fear is galvanizing. I knew I had a lot of work to do. To move beyond mimicry and cabaret impersonations and tap into a spirit and create a character – and a full-blooded one – that was the challenge.” Cate found herself – more than deservedly – Oscar-nominated for the second time. This time she won as Best Supporting Actress for her uncanny performance as Katherine Hepburn. This made Blanchett the first person to garner an Academy Award for playing a previous Oscar-winning actor/actress. Off-screen, Cate concentrated on her family, moving from Islington down to the Kemp Town area of Brighton in England. She also modeled clothes for Donna Karan, and became the face of the SK-II skincare range.
Following this, Blanchett returned to her home country of Australia to film Little Fish (2005), playing a recovering junkie in Sydney’s Little Saigon area. Cate received further critical praise for her gritty and highly realistic performance. Along with Little Fish, 2005 saw the release of Stories of Lost Souls. The segment, directed by Andrew Upton and filmed back in 1999, is called Bangers and sees Cate in the role of Julie-Anne.
2006 was an extraordinary year, even considering Blanchett’s high standards, with all of her three films being Oscar-nominated. First came Alejandro González Iñárritu’s Babel (2006), which saw Cate co-star opposite Brad Pitt. It depicts a tragedy that strikes a married couple on vacation in the Moroccan desert, touching off an interlocking story involving four different families. The film was nominated for multiple Oscars and won for Best Achievement in Music Written for Motion Pictures, Original Score. Up next was The Good German, Steven Soderbergh’s black and white attempt to make a movie in the style of the 1940s. The film is set in post-war Berlin to cover the Potsdam Conference, where an American military journalist is drawn into a murder investigation which involves his former mistress and his driver. Cate played Lena Brandt opposite George Clooney and Tobey Maguire. The film was also nominated for an Oscar for Best Achievement in Music Written for Motion Pictures, Original Score. Finally, Cate played Sheba Hart in Notes on a Scandal (2006). Both Cate as well as Judi Dench, the leading lady of the film, were nominated for Oscars for their powerhouse performances in the drama, in which a veteran high school teacher befriends a younger art teacher, who is having an affair with one of her 15-year-old students. In 2007, Blanchett was named as one of Time magazine’s 100 Most Influential People in the World and also one of the most successful actresses by Forbes magazine.
In the meantime, having successfully taken the Sydney Theatre Company’s treatment of Hedda Gabler to New York, the Blanchett-Upton would moved their family back to Australia, due to a desire to decide on a permanent home for her children, and to be closer to Cate’s family as well as a sense of belonging to the Australian (theatrical) community. They bought a 1877 sandstone mansion in the harbourside Sydney suburb of Hunters Hill. It was purchased for $10.2 million Australian dollars in 2004 and underwent extensive renovations in 2007 in order to be made more eco-friendly. Cate and Andrew continued their theatrical careers at the Sydney Theatre Company. In December Upton directed David Mamet’s one-act Reunion and Blanchett made her directorial debut with Pinter’s one-act A Kind Of Alaska, in which a woman wakes up from a 30-year coma. It was also announced that Cate Blanchett and Andrew Upton would become co-artistic directors of the STC, beginning in January 2008. Their first productions would be David Hare’s The Vertical Hour and a vivid Indian adaptation of A Midsummer Night’s Dream. 
Cate also continued making movies in 2007. She made a cameo in the British comedy Hot Fuzz, playing the ex-girlfriend of Simon Pegg’s character. Next came Todd Haynes’ extraordinarily unique I’m Not There, a film that used several characters to represent different aspects of musician Bob Dylan’s personality throughout his life and career. Christian Bale, Heath Ledger, Ben Whishaw, Marcus Carl Franklin and Richard Gere also played the singer, but it was Blanchett’s performance that truly stood out. Her Jude directly corresponds to the Dylan who plugged in and toured England in 1966, meeting the suspicion of the media and then the open hostility of audiences via that famous “Judas” heckle at the Free Trade Hall in Manchester. Director Haynes says that he did not want a woman playing Dylan to be a “cinematic stunt”. At a simple level, though, the physicality of Blanchett’s performance – skipping, hunched and skinny, frazzled by acid and amphetamines – is remarkable. “Dylan was quite spiderlike,” Cate says. She “lost an awful lot of weight” for the role. Cate won the Volpi Cup Best Actress Award at the Venice Film Festival and the Best Supporting Actress Golden Globe Award for her portrayal. In 2007 Cate also reprised her role as Elizabeth I in the sequel, Elizabeth: The Golden Age. Blanchett was reportedly reluctant to reprise her role in the big-budget sequel, but says that she simply needed persuading that she could delve deeper into Elizabeth I. “It’s indisputable that she’s incredibly complex. If you look at the long legacy of actresses who’ve played her and will continue to play her, it’s a little bit like the female Hamlet.” At the 80th Academy Awards Blanchett received two Academy Award nominations; Best Actress for Elizabeth: the Golden Age and Best Supporting Actress for I’m Not There, breaking more records by becoming the 11th actor to receive two acting nominations in the same year and the first female actor to receive another nomination for the reprisal of a role.
In 2008 Cate gave birth to the family’s third son, named Ignatius Martin, on April 13. She appeared in two movies in the year: Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button. She played the villain, KGB agent Col. Dr. Irina Spalko, opposite Harrison Ford in the Steven Spielberg action blockbuster, in which Dr. Henry “Indiana” Jones is called back into action when he becomes entangled in a Soviet plot to uncover the secret behind mysterious artifacts known as the Crystal Skulls. David Fincher’s Benjamin Button saw Cate appear on screen with Brad Pitt for a second time. It is a sprawling epic set in New Orleans that begins in 1918 and ends with Hurricane Katrina, nearly a century later. It runs close to three hours long and was filmed in Louisiana, Canada, the Caribbean, Cambodia, and India, along with Los Angeles. Cate portrayed the character of Daisy throughout many decades, aging from a girl to an old woman and, ultimately, her death. She was drawn to Benjamin Button by the very elements that have caused studio executives to agonize about the open question of its commercial appeal. “David said, ‘This film is about death,’ and I think it’s great,” she says. “We’ve enshrined the purity, sanctity, value, and importance of bringing children into the world, yet we don’t discuss death. There used to be an enshrined period where mourning was a necessary part of going through the process of grieving; death wasn’t considered morbid or antisocial. But that’s totally gone. Now we’re all terrified of aging, terrified of death. This film deals with death as a release. I hope it’s a moment of catharsis.” In 2008 Cate also voiced the character of Gran Mamare in the English version of Ponyo. On December 5, 2008 Blanchett was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6712 Hollywood Boulevard in front of Grauman’s Egyptian Theatre.
In 2009 Cate took on the infamous role of Blanche DuBois in Sydney Theatre Company’s staging of A Streetcar Named Desire. The play was directed by actress Liv Ullmann and co-starred Joel Edgerton. Cate won the Helen Hayes Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Non-Resident Production, Washington, DC for her performance. She also appeared in War of the Roses. The following year she starred in Uncle Vanya, which was adapted by Upton and co-starred Richard Roxburgh, John Bell and Hugo Weaving. Cate’s next movie role came in the form of Marion Loxley in Ridley Scott’s Robin Hood (2010), opposite Russell Crowe. She ended up doing more than merely playing a damsel in distress. “I had to do a lot of stunts which certainly tested me,” says Cate. “Ridley said, ‘You can do it if you’re game for it.’ If someone sets you a challenge like that you’re not going to turn around and say, ‘No, I’m not.’ I did a lot of horse riding. I wouldn’t say I’m a master horsewoman but I do like riding a horse. And they are film horses so they’re pretty well trained. It was a thrill in the end.” Robin Hood grossed a huge opening internationally, making $75 million outside North America. 
It is clear that Cate is currently focused on her duties at the Sydney Theatre Company. In fact, in 2010 Cate and Andrew extended their term as the artistic directors of the STC. They will now remain in those roles at least until late 2013. Cate’s next film project is a supporting role in Joe Wright’s Hanna (2011), which stars Saoirse Ronan as a 16-year-old who was raised by her father to be the perfect assassin. She is dispatched on a mission across Europe, tracked by a ruthless intelligence agent and her operatives. The film will be released internationally in spring. It was recently announced that Blanchett will reprise her role as Galadriel in Peter Jackson’s upcoming films of The Hobbit in 2012 and 2013. The Hobbit will start filming on March 21 after a number of delays caused by union disputes and Jackson’s stomach ulcer.
Cate Blanchett is a woman who is truly doing it all. She is not only an immensely talented Academy Award winning actress who breaks records and masters all forms of the medium, including film, television and stage. She is also an artistic director, a director and a producer. Cate is also the ambassador for the ‘Australian Conservation Foundation’s’ online campaign www.whoonearthcares.com – trying to persuade Australians to express their concerns about climate change. She is also the Patron of the development charity ‘SolarAid’. Not only this but also a wife and a mother to three children. Perhaps David Fincher put it best when stating: “She’s just so smart, capable, facile, thoughtful, beautiful, and emotionally present. She helps you as a director in so many different ways, coming up with ideas you may not have thought of. She’s going to come having done her homework; she’s done all the thinking, and it’s deep and measured. She has a great work ethic, knowing her lines and knowing everyone else’s lines. She prides herself on making things work. She’ll say, ‘Well, I see you’ve given me eight words here, so how about this?’ She’s not one of those people who says, ‘I need a soliloquy—someone’s going to have to come in and retool this.’ She’s the prototype of what you would want to have.”
I am NOT Cate Blanchett. This site is not official and has no connections with Cate Blanchett herself or her management.
=======================================================
Birth Name: Catherine Elise BlanchettBirth Place: Melbourne, Victoria, AustraliaDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 05/14/1969, TaurusProfession: Actor
Scarlett Johansson: Dylan Farrow's Open Letter Was "Irresponsible"Mar 17, 2014 02:05 PM ETby Liz RafteryScarlett Johansson believes it was "irresponsible" for Woody Allen's adopted daughter Dylan Farrow to name actors and actresses in the letter Farrow published last month that accused Allen of molesting her when she was a child.
"I think it's irresponsible to take a bunch of actors that will have a Google alert on and to suddenly throw their name into a situation that none of us could possibly knowingly comment on," Johansson, who was one of the actresses Farrow mentioned by name, tells The Guardian. "That just feels irresponsible to me."read more12 Years a Slave, Gravity Top OscarsMar 2, 2014 09:22 PM ETby Joyce EngGravity dominated Sunday's Academy Awards, taking home seven trophies, but lost the Best Picture prize to 12 Years a Slave.  Gravity dominated Sunday's Academy Awards, taking home seven trophies, but lost the Best Picture prize to 12 Years a Slave.  Check out all the Oscar fashion hits and misses  As it has done all season, Steve McQueen's slavery drama won few awards during the night — this time just three — but prevailed with the top honor. 12 Years, whose producers include Brad Pitt, is the first film directed by a black filmmaker to win.   12 Years also won adapted...read more12 Years a Slave Tops Independent Spirit AwardsMar 2, 2014 11:26 AM ETby Liz Raftery12 Years a Slave was the big winner at Saturday's Independent Spirit Awards.
The front-runner for Best Picture at Sunday's Academy Awards won five awards, including Best Feature, Best Director (Steve McQueen) and Best Supporting Actress (Lupita Nyong'o).read more
Bandits movie trailer -  starring Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton, Cate Blanchett, Troy Garity, Brian F. O'Byrne.  Directed by Barry Levinson. Genre: Comedy
Elizabeth: The Golden Age movie trailer -  starring Cate Blanchett, Geoffrey Rush, Rhys Ifans, Clive Owen, Samantha Morton, Abbie Cornish.  Directed by Shekhar Kapur. Theatrical Release Date: 10/12/2007
Academy Award® winner Peter Jackson continues his Middle-earth adventure following Bilbo Baggins (Martin Freeman) who's swept into an epic quest to reclaim the lost Dwarf Kingdom of Erebor from the fearsome dragon Smaug. In the company of thirteen dwarves and the wizard Gandalf the Grey (Ian McKellen), Bilbo enters the Lonely Mountain in possession of Gollum's "precious" ring and his keen blade, Sting. With an all-star cast and the effects wizardry of Jackson's award-winning Weta Workshop, Tolkien's epic story comes to life as never before imagined.
In the midst of WWII a small group of art experts are commissioned by Roosevelt as soldiers and sent to the european theater to protect historically important buildings and monuments, and to locate vast troves of priceless art looted by the nazis. Discovering art in castles and mines, they race against time as the nazis scramble to destroy everything they can.
In the midst of WWII a small group of art experts are commissioned by Roosevelt as soldiers and sent to the European theater to protect historically important buildings and monuments, and to locate vast troves of priceless art looted by the Nazis. Discovering art in castles and mines, they race against time as the Nazis scramble to destroy everything they can.
In the midst of WWII a small group of art experts are commissioned by Roosevelt as soldiers and sent to the European theater to protect historically important buildings and monuments, and to locate vast troves of priceless art looted by the Nazis. Discovering art in castles and mines, they race against time as the Nazis scramble to destroy everything they can.
Businessman Bill Browder says his life has been threatened as a result of his claims of corruption in the Russian government; then, David Martin gets an inside look at what makes the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter the most expensive weapons system in history; and, Cate Blanchett is famous for morphing into her roles, but tells Lesley Stahl that each time she worries she won’t pull it off.
Alan Krueger of Princeton University; David Leonhardt of The New York Times; Robin Harding of the Financial Times; Matthew Bishop of The Economist and Chrystia Freeland of Reuters.
                                                                                                 TV Listings
12 Years a Slave or Gravity? Or something else? Oscars' tightest race for the top prize in years will come down to a photo finish Sunday (8:30 p.m. ET / 5:30 p.m. PT, ABC). In the meantime, let's make some predictions. Check out the nominees here, make your picks and compare them to ours below.American Hustle, Gravity lead Oscar nominationsPictureWho will win: 12 Years a SlaveThis one is coming down to the wire between 12 Years and Gravity, with an outside shot for ...
Cate Blanchett continued her awards season dominance at the BAFTA Film Awards in London Sunday night, and dedicated her Best Actress win to her friend and Talented Mr. Ripley co-star Philip Seymour Hoffman.
Roughly 400 friends and family attended Philip Seymour Hoffman's funeral on Friday in New York, People reports.
Among those in attendance at the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola in Manhattan were his former co-stars...
After being called out for complacency in Dylan Farrow's open letter, Cate Blanchett has responded to the allegations that Woody Allen sexually abused his daughter.
Dylan Farrow has penned an open letter detailing the sexual abuse she allegedly suffered as a young girl at the hands of her adoptive father, Woody Allen.
Writing on Nicholas Kristof's New York Times blog, Farrow notes, "When I was seven years old, Woody Allen took me by the hand and led me into a dim, closet-like attic on the second floor of our house. He told me to lay on my stomach and play with my brother's electric train set. Then he sexually assaulted me."
Buy Charlie Rose with Cate Blanchett; Isabelle Huppert; Diane Lane (December 30, 2003) from Amazon.comFrom Charlie Rose, Inc. (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $24.95 (as of 12:36 AM EST - more info)Buy Charlie Rose - Cate Blanchett / Janet Napolitano & Sarah Palin (October 12, 2007) from Amazon.comFrom Charlie Rose, Inc. (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $24.95 (as of 12:36 AM EST - more info)
=======================================================
                BUY TICKETS, GET MUSIC. Buy any ticket on Fandango this month and get a free Amazon Music code for two songs!
            Within 48 hours of your ticket purchase, you’ll receive an email from Fandango with your Amazon Music promotional code. You’ll receive one promotional code per ticket transaction, limit one per Amazon account. Offer is valid through 9:00 AM PDT 6/30/2014, while supplies last. Amazon.com account required. Amazon Music promotional code expires 11:59pm PDT, 7/30/14. This is a promotional code and is not to be shared, is not for resale, has no cash value, and will not be replaced if lost or stolen. Terms and conditions apply. See www.amazon.com/fandangoMP3 for details.
                                                        News Bites: Disney is making a live-action 'Beauty and the Beast'
                                                        Watch how Emily Blunt almost killed Tom Cruise on the set of 'Edge of Tomorrow'
                                                        J.J. Abrams tweets 'Star Wars' photo from onboard the Millennium Falcon
With her regal and elegant visage, Aussie actress Cate Blanchett broke through the mob of aspiring actors and instantly ascended the ranks to Hollywood stardom with her Academy Award-nominated turn as Elizabeth I in Shekhar Kapur's Elizabeth (1998). Her concomitantly poignant and fierce portrayal won admiration from critics and filmgoers, but she had maintained a low enough profile in years prior (and her celebrity materialized so quickly) that the Elizabeth triumph appeared to pull the heretofore unseen actress from out of thin air and caught just about everyone off guard.  Born in Melbourne on May 14, 1969, Catherine Elise Blanchett entered the world as the daughter of an Australian mother and a Texas-born American father, with two siblings. Her dad died of a heart attack when she was ten; her mother subsequently raised her. Blanchett studied economics and fine art at the University of Melbourne, but -- reeling from ennui and dissatisfaction -- she set off in search of an alternate vocation and traveled for a period of time, perhaps in search of herself. Blanchett ultimately landed in Egypt, where a chance bit part in an Arabic boxing film introduced her to a newfound love of acting. Taking this as a firm cue, Blanchett harkened back to Sydney, where she enrolled in (and ultimately graduated from) the highly esteemed National Academy of Dramatic Art. Blanchett later joined the Sydney Theatre Company, where she earned positive notices in a production of Caryl Churchill's Top Girls. A subsequent role in Timothy Daley's musical Kafka Dances won Blanchett a 1993 New Comer Award from the Sydney Theatre Critics Circle, an honor doubled that same year when she gleaned a Rosemont Best Actress Award for her performance opposite future Elizabeth co-star Geoffrey Rush in David Mamet's Oleanna.  The considerable prestige that accompanied these theatrical triumphs led Blanchett to the small screen, where she appeared in various programs for the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, including the drama Heartland and the cop series Police Rescue. Her television performances caught the attention of director Bruce Beresford, who cast her in his 1997 POW drama Paradise Road as a shy Australian nurse, opposite Glenn Close and Frances McDormand. 1997 proved to be a busy year as it also found her staring in the comedy Thank God He Met Lizzie, for which she netted an Australian Film Institute Best Actress Award. By the end of the year she had an even bigger event than any successful acting gigs as she was married in December to British film technician Andrew Upton. With the considerable amount of praise and recognition Blanchett was receiving in her native country and a partner in her personal life to share it with, it was only a matter of time and opportunity before she became known to a wider audience. Her opportunity arrived that very same year, with her role in Gillian Armstrong's adaptation of Peter Carey's novel Oscar and Lucinda. Opposite Ralph Fiennes, Blanchett won almost uniform praise for her performance in a tepidly received film.  Blanchett came first-billed in the following year's Elizabeth. The film drew swift and unequivocal praise, and Blanchett's portrayal of the queen turned her into Los Angeles' newest cause célèbre. A plethora of awards greeted Kapur's feature and Blanchett's performance, including a Best Actress Academy Award nomination and eight additional Oscar nods. The actress won a Golden Globe and British Academy Award, in addition to a host of critics' circle awards.  With that experience under her belt, Blanchett starred opposite Angelina Jolie, John Cusack, and Billy Bob Thornton in the Mike Newell comedy Pushing Tin (1999). Although the film dive-bombed at the box office, critics singled out Blanchett's fine performance as a Long Island housewife. The same year, she played another domestic, albeit one of an entirely different stripe, in Oliver Parker's adaptation of Oscar Wilde's An Ideal Husband. Despite a uniformly strong cast including Jeremy Northam, Rupert Everett, and Julianne Moore, the film divided critics, although Blanchett herself again earned favorable notices. Blanchett maintained a busy schedule after the Newell project, appearing in a plethora films throughout the early 2000s. She joined Johnny Depp and Christina Ricci with her role as a kindhearted albeit materialistic showgirl in The Man Who Cried, then starred as a fortune-teller who holds the key to a mysterious murder in director Sam Raimi's The Gift, an unwitting accomplice in the crime comedy Bandits, a British schoolteacher in Tom Tykwer's Kieslowski update Heaven, and Galadriel, Queen of Lothlórien, in Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings trilogy. Blanchett also appeared in 2001's The Shipping News (as Petal) and director Gillian Armstrong's Charlotte Gray as the title character. That same year, she gave birth to her first son, Dashiell John. Blanchett's appeared as ill-fated Irish journalist Veronica Guerin in director Joel Schumacher and producer Jerry Bruckheimer's eponymously titled 2003 biopic. The film drew very mixed reviews and died a quick death in cinemas during its late-autumn run, but those reviewers who did respond favorably again singled out the actress' stunning interpretation of the role. The following year, Blanchett appeared in Wes Anderson's quirky film The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou alongside Bill Murray and Owen Wilson. Blanchett wore a prosthetic belly in the film for her role as a seven months pregnant journalist and, interestingly enough, she later found that she was actually pregnant during filming. She gave birth to her second son, Roman Robert, later that same year. First, however, she effortlessly lit up the screen with a performance as film legend Katharine Hepburn in director Martin Scorsese's lavish Howard Hughes epic The Aviator. If The Aviator's Best Picture loss to Million Dollar Baby proved somewhat disappointing to Scorsese fans when the Oscars were handed out, Blanchett landed her greatest triumph that evening: she won the Best Supporting Actress award for her turn as Hepburn.  Perhaps despairing the paucity of solid scripts in Hollywood, Blanchett went global after the Scorsese affair. She returned to her native Australia for a low-key follow-up, Rowan Woods' harrowing and skillful Little Fish (2005). 2006's multi-national production Babel, directed by Alejandro González Iñárritu, won the Best Director Award at Cannes; one of the narrative strands in its array of subplots featured Blanchett and Brad Pitt as husband and wife, grieving over the death of a child, and thrust into a desperate situation. Babel turned out to be a major critical success, as did another film Blanchett appeared in that same year, Notes on a Scandal. In the film, Blanchett played a mother and schoolteacher who becomes deeply embroiled in a maze of power and deception when she betrays her job and family by carrying on an affair with a student. The tautly suspenseful and intimate film also starred Judi Dench as Blanchett's friend and confidant, who soon becomes a source of emotional blackmail. The actresses were each praised for their performances, and each received both Golden Globe and Oscar nominations for their work in the film.  Blanchett went on to play Lena Brandt in The Good German, Steven Soderbergh and Paul Attanasio's tale of a man (George Clooney) searching for his former mistress (Blanchett) in post-WWII Berlin. She also signed on for Poison helmer Todd Haynes' I'm Not There: Suppositions on a Film Concerning Dylan, slated for release in 2007. The eccentric bio of the pop singer co-starred Richard Gere, Julianne Moore, Adrien Brody, and Charlotte Gainsbourg with numerous varied performers playing the musician in different sequences. Also set for release in 2007 was Blanchett's return to one of her greatest triumphs as Elizabeth I in The Golden Age, Shekhar Kapur's sequel to his 1998 arthouse hit Elizabeth, which would take place later in the Virgin Queen's reign. Geoffrey Rush agreed to reprise his role as Sir Francis Walsingham, and the film would also feature Clive Owen as Sir Walter Raleigh, establisher of the first New World colony and controversial figure of the Elizabethan court.  Blanchett also agreed to join the cast of the David Fincher-directed fantasy The Curious Case of Benjamin Button -- a critically acclaimed hit of 2008 -- before moving on to play a nefarious baddie in the unique thriller Hanna in 2012. Soon, the actress was reprising the role of elvin queen Galadriel for the Lord of the Rings prequel, The Hobbit. ~ Cammila Collar, Rovi
						and authorize Fandango and its service providers to deliver FanTexts and other promotional texts to your mobile phone. 
                    You can unsubscribe at any time by texting "STOP" or seek help by texting "HELP" to "FNDGO" (36346).
