=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Daniel Michael Blake Day-Lewis (born 29 April 1957) is an English actor.[1] He holds both British and Irish citizenship. Born and raised in London, he is the son of Poet Laureate Cecil Day-Lewis and actress Jill Balcon. Despite his traditional actor training at the Bristol Old Vic, he is considered to be a method actor, known for his constant devotion to and research of his roles.[2][3] He often remains completely in character for the duration of the shooting schedules of his films, even to the point of adversely affecting his health.[4] He is known as being one of the most selective actors in the film industry, having starred in only five films since 1998, with as many as five years between each role.[4]
Day-Lewis is one of the most acclaimed actors of his generation and has earned numerous awards, including three Academy Awards for Best Actor, for his portrayals of Christy Brown in My Left Foot (1989), Daniel Plainview in There Will Be Blood (2007), and Abraham Lincoln in Lincoln (2012), a feat that makes him to date one of three male actors to win three Oscars (the other two being Walter Brennan and Jack Nicholson), and the only male actor in history to garner three wins in the lead actor category.[5] He has also won four BAFTA Awards for Best Actor, three Screen Actors Guild Awards, three Critics' Choice Movie Awards, and two Golden Globe Awards.
Day-Lewis was born in London, the son of poet Cecil Day-Lewis and English actress Jill Balcon. His father, who was of Anglo-Irish background, lived in England from the age of two and later became the United Kingdom's Poet Laureate. His mother was Jewish, and his maternal grandparents' families had emigrated to England from Latvia and Poland.[6][7] His maternal grandfather, Sir Michael Balcon, an important figure in the history of British cinema, was the head of Ealing Studios.[8] Two years after his birth, the family moved to Croom's Hill, Greenwich, south-east London, where Day-Lewis grew up along with his older sister, Tamasin Day-Lewis, who became a documentary filmmaker and television chef.[9]
Living in Greenwich, Day-Lewis found himself among tough South London children, and, being of part Jewish ancestry and "posh", he was often bullied.[10] He mastered the local accent and mannerisms and credits that with being his first convincing performances.[10][11] Later in life, he was known to speak of himself as very much a disorderly character in his younger years, often in trouble for shoplifting and other petty crimes.[11][12]
In 1968, Day-Lewis' parents, finding his behaviour to be too wild, sent him to the independent Sevenoaks School in Kent as a boarder.[12] (1968-1970)
Bedales School[12][13] Though he detested the school, he was introduced to his three most prominent interests: woodworking, acting, and fishing. His disdain for the school grew, and after two years at Sevenoaks, he was transferred to another independent school, Bedales in Petersfield, Hampshire,[14] which his sister attended, and which had a more relaxed and creative ethos.[12] The transfer led to his film debut at the age of 14 in Sunday Bloody Sunday in which he played a vandal in an uncredited role. He described the experience as "heaven", for getting paid £2 to vandalise expensive cars parked outside his local church.[9]
For a few weeks in 1972, he and his parents and sister lived at Lemmons, the north London home of Kingsley Amis and Elizabeth Jane Howard. Cecil Day-Lewis had cancer and Howard invited the family to Lemmons as a place they could use to rest and recuperate. Cecil died there in May that year.[15]
Leaving Bedales in 1975, Day-Lewis's unruly attitude had faded and he needed to make a career choice. Although he had excelled on stage at the National Youth Theatre in London, he applied for a five-year apprenticeship as a cabinet-maker, but was rejected due to lack of experience.[12] He was then accepted at the Bristol Old Vic Theatre School, which he attended for three years, eventually performing at the Bristol Old Vic itself.[12] At one point he played understudy to Pete Postlethwaite, with whom he would later co-star in In the Name of the Father.[16]
During the early '80s, Day-Lewis worked in theatre and television including Frost in May (where he played an impotent man-child) and How Many Miles to Babylon? (as a World War I[17] officer torn between allegiances to Britain and Ireland) for the BBC. Eleven years after his film debut, Day-Lewis continued his film career with a small part in Gandhi (1982) as Colin, a street thug who bullies the title character, only to be immediately chastised by his high-strung mother. In late 1982 he had his big theatre break when he took over the lead in Another Country. The following year, he had a supporting role as the conflicted, but ultimately loyal first mate in The Bounty, after which he joined the Royal Shakespeare Company, playing Romeo in Romeo and Juliet and Flute in A Midsummer Night's Dream.[12]
In 1985, Day-Lewis played a gay man in an interracial relationship in the film My Beautiful Laundrette, set in 1980s London during the period when Margaret Thatcher was Prime Minister. Day-Lewis gained further public notice with A Room with a View (1985). Set in the Edwardian period of turn-of-the-twentieth-century England, he portrayed an entirely different character: Cecil Vyse, the proper upper class fiancé of the main character (played by Helena Bonham Carter).[18] In 1987, Day-Lewis assumed leading man status by starring in Philip Kaufman's adaptation of Milan Kundera's The Unbearable Lightness of Being, co-starring Lena Olin and Juliette Binoche, where he portrayed a Czech surgeon whose hyperactive sex life is thrown into disarray when he allows himself to become emotionally involved with a woman. During the eight-month shoot he learned Czech and first began to refuse to break character on or off the set for the entire shooting schedule.[12] During this period, Day-Lewis and other young British actors of the time such as Gary Oldman, Colin Firth, Tim Roth and Bruce Payne, were dubbed the 'Brit Pack',[19] a nickname based on the Brat Pack of the US.
Day-Lewis threw his personal version of method acting into full throttle in 1989 with his performance as Christy Brown in Jim Sheridan's My Left Foot, which garnered him numerous awards, including the Academy Award for Best Actor. He prepared for his role by frequent visits to Sandymount School Clinic in Dublin, where he formed friendships with several people with disabilities, some of whom had no speech.[20] During filming, he refused to break character.[12] Playing a severely paralysed character on screen, off screen Day-Lewis had to be moved around the set in his wheelchair, and crew members would curse at having to lift him over camera and lighting wires, all so that he might gain insight into all aspects of Brown's life, including the embarrassments.[11] It was rumoured that he had broken two ribs during filming from assuming a hunched-over position in his wheelchair for so many weeks, something he denied years later at the 2013 Santa Barbara International Film Festival.[21]
Day-Lewis returned to the stage in 1989 to work with Richard Eyre, in Hamlet at the National Theatre, London, but collapsed in the middle of a scene where the ghost of Hamlet's father first appears to his son.[12] He began sobbing uncontrollably and refused to go back on stage; he was replaced by Jeremy Northam who finished the performance word-and-action-perfect and received a standing ovation. Ian Charleson then formally replaced Day-Lewis for the rest of the run, except that ill-health forced Northam to stand in again many times. Although the incident was officially attributed to exhaustion, Day-Lewis later claimed to have seen the ghost of his own father.[12][22][23] He has not appeared on stage since.[23] The media attention following his breakdown on-stage contributed to his decision to eventually move from England to Ireland in the mid-1990s to regain a sense of privacy amidst his increasing fame.[24]
In 1992, three years after his Oscar win, The Last of the Mohicans was released. Day-Lewis's character research for this film was well-publicized; he reportedly underwent rigorous weight training and learned to live off the land and forest where his character lived, camping, hunting and fishing.[12] Day-Lewis also added to his wood-working skills and learned how to make canoes.[25] He even carried a long rifle at all times during filming in order to remain in character and learned how to skin animals.[12][26]
He returned to work with Jim Sheridan on In the Name of the Father, in which he played Gerry Conlon, one of the Guildford Four who were wrongfully convicted of a bombing carried out by the Provisional IRA. He lost a substantial amount of weight for the part, kept his Northern Irish accent on and off the set for the entire shooting schedule, and spent stretches of time in a prison cell.[26] He also insisted that crew members throw cold water at him and verbally abuse him.[26] The film earned him his second Academy Award nomination, his third BAFTA nomination, and his second Golden Globe nomination.
Day-Lewis returned in 1993, playing Newland Archer in Martin Scorsese's adaptation of the Edith Wharton novel The Age of Innocence, opposite Winona Ryder and Michelle Pfeiffer. To prepare for the film, set in America's Gilded Age, he wore 1870s-period aristocratic clothing around New York City for two months, including top hat, cane and cape in cold weather.[27]
In 1996, Day-Lewis starred in The Crucible, a film version of the play by Arthur Miller, again opposite Winona Ryder. During the shoot he met his future wife, Rebecca Miller, the author's daughter.[28] He followed that with Jim Sheridan's The Boxer as a former boxer and IRA member recently released from prison. His preparation included training with former boxing world champion Barry McGuigan.[29]
Following The Boxer, Day-Lewis took a leave of absence from acting by going into "semi-retirement" and returning to his old passion of woodworking.[29] He moved to Florence, Italy, where he became intrigued by the craft of shoemaking, eventually apprenticing as a shoemaker.[12] For a time his exact whereabouts and actions were not made publicly known.[30] Day-Lewis has declined to discuss this period of his life, stating that "it was a period of my life that I had a right to, without any intervention of that kind."
After a five-year absence from filming, Day-Lewis returned to act in the multiple Academy Award-nominated film Gangs of New York (2002), directed by Scorsese and produced by Harvey Weinstein. In his role as the villain gang leader William "Bill the Butcher" Cutting, he starred alongside Leonardo DiCaprio, who played Bill's young protégé. He began his lengthy, self-disciplined process by taking lessons as an apprentice butcher, and while filming, he was never out of character between takes (including keeping his character's New York accent).[12] At one point during filming, having been diagnosed with pneumonia, he refused to wear a warmer coat or to take treatment because it was not in keeping with the period; however, he was eventually persuaded to seek medical treatment.[31] His performance in Gangs of New York earned him his third Academy Award nomination and won him the BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role.
After Gangs of New York, Day-Lewis's wife, director Rebecca Miller offered him the lead role in her film The Ballad of Jack and Rose, in which he played a dying man with regrets over how his life had evolved and over how he had brought up his teenage daughter. During filming he arranged to live separately from his wife in order to achieve the "isolation" needed to focus on his own character's reality.[9] The film received mixed reviews.[32]
In 2007, Day-Lewis starred in director Paul Thomas Anderson's loose adaptation of the Upton Sinclair novel Oil!, titled There Will Be Blood.[33] Day-Lewis received the Academy Award for Best Actor, BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role, Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Drama, Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role (which he dedicated to Heath Ledger, saying that he was inspired by Ledger's acting and calling the actor's performance in Brokeback Mountain "unique, perfect"),[34][35] and a variety of film critics' circle awards for the role. In winning the Best Actor Oscar, Day-Lewis joined Marlon Brando and Jack Nicholson as the only Best Actor winners awarded an Oscar in two non-consecutive decades.
In 2009, Day-Lewis starred in Rob Marshall's musical adaptation Nine as film director Guido Contini.[36] Day-Lewis was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy and the Satellite Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for his role, as well as sharing nominations for the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture and the Broadcast Film Critics Association Award for Best Cast and the Satellite Award for Best Cast – Motion Picture with the rest of the cast members.
Daniel Day-Lewis viewing the Gettysburg Address in the Lincoln Bedroom in the White House, November 2012
Day-Lewis played Abraham Lincoln in Steven Spielberg's film Lincoln.[37] Based on the book Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln, the film began shooting in Richmond, Virginia in October 2011.[38] The film was released in selected U.S. cities on 9 November 2012, and then was nationally released on 16 November 2012. Day-Lewis spent a year in preparation for the role, a time he had requested from Spielberg.[39] Day-Lewis read over 100 books on Lincoln, and long worked with the makeup artist to achieve a physical likeness to Lincoln. Lincoln received widespread critical acclaim, much of it directed to Day-Lewis' performance. It also became a commercial success, grossing over $275 million worldwide.[40] In November 2012, Day-Lewis received the BAFTA Britannia Award for Excellence in Film.[41] At the 70th Golden Globe Awards on 14 January 2013, Day-Lewis won his second Golden Globe Award for Best Actor, and at the 66th British Academy Film Awards on 10 February, he won his fourth BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role. At the 85th Academy Awards, Day-Lewis became the first three-time recipient of the Best Actor Oscar for his role in Lincoln.[42] Shortly after winning the Oscar, he announced he would be taking a break from acting, feeling it would be difficult to top his performance in Lincoln.[43]
On 19 March 2013, a two-DVD set entitled "Daniel Day-Lewis Triple Feature"—a compilation of much of the actor's performances on British TV programmes from 1982 to 1986—was scheduled to be released in the U.S. by BBC Home Entertainment.[44]
Day-Lewis rarely discusses his personal life. He had a relationship with French actress Isabelle Adjani, which lasted six years[2] and eventually ended after a split and reconciliation. Their son Gabriel-Kane Day-Lewis was born in 1995 in New York City, several months after the relationship ended.
In 1996, while working on the film version of the stage play The Crucible, he visited the home of playwright Arthur Miller where he was introduced to the writer's daughter, Rebecca Miller.[2] They married later that year. The couple have two sons, Ronan Cal Day-Lewis (born 1998) and Cashel Blake Day-Lewis (born 2002) and divide their time between their homes in New York City and Ireland.[9]
Day-Lewis became an Irish citizen in 1993[45] and currently holds British and Irish dual citizenship. He has lived in Annamoe, County Wicklow since 1997.[46][47][48] He stated "I do have dual citizenship, but I think of England as my country. I miss London very much but I couldn't live there because there came a time when I needed to be private and was forced to be public by the press. I couldn't deal with it".[49] He is a supporter of South-East London football club Millwall.[50]
On 15 July 2010, Day-Lewis received an honorary doctorate in letters from the University of Bristol, in part because of his attendance of the Bristol Old Vic Theatre School in his youth.[51] Day-Lewis has stated that he had "no real religious education" and that he "suppose[s]" he is "a die-hard agnostic".[52] In October 2012, he donated to Oxford University papers belonging to his father, the poet Cecil Day-Lewis, including early drafts of the poet's work and letters from actor John Gielgud and literary figures such as W. H. Auden, Robert Graves, and Philip Larkin.[53]
List of actors who won the Academy, BAFTA, Golden Globe, SAG, and Critic's Choice Award for a single performance
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Daniel_Day-Lewis&oldid=610727100"					
Categories: 1957 birthsLiving people20th-century English male actors21st-century English male actorsMale actors from LondonAlumni of Bristol Old Vic Theatre SchoolBAFTA winners (people)Best Actor Academy Award winnersBest Actor BAFTA Award winnersBest Drama Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersEnglish agnosticsEnglish expatriates in IrelandEnglish expatriates in the United StatesEnglish people of Irish descentEnglish people of Polish-Jewish descentEnglish male film actorsEnglish male stage actorsEnglish male television actorsFellows of the American Academy of Arts and SciencesIrish agnosticsIrish male film actorsIrish JewsIrish people of English descentIrish male stage actorsIrish male television actorsJewish agnosticsJewish English male actorsNational Youth Theatre membersNaturalised citizens of IrelandOutstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role Screen Actors Guild Award winnersPeople educated at Bedales SchoolPeople educated at Sevenoaks SchoolPeople from GreenwichMale actors from KentEnglish people of Latvian-Jewish descentHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from April 2012Articles with dead external links from December 2011Articles with dead external links from February 2013Pages using citations with accessdate and no URLWikipedia pending changes protected pages (level 1)Wikipedia protected pages without expiryUse dmy dates from March 2013Use British English from April 2012Articles with hCardsGood articles 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Daniel Michael Blake Day-Lewis is the only person in film history to win the Oscar award for Best Actor three times. Born in London, England, he is the second child of Cecil Day-Lewis (A.K.A. Nicholas Blake) (Poet Laureate of England) and his second wife, Jill Balcon. His maternal grandfather was Sir Michael Balcon, an important figure in the history of British cinema, head of the famous Ealing Studios. His older sister, Tamasin Day-Lewis, is a documentarian. Daniel was educated at Sevenoaks School in Kent, which he despised, and the more progressive Bedales in Petersfield, which he adored. He studied acting at the Bristol Old Vic School. Daniel made his film debut in Sunday Bloody Sunday (1971), but then acted on stage with the Bristol Old Vic and Royal Shakespeare Companies and did not appear on screen again until 1982, when he landed his first adult role, a bit part in Gandhi (1982). He also appeared on British TV that year in Frost in May (1982) and How Many Miles to Babylon? (1982). Notable theatrical performances include Another Country (1982-83), Dracula (1984), and The Futurists (1986).His first major supporting role in a feature film was in The Bounty (1984), quickly followed by My Beautiful Laundrette (1985) and A Room with a View (1985). The latter two films opened in New York on the same day, offering audiences and critics evidence of his remarkable range and establishing him as a major talent. The New York Film Critics named him Best Supporting Actor for those performances. In 1986, he appeared on stage in Richard Eyre's The Futurists and on television in Eyre's production of Screen Two: The Insurance Man (1986). He also had a small role in a British/French film, Nanou (1986). In 1987 he assumed leading-man status in Philip Kaufman's The Unbearable Lightness of Being (1988), followed by a comedic role in the unsuccessful Stars and Bars (1988). His brilliant performance as "Christy Brown" in Jim Sheridan's My Left Foot: The Story of Christy Brown (1989) won him numerous awards, including The Academy Award for best actor.He returned to the stage to work again with Eyre, as Hamlet at the National Theater, but was forced to leave the production close to the end of its run because of exhaustion, and has not appeared on stage since. He took a hiatus from film as well until 1992, when he starred in The Last of the Mohicans (1992), a film that met with mixed reviews but was a great success at the box office. He worked with American director Martin Scorsese in The Age of Innocence (1993) in 1994. Subsequently, he teamed again with Jim Sheridan to star in In the Name of the Father (1993), a critically acclaimed performance that earned him another Academy Award nomination. His next project was in the role of John Proctor in father-in-law Arthur Miller's play The Crucible (1996), directed by Nicholas Hytner.
      Ranked #25 in Empire (UK) magazine's "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time" list. [October 1997]
      Several times offered and turned down the role of Aragorn (Strider) in Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings film trilogy.
      According to Harvey Weinstein, Day-Lewis was taking time off to work as a cobbler in Florence, Italy when Weinstein, director Martin Scorsese and star Leonardo DiCaprio lured him into coming back to New York "on false pretenses" so they could persuade him to accept lead role in Gangs of New York (2002).
      According to Gangs of New York (2002) co-star John C. Reilly, he got sick during shooting in Italy, refusing to trade his character's threadbare coat for a warmer coat because the warmer coat did not exist in the 19th century; doctors finally forced him to take antibiotics.
      Announced that he will star in Rose and the Snake, co-written and directed by his wife, Rebecca Miller. The film was later renamed The Ballad of Jack and Rose (2005). [February 2003]
      He listened to Eminem to get into an angry, self-righteous frame of mind as Bill the Butcher while shooting Gangs of New York (2002).
      He was Jonathan Demme's first choice for the part of Andrew Beckett in Philadelphia (1993). He turned the part down to work on In the Name of the Father (1993) and Tom Hanks was cast in Philadelphia (1993) instead. Day-Lewis earned an Oscar nomination for best actor in In the Name of the Father (1993), but Hanks won the best actor Oscar for Philadelphia (1993), the part Day-Lewis turned down.
      Always quiet and introverted, he said that he was not popular in school and was mocked as an outsider while growing up in England, partially because he was of half-Jewish/half-Irish stock. The upside was that, instead of socializing, he developed a rich fantasy life that later helped him to delve so deeply into his characters.
      He was the first of three consecutive British actors to win the Oscar for Best Actor in a leading role, Jeremy Irons being next and Anthony Hopkins the third. Each of them coincidentally won at their first nomination in the Academy Awards.
      In The Crucible (1996) Joan Allen plays his wife. In The Boxer (1997) Emily Watson plays his wife. Both have played Reba McLain. Allen played the part in Manhunter (1986), Watson played the part in the remake, Red Dragon (2002).
      Was considered for the role of Jesus Christ in The Passion of the Christ (2004), but director Mel Gibson thought he looked "too European" and the part instead went to Jim Caviezel.
      Frequently called the "English Robert De Niro." Early in his career, Day-Lewis recently referred to De Niro as his champion.
      Considered doing an adaptation of "Rose and the Snake" in the early 1990s, but the project fell through. After marrying Rebecca Miller, she convinced him to take the lead role and directed him in the adaptation The Ballad of Jack and Rose (2005).
      After Michael Madsen was found to be unavailable for the part, Day-Lewis tried to get the role of Vincent Vega in Pulp Fiction (1994), one of the few times he actively pursued a part. However, by that point in the casting, Quentin Tarantino had John Travolta in mind for the part.
      While filming Gangs of New York (2002) he rarely got out of character and would talk with a New York accent the whole day and would be sharpening his knives at lunch.
      His performance as Christy Brown in My Left Foot: The Story of Christy Brown (1989) is ranked #11 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time (2006).
      His performance as Bill "The Butcher" Cutting in Gangs of New York (2002) is ranked #53 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time (2006).
      Born to Nicholas Blake (aka Cecil Day-Lewis) and his second wife Jill Balcon, he lost his father at the age of 15.
      Turned down leading role of Steven Soderbergh film Solaris (2002). The role instead went to George Clooney.
      While filming The Ballad of Jack and Rose (2005) on Prince Edward Island, Canada, Day-Lewis lived alone in a hut on the beach, away from his wife, director Rebecca Miller, and their children.
      Late in the run of the 1989 production of Hamlet at the National Theatre in London, he reported that he had a strange sensation that he was talking to his father, who died of pancreatic cancer when Daniel was 15. Unnerved, he walked off the stage and never returned. He still doesn't like to talk about it.
      During The Last of the Mohicans (1992) he built a canoe, learned to track and skin animals, and perfected the use of a 12-pound flintlock gun, which he took everywhere he went, even to a Christmas dinner.
      Was director Alex Cox's second choice for the role of Sid Vicious in Sid and Nancy (1986). Gary Oldman got the part.
      Trained at the Bristol Old Vic Theatre School where colleagues included Miranda Richardson and Greta Scacchi.
      Got to know his future wife Rebecca Miller while working on the film version of her father Arthur Miller's play "The Crucible".
      The first Non-American actor to win three Academy Awards for Best Actor. He is also the first actor anywhere to win three Oscars in that category. 2013's Oscar for Lincoln wins him his 3rd Academy award.
      Dedicated his 2008 Oscar to his grandfather, film studio boss Michael Balcon, his poet father Nicholas Blake (aka Cecil Day-Lewis), and his three sons Gabriel-Kane Day-Lewis (born on 9 April 1995), Ronan Cal Day-Lewis (born on 14 June 1998) and Cashel Blake Day-Lewis (born in May 2002).
      He won 23 acting awards for his performance in There Will Be Blood (2007), including the coveted Oscar.
My Beautiful Laundrette (1985) and A Room with a View (1985) both opened in New York on the same day, March 7, 1986. Both movies featured Day-Lewis in prominent and very different roles: in A Room with a View (1985) he played a repressed, snobbish Edwardian upperclassman, while in My Beautiful Laundrette (1985), he played a lower-class, gay, ex-skinhead in love with an ambitious Pakistani businessman in Thatcher's London. When American critics saw Day-Lewis, who was then virtually unknown in the U.S., in two such different roles on the same day, many (including Roger Ebert of The Chicago Sun-Times and Vincent Canby of The New York Times) raved about the talent it must have taken him to play such vastly different characters.
      Is one of 8 actors to have won the Academy Award, BAFTA Award, Critics' Choice Award, Golden Globe Award and SAG Award for the same performance. The others in chronological order are Geoffrey Rush for Shine (1996), Jamie Foxx for Ray (2004), Philip Seymour Hoffman for Capote (2005), Forest Whitaker for The Last King of Scotland (2006), Javier Bardem for No Country for Old Men (2007), Heath Ledger for The Dark Knight (2008), Christoph Waltz for Inglourious Basterds (2009) and 'Colin Firth' for The King's Speech.
      His performance as "Daniel Plainview" in There Will Be Blood (2007) was listed as third in TotalFilm's "150 Greatest Movie Performances of All Time" (Dec 2009).
      Sir John Gielgud said that "he had what every actor in Hollywood wants: talent. And what every actor in England wants: looks".
      His father was of Northern Irish and English descent. His mother was from a Jewish family that emigrated to the U.K. from Poland and Latvia.
      He first became interested in acting when he learned to replicate the accent and mannerisms of people in his neighborhood to avoid standing out to bullies.
      The longest he has gone without an Oscar nomination is 9 years, between In the Name of the Father (1993) and Gangs of New York (2002).
      Is the second actor to have received a Best Actor Oscar nomination for portraying Abraham Lincoln; the other is Raymond Massey in Abe Lincoln in Illinois (1940).
      Is one of 5 actors to have won the Academy Award 3 times in their career; the others in chronological order are Walter Brennan, Ingrid Bergman, Jack Nicholson and Meryl Streep. These actors have only been surpassed by Katharine Hepburn, who won the Academy Award 4 times during her career.
      He is the first actor to win an Oscar for playing a U.S. President, and the first to win for playing Abraham Lincoln. Only one other actor, Raymond Massey, has been Oscar-nominated for playing the role; despite turning in a critically acclaimed performance as Lincoln in Young Mr. Lincoln (1939), Henry Fonda was not nominated for his performance.
      On March 19, 2013, a two-DVD set entitled "Daniel Day-Lewis Triple Feature", a compilation of much of the actor's performances on British TV programs from 1982 to 1986, was released in the U.S. by BBC Home Entertainment.
      He partook in the 2013 Millie Miglia driving a 1953 Jaguar XK 120. His co-driver was Jim Gianopulos the Chairman and CEO of Fox Filmed Entertainment.
      In 2013 he organized for the international premiere of his film Lincoln to occur in Ireland as a fund-raiser for the Wicklow Hospice Foundation.
      Became a father for the 1st time at age 37 when his ex-girlfriend Isabelle Adjani gave birth to their son Gabriel-Kane Day-Lewis on April 9, 1995.
      Became a father for the 2nd time at age 41 when his wife Rebecca Miller gave birth to their son Ronan Cal Day-Lewis on June 14, 1998.
      Became a father for the 3rd time at age 45 when his wife Rebecca Miller gave birth to their son Cashel Blake Day-Lewis in May 2002.
      In the movie Gangs of New York (2002), Daniel Day-Lewis's character "The Butcher" throws a knife at a picture of President Abraham Lincoln hitting him right between the eyes. Ten years later, Daniel Day-Lewis starred in Steven Spielberg's Lincoln (2012) playing the president himself.
      As of 2014, has appeared in seven films that were nominated for the Best Picture Oscar: Gandhi (1982), A Room with a View (1985), My Left Foot: The Story of Christy Brown (1989), In the Name of the Father (1993), Gangs of New York (2002), There Will Be Blood (2007) and Lincoln (2012). Gandhi (1982) won in the category.
      He is not only the first actor to win 3 Best Actor Oscars, but the only British Actor to win at least 2 Best Actor Oscars.
      I suppose I have a highly developed capacity for self-delusion, so it's no problem for me to believe I'm somebody else.
      [on whether or not he will act in films more often in the future:] "Nothing happened over the course of making Gangs of New York (2002) that made me think, 'Why don't I do this more often?'"
      In every actor's life, there is a moment when they ask themselves, 'Is it really seemly for me to still be doing this?'
      (On Scorsese) Martin doesn't have to convince me about anything. I can only say that I would wish for any one of my colleagues to have the experience of working with Marty once in their lifetime. If you get it twice, it's a privilege that you don't necessarily look for but you certainly don't try to avoid.
      The West has always been the epicenter of possibility. One of the ways we forge against mortality is to head west. It's to do with catching the sun before it slips behind the horizon. We all keep moving toward the sun, wishing to get the last ray of hope before it sets.
      (on playing Jack Slevin in The Ballad of Jack and Rose (2005)) I was, as always, wary of taking on the role. This was a man whose soul was torn, and once you've adopted that kind of internal conflict, it's difficult to quiet.
      On disengaging from a character after filming: "There's a terrible sadness. The last day of shooting is surreal. Your mind, your body, your spirit are not in any way prepared to accept that this experience is coming to an end. In the months that follow the finish of a film, you feel profound emptiness. You've devoted so much of your time to unleashing, in an unconscious way, some sort of spiritual turmoil, and even if it's uncomfortable, no part of you wishes to leave that character behind. The sense of bereavement is such that it can take years before you can put it to rest.
      Before I start a film, there is always a period where I think, I'm not sure I can do this again. I remember that before I was going to start There Will Be Blood (2007), I wondered why I had said yes. When Martin Scorsese told me about Bill the Butcher in Gangs of New York (2002), I wanted to change places with that man. But even then, I did not say yes right away. I kept thinking, I'm not sure I can do this again.
      (on seeing his face in Hollywood posters for The Last of the Mohicans (1992)) That was, and will always be, difficult for me. The work itself is never anything but pure pleasure, but there's an awful lot of peripheral stuff that I find it hard to be surrounded by. I like things to be swift, because the energy you have is concentrated and can be fleeting. The great machinery of film can work against that. I have never had a positive reaction to all the stuff that supposedly promotes the film. The thought of it will make me hesitate to do any films at all.
      (on learning to box for The Boxer (1997)) I wanted to see if I loved the sport, because if I didn't love the sport, I wouldn't want to tell the story. At its best, boxing is very pure. It requires resilience and heart and self-belief even after it's been knocked out of you. It's a certain kind of a test. And it's hard: the training alone will kill you. And that's before people start giving you a dig.
      Playing the part of Christy Brown left me with a sense of setting myself on a course, of trying to achieve something that was utterly out of reach.
      (after filming The Unbearable Lightness of Being (1988)) I was hopelessly at sea. I was extremely unhappy most of the time. I think I probably felt I'd made a fundamental error in agreeing to do that movie even though it was the part and the film that everyone wanted to do. And God help us, that is, in itself, a reason not to do something.
      (while filming My Left Foot: The Story of Christy Brown (1989)) I needed - and I still need - to create a particular environment. I need to find the right kind of silence or light or noise. Whatever is necessary - and it is always different. I know it sounds a little fussy and a little ridiculous, but finding your own rhythm is one of the most important things you can discover about yourself. And you have to observe it. As actors, we're all encouraged to feel that each job is the last job. They plant some little electrode in your head at an early stage and you think, Be grateful, be grateful, be grateful. So, it's not without a sense of gratitude that I work. But I couldn't do this work at all unless I did it in my own rhythm. It became a choice between stopping and taking the time I needed.
      I've managed to create a sense of banishment in so many different areas of my life. I live in Ireland, not England. I make films in America. And now I'm banished from the theater because I've slagged it off so much. And I did the unspeakable thing of fleeing from 'Hamlet.'
      (on acting school) For a few years at school I tried to play the roles they wanted me to play, but it became less and less interesting to ponce around the place. Even now, when I sometimes think of doing a play, I think of rehearsal rooms and people hugging and everyone talking over cups of coffee because they are nervous. It's both very touching and it makes me a little nauseous and claustrophobic. Too much talk. I don't rehearse at all in film if I can help it. In talking a character through, you define it. And if you define it, you kill it dead.
Laurence Olivier might have been a much better actor on film if he hadn't had that flippant attitude. [He] was a remarkable actor, but he was entirely missing the point consistently. He felt that film was an inferior form.
      The thing that Konstantin Stanislavski lays out is how you do the thing the first time every time - 1,000 times. That's the idea you're always searching for.
      [on working as a teen-age extra in Sunday Bloody Sunday (1971)] I was just a local kid. I got to come out of the church, the same church where I sang in the choir, and scratch up a row of cars - a Jag, a Bentley - parked in front. I thought, I get paid for this! Years later, I saw the director, John Schlesinger, at the Edinburgh festival, where we were showing My Beautiful Laundrette (1985). I play a hooligan punk in that too. I said to [John] Schlesinger, 'I guess I haven't progressed much.'
      I came from the educated middle class but I identified with the working classes. Those were the people I looked up to. The lads whose fathers worked on the docks or in shipping yards or were shopkeepers. I knew that I wasn't part of that world, but I was intrigued by it. They had a different way of communicating. People who delight in conversation are often using that as a means to not say what is on their minds. When I became interested in theater, the work I admired was being done by working-class writers. It was often about the inarticulate. I later saw that same thing in Robert De Niro's early work - it was the most sublime struggle of a man trying to express himself. There was such poetry in that for me.
      (on obtaining Irish citizenship) I dare say it was still considered to be an abandonment of England A betrayal! A heresy! It is not expected that someone from my background will leave England. But I've committed so many heresies that there's no sense in not making the final gesture.
      (on visiting the west of Ireland every year since childhood) From the day we arrived here, my sense of Ireland's importance has never diminished. Everything here seemed exotic to us. Just the sound of the west of Ireland in a person's voice can affect me deeply.
      (on researching his role as Plainview in There Will Be Blood (2007)) I like to learn about things. It was just a great time trying to conceive of the impossibility of that thing. I didn't know anything about mining at the turn of the century in America. My boarding school in Kent didn't exactly teach that.
      (on researching his role as Plainview in There Will Be Blood (2007)) Back then men would get the fever. They would keep digging, always with the idea that next time they'll throw the dice and the money will fall out of the sky. It killed a lot of men, it broke others, still more were reduced to despair and poverty, but they still believed in the promise of the West.
      (on researching his role as Plainview in There Will Be Blood (2007)) I read a lot of correspondence dating from that period. Decent middle-class lives with wives and children were abandoned to pursue this elusive possibility. They were bank clerks and shipping agents and teachers. They all fled West for a sniff of cheap money. And they made it up as they went along. No one knew how to drill for oil. Initially, they scooped it out of the ground in saucepans. It was man at his most animalistic, sifting through filth to find bright, sparkly things.
      It was always assumed that the classics were a good line of work for me because I had a decent voice and the right nose. But anybody who comes from an essentially cynical European society is going to be bewitched by the sheer enthusiasm of the New World. And in America, the articulate use of language is often regarded with suspicion. Especially in the West. Look at the president. He could talk like an educated New Englander if he chose to. Instead, he holds his hands like a man who swings an ax. George W. Bush understands, very astutely, that many of the people who are going to vote for him would regard him less highly if he knew how to put words together. He would no longer be one of them. In Europe, the tradition is one of oratory. But in America, a man's man is never spendthrift with words. This, of course, is much more appealing in the movies than it is in politics.
      (replying to a compliment on his articulation) I am more greatly moved by people who struggle to express themselves. Maybe it's a middle-class British hang-up, but I prefer the abstract concept of incoherence in the face of great feeling to beautiful, full sentences that convey little emotion.
      (on applying to theater school, the Bristol Old Vic) I picked just one because then it would be a sign from the gods if it was not meant to be.
      (on his reluctance to expose the mechanics of his acting process) It's not that I want to pull the shutters down. It's just that people have such a misconception about what it is I do. They think the character comes from staying in the wheelchair or being locked in the jail or whatever extravagant thing they choose to focus their fantasies on. Somehow, it always seems to have a self-flagellatory aspect to it. But that's just the superficial stuff. Most of the movies that I do are leading me toward a life that is utterly mysterious to me. My chief goal is to find a way to make that life meaningful to other people.
      I was deeply unsettled by the script [of There Will Be Blood (2007)]. For me, that is a sure sign. If you remain unsettled by a piece of writing, it means you are not watching the story from the outside; you've already taken a step toward it. When I'm drawn to something, I take a resolute step backward, and I ask myself if I can really serve this story as well as it needs to be served. If I don't think I can do that, no matter how appealing, I will decline. What finally takes over, what took over with this movie, is an illusion of inevitability. I think: Can this really be true? Is this happening to me again? Is there no way to avoid this?
      My love for American movies was like a secret that I carried around with me. I always knew I could straddle different worlds. I'd grown up in two different worlds and if you can grow up in two different worlds, you can occupy four. Or six. Why put a limit on it?
      I used to go to all-night screenings of (Clint Eastwood)'s movies. I'd stagger out at 5 in the morning, trying to be loose-limbed and mean and taciturn.
      Where I come from, it was a heresy to say you wanted to be in movies, leave alone American movies. We were all encouraged to believe that the classics of the theater were the fiery hoops through which you'd have to pass if you were going to have any self-esteem as a performer. It never occurred to me that that was the case. One of the great privileges of having grown up in a middle-class literary English household, but having gone to school in the front lines in Southeast London, was that I became half-street-urchin and half-good-boy at home. I knew that dichotomy was possible. England is obsessed with where you came from, and they are determined to keep you in that place, be it in a drawing room or in the gutter. The great tradition of liberalism in England is essentially a sponge that absorbs all possibility of change. America looked different to me: the idea of America as a place of infinite possibilities was defined for me through the movies. I'm glad I did the classical work that I did, but it just wasn't for me. I'm a little bit perverse, and I just hate doing the thing that's the most obvious.
      I saw Taxi Driver (1976) five or six times in the first week, and I was astonished by its sheer visceral beauty. I just kept going back - I didn't know America, but that was a glimpse of what America might be, and I realized that, contrary to expectation, I wanted to tell American stories.
      I don't particularly like westerns as a genre, but I do love certain westerns. High Noon (1952) means a lot to me - I love the purity and the honesty, I love Gary Cooper in that film, the idea of the last man standing. I do not like John Wayne: I find it hard to watch him. I just never took to him. And I don't like James Stewart as a cowboy. I love him, but just not as a cowboy; Mr. Smith Goes to Washington (1939) is one of my favorite films. I love Frank Capra. I love Preston Sturges. But we're talking about westerns. ... I have always admired Clint Eastwood's westerns. The spaghetti westerns were a great discovery. And Pale Rider (1985). As a child, the John Ford film Cheyenne Autumn (1964) made a big impression on me. And Five Easy Pieces (1970). It's not really a western, but it is about the possibilities that can be found in the West. Jack Nicholson is sublime in that film, just sublime. It's the most stultifying portrait of middle-class life. You want to flee from that world and head anywhere less civilized. Which is, of course, the appeal of the West: It's not tamed yet.
      [on creating a characterization] The intention is always the same. To try to discover life in its entirety, or at least create for yourself the illusion that you have, which might give you some chance of convincing other people of it. It's the same thing each time, but it requires totally different work in the process of achieving that. You are set on a path that's strewn with obstacles, but getting over them is the joy of the work. So it's impossible to think in terms of difficulty: it all seems utterly impossible, but the pleasure is in trying to forge ahead anyway.
      My ambition for many years was to be involved in work that was utterly compelling to me, regardless of the consequences. But I worried a lot as a young man about where such and such a thing might take me; you're encouraged to think that way. You're supposed to build a career for yourself. But there's no part of me that was able to do that. And thank God I was able to recognize it before I sort of went grey with anxiety.
      For my sense of continuity, I suppose I work in a certain way. But it goes beyond that. It's really about the sense of joy you have in having worked hard to imagine and discover and - one hopes - to create a world, an illusion of a world that other people might believe in because you believe in it yourself, a form of self-delusion. After achieving that, it seems far crazier to jump in and out of that world that you've gone to such pains to create. And it wouldn't be my wish to do that, because I enjoy being in there. - On why he takes long breaks between films.
      Whenever we reach what we think are the boundaries of our endurance, you know ten minutes later you're thinking: I could have done that - like in any athletic pursuit - I could have gone further than that; I could have jumped higher.
      I am rather surprised that I haven't made more stories about my own country but it is a mistake to suggest that the biggest influence on my life in terms of movies has been America. It was and remains Ken Loach and his whole body of work, not that I have ever worked with him. There is something unique and pure about the way he works, without a taint on it. His beliefs have remained unwavering since he made Cathy Come Home.
      I do have dual citizenship, but I think of England as my country. I miss London very much but I couldn't live there because there came a time when I needed to be private and was forced to be public by the press. I couldn't deal with it.
      I was very influenced by Ken Loach's work from the moment I saw Kes (1969) when I was a kid. It still remains for me one of the most powerful pieces of work ever. Before that, there was Saturday Night and Sunday Morning (1960), This Sporting Life (1963) and The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner (1962), which all expressed a new British social realism. Undoubtedly, they opened up the possibility of examining British life in a new way. That was probably the most important film experience I had.
      I have no illusion about the fact that I'm an Englishman living in Ireland. Even though I do straddle both worlds and I'm very proud to be able to carry both passports. But I do know where I come from. I particularly miss south-east London - the front-lines of Deptford and Lewisham and New Cross and Charlton - because that's my patch.
      [on accepting the best actor Oscar for There Will Be Blood (2007)] This sprang like a sapling out of the mad, beautiful head of Paul Thomas Anderson.
      Initially it was invigorating. People suddenly wanted to hear my views on all manner of social problems. I was up for it but it palled very soon afterwards. It was not like real conversation where you listen and learn. It's hard to learn anything when you are talking about it. You only learn doing it. And if you are not learning, what's the point? - on the "wisdom" of actors as public figures.
      Theatre invites a nuts and bolts process to rehearsing in which all the actors are transparent to each other. For me, even if the truth I am looking for might be a specious one, I still need to believe in a kernel of truth. And I find it hard to do in a rehearsal situation where everyone is saying, "Are you going to do it like that?" It is distracting and deadly in the end to any discovery you might make. I'm never far away from a sense of potential absurdity of what I am doing, and maybe as I get older I have to work harder and harder to obliterate it. That's maybe why I seem to take it far too seriously.
      Thank you. I'm very, very proud of this. Thank you so much for giving it to me. And I'm very proud to be included in that group of wonderful actors this year. You know, for as long as I can remember, the thing that gave me a sense of wonderment, of renewal, the thing that teased me with the question, how is such a thing possible, and then dare you to go back into the arena of one more time, with longing and self-doubt, jostling in the balance. It's always been the work of other actors, and there are many actors in this room tonight, including my fellow nominees who have given that sense of regeneration and Heath Ledger gave it to me. In Monster's Ball (2001), that character that he created, it seemed to be almost like an unformed being, retreating from themselves, retreating from his father, from his life, even retreating from us, and yet we wanted to follow him, and yet we're scared to follow him almost. It was unique. And then, of course, in Brokeback Mountain (2005), he was unique, he was perfect. And that scene in the trailer at the end of the film is as moving as anything that I think I've ever seen. And I'd like to dedicate this to Heath Ledger. So, thank you very much. Thank you so much (Acceptance speech for Best Actor In A Leading Role SAG award for There Will Be Blood (2007).
      (On choosing film roles) I begin with a sense of mystery. In other words, I am intrigued by a life that seems very far removed from my own. And I have a sense of curiosity to discover that life and maybe change places with it for a while.
      [About Heath Ledger] As much as I was glad to have a chance to say something in that moment. There was plenty more I could say but we're not just fueling a fire that's already out of control. His family, for instance, at this moment are trying to suffer that unimaginable grief in the full scrutiny of a fucking circus and anything that I say is probably going to contribute even more to that and keep the story running and running and running. There will come a time eventually when people just remember that he was a beautiful man who did some wonderful work and we would have seen great things from him. Right now I can't say that I'm too enthusiastic about just adding more fodder to what is already a horrendously, obscenely overblown machine that's gathered around his death. It's horrible.
      ([n the passing of Pete Postlethwaite]: Pos was the one. As students, it was him we went to see on stage time and time again. It was him we wanted to be like; wild and true; lion-hearted; unselfconscious, irreverent. He was on our side. He watched out for us. We loved him and followed him like happy children, never a breath away from laughter. He shouldn't have gone. I wish so much that he hadn't. There's a tendency to make lists at this time of the year. When we get to the Best of British, if Pete isn't at the top of that list, he shouldn't be far from it.
      [on the rumors surrounding his acting process]: Certainly in England I think they prefer to believe that I'm stone mad. That's how they account for all my eccentric behavior. But I always feel as if that has been largely misrepresented, the details that have been singled out...People are fascinated by the peripheral details. But that's not where the principal work takes place, obviously. That takes place either inside you, or it doesn't happen at all. It's your own life that breathes itself into and through the character. But people prefer to dwell on the stuff that appears on the face of it to be some form of self-flagellation. And for me, everything is part of the joy of discovering this life - that one is trying to inform as well as satisfying an irresistible curiosity. So it's the pleasure in learning that has always been the prevailing feeling for me. And yet consistently it's represented as this tortured thing.
      I like to take a long time over things, and I believe that it's the time spent away from the work that allows me to do the work itself. If you're lurching from from one film set or one theater to the other, I'm not sure what your resources would be as a human being.
      [on playing Abraham Lincoln] The minute you begin to approach him - and there are vast corridors that have been carved that lead you to an understanding of that man's life, both through the great riches of his own writing and all the contemporary accounts and biographies - he feels immediately and surprisingly accessible. He draws you closer to him.
      I became conflicted in my late teens. I imagined an alternative life as a furniture maker. For about a year I just didn't know what to do. I did laboring jobs - working in the docks, construction sites. When I did make the decision to focus on acting, I think my mother was just relieved for me that I had finally started to focus. She probably feared for me much more than she ever let on, because all I got from her, no matter what I was doing was encouragement - so much so that I think I became quite a harsh judge of myself to try to restore some kind of balance.
      [on the United States] I probably do have a greater fascination for the history of this country than I do for my own. I date that back to the moment that Michael Mann invited me to do 'The Last of the Mohicans'. I hedged my bets for a long time because I thought, 'Why? Why would he want to do that'. Eventually I thought, 'Well, if he's willing to take that chance, who am I to say no?'.
      [on events in America, 2012] I think a lot about what President Obama is going through at this moment. I look to the extent to which he has aged visibly. I feel I aged visibly just playing [President Lincoln], so to actually have that responsibility is a burden that one can only explore in one's imagination. Anyone who has that position of authority must necessarily find themselves very, very alone at certain times. I'm not in any way comparing his work to the work that I do as an actor, but it's a common theme.
      I'm woefully one-track-minded. Without sounding unhinged, I know I'm not Abraham Lincoln. I'm aware of that. But the truth is the entire game is about creating an illusion, and for whatever reason, and mad as it may sound, some part of me can allow myself to believe for a period for time without questioning, and that's the trick. Maybe it's a terrible revelation about myself that one does feel able to do that.
      [on playing Abraham Lincoln] I thought this is a very, very bad idea. But by that time it was too late. I had already been drawn into Lincoln's orbit. He has a very powerful orbit, which is interesting because we tend to hold him at such a distance. He's been mythologized almost to the point of dehumanization. But when you begin to approach him, he almost instantly becomes welcoming and accessible, the way he was in life.
      [on photos of Abraham Lincoln by Alexander Gardner] I looked at them the way you sometimes look at your own reflection in a mirror and wonder who that person is looking back at you.
      I never, ever felt that depth of love for another human being that I never met. And that's, I think, probably the effect that Lincoln has on most people that take the time to discover him... I wish he had stayed [with me] forever.
      [accepting the Best Actor award at SAG, 2013] It occurred to me - it was an actor that murdered Abraham Lincoln. And therefore, somehow it is only so fitting that every now and then an actor tries to bring him back to life again.
      [on being presented the 2013 Best Actor Oscar by Meryl Streep] It's strange because three years ago, before we decided to do a straight swap, I had actually been committed to play Margaret Thatcher and Meryl was Steven Spielberg's first choice for Lincoln. I'd have liked to see that version.
      Since we got married sixteen years ago, my wife Rebecca [Miller] has lived with some very strange men. But luckily, she's the versatile one in the family and she's been the perfect companion to all of them.
      I miss playing Lincoln. Very much. I miss the proximity to his character. There was a time in my life when it wasn't clear whether or not I would amount to anything. I was fearful about my future. In England, people were hell-bent on certifying me -- to them, the way I work as an actor is the system of someone who is unhinged. As a young man, when I saw the early movies by Martin Scorsese, I saw a way to be, a kind of liberation. In those movies, America seemed like a place of infinite opportunities. In Lincoln (2012), we tried to show that sense of grand democratic possibility. We created a world I didn't want to leave.
=======================================================
From All Movie Guide: An actor whose on-screen intensity is rivalled only by his off-screen intensity, Daniel Day-Lewis is one of the most acclaimed and least understood performers of his generation. The stories surrounding his complete immersion in his roles are legendary, from his insistence on remaining in a wheelchair between takes for My Left Foot to his refusal to accept manufactured cigarettes in favor of rolling his own, 18th-century style, while filming The Last of the Mohicans. 
Day-Lewis' highly cerebral approach to his work may emanate in part from his background. Born in London on April 29, 1957, he was the son of Poet Laureate Cecil Day-Lewis and actress Jill Balcon. The influence of the cinema was particularly strong on his mother's side: she was the daughter of Sir Michael Balcon, the one-time head of Ealing Studios. Educated at various public schools, Day-Lewis took an early interest in acting. After dropping out of school at the age of thirteen, he managed to get a small part in John Schlesinger's Sunday, Bloody Sunday (1971). Following his debut, he decided to focus on his theatrical training, which he received at the Bristol Old Vic. He acted with that theatre and with the Royal Shakespeare Company for the rest of the decade, and in 1982 he made his second film appearance, playing a street thug in Gandhi. 
It was in 1986 that Day-Lewis first stepped into the realm of international acclaim. Two films which featured him in prominent roles, My Beautiful Laundrette and A Room With a View, opened on the same day in New York. A gay street punk in the former and an insufferable Edwardian prig in the latter, Day-Lewis astonished critics and audiences with his chameleon-like versatility. The New York Film Critics Circle took particular note of his talent, naming him the year's Best Supporting Actor for his work in both films. It was only a matter of time before Day-Lewis achieved leading man status, and two years later he did just that in Philip Kaufman's adaptation of Milan Kundera's The Unbearable Lightness of Being. The acclaim the actor received for his portrayal of a philandering Czech surgeon paled in comparison to that surrounding his performance as the cerebral palsy-stricken author and artist Christy Brown in Jim Sheridan's My Left Foot (1989). Day-Lewis won American and British Academy Awards as Best Actor for his work, sealing a reputation as one of the most engaging leading men of his generation.
A subsequent return to the stage in Richard Eyre's National Theatre production of {-Hamlet} ended abruptly when Day-Lewis walked off the stage one night, mid-performance, due to "nervous exhaustion." He took a hiatus from film until 1992, when he reappeared, toned up and oiled down, to star in Last of the Mohicans. The film was a success, and it went some way towards giving Day-Lewis a reputation as an unconventional sex symbol. The following year, he returned to the other side of the Atlantic to star in Sheridan's In the Name of the Father, playing an Irish man wrongfully convicted of taking part in an IRA bombing. Best Actor Oscar, BAFTA, and Golden Globe nominations followed suit for his powerful performance. That same year, Day-Lewis' versatility was again on display, as he starred as a turn-of-the-century New York society man in Martin Scorsese's lavish adaptation of Edith Wharton's The Age of Innocence. 
Day-Lewis' screen appearances subsequently took on a more sporadic quality, and it was not until 1996 that he was again visible to film audiences. That year, he starred in Nicholas Hytner's adaptation of Arthur Miller's The Crucible. His portrayal of the tragically adulterous John Proctor netted strong reviews, as did his work in the following year's The Boxer, his third collaboration with Sheridan. Starring as a former boxer trying to make a new life for himself after being imprisoned for fourteen years for his work with the IRA, Day-Lewis turned in another powerful performance. Although the film received mixed reviews, the actor earned a Golden Globe nomination for his work.
Subsequently forsaking film work for the simple life of a cobbler in Italy, Day-Lewis was reportedly drawn out of his self imposed exile through the efforts of producer Harvey Weinstein, actor Leonardo DiCaprio and former collaborator Scorsese. Lured to New York and back into the hustle and bustle of the film industry, it seemed that Scorsese had finally found an actor capable of the focused yet unhinged intensity that Gangs of New York's Bill the Butcher demanded. Once again submerging himself so much in the character that the lines of reality and fantasy would become blurred (rumors persisted that he  would speak with his film accent even while off-screen in addition to taking lessons by a genuine butcher), Day-Lewis' decidedly methodic approach to creating convincing screen characters would ultimately pay off as many cited his Oscar nominated  performance as one of the most convincing of the talented actor's career.Day-Lewis typically disappeared from sight yet again after Gangs, waiting two years before appearing again in a movie, this time being directed by his wife in the drama The Ballad of Jack & Rose, but he would again be showered with praise for his portrayal of Daniel Plainview, the ambitious, misanthropic center of Paul Thomas Anderson's There WIll Be Blood. Day-Lewis appeaed in all but one scene of the two hour and forty minute movie, and his dominating performance garnered him nearly every industry and ciritics award at the end of 2007 including an Oscar nomination for Best Actor.In 2009 he took the lead role in the cinematic adaptation of the smash stage musical Nine. But he was thrust back into the awards race yet again three years later for his lauded performance as the title character in Steven Spielberg's long-gestating biopic Lincoln. For his work in that movie, Day-Lewis captured the SAG award, and became the first man in the history of the Academy Awards to take home a third Best Actor statuette. ~ Rebecca Flint Marx, Rovi      
© 2010 All Media Guide, LLC Portions of content provided by All Movie Guide ®, a trademark of All Media Guide, LLC
=======================================================
'I look at that beach and I can tell you where each one was lying...   I can still see their faces': Tears of D-Day veterans as they make emotional return to Normandy to honour their fallen comrades
A royal salute for the fallen heroes of D-Day: Prince Charles and an elegant Duchess of Cornwall join the Queen to pay their respects
        70 years after they stormed Normandy's beaches as young soldiers amid the hell of battle, veterans willing to die for freedom in 1944 have made an emotional return to France. Harold Baumgarten, 89, has described how he could still look out at the beaches of northern France and point to where the bodies lay. Other men like Peter Smooth, 89, left, went to the British War Cemetery in Bayeux to salute fallen comrades. Other told their stories to dignitaries like Prime Minister David Cameron, top right. Across the Channel Douglas Turtle, 91, bottom right, sobbed on the seafront in Portsmouth as he remembered June 6 1944 at dawn.
Still sulking, Mr Putin? Just weeks after Charles accused him of acting like Hitler, the Russian president stands by as Obama plays the gentleman for the Queen
       World leaders gathered in Normandy to mark the 70th anniversary of D-Day amid growing tensions over Russian aggression towards Ukraine. Mr Putin is due to come face-to-face with the Prince of Wales later. As heads of state gathered for a group photo to mark  D-Day at Benouville Castle, Mr Putin cut a solitary figure while Barack Obama and New Zealand's Governor-General Jerry Mateparae fussed around the Queen.
      Surrounded by thousands of war graves Her Majesty bowed as she laid a wreath during a poignant service of remembrance in Bayeux, the first town in Normandy to be freed from Hitler's grip on June 6 1944.
Flood warnings issued as Britain faces a weekend soaking with a fortnight's rain forecast to fall in just an hour (so enjoy today's sunshine while you can)
      The Met Office said thundery rain is expected to start falling across Britain early tomorrow morning, with showers unlikely to ease off until the evening. Some places could see between 20mm and 30mm of rain fall in an hour - almost half of the UK monthly average for the whole of June. It comes as people across the country enjoy temperatures of up to 25C today. Families and teenagers celebrating the end of their exams took to South Shields beach today (right) to soak up the sunshine, while horses enjoyed grazing in buttercup fields in the warm weather in Biggin Hill, Kent (left).
Eight drug dealers to be questioned by British police in hunt for Madeleine McCann as officers are given green light to quiz them
      Portuguese officials are reported to have finally given the go-ahead for British officers to quiz eight local men who they believe could be crucial to solving the mystery
Mother left in tears after two customers called her a 'slut' for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
      Rhea Holley, of Faversham in Kent, was at Costa Coffee in Purley, south London, when two customers in their 60s started verbally abusing her for breast-feeding.
Mother in tears after being called a 'slut' by two customers for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
      Studies show the optimum amount is 3-4mg of caffeine per kilogram of bodyweight one hour prior to exercise.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
      Julie Matthias, 49, of Chatham, Kent, has been diagnosed with Foreign Accent Syndrome - which affects just 60 people worldwide.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
'The job isn't finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite triumph over Farage in Newark by-election
      The Prime Minister warned the Conservatives had to keep hammering home key messages on the economy, tax cuts and jobs, after Robert Jenrick beat UKIP's Roger Helmer by 7,000 votes.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
Parents held after son, 11, reaches 15 STONE: Couple arrested on suspicion of child cruelty after 'doctors became concerned about boy's wellbeing
      The parents, from King’s Lynn, Norfolk, claim their son's weight gain is genetic and they have tried to keep his size under control.
Mexican Kim Kardashian lookalike 'takes over as boss of drug cartel hit squad' and uses a personalised pink AK47
       Claudia Ochoa Felix, 27, is thought to be the new head of an elite kill squad used by one of Mexico's most powerful drug cartel, the Sinaloas, to carry out executions. She regularly posts pictures on social media posing like her idol Kim Kardashian while holding her signature pink AK (right). She has also uploaded images of her bodyguards (inset) and her three children surrounded by piles of cash.
'Fraudsters hijacked our phone line and then stole £41,000 when we called the bank': Customers scammed and then left stranded by their banks
      In two separate cases investigated customers with Lloyds Bank and Nationwide Building Society lost a total of almost £60,000 to the scam.
Most rapists don't lurk down dark alleys wearing balaclavas, say prosecutors in move to boost conviction rates
      The country’s top prosecutor warned that ‘out-of-date myths’ had to be tackled to persuade victims to have confidence in the criminal justice system.
Forget the helmets - you'll only need a flat cap: Hilarious video warns Tour de France riders what to expect in Yorkshire (and says avoid bright clothing... it scares the sheep)
      Ditch helmets for flat caps and switch bright jackets for grey cardigans so you don't scare the sheep - a Yorkshire man's advice ahead of the Tour de France.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
      Researchers from London's University of Westminster asked 124 men - half of whom were hungry and half well-fed - to rate different women by attractiveness.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
'I wasn't even hungry': Russian cannibal is FREED from court despite admitting he ate his fisherman friend - as victim's distraught wife says all she is left with is his foot
       Her husband, Andrei Kurochkin was eaten by his close friends who were fishermen after they were lost for months during an expedition in frozen Siberia. Olga Korochkin, 38, spoke out after hearing confirmation that cannibalised human remains found were those of her husband.
Fears government agencies can listen in to private mobile phone calls at the ‘flick of a switch’ after Vodafone reveals authorities use secret wires across its entire network which stretches to 29 countries
      Vodafone said direct-access wires were connected to its network, allowing authorities in 29 countries - including Italy, Malta and Spain - to monitor conversations.
‘Rape? Sometimes it's RIGHT': Indian state minister says offence is only a crime if the woman reports it to police - days after murderous gang-rape of two sisters
      'This is a social crime which depends on men and women. Sometimes it's right, sometimes it's wrong,' said Babulal Gaur, minister for Madhya Pradesh.
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left three Canadian Mounties dead and put city on day-long lock-down
      Justin Bourque, 24, was taken into custody early Friday morning after a deadly shootout in Moncton, New Brunswick, that left three police officers dead.
Suffocated baby's twin returned to parents after judge clears father of accidentally killing her as they slept on sofa, saying the couple 'deserve to be believed'
      The middle class father came under suspicion from Lancashire County Council following the death of his daughter, but judge Mr Justice Peter Jackson (pictured) cleared him of blame.
Dying for a tan: Man, 32, diagnosed with terminal skin cancer after spending £7,000 on sunbed sessions over eight years
       Damien Platt, from Greater Manchester, was diagnosed with melanoma after using a sunbed up to four times a week for nine minutes at a time 'to make hi self feel good'. He said: 'To find out I had melanoma was the worst feeling in the world. I felt completely numb and found it very hard to function properly for days, people would try talking to me but nothing would register. Now I'm just trying to be as happy as possible with the time I've got left.' Image ( bottom right) shows the scar on his leg where the mole was removed and (top right) shows him with a tan.
Use leftover Melba toast... and other money-saving tips by aristocratic politician who lives in a 13-bed manor
      Tory peer Baroness Rawlings, who is married to a multi-millionaire, suggested people reuse their linen and use a bath to warm the room.
New obesity jab could be available within two years after scientists discover hormone that helps the body burn fat
      Researchers at Havard Medical School and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in the U.S. have found a new hormone, they believe could provide the key to treating obesity and diabetes.
      As 94-year old grandmother Bertha Guymer, pictured, lay dying on a hospital bed in Essex, a thief stole her wedding rings, her family has claimed.
'Can't catch me': Fugitive, 20, who taunted police on Facebook weeps in the dock as he is jailed for stealing thousands from his grandparents and assaulting his mother
      Joe Barlow, from Laindon, Essex, was jailed for five separate offences at Basildon Crown Court, including stealing £8,500 from his grandparents’ savings to pay for drugs.
       The 'barbaric' act of cruelty in Pendle, Lancashire was filmed by one of the men, while the other two tried to clamber up towards the terrified animal. Joshua Varey, 24, filmed the act while Shaun Mullens, 22, and Paul Ashworth, 49, shook branches trying to dislodge the animal. All three defendants, from Colne, have pleaded guilty to what Burnley magistrates described as 'deliberate and serious' acts of cruelty that the defendants 'appear to derive pleasure from'.
'Everything is proceeding according to plan. And what a plan!' How Churchill told MPs of the most ambitious operation ever launched as the D-Day landings were still underway
      MPs applauded after the wartime Prime Minister described the start of the 'most complicated and difficult' operation ever launched.
The British people's greatest day: Today, raise a glass to the ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
      If I had to single out one moment of the struggle which represented the zenith of our national achievement, then it must be D-Day, writes MAX HASTINGS.
The British people's greatest day: Cynics will say it's time to move on. But today raise a glass to the sheer ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
The average woman wants to meet ‘the one’ aged 24, have a child at 27 and reach the top of their career by 34
      Nearly two-thirds of those studied had a detailed life plan they try to follow – with targets such as passing their driving test by 19, living healthily by 24 and getting engaged at 26.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
      Vincent Walsh, professor of human brain research at University College London, also proposed they should be allowed to set their own work times, arriving whenever they want.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richman poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
       Former Man V. Food host Adam Richman is celebrating is 70lb weight loss with a naked spread in Cosmopolitan UK's July issue. Mr Richman, 40, poses lying down with a soccer ball precariously covering his genitals. He wears soccer cleats and knee socks and is surrounded by a smattering of soccer balls that read 'USA', in reference to this summer's World Cup.
One Direction's Louis Tomlinson to become co-chairman of Doncaster Rovers Football Club after 'finalising multi-million pound takeover deal'
      The One Direction singer is believed to have finalised a deal to takeover the football club, who he has supported his whole life.
Why Tetris is so addictive: Playing the game is like 'scratching an itch' and appeals to our brain's desire to tidy up
      A psychologist from the University of Sheffield has revealed that Tetris appeals to our brain's desire to solve mini tasks, while being tantalised by more problems.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
      Scientists secretly gave 2,051 babies and children in homes thought to include Sean Ross Abbey, Co. Tipperary, pictured, a diphtheria vaccine without their consent.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his ferry in a storm
      Steve Kingston, who runs a river ferry company in King's Lynn, Norfolk, refused to take the council's advice to leave his ship. In response the authorities sent in police to carry out the heavy-handed arrest.
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his ferry in a storm
Four generations of depravity: Court orders 'incest family' who lived in remote Australian bush to provide DNA samples to help police unravel decades of sexual abuse
       Two members of a NSW family accused of mass incest have been DNA swabbed following a court order. 'Raylene Colt' and 'Betty Colt' (the legal pseudonyms given to them) were ordered to report to a Sydney police station on Friday to provide samples. The family was discovered in regional NSW in 2012 living in squalid conditions and have been the subject of a child abuse investigation since.
      Researchers at the University of Rochester, in the U.S., say male brains are affected more significantly than female brains.
Give me my pocket money or I'll jump: Chinese boy, 10, holds parents to ransom over late payment of his 50p
      When ten-year-old Xiao Wei's father was late in paying him his weekly 50p stipend in Shangsi, China, the stubborn youngster took matters into his own hands.
Father jailed for stabbing his partner six times during vicious attack in front of their children after she called police to report him
      Nicholas Robinson, pictured, broke down in tears at Leeds Crown Court after he received the 11-year sentence for the attempted murder of Claire Chambers.
      Dr Viren Swami from the University of Westminster said those in love also tend to think their partner is better looking than themselves.
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she'd been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida - ending a 20-year scam in which she stole £144,000
       Janet Curtis, 64, top right, from Clacton, Essex, said her rheumatoid arthritis meant she could barely walk more than a few yards, and left her needing 24-hour live-in care. But fraud investigators found video footage showing her water-skiing on holiday in Florida, left, walking round theme parks and swimming. Curtis, pictured outside Ipswich Crown Court yesterday, bottom right, admitted nine benefits fraud charges and was ordered to repay the money, and given a curfew and 18-month suspended prison sentence.
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she'd been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida ending 20 year scam in which she stole £144,000
School at centre of alleged Islamist 'Trojan Horse' takeover plot rejects Ofsted report saying it is failing to protect pupils from extremism
      The report - made public yesterday but leaked to the Mail on Monday - said Golden Hillock school in Birmingham (pictured), was doing too little to keep students safe from extremist views.
Is this the street in which Jack the Ripper lived? Geographic profiling pinpoints exact address of Victorian serial killer
      A former Canadian police officer combined geographical profiling and computer models to pinpoint Ripper's address in Whitechapel, East London (pictured in 1902).
Still clutching their rosaries after hundreds of years, eerie photographs show mummies buried in a Czech underground crypt
       A monastery in the Czech Republic has a ghoulish secret for those willing to venture underground - two dozen corpses clutching rosaries are on display. The bodies in the Capuchin Crypt of the Holy Cross Church, in Brno, date back hundreds of years, but they were only recently rediscovered and opened to public viewing.
Google reveals 3D scanning sensors for tablets that will map your home and give you directions INSIDE a building
      California-based Google has revealed the next step in their 'Project Tango'. The ambitious 3D mapping technology is being brought to tablets (pictured).
Terrifying moment motorist gets mobbed by dozens of drunk Frenchmen who jump up and down on her car after spilling out of BMX festival
      Dozens of drunk and overexcited extreme sports fans brought an area of central Montpellier, France, to a standstill last night after spilling out of the city's famous FISE festival and attacking cars that stood in their way.
      People who match with each other on the app can now send pictures visible for 24 hours to each other.
      The mums in Krasnoyarsk Krai, a city in central Russia, were among thousands who offered up their children in the races which have taken place across the country.
It's one in a mill-ion! Stunning riverside home with its own working water mill and vintage car museum could be yours (for £700,000)
       The secluded estate is set in 67 acres of woodland near South Molton, between the picturesque Dartmoor and Exmoor national parks in Devon, and features a water mill with exposed mechanics and a huge millstone. The magnificent building also features a spectacular 13,000 sq ft vintage car museum, riverside terrace and floodlit weir.
'Chaos and mass delays' as power failure grounds flights at Bristol Airport and passengers are told to wait outside terminal
      Passengers have taken to Twitter to voice their frustration as flights are delayed and the terminal fills with grounded passengers.
Air passengers delayed and 'forced to fly without luggage' from Heathrow due to Europe-wide computer problem
      The luggage system that manages baggage across Europe has experienced an IT failure which is affecting flight out of the UK.
Does the amount of make-up you wear affect how people treat you? Student tries three different looks to find out
       Brinton Parker, a 21-year-old student at the University of California, was inspired to conduct her experiment after noticing how her peers critiqued people's looks. So during a single week, she went to school wearing three very different make-up looks - bare-faced, moderate and heavy - in a bid to measure the ways it altered how people treated her.
          Pregnant Claire Sweeney displays growing bump in two tone mini dress as she treats herself to restaurant meal
          Katherine Jenkins ditches her usual glamorous make-up for a more natural look as she showcases her slim frame in navy mini dress
          Cara Delevingne shows off her supermodel style in plunging printed silk jumpsuit as she attends Stella McCartney party with pal Jourdan Dunn
          Handle with care! Nigella Lawson steps out looking pale and fragile... the morning after her dazed appearance at charity fundraiser
          A look that will take you places! Michelle Keegan wears bright short jumpsuit at photocall for holiday company
          It's over: Jennifer Lopez and dancer boyfriend Casper Smart 'call it quits'... amid transsexual sexting scandal
          One Direction's Louis Tomlinson to become co-chairman of Doncaster Rovers Football Club after 'finalising multi-million pound takeover deal'
          BGT 2014's final will be a huge TV event... and a mindless, cynical circus: JIM SHELLEY's 12 reasons for hating Britain's Got Talent
          Prison food went down well then! Chris Brown shows off a fuller physique as he arrives at 'get out of jail free' party thrown by lover Karrueche Tran
          Earning her fashion stripes: Pregnant Holly Willoughby wears comfortable T-shirt and jeans as she leaves Soho restaurant
          Samantha Cameron walks hand-in-hand with veteran's family member at service to mark the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings
          Now where did I put those Daisy Dukes? Jessica Simpson parades her slimmer figure in semi-sheer dress as she prepares for summer wedding
          Only the best for his wife-to-be! George Clooney 'on the hunt for French love nest' with fiancee Amal Alamuddin... as he 'plans move into politics'
          Lara Stone shows off her cleavage and slim pins as she is joined by husband David Walliams at Terrence Higgins Trust event
          Jake Gyllenhaal and Rachel McAdams spotted sharing intimate meal in Pittsburgh as they prepare to start shooting new film Southpaw
          Simply bellissimo! Chloe Green opts for effortless Italian glamour in pale pink tie- up shirt and leather skirt as she kicks off charity road trip in Venice
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney enters the Big Brother house... and claims she has been celibate for a year
          Sienna Miller and fiancé Tom Sturridge lead the way during ANOTHER celebrity-packed night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Lo(han) and behold... she's out again! Flame-haired Lindsay rocks a grungy leather jacket and skirt combo as she enjoys another night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Moss be having fun! Kate looks worse for wear in clashing prints as she hits Prince gig and Chiltern Firehouse with Nick Grimshaw
          Don't mind us! Michael Sheen and Sarah Silverman make a discreet exit after late night out at celebrity haunt Chiltern Firehouse
          Millie Mackintosh highlights her slender frame in snakeskin jumpsuit at Smirnoff Mix It campaign launch
          Another celebrity convert: Amber Le Bon models the world's first in-flight onesie (but don't expect to look as good as her at 30,000ft)
          'Fake boobs, sex and spirituality need to be addressed in opera!' The rugby WAG and Gary Barlow protégée who wants to shake up the classical music world
          Fit for Hollywood royalty! Sandra Bullock looks regal in side-split blue gown as she speaks at Jane Fonda Tribute
          Lovely in lace! Kate Beckinsale steals the show in strapless white dress at Macbeth opening night bash
          She must've Heard it was a fashion event! Amber steals the limelight as she displays her pins in fetching red minidress at Stella McCartney presentation
          Now that's Fancy! Shipshape Iggy Azalea slips into green bikini for luxury yacht holiday to celebrate 24th birthday
          Team green! Brooke Vincent's 22nd birthday celebrations continue as she hits Manchester in sexy jumpsuit flanked by pals
          Fancy meeting you here! Kim Kardashian and Hilary Duff bring their children to same parenting class in Beverly Hills
          'He's struggling!' Kris Jenner opens up about Rob Kardashian's issues, but does not deny daughter Kourtney is pregnant with third child
          Maggie Gyllenhaal wows in colourful boho chic as she holds her own at Stella McCartney's Spring 2015 presentation
          Crazy Stupid Stomach! Cheryl Cole reveals her washboard abs in low- cut crop top in stills from video for new single
          Meet first 10 Big Brother 2014 contestants: A former prostitute, a strict catholic and a one-hit wonder amongst those first in house
          Here come the girls! Daisy Lowe sports cropped blouse and flared dress trousers for night out at Scott's with fellow fashionista Alexa Chung
          Nigella Lawson lets her hair down at charity dinner... as her production company makes £2.5 million profit in a year
          Emma Roberts cuts a striking figure in a fetching red dress as she receives Maui Film Festival Shining Star Award alongside fiance Evan Peters
          When in Ibiza! TOWIE's Mario Falcone puts his washboard abs on display as he greets topless fans during stag do holiday
          They love the nightlife! Aussie star Guy Pearce plays tour guide as he takes actor  Robert Pattinson and his blonde lady friend on a trip to Sydney's top hotspots
          Doesn't she get a day off? Alesha Dixon shows off her super flat stomach as she dresses up again for UK premiere of Belle
          Kourtney Kardashian covers up 'baby bump' in baggy black sweater as she and Scott Disick grab lunch in The Hamptons
          That's better! Bradley Cooper trades questionably tight shorts for baggy cargo pants as he takes a break from the set of American Sniper
          TOWIE's Gemma Collins wears white skinny jeans with confidence after losing nearly two stone ahead of Marbella special
          'He's lost... but he's no racist': Rapper 50 Cent defends Justin Bieber following N-word storm... as singer 'takes responsibility for his actions'
          Still selfie obsessed! Kendall and Kylie Jenner pucker up for picture... despite being mobbed by fans at book signing
          'She has the perfect body!' Kris Jenner says daughter Kendall's topless modelling shots 'comes with the territory'
          Jumping into action! Emma Willis wins the viewers votes as she kicks off Big Brother 2014 in flattering white all-in-one
          Big Brother 2014 Launch: Pauline Bennet goes on a 'power trip' as a playboy bunny and devout Catholic are amongst first stars to enter the house
          Big Brother reveals first twist of the series as Pauline Bennet is told to pick who wins £5,000 and which housemate is excluded on first night
          He's scored! Phil Neville can't resist kissing bikini-clad wife Julie as family holiday in Barbados continues
          You gotta fight for your copyright! Beastie Boys awarded $1.7million after suing drink firm which used their music in commercials
          George RR Martin makes fundraising appeal to Game Of Thrones fans to name a character he will kill in upcoming novel
          Time to update the wardrobe! Chantelle Houghton wears her favourite white blazer as she goes shopping with Dolly
          Together again! Eva Longoria reunites with Desperate Housewives co-star Felicity Huffman at Jane Fonda Tribute
          Orange is the new black: Ashley Tisdale shows off her tanned and toned legs in tiny bright shorts as she enjoys shopping trip
          The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
          Rolling Stones stars Mick Jagger, Ronnie Wood and Charlie Watts visit Jerusalem's Western Wall before first ever Israel concert
          Look, I can do streetwise too! J-Lo is just Jenny From The Block as she steps out in denim after being branded a 'sell out' at Bronx homecoming 
          Diary of BGT's ditziest finalist: Lettice on auditioning hungover, her outrageous stage costumes and being loaned a £1.5million violin to perform
          The Queen lights up the Champs-Élysées: Her Majesty - in her FOURTH chic outfit of the day - has red carpet rolled out for her in Paris ahead of D-Day
          Pastel perfection: Lindsay Lohan reveals very slim pins in pale blue skinny jeans and jumper as she steps out to lunch
          Catherine Zeta-Jones and Morgan Freeman share a friendly kiss gone wrong... as she and Michael Douglas arrive at Hollywood event together
          Pins on parade! Jessica Seinfeld and Liv Tyler wear revealing short summer dresses at Stella McCartney presentation
          'She's celestial... I was born into her': Keith Urban on his divine connection with Nicole Kidman... and how her drug intervention saved him
          She's still got it! Jane Fonda, 76, wows as she accepts lifetime achievement award... days after giving sex tips on Conan O'Brien
          Return Of The Jedi! Mark Hamill, 62, shows he can still handle a Lightsaber during visit to Disney World 37 years after first playing Luke Skywalker
          'You don't always have to be naked!' TLC slam Rihanna for using sex to sell records saying it's the easy way to get to the top in the music industry
          Justin Bieber has been 'non-stop crying' after two videos surface showing him singing vile racial slurs at the age of 14
          Escorted by her Goodfella! Robert De Niro's wife Grace Hightower shines in blue dress at documentary premiere in New York
          A cause close to her heart: Demi Lovato speaks about her own personal struggles during mental health event
          Pregnant Jessica-Jane Clement shows off her growing baby bump as she takes her dogs for a leisurely walk
          'People don't want them here': Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian continue to annoy Hamptons locals with 'outrageous filming demands'
          Lupita Nyong'o to star in and produce big screen adaptation of award-winning novel Americanah
          I'll be back... after my cigar break: Arnold Schwarzenegger takes things slowly as he has a sly puff on set of Terminator: Genesis
          Jaime King parades her pins in sporty cardigan and matching mini-skirt at the McDonald's World Cup party in NYC
          'I am not an opportunist!' Fan who bought Whitney Houston's mansion for $1.5m insists he will NOT open it to the public
          Christie Brinkley, 60, proves you're never too old for leather trousers as she stuns on lunch date with her son Jack
          Showing off her street style! Emmy Rossum awaits Stella McCartney presentation on the sidewalk in chic fringe dress
          Orange Is The New White! Taylor Schilling shows off toned pins in pearl-coloured dress at TheWrap's Emmy Celebration
          'Ready to rumble!' Pretty Little Liars star Tammin Sursok puckers up for the camera as she celebrates returning to work after giving birth seven months ago
          Did she use those scissors on her skirt? LeAnn Rimes sizzles in slinky white dress with thigh-high slit as she cuts ribbon to kick off CMA Music Festival
          Over already? Jennifer Lopez parties in NY with handsome rapper T.I.... as 'cheating' toy boy Casper Smart is nowhere to be seen
          Carey Mulligan and Helena Bonham Carter chant at a Votes for Women rally in first still from upcoming film Suffragette
          Are those clothes from the Thrift Shop? Macklemore and Ryan Lewis make a cool arrival in dapper attire to Sin City nightclub
          Happy to get his kit off! Robbie Williams gets help to change into his football top during preparations for SoccerAid
          One big happy family! Hilary Swank shows her maternal side as she gives her boyfriend's little girl a kiss at French Open
          'I've had a lot of therapy': Katy Perry talks about getting over exes John Mayer and Russell Brand... and how long she's gone without sex in new interview
          Ricky Gervais and longtime partner Jane Fallon attend Derek event after visiting their Muppet pals on Sesame Street
          Date night! Twilight star Ashley Greene stuns in tiny black playsuit at she takes boyfriend Paul Khoury to glitzy event in West Hollywood
          While they were teaching! Sandra Bullock makes a surprise visit to her son Louis' school as she donates goodies to the faculty
          What will Rita think? Calvin Harris parties with ANOTHER mystery woman on a night out as girlfriend Ora enjoys Mexican getaway
          Evan Rachel Wood sued for $30M after bailing on film 10 Things I Hate About Life... as rep slams lawsuit as 'preposterous' and a 'bullying tactic'
          'With you I will go': Kanye West beams as Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli serenades Kim Kardashian at their lavish Florence wedding
          Newlywed Kim Kardashian to spend up to a month shooting KUWTK spin-off in The Hamptons... but Kanye West isn't sure if he wants to join her
          Deja blue: Rosario Dawson is back in her favorite colour after wowing in that revealing gown at the Cannes Film Festival
          'I'm Sporty Spice!' Gisele Bundchen shows off washboard stomach in a bikini for cover shoot as she admits she loves to exercise
          That's her secret! Jordana Brewster shows off svelte arms pushing her son Julian along in his stroller
          The fight for $50m: Bowling For Columbine filmmaker Michael Moore claims wife of 22 years spent recklessly as they prepare for divorce trial
Sword-wielding Sikhs clash at India's Golden Temple during prayers to mark the deadly 1984 military assault at Amritsar
       At least six people were injured as dozens of Sikh radicals clashed with supporters of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC) at the Golden Temple, in Amritsar. It is understood the scuffle erupted over who would speak first at the service, held to remember victims of government offensive Operation Blue Star that left hundreds dead on June 6, 1984.
Germans complain British tourists are too loud and all too often drunk (but at least we're not as bad as the Russians)
      British tourists are second only to Russians when it comes to nationalities Germans dislike most when on holiday.
Sales of widescreen TVs boom ahead of World Cup as Tesco gears up for the big event by getting extra nuts in
      Tesco said TV sales have almost doubled ahead of the event, while John Lewis reported a 47 per cent jump in sales in its vision department.
Newborn who died from contaminated hospital drip was just nine days old it emerges as total number of babies seriously ill from the rogue batch has risen to 18
      The baby boy who died from a suspected contaminated drip in London's St Thomas' hospital was today named as nine-day-old Yousef Al-Kharboush
Father who has been hiccupping for three years is devastated to be told he could have condition for LIFE
      Daniel Clavin (pictured with his wife, Susan), 38, from County Roscommon, has been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and believes the condition is responsible for his hiccups.
Father who has been hiccupping for three years is devastated to be told he could have condition for LIFE
      Labour MP Stella Creasy says women will have to ‘breed for Britain’ if immigration is restricted - and she has a point, writes RICHARD LITTLEJOHN.
That'll definitely help: U.S. Secret Service buys special software that can detect SARCASM on Twitter
      The tender calls for a social media analytics software tool that can analyse Twitter data in real-time, identify statistical patterns and present complex data in a clear, concise way.
The Best Night Ever! Woman, 28, goes into labour at One Direction concert (and nearly names him Harry in honour of Mr Styles)
       Sarah Turnbull, 28, from Glebe in Washington, County Durham, was 39 weeks pregnant when her waters broke during One Direction's gig in Sunderland. Six hours later she gave birth to Thomas Setterfield, exactly one week earlier than her due date, in the early hours of May 29 after the gig the night before.
Outrage as actors dressed as Nazis takeover West Sussex airport 24 hours before 70th anniversary of D-Day to film scenes for Ryan Reynolds film
      Stars of new Second World War film Woman in Gold, starring Helen Mirren and Ryan Reynolds, arrived at Shoreham Airport today dressed in full Nazi uniform.
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
      The Jet 2 flight LS516 started to rapidly descend just an hour after departing from Paphos, Cyprus, to Newcastle last night.
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
From Londoners praying to New Yorkers using smartphones on the loo: Ikea survey reveals morning habits of major cities
      The Swedish furniture giant has published a new study called Life At Home which looks at the morning habits of residents in Berlin, London, Moscow, Mumbai, New York, Shanghai and Stockholm.
'It's time for the people to speak': Aunt of Spain’s new Queen Letizia tweets her followers calling for a Republic
      Henar Ortiz Alvarez, the aunt of future queen Letizia Ortiz, made her feelings known on Twitter tweeting: It's time for the people to speak...'
Don't look down! World's tallest tower will feature an elevator that travels at 32 feet a SECOND when it opens in 2018
The Kingdom Tower in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia will feature the world's fastest double-decker elevator which will let visitors travel over 2,165ft (660metres) in one go. It will ascend the mighty skyscraper at 32ft (10 metres) a second. The lift will use high-tech carbon fibre cables, and this UltraRope technology is lighter than conventional steel cable.
      But researchers at the University of Pittsburgh found a man's consumption of alcohol had no influence on their daughter's drinking habits.
Former Crimewatch presenter Sue Cook tells Rolf Harris trial she too forgot a game show appearance in Cambridge in 1970s and the star 'shouldn't be accused of lying'
      Sue Cook, 65, told the jury at Southwark Crown Court in London that she had forgotten 'loads' of events she had been to over the years.
Restaurant rage: Living in an area with lots of fast food stores can make you impatient and unable to savour things, researchers warn
      Toronto researchers say just the presence of the chains was enough to cause people to struggle to slow down and savour things.
The transforming desk that moves up and down to keep you fit - and can even track how much exercise you get at the office
      The $3,900 Stir Kinect desk has a motor to raise and lower itself, converting it into a standing desk or a traditional desk.
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: How unconventional 25-year marriage to first wife inspired world's greatest living scientist... and a movie
      Eddie Redmayne had books on Albert Einstein in his dressing room when he took on the part of Professor Stephen Hawking for a film about the physicist's 25-year love affair with his first wife, writes BAZ BAMIGBOYE.
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die': New book reveals Roman Polanski's private memories of wife Sharon Tate, slaughtered by Charles Manson's 'Family' when she was pregnant
      Sharon Tate's sister Debra has compiled a book of exclusive photographs and memories dedicated to the actress from her husband Roman Polanski.
Shot twice, stuffed in a sack and dumped in a canal... but Pakistani girl, 18, SURVIVES botched 'honour killing' carried out by her own family for marrying the man she loved
       Saba Maqsood (pictured) was attacked by her father, uncle, brother and aunt before she was tossed into the canal, said Ali Akbar, a spokesman for police in Hafizabad, Punjab province. It comes just a week-and-a-half after the broad daylight 'honour killing' of another woman in a city centre drew worldwide condemnation. Mr Akbar told Reuters that the most recent case was also 'an honour-related incident'. 'The victim, Saba ... married her neighbour Muhammad Qaiser for love five days ago against the wishes of her family,' he said.
'Stabby, stab, stab': Two US girls, 12, who knifed schoolmate 19 times used code words to plan horrific 'Slender Man' attack
      A police document compiled soon after the stabbing in Waukesha, Wisconsin, revealed that when Morgan Geyser and Anissa Weier discussed the attack, they would use the word 'cracker' to describe a knife or killing.
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at US university, killing one and wounding three
      Students at Seattle Pacific University say Jon Meis saved countless lives when he sprang into action as the shooter stopped to reload his weapon.
Extravagant hen dos now cost guests so much they rival the amount spent on attending the actual wedding!
      Gone are the days of a knees-up down the pub as the average cost of attending a hen do has rocketed and often involves a trip abroad.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
      Mr Justice Saunders told the jury a private detective working for the tabloid had accessed the 13-year-old’s phone - but had not deliberately deleted the voicemails.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
This is how you catfight, son! Father teaches his kittens the best way to pack a punch when he sees how terrible they are at brawling
       A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video shot in an unknown location that proves boys will be boys no matter the species. The YouTube clip from user kamzer opens with two very young kitten siblings wrestling on a kitchen counter. Suddenly their papa cat peeps up from the floor below and before they can purr 'TKO,' their dad is in the mix teaching them a proper left hook.
Jurassic Park actor arrested and charged with kidnap and rape of 13-year-old girl he met for acting classes
      Cameron Thor, 54, is accused of sexually assaulting the girl over the course of a year by police in Los Angeles, California, who say he took her to a secluded area.
Now that's a randy rodent! Male guinea pig at animal sanctuary breaks free from his cage and makes 100 females pregnant
      The two-year-old rodent - nicknamed Randy - managed to get all of the female guinea pigs at Hatton Country World, Warwickshire, pregnant before staff cottoned on to his antics.
Weak pound and high cost of living: Why retiring abroad is now branded 'a luxury' with some popular destinations even pricier than UK
      Experts warned moving abroad is 'no longer an option for the average British person' according to experts, due to rising prices in Europe.
Britons' favourite drive is the A470 through Snowdonia National Park and the Brecon Beacons (and everyone hates the M25)
      Wales and Scotland topped the poll for the best UK roads, followed by the north of England, but the south has most of the worst roads in Britain.
Submarines on Titan and giant nets to capture asteroids: Nasa unveils futuristic designs that could help explore new worlds
       Nasa has unveiled 12 proposals for next-gen exploration technologies in Washington, including a mission to bag an asteroid (illustration left), a submarine in Titan's largest sea (top right) and a spacecraft that could travel from the sun to Neptune in a year (bottom right). These will each receive $100,000 of funding for study over 18 months.
      A new report by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau has confirmed that the original search area along the 'seventh arc' of the southern Indian Ocean for MH370 is the right place to be looking for the missing jet.
Masked rapist, 67, who attacked 100 women over 30 years is finally caught after woman fights him off in Moscow park
      Valery Makarenkov prowled the streets and parks of capital Moscow preying on women in a reign of terror that spanned more than 30 years.
Diabetic put her life at risk to lose weight: Mother stopped taking her insulin injections after ballooning to 19 stone
      Hayleigh Juggins, 20, from Bedfordshire, ignored doctors' advice to take insulin after the birth of her daughter, Angel.
Would YOU eat it? Seaside parlour creates battered fish and chip flavoured ice cream - complete with mushy peas
      Teare Wood's Ice Cream Parlour, in Whitby, North Yorkshire, has combined the traditional holiday tastes to tempt tourists.
Thalidomide survivors launch a fresh legal bid against manufacturers of controversial morning sickness pill
      Papers have been filed at the High Court on behalf of eight people whose mothers took the anti-morning sickness drug when pregnant in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
      Research published in the journal The Obstetrician and Gynaecologist shows a small percentage of headaches were caused by potentially life-threatening neurological conditions.
       Wheeling in on horses and carts, thousands of travellers have pitched up on a privately owned golf course in the small market town of Appleby, Cumbria, for the largest event of its kind in Europe. The week-long Appleby Horse Fair attracts members of the gypsy community from around the world, and has previously been featured in popular Channel 4 show My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding.
Flight of a lifetime! 130 tickets go on sale to fly alongside Lancaster bomber that's in UK for last time - but it will set you back £2,150
      The Lancaster will be in the UK, flying from Canada to England, for four days, arriving on August 8, making the 18-hour trip for the first and final time.
House price bubble threatens to derail economy, warns IMF - and Chancellor says Bank of England 'should not hesitate' to rein in market if necessary
      The International Monetary Fund called for 'targeted and timely' measures to clamp down on risky mortgage lending.
Two people rescued by police after barricading themselves in a bedroom because they were scared of their dog Fluffy
      The dog owners blocked themselves in their home in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, after becoming frightened of their Staffordshire bull terrier, Fluffy (pictured).
Motorcyclist rushed to hospital and bystanders injured by flying debris after crash with a police car
      The motorcyclist suffered left head and leg injuries in the crash at around 1.20pm on the Cotton Street junction with Poplar High Street, in Poplar, east London.
Daughter 'had elderly parents shot dead and buried in their garden after mother admitted sleeping with son-in-law... and then she tricked relatives for 15 years into believing they were still alive'
       Susan and Christopher Edwards (right) 'lied to everybody' for 15 years to cover up the killings of Patricia and William Wycherley, (left) from Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, and diverted a total of £245,000 into their own accounts, Nottingham Crown Court was told. Mr Wycherley, 85, and his 63-year-old wife were both shot twice with a revolver over bank holiday weekend in May 1998 and were buried in the garden (centre) prosecutor Peter Joyce QC said.
World's biggest tumour weighing 30lbs and the size of a watermelon is removed from the uterus of Indian woman
      WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT: Surgeons in the city of Chennai spent three-and-a-half hours removing the giant uterine tumour, which could have been growing for two years.
      When hungry, people were found to find a wider range of body shapes attractive and were more likely to be attracted to bigger people.
      Researchers from the National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA) in the U.S. say the damaging effects remain even if a person stops smoking cannabis in adulthood.
      The footage, captured on the cyclist's GoPro helmet camera shows the confrontation in a Dublin street, which sees the driver threaten to 'run over' the cyclist.
Girlfriend of Camilla's tragic brother Mark Shand leads tributes to him at fundraiser for endangered elephants held in his memory
       Mark Shand's former girlfriend Ruth Powys (left) led tributes to the Duchess of Cornwall's younger brother last night. Money raised was donated to the charity Elephant Family which Mr Shand founded. Ms Powys was joined by her twin sister Mary (both pictured centre) and Mr Shand's niece Laura Lopes (right), who is Camilla's daughter. Mr Shand (inset), 62, suffered a head injury when he slipped and fell on the pavement on a night out in Manhattan, New York, in April.
So you think you can dance? Two kittens wow with their perfectly synchronized groove to hip hop track
      The cats were filmed at the home of Hayley Markham and Andrew Kerr in Virginia, as they danced to DJ Snake and Lil Jon's 2013 club sensation Turn Down For What.
Killed by a single punch: Thug admits killing pensioner with a single blow after 'scuffle' outside pub
      Sean Sillet, 20, pictured, pleaded guilty the manslaughter of Kenneth Brough, 65, outside the Beehive in Newcastle's Bigg Market on January 28.
Man and women die from ‘overpowering fumes’ after jumping into cesspit to retrieve ‘expensive phone’
      The woman had dropped her device – worth 2,000 yuan (£190) – in the open-pit toilet, reported Dahe, a website run by the Henan provincial government.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
      The MEP strolled to his hotel with tourism executive Ande Soteri at 3.42am after a gala dinner, with conference delegates reportedly 'gossiping' that they left the party together in capital Valletta.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
Filthy fish and chip shop shut down after dead mice were found rotting while staff cooked meals and droppings were found in spice mix
       Health inspectors investigating an Oldham takeaway discovered rotting mice decaying on a glue trap, left, with a deep fat frying covered in grease and fat, top right, and work surfaces used for preparing food covered in mouse droppings, a court has heard. Owner Sarfaz Rouf told magistrates that he did not have a 'vast knowledge' of food hygiene. Him and Iram Bibi were fined just £250 each and the business has now closed.
      Brand Fatyo from Japan has ditched the traditional size labels in its garments in favour of more literal descriptions such as - titch, skinny, fat and jumbo.
Zoo worker in gorilla suit shot with tranquiliser dart during 'escape drill' because no-one told the vet it wasn't real
      The 35-year-old zoo employee was shot on Monday at Tenerife's Loro Parque Zoo. Staff were taking part in a drill designed to ensure they had an emergency plan in place in case one of the gorillas escaped.
Builder hired to renovate Oxford Street store stole £30,000 of designer goods including sunglasses and perfume during his first shift
      A builder helped himself to £30,000 of designer goods on his first shift when he was hired to renovate Boots on Oxford Street, London.
Don't REIN on my parade! Moment horse bolted from Whitehall procession throwing off its rider (who still got up and saluted the Queen as she came past seconds later)
      As the Queen made her way from Buckingham Palace, Musaqaleh had other plans, bolting off towards Horse Guards Parade.
Versace, Gucci... il Duce? Wardrobe where Mussolini's corpse was kept for 11 years up for auction on eBay
      The wardrobe itself is worthless but, having been the hiding place for the dictator’s corpse between 1946 and 1957, it has ghoulish value for collectors of fascist memorabilia.
How the moon was made: Researchers reveal new evidence Earth was hit by giant object as big as Mars 4.5 billion years ago
      German researchers say their analysis of Apollo moon rocks rocks show Earth was hit by a huge object called 'Theta' which led to the moon's formation.
Did HUMANS wipe out the woolly mammoth? Study finds a direct link between hunting and the extinction of large Ice Age animals
      Researchers at Aarhus University in Denmark came to the conclusion after looking at the pattern of extinctions for 177 species between 132,000 years and 1,000 years ago.
Sky-high WiFi will soon be available across Europe: Passengers on British Airways flights to get internet within three years
      Internet will be soon be available on British Airways flights (pictured) across Europe. The service will be provided by London-based satellite operator Inmarsat.
'I was a product of rape': Miss USA 2014 hopeful reveals she was conceived when her mother was attacked at knifepoint
       Valerie Gatto's mother was attacked when she was 19. Rather than let the tragic story define her, Valerie uses it to help educate young women about sexual assault. 'I believe God put me here for a reason,' she said.'To give [people] hope that everything is possible and you can't let your circumstances define your life.'
William Hague condemns Assad's election victory as 'an insult to Syrians' that bore 'no relation to genuine democracy'
      Tens of thousands took to the streets in government-held areas even before the results were announced on Wednesday evening, waving portraits of Assad and the official Syrian flag.
Tasty Terracotta Army! Food artist makes China's iconic warriors with PIZZA dough (but they won't last thousands of years)
      Annabel de Vetten created the scaled-down warriors to celebrate the opening of Pizza Express' 500th restaurant... in Beijing.
Trans-cending preconceptions: Thought-provoking new photo series celebrates the lives of trans-identified and gender nonconformist individuals
      Rhys Harper, who is based in Syracuse, New York, is hoping his project will help to shift people's perspective on the subject.
      Revellers at the rented student house in Fallowfield, Manchester, were plunged into the basement after the floor fell through. Nobody was hurt.
      Ben Baldwin, 22, from Barnsley, has cerebral palsy, severe epilepsy and learning difficulties and is often too ill to go outside, so Tiger visits him in his bed.
An eggs-traordinary find! Ancient reptile fossils shed light on how mysterious Pterosaurs nested like modern-day birds
      The five intact eggs were found in the Xinjiang province, China and all belonged to a previously unknown pterosaur species, Hamipterus tianshanensis.
You appear to have an ad-blocker running which will prevent this page from functioning as intended. Please disable your ad-blocker or set an exception for this page.Today's hottestfashion findsSee moreRihannaWow like Rihanna in an embellished sheer dressRead more ›KarruecheWork a simple white dress into your summer wardrobeRead more ›KourtneyGo back to black in monochrome Nike trainersRead more ›AlexaRamp up your wardrobe and invest in a leather pencil skirtRead more ›
          She's no shrinking violet! Lorde wears purple lipstick from her new Mac collection during bewitching performance in London
          Looking scarily good! Camilla Belle wears a skull print T-shirt as she arrives at LAX after South America trip
          You'll never take King's Landing with THAT! Game Of Thrones star Kit Harington poses with plastic dragon at Universal Studios
          'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honour': Man V. Food host Adam Richmand poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
          Shane Warne caught kissing and sharing intimate embrace with Playboy cover girl Emily Scott... but he STILL insists he's single
          Boho babe: Alessandra Ambrosio forgoes make-up as she runs errands in LA clad in a pretty lilac tie-dye maxi-dress
          King Kevin rules supreme: Spacey is magnificent in one-man show Clarence Darrow, writes QUENTIN LETTS
          BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Let's hear it for the Scottsboro Boys! Brandon Victor Dixon to star in West End production of extraordinary show
          Poetic, haunting... these D-Day letters moved me to tears: CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV
          A hit and miss comedy: There are funny moments, but Jump Street's daft cops fail to reach the hilarious heights of their first film
          This won't do Grace any favours: BRIAN VINER reviews Nicole Kidman's latest film Grace of Monaco
          'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die:' Roman Polanski shares private memories of wife Sharon Tate in new book on pregnant beauty's tragic life
          Hollywood's $800 facial: The secret to Angelina Jolie's glowing skin combines microdermabrasion, laser and a peel
          It's DJ Delta! The Voice Kids coach Goodrem jets home from Hollywood with an edgy new look complete with ripped jeans and shiny headphones
          She's certainly a good advertisement! US TV presenter Maria Menounos promotes her diet and fitness book in shiny black shorts in New York City
          'I gave him every bit of advice but now it's up to him': Usher opens up about his friend Justin Bieber's spiral out of control
          It's ON Again! Spring Breakers star Ashley Benson steps out with her beau Ryan Good wearing a bright playsuit
          Put away the bowl! Cindy Crawford reveals her stunning mane of hair was not always her crowning glory in cute flashback photo
          'I almost killed Tom Cruise!' Emily Blunt recalls terrifying moment she nearly crashed a car while shooting scenes for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Still a sex symbol! Raquel Welch, 73, looks decades younger in white jeans and yellow jacket while out to dinner
          Her own best ad! Kate Hudson displays her washboard abs as she models for fitness line... and shares her workout motivation
          Angela Simmons displays toned physique in sexy summery outfit as she hints at new venture following power lunch with her 'fitness gurus'
          The Devil Wears...white! Meryl Streep goes sinister as the Chief Elder of a dystopian society in The Giver
          Nature girl! Vanessa Hudgens shows off her toned tummy in black crop top and shorts during a vigorous hillside hike
          'I'd be open to doing more True Detective': Matthew McConaughey expresses interest in reprising Rust Cohle TV role
          Pretty as a picture! Jessica Alba shows her passion for prints while leaving the studio with takeout lunch
          That's where she gets it from! Leggy Gigi Hadid is chic in short metallic frock while out with her stylish mother Yolanda Foster
          Natalie Portman is fresh-faced and flawless as she touches down at LAX with husband Benjamin Millepied and their adorable son Aleph
          Good news for Miley Cyrus as police 'arrest two people in their 20s' in connection with star's stolen $100k Maserati
          Hot mama! Country singer Jessie James shows off her trim post-baby body at CMT Awards... just three months after giving birth
          Don't mention the outfit! Even Lena Dunham has 'no comment' over her unflattering ensemble as she enjoys a stroll in New York
          'Superhero workout!' Arrow's Stephen Amell shows off his impressive 'parkour' skills on military inspired obstacle course
          Strong sensitive types! Insurgent's Theo James brings Fault In Their Stars book to the gym while Miles Teller pumps some iron
          Farrah Abraham reveals she's writing a Christian parenting book... despite admitting she needs 'space' from her four-year-old and waxes child's eyebrows
          She's glowing: Holly Willoughby shows off growing bump in navy skater dress as she films This Morning segment
          She's anything but PLANE! Carol Vorderman shows off her pins in hot pink and black dress at photocall after jetting herself back from awards show
          'We've got a Christmas bun in the oven! Coronation Street's Paula Lane announces first pregnancy with childhood sweetheart Tom Shaw on Twitter
          'I'm going to get stick for this': Amy Willerton posts bikini selfie... but worries about how her fans will react
          'Squats are the key! Even 10 make me feel better': Victoria's Secret Angel Candice Swanepoel reveals secrets behind that body
          The lady is a vamp! Rihanna unleashes her rock chick side in a skimpy leather two-piece and fierce lace-up heels for Paris charity event
          Explicit content! Lindsay Lohan can't even manage a supporting role in sheer logo top... but at least gives parental advisory warning
          A leggy Lily Allen makes rare appearance with husband Sam Cooper for date night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Think pink! Alex Gerrard shows off her toned figure and glowing tan in bubblegum-hued workout gear
          She's well-heeled: BGT star Lettice Rowbotham whips off her shoes as she heads to BBC studios
          Russell Brand DEFENDS Justin Bieber for making vile racial slurs at the age of 14... claiming he should be 'let off' because it was 'ages ago'
          Whatever the leather: New mum Caprice shows off her post-pregnancy figure in skin-tight leather skirt and top
          Welcome to the strip: Danielle Lloyd and husband Jamie O'Hara jet into Vegas for a holiday with friends
          Not a bad consolation prize! Michael Carrick puts World Cup woes behind him as he and wife Lisa strip to their swimwear to top up their tans in Ibiza
          Graham Norton saves Amanda Holden from revealing more than she intended while doing a handstand in LBD
          It's a very Vogue birthday: Model Bambi Norwood-Blyth celebrates by shooting for fashion magazine with designer husband Dan Single
          J-Wow! Jennifer Lopez doesn't leave much to the imagination as she strips down to sexy latex stockings and suspenders to play first-ever hometown gig
          J.Lo revisits the Bronx and THAT Versace dress for homecoming show... after transsexual bikini model linked to Casper Smart speaks out
          Feeling like a million dollars! Matchmaker Patti Stanger, 53, wears plunging swimsuit as she celebrates her birthday with toyboy fiancé
          Do Ya Thang! Rihanna is sexy in a silky black miniskirt and matching tuxedo jacket as she goes for dinner in Paris
          Here comes the bride! Adam Levine to marry model Behati Prinsloo in 'intimate Mexican ceremony' on July 19
          Politics is the new black: AnnaLynne McCord votes for her spiritual guru as congressional candidate... but she comes in fourth
          She can't resist her man in uniform! Suki Waterhouse gets to grips with Bradley Cooper on set of American Sniper
          Million dollar smile! Victoria Justice beams in an unusual wrap dress at the Spent: Looking For Change premiere
          Strong after 22 years! Woody Allen strolls through Central Park with Soon-Yi Previn... as he prepares to shoot Emma Stone movie in Rhode Island
          Mama June doesn't let her 'forklift foot' get in the way of a family pool day as she goes swimming in socks
          Ramona Singer holds hands with husband Mario on romantic movie date... after firing off legal warning to his mistress over 'lewd messages'
          'Millie Mackintosh and Abbey Clancy already have their eyes on a few pieces': Julien Macdonald unveils glamorous beachwear range for Matalan
          She's stopping traffic: Elsa Pataky wears striking lime green reptilian dress to take over the streets of Madrid for fashion shoot
          Ivana Trump sells her Palm Beach mansion for $18 million - more than FOUR TIMES what she paid for it in 1994
          Table for three! Pregnant Julia Carey displays subtle baby bump as she steps out for dinner with James Corden at Chiltern Firehouse
          Beyonce shows off her amazing legs in pink mini dress as she has a date night with Jay Z in New York
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney set to reveal sex secrets in Big Brother house
          Watch your tan-line! Abbey Clancy wows in a daring cut-out panel swimsuit as she holidays in Hawaii with Peter Crouch
          Now that's a game plan! Gisele Bundchen and Tom Brady's sprawling new Boston mansion takes shape
          Your slip is showing! Leggy Chrissy Teigen heats up New York in black lace lingerie and white knit sweater while heading to dinner
          Looking slinky! Casey Batchelor struts in shiny snakeskin leggings and low-cut top as she models her new fashion collection
          She's got it! Eliza Doolittle is a triumph in plunging leather crop-top and sporty silk trousers at The Other Ball
          'There's quite a bit of blood': The 911 call made after The Brady Bunch housekeeper Ann B Davis has fatal fall is released
          Does she EVER stay in? As Princess Beatrice dines at Roka, we bring you the hotspot-hopping royal's guide to London's smartest restaurants
          From Iceland to ice cool: Sexiest Woman of All Time Rachel Stevens swaps supermarket chic for a semi-sheer top and smart tailoring
          Hawaii-five-WHOAH!! Emma Roberts bares her toned tum in daring crop top... while Lupita Nyong'o is a vision in green at the Maui Film Festival opening 
          Is this Jen 2.0? Meet the 2014 Miss Universe Australia finalist who works as Jennifer Hawkins' body double - and she's from her home town!
          'No more marriages': Pregnant Katie Price vows to never wed again after third husband Kieran Hayler cheated on her
          He's leaving Home! Summer Bay's resident  hottie Lincoln Younes swaps surfing for the 1960s as he takes a new role in Love Child
          Supporting her man! Khloe Kardashian opts for cleavage-baring top as she watches French Montana at J-Lo Bronx show
          Kanye West to take 'drastic measures' to beef up daughter North's security as he 'fears for her safety'
          True Blood star Jim Parrack to divorce wife of six years Ciera... as he 'moves on' with Hunger Games actress Leven Rambin
          Hats you win! Racing fan Jodie Kidd smoulders as she strikes a pose in glamorous headgear ahead of the Derby
          He's clearly nutritious! TOWIE's Gemma Collins can barely keep her lips off mystery new boyfriend as she debuts him on health shop trip
          Belle-y of the ball: Miley stands out in crop top and ripped jeans as she leaves hotel after Copenhagen concert
          He still has the big house! OJ Simpson's Florida home sold for $655,000 in foreclosure auction
          'It's given me a chance to give something back': Cambridge medical student wins swimsuit round of the Miss England
          I got fired for being pregnant: Lara Stone says she was axed for modelling job because she was too fat
          Are they dating? Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Meryl Davis reunite for cosy night on the town two weeks after DWTS win
          Mother of three Elsa Pataky, 37, dazzles in black mini skirt as she unveils her new fitness book and her rock hard abs
          Alessandra Ambrosio shows off her toned tum in black crop top and displays perfect pins in thigh-split skirt as she attends event with fiance Jamie Mazur
          Cashmere from Tesco. Undies from Asda. Posh frocks from Sainsbury's: The ultimate guide to summer style at the supermarket!
          Her faiery tale life! Sam Faiers puts her cleavage on display in plunging dress for Alice In Wonderland themed magazine photo shoot
          Cara Santana puts on a brave face as she hits the gym in midriff baring vest after boyfriend Jesse Metcalfe's ex slammed his bedroom prowess
          'She's being tormented and harassed': Kardashians rent store in The Hamptons and landlord gets 'slammed on internet' and 'snide comments' for doing it
          Kendall Jenner continues to take the plunge as she dons low-cut black number while promoting new sci-fi book with Kylie
          Sheer daring! Pregnant Rebecca Ferguson looks radiant in black gown as she shows off her baby bump ahead of performance at Parkinson's event
          Something to get off your chest? Lily Allen's deep pink hair is overshadowed by keyhole black dress featuring centre split at The Other Ball
          It's there in black and white: Jessica Wright wears chic backless jumpsuit... while Diana Vickers thrills in mini at Parkinson's event
          Former Beverly Hills, 90210 star Rebecca Gayheart goes dotty in see- through shirt as she takes adorable daughter Billie Dane out for the day
          That's why the Sexiest Woman Of All Time goes to Iceland! Rachel Stevens is far cry from title as she goes make-up free in frozen food store
          'Some guys prefer blondes, some brunettes - I like old ladies': 'Extreme toyboy', 31, takes 91-year-old girlfriend home to meet his mother
          'I need to step up and own what I did': Bieber apologises after fresh clip of singer 'changing song lyrics to joke about killing a n****** and joining Ku Klux Klan'
          Getting to grips with the wildlife! Ellie Goulding posts cute Instagram snap cuddling a koala while on tour in Australia
          Let the pageant begin! Miss USA 2014 contestants strut their stuff at the preliminary competition in Louisiana
          Demi Lovato steals the spotlight in a statement black and yellow frock as she picks up Fun Fearless Latina Of The Year Award
          Robin Wright and Mel B prove simplicity is best in elegant black ensembles at magazine bash
          Let's bounce! Hugh Jackman is jumping for joy in a mysterious new video that says shows him hopping around the world
          'I invented the international press tour': Tom Cruise makes claim after whirlwind three-country première feat for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Ooh la la! Kirsten Dunst goes topless for Madame Figaro magazine as she reveals she feels more appreciated in France
Thor, god of the lie-in! 'Talking' puppy growls 'no' at his owner as he's told to get out of bed at 3:30am
       Thor the dog from Birmingham, Michigan, is seen in a video peacefully lying in bed before being woken up at 3.30am. But showing that it's not just humans who struggle in the morning, the little pup repeatedly growls what sounds like 'no' as he refuses to get up.
Is that an Old Master painting - or Beyonce’s Master Cleanse? Photographer recreates celebrity diets as still lifes
      Italian Dan Bannino reproduced the diets of Gwyneth Paltrow, Kate Moss, Beyonce Knowles, Simon Cowell, and even King Henry VIII.
Fizzy drinks 'loaded with harmful sugars could increase the risk of developing diabetes, cardiovascular and liver disease'
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say the drinks contain more fructose, which is converted to fat in the liver, than people realise.
       The rhino was part of a relocation programme in the Zululand region of South Africa, which aims to keep the animals safe. The images of its dramatic airlift, which was carried out by KZN Wildlife Game Capture, were taken by photographer Em Gatland, who described witnessing the transfer as surreal and a mixture of emotion.
China may have banned Tiananmen Square memorial but the rest of Asia remembers: From Hong Kong to Taiwan thousands hold vigil on 25th anniversary of Beijing massacre
Dont come back, next time you wont get out alive: Talibans taunt as they released deserter POW Bowe revealed in propaganda video
Pictured: Grinning father of famous model moments after he executed his neighbour and minutes before he 'swallowed the gun' in dramatic standoff with Chinese SAS
Suicidal Chinese mother leaps from third floor balcony after her daughter refused to break up with 'lazy' boyfriend (but miraculously survives)
Hundreds of pro-Russian rebels killed in fierce attack by Ukrainian forces as Obama tells Nato allies 'you'll never be alone'
Thousands of anti-monarchist protesters take to streets of Spain calling for a republic after King Juan Carlos abdicates after 39 years
Woolly jumpers, wide collared jackets and unflattering skirts ... the medal for worst Commonwealth Games uniforms goes to Australia
King Juan Carlos of Spain in shock abdication after 40 years as his son and glamourous ex-newsreader wife take on challenge of leading Spain out of the doldrums
Spain harbours highest number of expat benefit cheats with more than 700 believed to be scamming the system while soaking up the sun
Mother of British backpacker missing in Malaysian jungle for six days arrives in country 'to be here when they find him'
Come here you big BULLy! Chinese wrestlers get to grips with giant calves in man over beast competition
China disgust at woman who beheads cat and posts image online - and then blames 'alcohol and domestic misfortune'
Bodies of five French soldiers from WWI found alongside their wallets, rifles and a figurine of the Virgin Mary in French wood 100 years after they were killed
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of...
Mother in tears after being called a 'slut' by two customers for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
Obama pleads with Scotland to vote 'No' to independence AND for Britain to stay in the European Union
Brother of Sudanese woman facing death penalty for ‘abandoning her Islamic faith’ by marrying a Christian says...
Home of the free! Father paints his house with stars and stripes in protest at local officials who tried to...
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at Seattle Pacific...
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left...
A step too far? New Lifetime reality show to film women giving BIRTH in the wild with no help from doctors
A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video, that proves boys will be boys no...
Emotional moment US marine is reunited with bomb-sniffing dog who kept him safe in Afghanistan after they were separated four years ago without saying goodbye
       U.S. Marine Corps veteran Corporal Jeff DeYoung of Muskegon, Michigan worked with bomb-sniffing black Lab Cena until April 2010. That's when DeYoung went home to Michigan and he's since started a family but never forgot about his best canine friend. Their emotional reunion took place Thursday at the Detroit airport thanks to a non-profit group called Mission K9 Rescue.
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say fasting could be particularly beneficial for people whose immune systems have been damaged by chemotherapy.
Couples that sleep together, stay together: Spouses are more likely to slumber in sync if the wife is satisfied with their marriage
      New study showS that overall synchrony in sleep-wake schedules among couples was higher when the woman was happier in the relationship.
Who left the hand-brake off? Investigation under way after Ryanair plane rolls backwards and crashes into airport building, destroying tail wing
      The force of the impact tore apart the rear stabiliser of the £72m Boeing 737 at Rome Ciampino Airport yesterday.
Malaysian police refuse to rule out foul play in case of missing backpacker Gareth Huntley as his family await autopsy to determine whether shirtless body found in Malaysian jungle pond is him
      Mr Huntley's mother Janet Southwell, who arrived in Malaysia on Monday was pictured this morning outside Tengku Ampuan Afzan Hospital in Kuantan with his girlfriend Kit Natariga.
Shocking moment one-armed Russian motorist starts furious road rage punch-up with car behind... but then ends up getting badly beaten
       A one-armed Russian man (circled, top left) has been filmed starting a road rage fight in Moscow, but quickly has the tables turned on him as he is kicked in the head and has his false arm pulled off (bottom right). Nikita Korolev, 43, and Kiril Stepanov, 45, started punching and kicking the occupants of a car behind them through the open windows after the driver refused to back up, but ended up being beaten themselves.
          Follow Sportsmail's coverage of the French Open, as Andy Murray takes on Rafael Nadal in the semi-finals
          Stuart Pearce insists Everton midfielder Ross Barkley should not be in Brazil this summer at all
          Robin van Persie has declared himself 100 per cent fit for the World Cup as the Dutch squad arrived in Rio
          The Azzurri hit a hiccup ahead of the World Cup when they realised their plane was too small
          Aston Villa have sounded out Rio Ferdinand over a possible move to Villa Park - but the defender is thought to favour Spurs
          Jose Mourinho has admitted Chelsea are interested in signing the former Arsenal captain from Barcelona 
=======================================================
Birth Name: Daniel Michael Blake Day-LewisBirth Place: London, EnglandDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 04/29/1957, TaurusProfession: Actor
What Time Do the Oscars Start?Feb 28, 2014 01:41 PM ETby TV Guide NewsThe 86th Academy Awards is almost here! The anticipated ceremony will air Sunday at 8:30 p.m. ET / 5:30 p.m. PT on ABC.
Ellen DeGeneres will make her second appearance as host of the ceremony, which will be produced by Craig Zadan and Neil Meron.read moreBrangelina, Zac Efron, Jim Carrey Among Academy Awards PresentersFeb 24, 2014 11:56 AM ETby Robyn RossThe 86th Academy Awards is less than a week away and the night is proving to be more star-studded than ever.
On Monday, producers Craig Zadan and Neil Meron announced the complete slate of stars who will be on stage to present alongside the previously announced Daniel Day-Lewis, Jennifer Lawrence, Christoph Waltz and Anne Hathaway -- last year's acting winners. read moreVIDEO: Charlie Rose -  Daniel-Day Lewis, Paul Thomas Anderson (December 21, 2007)Oct 13, 2013 03:50 AMCharlie Rose -  Daniel-Day Lewis, Paul Thomas Anderson (December 21, 2007)Paid | Amazon Instant VideoLength: 01:22:00Aired: 12/21/2007A discussion about the film "There Will Be Blood" watch
Steven Spielberg directs two-time Academy Award® winner Daniel Day-Lewis in "Lincoln," a revealing drama that focuses on the 16th President’s tumultuous final months in office. In a nation divided by war and the strong winds of change, Lincoln pursues a course of action designed to end the war, unite the country and abolish slavery. With the moral courage and fierce determination to succeed, his choices during this critical moment will change the fate of generations to come.
Steven Spielberg directs two-time Academy Award® winner Daniel Day-Lewis in "Lincoln," a revealing drama that focuses on the 16th President’s tumultuous final months in office. In a nation divided by war and the strong winds of change, Lincoln pursues a course of action designed to end the war, unite the country and abolish slavery. With the moral courage and fierce determination to succeed, his choices during this critical moment will change the fate of generations to come.
Martin Scorsese, one of the great directors of our time, directs Oscar(r)-winner Daniel Day-Lewis (1989 Best Actor, My Left Foot), Michelle Pfeiffer and Winona Ryder in a brilliant adaptation of Edith Wharton's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel. A ravishing romance about three wealthy New Yorkers caught in a tragic love triangle, the ironically-titled story chronicles the grandeur and hypocrisy of high society in the 1870s. At the center of the film is Newland Archer (Day-Lewis), an upstanding attorney who secretly longs for a more passionate life. Engaged to the lovely but ordinary socialite May Welland (Ryder), Newland resigns himself to a life of quiet complacency. But when May's unconventional cousin returns to New York amid social and sexual scandal, Newland risks everything for a chance at true love. THE AGE OF INNOCENCE is a spellbinding portrait of hidden romance and regret.
The Ballad Of Jack And Rose movie trailer -  starring Beau Bridges, Catherine Keener, Paul Dano, Daniel Day-Lewis, Camilla Belle, Ryan McDonald.  Directed by Rebecca Miller. Theatrical Release Date: 3/25/2005
Daniel Day-Lewis stars in this inspiring and revealing drama that focuses on Lincoln's tumultuous final four months in office as this visionary leader pursues a course of action to end the Civil war, unite a nation divided and abolish slavery.
Nine is a musical following a film director named Guido Contini, who is in his middle age. He is trying to complete his next film. His problem is that he has too many women in his life. Luisa, his wife, Carla his mistress, and Claudia, his protege.
The progress of the war is seen through Lincoln’s eyes, a very human figure as he contends with Generals who won’t fight and politicians who scheme to usurp him. His wife (Mary Tyler Moore) is driven to the edge of madness by the death of her son and her deteriorating mental health causes him great pain. But after a war more ferocious and bloody than anyone has imagines possible, Lincoln lives just long enough to see his vision realizes before his life is cut tragically by an assassins bullet.
From DreamWorks Steven Spielberg directs two-time Academy Award® winner Daniel Day-Lewis in Lincoln — with an all-star ensemble cast including Sally Field, Tommy Lee Jones and Joseph Gordon-Levitt. This inspiring and revealing drama focuses on the 16th President's tumultuous final four months in office as this visionary leader pursues a course of action to end the Civil War, unite the country and abolish slavery.
                                            Charlie Rose -  Daniel-Day Lewis, Paul Thomas Anderson (December 21, 2007)
An Hour That Originally Aired On December 5, 2002, With Director Martin Scorsese And Actor Daniel Day-Lewis Discuss Their New Film, The Gangs Of New York. The Film Is Set In The Middle 19Th Century In The Five Points District Of New York City And Tells The Story Of The Conflict Between The Native Criminal Underworld And The Immigrant Gangs.
An Hour With Director, Martin Scorcese And Actor, Daniel Day-Lewis Who Discuss Their New Film, The Gangs Of New York. The Film Is Set In The Middle 19Th Century In The Five Points District Of New York City And Tells The Story Of The Conflict Between The Native Criminal Underworld And The Immigrant Gangs.
                                                                                                 TV Listings
Miramax is teaming up with Martin Scorsese to adapt the film Gangs of New York, which was inspired by a non-fiction book of the same name, for television, according to The Wrap.
Oprah Winfrey has been named Forbes' most influential person of 2013, topping their list for the second year in a row.
The trend of so-called "hate-watching" is hardly a new TV phenomenon. We've been doing it with the Oscar show for years: picking apart the fashions, groaning at the witless banter, griping as we drift through the seemingly endless midsection where no awards of major consequence are presented, and nearly always regarding the unlucky host as a piñata ripe for the bashing.
This year's tuneful but torturously overextended production (ending just past the three-and-a-half-hour mark) was much the same. With one major exception: The musical numbers were no joke, especially when mighty divas as legendary as Barbra Streisand and Shirley Bassey and as electrifyingly current as Adele and Jennifer Hudson took the stage. No Rob Lowe-Snow White fiascos this time.
Argo topped Sunday's Oscars on a history-making night.Ben Affleck's political thriller took three awards, including Best Picture, becoming the fourth film to win the top prize without a Best Director nomination, following Wings, Grand Hotel and Driving Miss Daisy. The film also won Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Editing. This is Affleck's second ...
The Artist's Oscar victory last year marked the first time that a movie about movie-making has won Best Picture. Could Argo's fake-movie-in-a-movie make it two in a row? The tide is definitely on Ben Affleck's side. Well, except for that pesky lack of a nomination in the Best Director category. We'll have to wait until Sunday's ceremony (8:30 p.m. ET/5:30 p.m. PT, ABC) for the winners, but in the meantime, let's make some predictions. Check out the nominees here, print out your ballot, make your picks and compare them to ours below.
Buy Daniel Day-Lewis - Unabridged Guide from Amazon.comFrom Tebbo (Paperback)Usually ships in 2 to 3 weeksBuy New: $18.02 (as of 8:30 AM EST - more info)Buy Charlie Rose with Martin Scorcese & Daniel Day-Lewis (December 5, 2002) from Amazon.comFrom Charlie Rose, Inc. (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $24.95 (as of 8:30 AM EST - more info)
