=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Dame Helen Lydia Mirren, DBE (née Mironoff; born 26 July 1945), is an English actor. Mirren has won an Academy Award for Best Actress, four BAFTAs, three Golden Globes, four Emmy Awards, and two Cannes Film Festival Best Actress Awards. In 2003, she received a damehood for services to the performing arts at a ceremony at Buckingham Palace.[1]
Mirren began her acting career with the Royal Shakespeare Company in the latter half of the 1960s. From her very first film appearances (e.g., playing the young muse to a middle-aged artist in 1969's Age of Consent), Mirren displayed the overtly sensual screen persona that would become her trademark. Other early movies included O Lucky Man! (1973), The Long Good Friday (1980) and Excalibur (1981).
During her career, she has portrayed three British queens in different films and television series: Elizabeth I in the television series Elizabeth I (2005), for which she received Emmy and Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress, Elizabeth II in The Queen (2006), which won her the Academy and BAFTA Award for Best Actress, and Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz in The Madness of King George (1994), for which she earned an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress. She is the only actress ever to have portrayed both Queens Elizabeth on the screen.[2]
Mirren played the no-nonsense police detective Jane Tennison on the praised ITV series Prime Suspect for a total of seven seasons from 1991 to 2006, and won numerous awards for the role, including BAFTA and Emmy awards.
Making her West End stage debut in the 1970s, Mirren returned to the London stage most recently in 2013, playing Queen Elizabeth II for the second time in a play titled The Audience.[3] Mirren was awarded a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in January 2013.[4] In April 2013, she was awarded best actress at the Laurence Olivier Awards for her portrayal of Queen Elizabeth II in The Audience.[5] In January 2014, BAFTA announced that Mirren would be the recipient of the Academy Fellowship.[6]
Mirren was born Helen Lydia Mironoff[7][8] in Queen Charlotte's Hospital, Hammersmith, London.[9] Her father, Vasiliy Petrovich Mironov (1913–1980), was a Russian immigrant to the UK, originally from Kuryanovo, Smolensk Oblast, and her mother, Kitty (née Kathleen Alexandrina Eva Matilda Rogers; 1909–1996), was English.[10][11] Mirren's paternal grandfather, Colonel Pyotr Vasilievich Mironov, was in the Imperial Russian Army and fought in the 1904 Russo-Japanese War. He later became a diplomat, and was negotiating an arms deal in Britain when he and his family were stranded during the Russian Revolution.[12] The former diplomat became a London cab driver to support his family and eventually settled down in England.
His son, Helen Mirren's father, changed the family name to Mirren in the 1950s and became known as Basil Mirren. He played the viola with the London Philharmonic before World War II, and later drove a taxi cab and was a driving-test examiner, before becoming a civil servant with the Ministry of Transport. Mirren's mother was a working-class Londoner from West Ham, East London, and was the 13th of 14 children born to a butcher whose own father had been the butcher to Queen Victoria.[11] Mirren considers her upbringing to have been "very anti-monarchist".[13] Mirren was the second of three children; she was born two years after her older sister Katherine ("Kate"; born 1942), and has a younger brother, who was named Peter Basil after his grandfather and great-great-grandfather. Mirren was brought up in Leigh-on-Sea, Essex.[14]
Mirren attended St Bernard's High School for Girls in Southend-on-Sea, where she acted in school productions, and subsequently a teaching college, the New College of Speech and Drama in London, "housed within Anna Pavlova's old home, Ivy House" on the North End Road – which leads from Golders Green to Hampstead, N. London. Aged eighteen, she auditioned for the National Youth Theatre (NYT) and was accepted. By the time she was 20, she was playing Cleopatra in the NYT production of Antony and Cleopatra at the Old Vic, which led to her signing with the agent Al Parker.[15]
As a result of her work for the NYT, Mirren was invited to join the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC). While with the RSC, she played Castiza in Trevor Nunn's 1966 staging of The Revenger's Tragedy, Diana in All's Well That Ends Well (1967), Cressida in Troilus and Cressida (1968), Phebe[16] in As You Like It (1968), Julia in The Two Gentlemen of Verona (1970), Tatiana in Gorky's Enemies at the Aldwych (1971), and the title role in Miss Julie at The Other Place (1971). She also appeared in four productions, directed by Braham Murray for Century Theatre at the University Theatre in Manchester, between 1965 and 1967.[17]
In 1970, the director/producer John Goldschmidt made a documentary film, Doing Her Own Thing, about Mirren during her time with the Royal Shakespeare Company. The film was made for ATV and shown on the ITV Network in the UK.
In 1972 and 1973, Mirren worked with Peter Brook's International Centre for Theatre Research, and joined the group's tour in North Africa and the US, during which they created The Conference of the Birds. She then rejoined the RSC, playing Lady Macbeth at Stratford in 1974 and at the Aldwych Theatre in 1975.
It was reported by Sally Beauman, in her 1982 history of the RSC, that Mirren—while appearing in Nunn's Macbeth (1974), and in a highly publicised letter to The Guardian newspaper—had sharply criticised both the National Theatre and the RSC for their lavish production expenditure, declaring it "unnecessary and destructive to the art of the Theatre," and adding, "The realms of truth, emotion and imagination reached for in acting a great play have become more and more remote, often totally unreachable across an abyss of costume and technicalities..." According to Beauman, there were no discernible repercussions for this rebuke of the RSC.[18]
At the Royal Court Theatre in September 1975, she played the role of a rock star named Maggie in Teeth 'n' Smiles, a musical play by David Hare; she reprised the role the following year in a revival of the play at Wyndham's Theatre in May 1976. Her performance earned her the London critics' Plays & Players Best Actress award.
Beginning in November 1975, Mirren played in West End repertory with the Lyric Theatre Company as Nina in The Seagull and Ella in Ben Travers' new farce The Bed Before Yesterday ("Mirren is stirringly voluptuous as the Harlowesque good-time girl": Michael Billington, The Guardian, 10 December 1975). At the RSC in Stratford in 1977, and at the Aldwych the following year, she played a steely Queen Margaret in Terry Hands' production of the three parts of Henry VI, while 1979 saw her 'bursting with grace', and winning acclaim for her performance as Isabella in Peter Gill's production of Measure for Measure at Riverside Studios.
In 1981, she returned to the Royal Court for the London premiere of Brian Friel's Faith Healer. That same year she also won acclaim for her performance in the title role of John Webster's The Duchess of Malfi, a production of Manchester's Royal Exchange Theatre which was later transferred to The Roundhouse in Chalk Farm, London. Reviewing her portrayal for The Sunday Telegraph, Francis King wrote: "Miss Mirren never leaves it in doubt that even in her absences, this ardent, beautiful woman is the most important character of the story."
In her performance as Moll Cutpurse in The Roaring Girl—at the Royal Shakespeare Theatre in January 1983, and at the Barbican Theatre in April 1983—she was described as having "swaggered through the action with radiant singularity of purpose, filling in areas of light and shade that even Thomas Middleton and Thomas Dekker omitted." – Michael Coveney, Financial Times, April 1983.
After a relatively barren sojourn in the Hollywood Hills, she returned to England at the beginning of 1989 to co-star with Bob Peck at the Young Vic in the London premiere of the Arthur Miller double-bill, Two Way Mirror, performances which prompted Miller to remark: "What is so good about English actors is that they are not afraid of the open expression of large emotions" (interview by Sheridan Morley: The Times 11 January 1989). In Elegy for a Lady she played the svelte proprietress of a classy boutique, while as the blonde hooker in Some Kind of Love Story she was "clad in a Freudian slip and shifting easily from waif-like vulnerability to sexual aggression, giving the role a breathy Monroesque quality" (Michael Billington, The Guardian).
On 15 February 2013, at the Gielgud Theatre she began a turn as Elizabeth II in the World Premiere of Peter Morgan's The Audience.[19] The show will be directed by Stephen Daldry. In April she was named best actress at the Olivier Awards for her part.[20]
A further stage breakthrough came in 1994, in an Yvonne Arnaud Theatre production bound for the West End, when Bill Bryden cast her as Natalya Petrovna in Ivan Turgenev's A Month in the Country. Her co-stars were John Hurt as her aimless lover Rakitin and Joseph Fiennes in only his second professional stage appearance as the cocksure young tutor Belyaev. "Instead of a bored Natalya fretting the summer away in dull frocks, Mirren, dazzlingly gowned, is a woman almost wilfully allowing her heart's desire for her son's young tutor to rule her head and wreak domestic havoc....Creamy shoulders bared, she feels free to launch into a gloriously enchanted, dreamily comic self-confession of love." (John Thaxter, Richmond & Twickenham Times, 4 March 1994).
Mirren was twice nominated for Broadway's Tony Award as Best Actress (Play): in 1995 for her Broadway debut in A Month in the Country, now directed by Scott Ellis ("Miss Mirren's performance is bigger and more animated than the one she gave last year in an entirely different London production", Vincent Canby in the NY Times, 26 April 1995). Then again in 2002 for August Strindberg's Dance of Death, co-starring with Sir Ian McKellen, their fraught rehearsal period coinciding with the terrorist attacks on New York on 11 September 2001 (as recorded in her In the Frame autobiography, September 2007).
Mirren had an unhappy experience at the National Theatre in 1998 when she played Cleopatra to Alan Rickman's Antony. In 2000 Nicholas Hytner, who had worked with Mirren on the film version of The Madness of King George, cast her as Lady Torrance in his revival of Tennessee Williams' Orpheus Descending at the Donmar Warehouse in London. Michael Billington, reviewing for The Guardian, described her performance as "an exemplary study of an immigrant woman who has acquired a patina of resilient toughness but who slowly acknowledges her sensuality."
At the National Theatre in November 2003 she again won praise playing Christine Mannon ("defiantly cool, camp and skittish", Evening Standard; "glows with mature sexual allure", Daily Telegraph) in a revival of Eugene O'Neill's Mourning Becomes Electra directed by Howard Davies.
"This production was one of the best experiences of my professional life, The play was four and a half hours long, and I have never known that kind of response from an audience ... It was the serendipity of a beautifully cast play, with great design and direction, It will be hard to be in anything better." (In the Frame, September 2007).
She played the tragic title role in Jean Racine's Phèdre at the National in 2009, in a production directed by Nicholas Hytner. The production was also staged at the amphitheater of Epidaurus on 11 and 12 July 2009.
Mirren has also appeared in a large number of films throughout her career. Some of her earlier film appearances include roles in Midsummer Night's Dream, Age of Consent, O Lucky Man!, Caligula, Excalibur, 2010, The Long Good Friday, White Nights, When the Whales Came and The Mosquito Coast. She appeared in Some Mother's Son, Painted Lady, The Prince of Egypt and The Madness of King George. One of her other film roles was in Peter Greenaway's The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and Her Lover, as the thief's wife, opposite Michael Gambon. In Teaching Mrs. Tingle she plays sadistic History teacher, Mrs Eve Tingle. In 2007 she claimed director Michael Winner had treated her "like a piece of meat" at a casting call in 1964.[21][22] Asked about the incident, Winner told The Guardian: "I don't remember asking her to turn around but if I did I wasn't being serious. I was only doing what the [casting] agent asked me – and for this I get reviled! Helen's a lovely person, she's a great actress and I'm a huge fan, but her memory of that moment is a little flawed."[23]
Mirren continued her successful film career when she starred more recently in Gosford Park with Maggie Smith and Calendar Girls where she starred with Julie Walters. Other more recent appearances include The Clearing, Pride, Raising Helen, and Shadowboxer. Mirren also provided the voice for the supercomputer "Deep Thought" in the film adaptation of Douglas Adams' The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. During her career, she has portrayed three British queens in different films and television series: Elizabeth I in the television series Elizabeth I (2005), Elizabeth II in The Queen (2006), and Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, the wife of George III, in The Madness of King George (1994). She is the only actress ever to have portrayed both Queens Elizabeth on the screen.
Mirren's title role of The Queen earned her numerous acting awards including a BAFTA, a Golden Globe, and an Academy Award, among many others. During her acceptance speech at the Academy Award ceremony, she praised and thanked Elizabeth II and stated that she had maintained her dignity and weathered many storms during her reign as Queen. Mirren later appeared in supporting roles in the films National Treasure 2: Book of Secrets, Inkheart, State of Play, and The Last Station, for which she was nominated for an Oscar.[24]
In preparation for her role as a retired Israeli Mossad agent in the film The Debt, Mirren reportedly immersed herself in studies of Hebrew language, Jewish history, and Holocaust writing, including the life of Simon Wiesenthal, while in Israel in 2009 for the filming of some of the movie's scenes. The film is a remake of a 2007 Israeli film of the same name (Hebrew: Ha-khov).[25]
Mirren is known for her role as detective Jane Tennison in the widely viewed Prime Suspect, a multiple award-winning television drama series that was noted for its high quality and popularity. Her portrayal of Tennison won her three consecutive BAFTA Awards for Best Actress between 1992 and 1994.[26]
Some of Mirren's other television performances include Cousin Bette (1971); As You Like It (1979); Blue Remembered Hills (1979); The Twilight Zone episode "Dead Woman's Shoes" (1985); The Passion of Ayn Rand (1999), where her performance won her both the Emmy and the Golden Globe; Door to Door (2002); and The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone (2003). In 1976, she appeared with Laurence Olivier, Alan Bates and Malcolm McDowell in a production of Harold Pinter's The Collection as part of the Laurence Olivier Presents series. She also played Elizabeth I in 2005, in the television serial Elizabeth I, for Channel 4 and HBO, for which she received an Emmy Award. Mirren won another Emmy Award on 16 September 2007 for her role in Prime Suspect: The Final Act on PBS in the same category as in 2006.
Mirren lived with actor Liam Neeson during the early 1980s. They had met whilst working on Excalibur (1981). Interviewed by James Lipton for Inside the Actors Studio, Neeson said she was instrumental in his getting an agent.
Mirren married American director Taylor Hackford (her partner since 1986) on 31 December 1997, his 53rd birthday. The ceremony took place at the Ardersier Parish Church near Inverness in the Scottish Highlands.[28] The couple had met on the set of White Nights. It is her first marriage, and his third (he has two children from his previous marriages). Mirren has no children and says she has "no maternal instinct whatsoever."[29]
Mirren's autobiography, In the Frame: My Life in Words and Pictures, was published in the UK by Weidenfeld and Nicolson in September 2007. Reviewing for The Stage, John Thaxter wrote: "Sumptuously illustrated, at first sight it looks like another of those photo albums of the stars. But between the pictures there are almost 200 pages of densely printed text, an unusually frank story of her private and professional life, mainly in the theatre, the words clearly Mirren's own, delivered with forthright candour."[30]
In 1990, Mirren stated in an interview that she is an atheist.[31] In the August 2011 issue of Esquire magazine, Mirren said, "I am quite spiritual. I believed in fairies when I was a child. I still do sort of believe in the fairies. And the leprechauns. But I don't believe in God."[32]
In a GQ interview in 2008, Mirren stated she had been date raped as a student and had often taken cocaine at parties in her 20s, and until the 1980s.[33][34] She stopped using the drug after reading the (debunked[35]) tabloid tale that Klaus Barbie made a living from cocaine dealing.[33][34][36][37]
On 11 May 2010, Mirren attended the unveiling of her waxwork at Madame Tussauds London. The figure reportedly cost £150,000 to make and took four months to complete.[38]
In August 2013, Mirren was announced as one of several new models for Marks & Spencer's 'Womanism' campaign.
The Mars Volta on their 2008 album The Bedlam in Goliath have a song called "Ilyena" that is named after Mirren.[40] Mars Volta lyricist/singer Cedric Bixler-Zavala has stated an affinity for Mirren.[41]
Lady Macbeth, Macbeth, Royal Shakespeare Company, Stratford-upon-Avon, 1974, then Aldwych Theatre, 1975
Queen Margaret, Henry VI, Parts I, II and III, Royal Shakespeare Company, Stratford-upon-Avon, 1977, then Aldwych Theatre, 1978
Title role, The Duchess of Malfi, Royal Exchange Theatre, Manchester, England, 1980, then The Roundhouse, London, 1981
Angela, "Some Kind of Love Story," and dying woman, "Elegy for a Lady," in Two-Way Mirror (double-bill), Young Vic Theatre, *London, 1989
Command Performance, a profile of Helen Mirren written by John Lahr in The New Yorker magazine, 2 October 2006
In the Frame: My Life in Words and Pictures (autobiography) by Helen Mirren, Weidenfeld and Nicholson, 2007 ISBN 978-0-297-85197-4.
Rather than writing an autobiography Helen Mirren was commissioned by Alan Samson at Orion Books to write about her life in a series of chapters based on pictures from her extensive personal collection of photography and memorabilia. Edited by Chris Worwood, with whom she worked on the Award-winning HBO series Elizabeth, the book covers every aspect of her life from her aristocratic Russian heritage to her days with Peter Hall's RSC company to her Academy Award for The Queen.
Arifa Akbar, "Helen Mirren: The good, the bad and The Queen", (interview), The Independent (London), 27 May 2007
Catherine Deneuve, Isabelle Huppert, Emmanuelle Béart, Fanny Ardant, Virginie Ledoyen, Danielle Darrieux, Ludivine Sagnier and Firmine Richard (2002)
Gosford Park (2001): Eileen Atkins, Bob Balaban, Alan Bates, Charles Dance, Stephen Fry, Michael Gambon, Richard E. Grant, Tom Hollander, Derek Jacobi, Kelly Macdonald, Helen Mirren, Jeremy Northam, Clive Owen, Ryan Phillippe, Maggie Smith, Geraldine Somerville, Kristin Scott Thomas, Sophie Thompson, Emily Watson, James Wilby
Chicago (2002): Christine Baranski, Ekaterina Chtchelkanova, Taye Diggs, Denise Faye, Colm Feore, Richard Gere, Deidre Goodwin, Queen Latifah, Lucy Liu, Susan Misner, Mýa, John C. Reilly, Dominic West, Renée Zellweger, Catherine Zeta-Jones
The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003): Sean Astin, Sean Bean, Cate Blanchett, Orlando Bloom, Billy Boyd, Bernard Hill, Ian Holm, Ian McKellen, Dominic Monaghan, Viggo Mortensen, John Noble, Miranda Otto, John Rhys-Davies, Andy Serkis, Liv Tyler, Karl Urban, Hugo Weaving, David Wenham, Elijah Wood
Crash (2005): Christopher "Ludacris" Bridges, Sandra Bullock, Don Cheadle, Matt Dillon, Jennifer Esposito, William Fichtner, Brendan Fraser, Terrence Howard, Thandie Newton, Ryan Phillippe, Larenz Tate
Little Miss Sunshine (2006): Alan Arkin, Abigail Breslin, Steve Carell, Toni Collette, Paul Dano, Greg Kinnear
No Country for Old Men (2007): Javier Bardem, Josh Brolin, Garret Dillahunt, Tess Harper, Woody Harrelson, Tommy Lee Jones, Kelly Macdonald
Slumdog Millionaire (2008): Rubina Ali, Tanay Chheda, Ashutosh Lobo Gajiwala, Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail, Anil Kapoor, Irrfan Khan, Ayush Mahesh Khedekar, Tanvi Ganesh Lonkar, Madhur Mittal, Dev Patel, Freida Pinto
Inglourious Basterds (2009): Daniel Brühl, August Diehl, Julie Dreyfus, Michael Fassbender, Sylvester Groth, Jacky Ido, Diane Kruger, Mélanie Laurent, Denis Menochet, Mike Myers, Brad Pitt, Eli Roth, Til Schweiger, Rod Taylor, Christoph Waltz, Martin Wuttke
The King's Speech (2010): Anthony Andrews, Helena Bonham Carter, Jennifer Ehle, Colin Firth, Michael Gambon, Derek Jacobi, Guy Pearce, Geoffrey Rush, Timothy Spall
Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Miniseries or Television Movie (1994–2009)
Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Miniseries or Television Movie (2010–2029)
Categories: 1945 birthsLiving people20th-century English actresses21st-century English actressesActresses from EssexActresses awarded British damehoodsAlumni of Middlesex UniversityAudio book narratorsBAFTA winners (people)Best Actress Academy Award winnersBest Actress BAFTA Award winnersBest Drama Actress Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Miniseries or Television Movie Actress Golden Globe winnersBritish people of Russian descentDames Commander of the Order of the British EmpireEnglish atheistsEnglish film actressesEnglish people of Russian descentEnglish radio actressesEnglish stage actressesEnglish television actressesEnglish voice actressesNational Youth Theatre membersEuropean Film Award for Best Actress winnersFellows of the American Academy of Arts and SciencesGolden Orange Honorary Award winnersOutstanding Performance by a Lead Actress in a Miniseries or Movie Primetime Emmy Award winnersOutstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture Screen Actors Guild Award winnersOutstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role Screen Actors Guild Award winnersOutstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Miniseries or Television Movie Screen Actors Guild Award winnersPeople from Westcliff-on-SeaRoyal National Theatre Company membersRoyal Shakespeare Company membersVolpi Cup winnersOutstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role Screen Actors Guild Award winnersShakespearean actressesPeople from HammersmithHidden categories: Use dmy dates from March 2014EngvarB from March 2014Articles with hCardsCommons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Dame Helen Mirren was born in Queen Charlote Hospital, in North London to Kathleen Alexandrina Eva Matilda Rogers and Vasiliy Petrovich Mironov. Mirren attended St. Bernards High School for girls, where she would act in school productions. After high school, she began her acting career in theatre working in many titles, all the way up to Broadway.
      Her grandfather, Piotr Vasilievich Mironoff, was a Tsarist (White Russian) aristocrat who was in London negotiating an arms deal during World War I when the 1917 Russian Revolution stranded him there. His wife and son (Helen's father) joined him in London. On her mother's side, she is of English descent.
      Before marrying director Taylor Hackford in 1997, she had lived with him in Los Angeles since 1986.
      Used to work in Southend on Sea; Essex; UK at an amusement park "The Kursaal" as a "blagger" to attract customers on to rides.
      She was awarded the Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 2003 Queen's Birthday Honours List for her services to drama.
John Boorman said he cast her opposite Nicol Williamson in Excalibur (1981), against both of their protests, because he felt their dislike of each other made them perfect as rivals Morgana and Merlin.
      Nominated for Best Actress, Laurence Olivier Theatre Award for her performance of "Orpheus Descending" at the Donmar Warehouse.
      Nominated for Best Actress, Laurence Olivier Theatre Award for her performance in "Mourning Becomes Electra" at the Royal National Theatre: Lyttelton Stage.
      Despite her Russian birth name and ancestry, she does not speak Russian, but is fluent in French.
      Her great-great-great-great-grandfather was field-marshal Kamensky, one of the Russian heroes of the Napoleonic wars.
      She is the only actress to play both Queen Elizabeth I (in Elizabeth I (2005)) and Queen Elizabeth II (The Queen (2006)).
      At the premiere of The Queen (2006) at the Venice Film Festival, her performance received a 5 minute standing ovation.
      Played a Queen a total of six times: The Queen (2006), Elizabeth I (2005), The Prince of Egypt (1998), The Snow Queen (1995), The Madness of King George (1994), and Caligola (1979).
      Became the third person, after Sigourney Weaver and Joan Plowright, to win two Golden Globes for acting in the same year. The characters she played were both Queens of England, Queen Elizabeth I and Queen Elizabeth II.
      She dedicated her BAFTA win for The Queen (2006) (for Best Actress in a Leading Role) to Ian Richardson for playing a huge part in her success story. She said (in her acceptance speech) that Richardson was very supportive towards her when she started out acting, and without him she may not have been so successful. She dedicated this award two days after Richardson died.
      According to the April 2007 issue of Architectural Digest, She and her husband have sold their estate in New Orleans, which still remains her favorite American city.
      She won an Oscar for playing Queen Elizabeth II in The Queen (2006), making her the most recent of 12 actors to win the Award for playing a real person who was still alive at the evening of the Award ceremony (as of 2007).
      Won 29 major awards for her portrayal of Queen Elizabeth II in The Queen (2006), including all the awards that are considered the biggest (except Cannes). She was also nominated for 3 more awards for the same film.
      Is one of 9 actresses to have won the Academy Award, BAFTA Award, Critics' Choice Award, Golden Globe Award and SAG Award. The others in chronological order are Julia Roberts for Erin Brockovich (2000), Renée Zellweger for Cold Mountain (2003), Reese Witherspoon for Walk the Line (2005), Jennifer Hudson for Dreamgirls (2006), Kate Winslet for The Reader (2008), Mo'Nique for Precious (2009), Natalie Portman for Black Swan (2010) and Octavia Spencer for The Help (2011).
      Has a tattoo of a star on her left hand, acquired at a Native American reservation in Minnesota.
      Met husband-to-be Taylor Hackford when he directed her in White Nights (1985). When the couple married in the Scottish Highlands, Hackford was dressed in a traditional Scottish tartan kilt.
      According to an article in People Weekly (November 3, 1980) her tattoo is an American Indian symbol meaning "equal but opposite".
      Was in consideration for the part of Sarah/Anna in The French Lieutenant's Woman (1981) but Meryl Streep, who went on to receive a Best Actress Oscar nomination for her performance, was cast instead.
      Plays Prospero (now Prospera) in The Tempest (2010), and Hobson in Arthur (2011). Both roles were originally written for a man, and had in fact previously been played by John Gielgud. Both films also cast her opposite Russell Brand.
      Placed her hand and footprint in cement in front of Graumann Chinese theatre on March 28, 2011.
      Was presented the 2,488th Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame accompanied by her husband Taylor Hackford, two stepsons and Phil Spector (2013) director David Mamet (January 3, 2013).
      The longest she has gone without an Oscar nomination is 7 years, between The Madness of King George (1994) and Gosford Park (2001).
      Won Olivier's Award as Best Actress, for her performance as Queen Elizabeth II in "The Audition" (2013).
      She was awarded the Plays and Players London Theatre Critics Award as Best Actress for her roles in 'Teeth 'n' Smiles' and 'The Seagull' (1975).
      She was awarded the Outer Critics Circle for Outstanding Debut of an Actress for her role in 'A Month in the Country' (1995).
      Winner of the Volpi Cup as Best Actress for her role in the forthcoming The Queen (2006) at the 63rd Venice Film Festival. [September 2006]
      Was the 130th actress to receive an Academy Award; she won the Best Actress Oscar for The Queen (2006) at The 79th Annual Academy Awards (2007) on February 25, 2007.
      Actors are rogues and vagabonds. Or they ought to be. I can't stand it when they behave like solicitors from Penge. I'm a would-be rebel. The good girl who'd like to be a bad one.
      All you have to do is to look like crap on film and everyone thinks you're a brilliant actress. Actually, all you've done is look like crap.
      [on becoming Dame Helen Mirren in 2003] In England, it's a big deal. I do feel it's a great honor. But I had to think about it quite seriously for a couple of weeks. It does sort of squash you into the establishment thing. In the end, my baser feelings got the better of me. I succumbed to pride.
      [Part of her BAFTA acceptance speech, BAFTA Film Awards, 2007] This is great. What an honor, especially to be nominated - just to be nominated - amongst those incredible powerhouse performances this year from women. - I applaud them. I think they were absolutely fantastic. Write more roles for us like that please.
      [on Ian Richardson, BAFTA Film Awards, 2007] Many years ago, when I started off as an actress, I had the immense good fortune to work with an actor that was so generous at sharing his craft - He became a mentor to me, he helped me believe in myself. Ian Richardson, I'm not too sure I would be here today if it wasn't for you.
      [on her role in National Treasure: Book of Secrets (2007)] I get half-drowned, jump across an abyss and fly. I loved every minute of it. Getting attached to wires and flying was the most glorious feeling. It's a lot easier than acting!
      [on not having children] No. Absolutely not. Absolutely not. I am so happy that I didn't have children. Well, you know, because I've had freedom.
      [on the participation of celebrities in social movements] I've been involved with Oxfam on the proliferation of the illegal sale of small arms throughout the world, which is causing such, such devastation. The only way you can sometimes garner attention is by sending someone like me as a front person.
      There's nothing sexy about doing a nude scene. It's rather uncomfortable. I like dressing up rather than dressing down.
      [on filming Love Ranch (2010) with husband Taylor Hackford] Funnily enough, the older prostitutes are the most popular, because the guys think they're user-friendly. They're comfortable with them, so they don't feel intimidated. And guys who go to brothels are not the most successful guys in the world sexually, so that's what they need. It's all about not being intimidated.
      [About working with husband Taylor Hackford] Working with him, I have to say, wasn't easy. My husband in work mode is not the easiest of people, although a lot of people adore working with him. But because I have the emotional connection with him, I would get upset if he was shouting - not at me, but at someone else, demanding something. I would be seeing it from their point of view. I would find myself rushing around trying to mop up after him. But I love the fact that he got the film together and he created a wonderful role for me. But husbands and wives don't need to work together. We are professional people in our own worlds. There's nothing I love more than going to my husband's set and being his wife. But this, it mixes the roles up. It either gets too cozy, which is not a good thing, because it's not very creative. Or it gets the opposite . . . He didn't make me cry, but he made me very cross.
      I was never going to be anyone's mum or grandmother. But I can dig that beautiful earth-mother thing, feeding the masses. I'm thinking of Nigella Lawson. Does she have children? She does. Do you know what I mean? She's sort of gorgeously fertile. That's sexy.
      I actually won my first Golden Globe for something called Losing Chase (1996). Kyra Sedgwick and me fell in love with each other, and it was a lovely piece about women loving women. In my heart of hearts I love women more than I love men. I mean sexuality aside - I'm heterosexual. I guess I'm heterosexual. I loved my friend I had at college because there was a sense of camaraderie and physical closeness that doesn't have to be sexual.
      [on asking to be interviewed by male rather than female journalists]: ...I prefer male journalists because there's a streak of female journalism - the bitches - who are mean-spirited and nasty because you are another woman and want to make you feel crap. It's very upsetting. I'm more careful when I'm being interviewed by a woman because, from experience as well as reading articles about other women, I know there is a little stiletto knife hidden behind the back.
      No, I am not confrontational at all. I met a great guy, then another great guy, and had a series of fantastic relationships with nice men. [And that healed me.] Until that point I was thinking men were horrible; they were boring, boorish, vulgar, selfish and arrogant. Then I met a guy who was funny and lovely to me and I loved him. That was Ken, my first boyfriend. I learnt from wonderful men, wonderful relationships. They gave me support, made me feel good and made me laugh. Now I think men are absolutely great.
      As you get older, naked stuff gets easier. It's more to do with the role than what men in the audience think. There's a liberation about it.
      [on playing Sofya Tolstoy in The Last Station (2009)] The most telling line that Sofya has is when she says, "Why should it be easy? You are the work of my life and I am the work of yours. That's what love is". I think that's a brilliant description. Because it is work. And you go through all different mountains and valleys in a marriage.
      You can't ask people: "Did you cast me in this because I won an Oscar?" They'd always deny it: "No! No! We would've had you anyway!" Liars!
      I didn't cry when I got my Oscar [for The Queen (2006)], but I cried then [when applauded by baggage handlers at Heathrow Airport]. I had my Oscar in my bag, so I got it out. I was shameless, but they loved it.
      [on going to the Oscars] Oh, it's such a palaver! It's like a day's work. You have to decide what you're going to wear. You put on your costume. You do your performance. It's exhausting. And if you win, everyone wants a piece of you. Of course, it's the mother ship of all ceremonies. And it's a fantastic, wonderful, carnival that you just can't resist. You jump aboard the roundabout, get whizzed round until you're vaguely nauseous and stagger off happily at the end, back to reality.
      I don't mind being sexy, but on my terms. To this day, I love sexuality. I love the art of sexuality. I love Lady Gaga and the performance of sexuality. The mysterious, the artistic and the slightly perverse. I'm interested in all that.
      [on a 1970s interview with Michael Parkinson] Your jaw is on the floor watching it. He has always denied that it was sexist, but it was.
      [on her sexy image in the '70s] In my mind I was a serious actress. But the men in that era got away with such sexist crap. It was constant. They were pushing me into being Barbara Windsor, that sort of "Carry On" type. And it wasn't because of my beauty. I was never beautiful. It was because of these [breasts]! I remember doing a photo shoot for the play "Teeth and Smiles" [1975]. And this arsehole photographer was saying, "Cross your legs and lean down, dear! Because he wanted these [pointing to her breasts.]
      I was with my husband for years before we got married. It's nice to be married. I love it. And that took me by surprise. But there's really no essential difference to not being married.
      This is no bullshit: the reason I'm still with Taylor Hackford after all these years [they married in 1997, but have lived together since 1986] is because he supports me in my work, he's proud of my successes and he's sympathetic if things aren't successful. If they aren't, he'll say, 'F*** 'em darling! You were great.' And I do likewise.
      [on filming RED (2010)] I should be going to the gym now but I just don't want to do it. I don't do anything like that regularly at all. But because I'm filming, I should.
      I'm not by nature a supporter of the Conservatives [Party], but then the Conservatives are not what the Conservatives used to be. Except they are a bit, aren't they? They're all just bloody public schoolboys!
      [on seeing an amateur production of "Hamlet" at age 13] I was blown away by all this over-the-top drama. We grew up without TV and never went to the cinema, so after "Hamlet" all I wanted to do was get back into that world where all those fabulous things were possible.
      It's nice to look back and remember, and to think, "Wow! I've had a fantastic life, it's been brilliant!" Or else you think, "Oh, thank God that's all over!"
      I try not to think of my own mortality, but that as I gets older it gets darker, there is no question about that. You just say: 'It's going to happen and it's going to happen to everybody'.
      [on 'Lady GaGa'] I love the way she's elevated pop to performance art, or dragged performance art down to pop, or maybe made a wonderful amalgam of the two.
      [on performing in television versus onstage] Theatre is more tiring, demanding, more frightening, everything. Film, you have to get up early in the morning, and I hate that. Both are powerful mediums. But the great thing about theatre is you do material you don't normally do on film. And you're the editor of your performance onstage.
      If you wanted to teach someone who knew absolutely nothing about the British people, it would be very good to guide them to Shakespeare. You could see the foolishness, the humour, the brutality - it's all in almost every play.
      [on her perceived surge in popularity] Well, that's how it looks from the outside. My success grew slowly but constantly. I've been working every year since I started acting and I got many awards before I won the Oscar for "The Queen." Maybe it's because I've never been interested in big Hollywood flicks and I've only been in a few recently. I've always sensed a misogynist and sexist attitude, even in the '60s and '70s. Can I say that ['70s movie] "Five Easy Pieces" sucks? ...You need to be a feminist. It's about equality and rights.
      I can't say no to an interesting role. I always tell my husband, 'That's it, I quit, I've done all I wanted', and he's just like, 'Yeah, yeah. Sure'.
      People get together for reasons other than sex and, although it's important for most couples, it's not what makes marriages last. I think the power of partnership in marriage is under-recognized in our society. That's what makes marriages work, not sex.
      There's no fake testosterone about Harrison [Harrison Ford]. It's just pure, natural maleness and it's very, very attractive.
      I'm not going to be the first female Doctor Who (2005). Absolutely not. I absolutely wouldn't contemplate that. But I do think it's well overtime to have a female Doctor Who. I think a gay, black, female Doctor Who would be the best of all.
=======================================================
Birth Name: Ilynea Lydia MironoffBirth Place: Chiswick, EnglandDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 07/26/1945, LeoProfession: Actor
Boasting remarkable versatility and palpable sensuality, this British actress has turned into the thinking man's sex symbol. In the '60s, she started out in the theater. After joining the National Youth Theatre, she played the Egyptian Queen in Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra, a role she would embody two more times during her career. She made her film debut playing a rambunctious teenager in 1969's The Age of Consent, and then worked consistently in her homeland. At the outset of her film career, she took somewhat racy parts in offbeat projects such s Savage Messiah (1972), the sexually charged Caligula (1980) and The Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover (1989). In the '80s, her eye-catching performances also helped make her a household name stateside. She impressed audiences as a gangster's girlfriend in The Long Good Friday (1980) and as the deliciously evil Morgana in Excalibur (1981) opposite her then-boyfriend Liam Neeson. In 1984, she tapped into her Russian heritage as a ballet star behind the Iron Curtain in White Nights and ended up dancing away with the director, Taylor Hackford, who became her husband. In the '90s, she became more widely known to American audiences when she snagged her seminal role as Detective Inspector Jane Tennison in the first of seven installments of the Prime Suspect TV franchise. Intelligent, intense, sexy and flawed, the character allowed Mirren to go from domineering to devastated, and netted her three consecutive BAFTA awards, plus an Emmy.  On the silver screen, Mirren continued to be praised for performances in more mainstream fare, and she scored Oscar nominations for her roles in The Madness of King George (1994) and Gosford Park (2001). On the small screen, she earned more venerability with her acclaimed Emmy-winning portrayal of Ayn Rand in the made-for-TV movie The Passion of Ayn Rand. In the '00s, she continued to work consistently in television, stage and film on both sides of the Atlantic. In 2003, she returned to her risqué routes with the big-screen comedy Calendar Girls, which featured the 58-year-old actress in some provocative poses. Next, Hollywood enthusiastically embraced her regal portrayals of Queen Elizabeth I in the acclaimed television miniseries Elizabeth I and then Queen Elizabeth II in the feature film The Queen. Her uncanny channeling of Elizabeth II earned her a long overdue accolade: an Oscar for Best Actress. After her banner year, she let loose and took supporting roles in the action adventure flick National Treasure: Book of Secrets (2007), the family-friendly Inkheart (2009) and the political thriller State of Play (2009). In 2009, she also added to her resume even more award nominations (including an Oscar and Golden Globe nod) for her well-lauded depiction of Leo Tolstoy's wife in The Last Station. When not working, she spends time with her husband and stepchildren, and she also campaigns with human rights organizations.Helen Mirren Fast Facts:
Frustrated with her career in her twenties, she visited a hand reader who said the height of her success wouldn't happen for another 20 years. He was right. 
Made her directorial debut by helming the "Happy Birthday" segment of the 2001 TV-movie On the Edge. 
In the 2002 TV-movie Door to Door, she played William H. Macy's mother even though he's only five years her junior. 
Nominated for three 2007 Golden Globes for her performances in Elizabeth I, The Queen and Prime Suspect: The Final Act. She won statuettes for the first two, portraying Queen Elizabeth I and II, respectively. 
Has served as an ambassador for the human rights organization Oxfam.Helen Mirren Relationships: Basil Mirren - FatherKatherine Mirren - SisterTaylor Hackford - HusbandAlexander Hackford - StepsonRio Hackford - StepsonLiam Neeson - Ex-significant OtherPeter Mirren - BrotherHelen Mirren Awards: 2006 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role - Winner1995 Tony:  Actress (Play) - Nominee1997 Emmy:  Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or Special - Nominee1993 Emmy:  Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or Special - Nominee2001 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role - Nominee2002 Tony:  Actress (Play) - Nominee2001 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Supporting Role - Nominee2009 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role - Nominee1995 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Leading Role - Nominee2010 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Drama - Nominee2002 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Television Movie or Miniseries - Nominee2012 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role - Nominee2003 Emmy:  Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie - Nominee1999 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Television Movie or Miniseries - Nominee2006 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Leading Role - Winner2006 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role - Winner1984 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress - Nominee2001 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture - Winner2003 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Television Movie or Miniseries - Nominee2013 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Drama - Nominee2001 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role - Winner2013 Emmy:  Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie - Nominee2013 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Television Movie or Miniseries - Winner2003 European Film Awards:  European Actress - Nominee1994 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role - Nominee2007 Emmy:  Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie - Winner2009 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role - Nominee2012 European Film Awards:  European Achievement in World Cinema - Winner1997 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Miniseries or Motion Picture Made for Television - Winner2007 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Miniseries or Motion Picture Made for Television - Winner2012 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Leading Actress - Nominee2014 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Miniseries or Motion Picture Made for Television - Nominee2013 BAFTA Film Awards:  Academy Fellowship - Winner1999 Emmy:  Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie - Winner2004 Emmy:  Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie - Nominee1994 Emmy:  Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or Special - Nominee1996 Emmy:  Outstanding Lead Actress for a Miniseries or a Special - Winner2003 Emmy:  Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie - Nominee2002 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Motion Picture - Nominee2004 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Miniseries or Motion Picture Made for Television - Nominee2003 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Miniseries or Motion Picture Made for Television - Nominee2000 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Miniseries or Motion Picture Made for Television - Nominee2007 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Miniseries or Motion Picture Made for Television - Nominee2007 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Drama - Winner2004 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy - Nominee2006 Emmy:  Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie - Winner
Buy Charlie Rose - Ken Feinberg / Helen Mirren & Taylor Hackford / Alan Furst (June 30, 2010) from Amazon.com (Amazon Instant Video)Usually ships in 1-2 business daysBuy New: $1.99 (as of 06/05/14 11:46 PM EST - more info)Buy The Cook The Thief His Wife & Her Lover (Import - NTSC ALL Regions) Richard Bohringer, Michael Gambon, Helen Mirren (1990) from Amazon.com (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $33.98 (as of 06/05/14 11:46 PM EST - more info)
=======================================================
Birth Name: Ilynea Lydia MironoffBirth Place: Chiswick, EnglandDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 07/26/1945, LeoProfession: Actor
Weekend TV Review: Give These Shows a Medal!Feb 14, 2014 10:34 AM ETby Matt RoushWhile the Olympians continue to dominate the TV spotlight in Sochi, another gathering of championship talent takes a bow in the weekend's other gold-medal event: PBS's Great Performances presentation of National Theatre: 50 Years on Stage (Friday, 9/8c, check tvguide.com listings).Laurence Olivier led the National Theatre upon its founding in 1963, and he and other luminaries are seen in vintage clips from past productions, interspersed throughout a dazzling evening of live re-enactments and tantalizing excerpts from landmark plays, including Angels in America, Stuff Happens, The History Boys and War Horse. Fans of Downton Abbey will delight to see the Dowager Countess Maggie Smith in her 1964 prime, vamping in ...read moreWeekend Review: TCM Goes to the Oscars, Sherlock's "Last Vow"Jan 31, 2014 09:27 AM ETby Matt Roush"It's a room full of excitement. It's a room full of sweat," recalls Ellen Burstyn, who won her Oscar in 1975 for Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore. "It's your bar mitzvah times a million," says director-writer Jason Reitman, a four-time nominee (Up in the Air, Juno) who remembers getting over his loss with a post-show visit to In-N-Out Burger. (My kind of guy.) "It's a bit like being in a car crash. Everything slows down, everything goes into slow motion," Helen Mirren reflects on the moment her name was read when she won in 2007 for The Queen.read moreHow Netflix Scored Emmy-Nomination Gold and This Year's Other TriviaJul 18, 2013 07:10 PM ETby Michael SchneiderNetflix heads into the Emmy race with 14 nominations, better than all but a handful of networks. Credit the Academy of TV Arts and Sciences' 2008 rule change that allowed full-length broadband and digital shows to be nominated in the same categories as broadcast and TV programs...read more
                                            Get the Glamour Women of the Year Awards Style Recap on POPSUGAR Live!
Today on POPSUGAR Live!, we're taking you to London for the Glamour Women of the Year Awards! Everyone from Alexa Chung to Helen Mirren was honored, and we're sharing all the fashion highlights. We'll also be breaking down why Miranda Lambert is owning 2014, chatting with Jana Kramer about new music, and rounding up all the Champagne-bar essentials you need. Click play now!
Mike and Sulley are an inseparable pair, but that wasn't always the case. From the moment they met they couldn't stand each other. "Monsters University" unlocks the door to how Mike and Sulley overcame their differences and became the best of friends.
In this fresh new look at a classic story, Russell Brand reinvents the role of loveable billionaire Arthur Bach, an irresponsible charmer who has always relied on two things to get by: his limitless fortune and the good sense of his lifelong nanny and best friend Hobson (Helen Mirren), to keep him out of trouble. 
Kind-hearted, fun-loving, and utterly without purpose, Arthur spends every day in the heedless pursuit of amusement.  But when his unpredictable public image threatens the staid reputation of the family foundation, Bach Worldwide, he is given an ultimatum: marry the beautiful but decidedly unlovable Susan Johnson (Jennifer Garner), an ambitious corporate exec who can keep him in line, or say goodbye to his billion-dollar inheritance and the only way of life he knows.
It's a deal Arthur would be inclined to take - if he hadn't just fallen for Naomi (Greta Gerwig), a New York City tour guide who shares his idealism and spontaneity.  The independent Naomi sees Arthur not only for who he is, but for who he could be, and finally gives him a reason to take charge of his own life.
With some unconventional help from Hobson - the one person who always believed he could do anything - Arthur will take the most expensive risk of his life and learn what it means to become a man.
Last Orders movie trailer -  starring Michael Caine, Bob Hoskins, Helen Mirren, Ray Winstone, Tom Courtenay, David Hemmings.  Directed by Fred Schepisi. Genre: Drama
Oscar   Winners Anthony Hopkins and Helen Mirren are spellbinding in this provocative story about the making of one of cinemas most iconic films.
Disney•Pixar proudly presents the hilarious story of how two mismatched monsters met and became lifelong friends in a movie screaming with laughter and oozing with heart. Ever since college-bound Mike Wazowski (Billy Crystal) was a little monster, he’s dreamed of becoming a Scarer—and he knows better than anyone that the best Scarers come from Monsters University (MU). But during his first semester at MU, Mike’s plans are derailed when he crosses paths with hotshot James P. Sullivan, “Sulley” (John Goodman), a natural-born Scarer. The pair’s out-of-control competitive spirit gets them both kicked out of the University’s elite Scare Program. With their dreams temporarily dashed, they realize they will have to work together, along with an odd bunch of misfit monsters, if they ever hope to make things right.
The early days of Mike and Sully - they meet at Monsters University, where everyone learns how to scare. But they weren't best friends yet, and team to compete in the Scare Games!...SAP
Travel with director Trevor Nunn through the magical, mysterious world of the Bard’s last complete play.
Detective Superintendent Tennison relocates to the Greater Manchester Police for a stint as a community relations officer at local schools. When she complains to her new boss, DCS Ballinger, he assigns her to the shooting case of a young drug dealer.
                                                                                                 TV Listings
When it comes to troubled young actresses like Amanda Bynes and Lindsay Lohan, Helen Mirren isn't mincing words.
The Oscar winner didn't hold back when she was recently asked what kind of advice she would give to the starlets. "I don't know if...
Matt Smith hasn't left Doctor Who just yet, but that hasn't stopped fans from dream-casting the next Doctor.
A group of street drummers inadvertently interrupted a performance of Peter Morgan's play The Audience at London's Gielgud Theatre over the weekend — and star Helen Mirren decided she wasn't going to stand for it.
According to Mirren, who's playing Queen Elizabeth in the play, the drumming got so loud outside the theater during the first half of the performance Saturday night that the actors couldn't hear each other on stage and the audience couldn't hear anything at all, Britain's Daily Telegraph reports. So, during the play's intermission, Mirren stormed off the stage and out of the theater in full costume to give the drummers a piece of her mind.
When a terrific series is truly on its game, some episodes can feel like absolute perfection. Happened Tuesday with a thrillingly entertaining and pivotal episode of FX's Justified, and the same feeling applies to Sunday's sensational The Good Wife (9/8c, CBS). It has everything: sex, suspense, surprise, humor, emotion — and as usual with this sophisticated standard-bearer for network drama, a dazzling array of guest performances.
There is a moment in the new HBO film Phil Spector when the attorney Linda Kenney Baden, played by Helen Mirren, sees her client arriving at the Los Angeles courthouse to be tried for the 2003 murder of actress Lana Clarkson. Writer-director David Mamet keeps the camera on Mirren's face as it turns from...
Buy Charlie Rose - George Soros /  Helen Mirren (April 10, 2008) from Amazon.comFrom Charlie Rose, Inc. (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $24.95 (as of 06/05/14 11:46 PM EST - more info)Buy - The Queen (La Reina) [NTSC/Region 1&4 dvd. Import - Latin America] Helen Mirren (2 discs) from Amazon.com (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $12.00 (as of 06/05/14 11:46 PM EST - more info)
=======================================================
Biography:Born Helen Lydia Mironoff on July 26, 1945 in Chiswick, England, Mirren was raised in Ilford and Southend-on-Sea by her Russian émigré father, Peter, who played the viola with the London Philharmonic prior to World War II and later became a civil servant with the Ministry of Transport, and her mother, Kathleen, a housewife and butcher's daughter. T... Continue Bio >>Photo Gallery:
=======================================================
Born and raised in London, England, Mirren is a descendant of a Russian noble familyher father was a Russian aristocrat who was stranded in London after the 1917 Russian Revolution. Knowing she wanted to become an actress as early as age six, Mirren tried to please her parents with a stint at a teacher's college, but ultimately joined the National Youth Theatre, starting her acting career on stage.
As early as age 18 she was landing starring roles such as Cleopatra in Shakespeare's Anthony and Cleopatra at London's Old Vic Theatre. In 
1967 she landed a position among the prestigious Royal Shakespeare Company where she performed many of greatest heroines including Lady Macbeth, 
She started her career on screen in 1967 with Herostratus. A largely forgettable film, she followed it up with far stronger showings in such
films as The Age of Consent (1969), The Long Goodbye (1973), O Lucky Man! (1973), Caligula (1977), Excalibur (1981), 
Cal (1984) (earning her the Best Actress award at Cannes) and The Madness of King George (1994). Her portrayal of Queen Charlotte in the latter film earned her her first Academy Award nomination for Best 
In 1990 she earned considerable notice from television viewers for her role as DCI Jane Tennison, a hard-boiled detective, in the miniseries, Prime Suspect. The popular series went on to produce two other miniseries and
Her feature film performances continued to thrive into this millennium with strong showings in Greenfingers (2000), The Pledge (2001), Gosford Park (2001) (which earned her a Golden Globe and an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress), and Calendar Girls (2003). She won a second and third Golden Globe in 2007, for her performance as Queen Elizabeth I in the TV miniseries Elizabeth I (2005) and as Queen Elizabeth II in the feature film The Queen (2006). She also won an Academy Award as Best Actress for her role in The Queen (2006). In 2010, she received a fourth Academy Award nomination, this time for her work in The Last Station. Her most recent titles include  Arthur(2011),  Hitchcock(2012),  RED 2(2013) and  Monsters University(2013). Helen reprises her Academy Award-winning role as Queen Elizabeth II in the highly-anticipated West End production of The Audience, broadcast live from London's Gielgud Theatre as part of National Theatre Live.
In a 2008 GQ interview, Mirren revealed she had been date raped as a student and had often taken cocaine at parties during the 1980s. She stopped using the drug after reading that Klaus Barbie made a living from cocaine dealing.
In 1997 she married director Taylor Hackford, and they make their home in the Los Angeles area. Mirren was made a D.B.E. (Dame of the British Empire) in June 2003. 
In September 2007, Mirren's autobiography, "In the Frame: My Life in Words and Pictures," was published. It was reviewed as an honest depiction of her life thus far, delving into the details of her life in the theater.
Although she has a successful career on screen, Mirren never fully abandoned her love of stage and always makes time to perform on it.
Filmography → Oscars™ Nominations And AwardsActorThe Hundred-Foot Journey (2014)ActorMonsters University  (2013)ActorMonsters University 3D (2013)ActorNational Theatre Live: The Audience (2013)ActorRED 2 (2013)ActorHitchcock (2012)ActorArthur (2011)ActorBrighton Rock (2011)ActorThe Debt (2011)ActorThe Last Station (2010)Actress in a Leading RoleNomineeActorLegend of the Guardians: The Owls of Ga'Hoole - An IMAX 3D Experience (2010)ActorLegend of the Guardians: The Owls of Ga'Hoole 3D (2010)ActorLove Ranch (2010)ActorNational Theatre Live: Phèdre (Encore) (2010)ActorRED (2010)ActorThe Tempest (2010)ActorInkheart (2009)ActorState of Play (2009)ActorNational Treasure: Book of Secrets (2007)ActorThe Queen (2006)Actress in a Leading RoleWinnerActorShadowboxer (2006)ActorThe Clearing (2004)ActorRaising Helen (2004)ActorCalendar Girls (2003)ActorLast Orders (2002)ActorNo Such Thing (2002)ActorGosford Park (2001)Supporting ActressNomineeActorGreenfingers (2001)ActorThe Pledge (2000)ActorCaligula (1999)ActorTeaching Mrs. Tingle (1999)ActorThe Prince Of Egypt (1998)
=======================================================
The Oscar-winning actress was recently caught by paparazzi while on a pre-birthday holiday in Puglia, on the southern tip of Italy, with her husband, director Taylor Hackford. 
Rather than being frightening, Helen's candid bathing suit babe shot reveals a figure that any 20-year-old would die for.
Unlike those mortifying Mischa Barton, 22, and Jerry Hall, 52, snaps, these photos are proof that Helen is, hands down, the hottest mature actress on the market.
"I'm famous for getting my kit off," she told Morley Safer when he asked her if she regretted being nude in so many films. Click here to see the video clip. 
What makes this bikini photo really incredible is that the British actress is admittedly no gym bunny.
