=======================================================
Kevin Spacey, CBE (born Kevin Spacey Fowler; July 26, 1959) is an American actor, director, screenwriter, and producer. He grew up in California and began his career as a stage actor during the 1980s, before being cast in supporting roles in film and television. He gained critical acclaim in the early 1990s, culminating in his first Academy Award for The Usual Suspects (Best Supporting Actor) (1995), followed by a Best Actor Academy Award win for American Beauty (1999). His other starring roles in Hollywood include Seven, L.A. Confidential, Pay It Forward, K-PAX, and Superman Returns in a career which has earned him several Emmy and Golden Globe nominations. Since 2004, he has been artistic director of the Old Vic theatre in London.
Spacey was born in South Orange, New Jersey, the son of Kathleen Ann (née Knutson; December 5, 1931 – March 19, 2003), a secretary, and Thomas Geoffrey Fowler (June 4, 1924 – December 24, 1992), a technical writer and data consultant.[1][2][3] He has two older siblings: a sister, Julie, and a brother, Randy. He has Swedish (from his maternal grandfather), English, and Welsh ancestry.[4] Spacey attended Northridge Military Academy, Canoga Park High School (in tenth and eleventh grades), and then Chatsworth High School in Chatsworth, Los Angeles, where he graduated valedictorian of his class.[5][6] At Chatsworth High, he starred in the school's senior production of The Sound of Music, playing the part of Captain Georg von Trapp, opposite Mare Winningham's character, Maria.
While in high school, Spacey took on his paternal grandmother's maiden name, "Spacey," as his acting surname.[3][7] Several reports have incorrectly suggested that he took his name in tribute to actor Spencer Tracy, combining Tracy's first and last names.[7] He had tried to succeed as a comedian for several years, before attending the Juilliard School in New York City, where he studied drama,[8] between 1979 and 1981. During this time period, Spacey performed stand-up comedy in bowling alley talent contests.[9]
Spacey's first professional stage appearance was as a spear carrier in a New York Shakespeare Festival performance of Henry VI, part 1 in 1981. The following year, he made his first Broadway appearance, as Oswald in a production of Henrik Ibsen's Ghosts, starring Liv Ullmann. Then he portrayed Philinte in Molière's The Misanthrope. In 1984, he appeared in a production of David Rabe's Hurlyburly, in which he rotated through each of the male parts (he would later play Mickey in the film version). Next came Anton Chekhov's The Seagull. In 1986, he appeared in a production of Sleuth in a New Jersey dinner theatre.
His prominence as a stage actor began in 1986, when he was cast opposite Jack Lemmon, Peter Gallagher and Bethel Leslie as Jamie, the eldest Tyrone son in Jonathan Miller's lauded production of Eugene O'Neill's Long Day's Journey into Night. Lemmon in particular would become a mentor to Spacey.[10] He made his first major television appearance in the second season premiere of Crime Story, playing a Kennedy-esque American senator. Although his interest soon turned to film, Spacey remained actively involved in the live theater community. In 1991, he won a Tony Award for his portrayal of "Uncle Louie" in Neil Simon's Broadway hit Lost in Yonkers. Spacey's father was unconvinced that Spacey could make a career for himself as an actor, and did not change his mind until Spacey became well-known.[9]
Some of Spacey's early roles include a widowed eccentric millionaire on L.A. Law, the television miniseries The Murder of Mary Phagan (1988), opposite Lemmon, and the Richard Pryor/Gene Wilder–starring comedy See No Evil, Hear No Evil (1989). Spacey earned a fan base following after playing the criminally insane arms dealer Mel Profitt on the television series Wiseguy. He quickly developed a reputation as a character actor, and was cast in bigger roles, including one-half of the bickering Connecticut couple in the dark comedy The Ref (1994), a malicious Hollywood studio boss in the satire Swimming with Sharks, and the malevolent office manager in the all-star ensemble film Glengarry Glen Ross (1992), gaining him positive notices by critics. His performance as the enigmatic criminal Verbal Kint in The Usual Suspects won him the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.[8]
Spacey appeared in the 1995 thriller film Seven, with Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman, making a sudden entrance late in the film as the serial killer John Doe, after going unmentioned in the film's advertisements and opening credits. His work in Seven, The Usual Suspects, and Outbreak earned him Best Supporting Actor honors at the 1995 Society of Texas Film Critics Awards.[11][12] He remarked in 2013, "I think people just like me evil for some reason. They want me to be a son of a bitch."[13]
Spacey played an egomaniacal district attorney in A Time to Kill (1996), and founded Trigger Street Productions in 1997, with the purpose of producing and developing entertainment across various media. He made his directorial debut with the film Albino Alligator (1996). The film was a failure at the box office, grossing $339,379 with a budget of $6 million, but critics praised Spacey's direction. He also did voice work in Pixar's A Bug's Life (1998) voicing Hopper, the leader of a vicious gang of grasshoppers.
Spacey won universal praise and a Best Actor Oscar for his role as a depressed suburban father who re-evaluates his life in 1999's American Beauty;[8] the same year, he was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Spacey won the Laurence Olivier Award for Best Actor and earned another Tony nomination in 1999 for The Iceman Cometh. In 2001, Spacey co-hosted, with Judi Dench, the Unite for the Future Gala, a UK fundraiser for the British Victims of 9/11 and Médecins Sans Frontières at London's Old Vic Theatre, produced by Harvey Goldsmith and Dominic Madden.
He played a physically and emotionally scarred grade school teacher in Pay It Forward (2000), a patient in a mental institution who may or may not be an alien in K-Pax (2001), and singer Bobby Darin in Beyond the Sea (2004). Beyond The Sea was a lifelong dream project for Spacey, who took on co-writing, directing, co-producing and starring duties in the biography/musical about Darin's life, career, and relationship with actress Sandra Dee. Facing little interest for backing in the States, Spacey went to the UK and Germany for funding. Almost all of the movie was filmed in Berlin.[10] Spacey provided his own vocals on the Beyond the Sea soundtrack and appeared in several tribute concerts around the time of the film's release. He received mostly positive reviews for his singing, as well as a Golden Globe nomination for his performance. However, reviewers criticized the age disparity between Spacey and Darin, noting that Spacey was too old to convincingly portray Darin, particularly during the early stages of the singer's life depicted in the film.
Spacey hosted Saturday Night Live twice: first in 1997 with musical guest Beck and special guests Michael Palin and John Cleese from Monty Python's Flying Circus; and again in May 2006 with musical guest Nelly Furtado.
In 2006, Spacey played Lex Luthor in the Bryan Singer–directed superhero film, Superman Returns. He was to return for its 2009 sequel, but it was recently revealed that there won't be a chronological sequel; it is currently unknown if he has been asked to resume the role in any future films. Spacey also appeared in Edison, co-starring Morgan Freeman and Justin Timberlake; Edison received a direct-to-video release on July 18, 2006. In 2008, he played an MIT lecturer in the film 21, along with Kate Bosworth, Laurence Fishburne, and Jim Sturgess. The film is based on Ben Mezrich's best seller, Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six MIT Students Who Took Vegas for Millions, a story of student MIT card-counters who used mathematical probability to aid them in card games such as blackjack. In early 2010, Spacey went to China to star in writer-director Dayyan Eng's black-comedy film, Inseparable, alongside Hong Kong star Daniel Wu. Spacey was the first Hollywood actor to star in a fully Chinese-funded film.
Spacey is well known in Hollywood for his impressions. When he appeared on Inside the Actors Studio he imitated, at host James Lipton's request: James Stewart, Johnny Carson, Katharine Hepburn, Clint Eastwood, John Gielgud, Marlon Brando, Christopher Walken, Al Pacino and Jack Lemmon.[14] As a young actor in New York City, he used his skill to pretend to be Carson's son to obtain free theater tickets and enter Studio 54.[15]
Capitol/EMI's album Forever Cool (2007) features two duets with Spacey and the voice of the late Dean Martin: "Ain't That a Kick in the Head" and "King of the Road."
He is also a patron of the Shakespeare Schools Festival, a charity that enables school children across the UK to perform Shakespeare in professional theatres.[16]
On March 18, 2011, it was announced that Spacey was cast as Frank Underwood in the Netflix series House of Cards.[18] He was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series at the 65th Primetime Emmy Awards in 2013.
In February 2003, Spacey announced that he was returning to London to become the artistic director of the Old Vic, one of the city's oldest theatres.[19] Appearing at a press conference with Judi Dench and Elton John, he promised both to appear on stage and to bring in big-name talent.[20] Spacey undertook to remain in the post for a full ten years. The Old Vic Theatre Company, in its current form, stages shows eight months out of the year. Spacey's first season started in September 2004, and opened with the British premiere of the play Cloaca by Maria Goos, directed by Spacey, which opened to mixed reviews.[21] In the 2005 season, Spacey made his UK Shakespearean debut, to good notices, in the title role of Richard II directed by Trevor Nunn.[21]
In mid-2006, Spacey said that he was having the time of his life working at the Old Vic; at this point in his career, he said, he was "trying to do things now that are much bigger and outside himself".[22] He performed in productions of National Anthems by Dennis McIntyre, and The Philadelphia Story by Philip Barry in which he played C.K. Dexter Haven, the Cary Grant role in the film version. Critics applauded Spacey for taking on the management of a theatre, but noted that while his acting was impressive, his skills and judgment as a producer/manager had yet to develop.[citation needed]
In the 2006 season, Spacey suffered a major setback with a production of Arthur Miller's Resurrection Blues, directed by Robert Altman.[23] Despite an all-star cast (including Neve Campbell and Matthew Modine) and the pedigree of Miller's script, Spacey's decision to lure Altman to the stage proved disastrous: after a fraught rehearsal period, the play opened to a critical panning, and closed after only a few weeks.[22] Later in the year, Spacey starred in Eugene O'Neill's A Moon for the Misbegotten, along with Colm Meaney and Eve Best. The play received excellent reviews for Spacey and Best, and was transferred to Broadway in 2007. For the spring part of the 2007–08 season, Jeff Goldblum and Laura Michelle Kelly joined Spacey as the three characters in David Mamet's 1988 play Speed-the-Plow.[24]
In January 2009, he directed the premiere of Joe Sutton's Complicit, with Richard Dreyfuss, David Suchet and Elizabeth McGovern.
In September 2009, Trevor Nunn directed Spacey in a revival of Inherit The Wind. Spacey played defense lawyer Henry Drummond, a role that was made famous by Spencer Tracy in the 1960 film of the same name.
Sam Mendes directed Spacey in a Shakespeare's Richard III; Spacey played the title role. The show began in June 2011, commencing a worldwide tour culminating in New York in early 2012.[25]
In March 2014 it was announced that Kevin Spacey is to star in a one-man play at the Old Vic to celebrate his 10 years as artistic director of the Old Vic. He will take on the part of Clarence Darrow in a one-man play.[26]
Spacey was awarded a Doctor of Letters, honoris causa from the London South Bank University in November 2005.[27]
In June 2008, he was appointed as Cameron Mackintosh Visiting Professor of Contemporary Theatre at St Catherine's College, Oxford, succeeding Patrick Stewart in the post. He was officially welcomed on October 13, 2008.[28]
On November 3, 2010, he was invested as an honorary CBE by Prince Charles at Clarence House, on behalf of the Queen, for services to drama.[29]
A 1999 Sunday Times article stated that Spacey's "love affair with acting, and the absence of a visible partner in the life of an attractive 40-year-old, has resulted in misunderstanding and Esquire magazine's bet-hedging assertion two years ago that he must be gay."[30] He responded to such rumours by telling Playboy and other interviewers that he was not gay,[31] and telling Lesley White of the Sunday Times, "I chose for a long time not to answer these questions because of the manner in which they were asked, and because I was never talking to someone I trusted, so why should I? Recently I chose to participate because it's a little hard on the people I love." In an interview with Gotham Magazine Spacey said, "I’ve just never believed in pimping my personal life out for publicity. I’m not interested in doing it. Never will do it. They can gossip all they want; they can speculate all they want." He added, "I just happen to believe that there’s a public life and there’s a private life. Everybody has a right to a private life no matter what their profession is."[32]
In 2000, Spacey took his girlfriend of several years to the Academy Awards and thanked her during the acceptance speech for his Best Actor award.[32] Reports in 1999 and 2000 suggested she was a script supervisor, Dianne Dreyer.[32][33][34][35]
In September 2006, Spacey said that he intends to take up British citizenship when it becomes available to him.[36][37]
Spacey is a Democrat and a friend of former U.S. President Bill Clinton, having met Clinton before his presidency began. Spacey has described Clinton as "one of the shining lights" of the political process.[9] According to Federal Election Commission data, as of 2006 Spacey had contributed US$42,000 to Democratic candidates and committees.[38] He additionally made a cameo appearance in the short film President Clinton: Final Days, a light-hearted political satire produced by the Clinton administration for the White House Correspondents Dinner.[39]
In September 2007, Spacey met Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez. Neither spoke to the press about their encounter, but hours later the actor visited the government-funded movie studio Villa del Cine (Cinema City).[40] In December of that year he co-hosted the Nobel Peace Prize Concert with Uma Thurman.[41]
In March 2011, following Belarusian president Alexander Lukashenko's crackdown on the Belarusian democracy movement, Spacey, along with Jude Law and others, joined street protests against Lukashenko.[42]
Nominated — Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role
Nominated — Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Miniseries or Television Movie
Nominated — Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series (2013)
Nominated—Grammy Award for Best Compilation Soundtrack Album for a Motion Picture, Television or Other Visual Media
"Mind Games" — Come Together: A Night for John Lennon's Words and Music — October 2, 2001 — Radio City Music Hall
The Birdcage (1996) : Hank Azaria, Christine Baranski, Dan Futterman, Gene Hackman, Nathan Lane, Dianne Wiest, Robin Williams
The Full Monty (1997) : Mark Addy, Paul Barber, Robert Carlyle, Deirdre Costello, Steve Huison, Bruce Jones, Lesley Sharp, William Snape, Hugo Speer, Tom Wilkinson, Emily Woof
Shakespeare in Love (1998) : Ben Affleck, Simon Callow, Jim Carter, Martin Clunes, Judi Dench, Joseph Fiennes, Colin Firth, Gwyneth Paltrow, Geoffrey Rush, Antony Sher, Imelda Staunton
American Beauty (1999) : Annette Bening, Wes Bentley, Thora Birch, Chris Cooper, Peter Gallagher, Allison Janney, Kevin Spacey, Mena Suvari
Traffic (2000) : Steven Bauer, Benjamin Bratt, James Brolin, Don Cheadle, Erika Christensen, Clifton Collins, Jr., Benicio del Toro, Michael Douglas, Miguel Ferrer, Albert Finney, Topher Grace, Luis Guzmán, Amy Irving, Tomas Milian, D. W. Moffett, Dennis Quaid, Peter Riegert, Jacob Vargas, Catherine Zeta-Jones
Screen Actors Guild Award – Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role (1994–2000)
Categories: 1959 birthsLiving people20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsActor-managersMale actors from CaliforniaActors Studio alumniAmerican expatriates in the United KingdomAmerican male film actorsAmerican film directorsAmerican male stage actorsAmerican theatre directorsAmerican male voice actorsArtistic directorsBest Actor Academy Award winnersBest Actor BAFTA Award winnersBest Actor Empire Award winnersBest Supporting Actor Academy Award winnersCalifornia DemocratsCritics' Circle Theatre Award winnersGolden Orange Honorary Award winnersJuilliard School alumniLaurence Olivier Award winnersOutstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture Screen Actors Guild Award winnersPeople from Los Angeles County, CaliforniaPeople from South Orange, New JerseyTony Award winnersFilm directors from CaliforniaOutstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role Screen Actors Guild Award winnersAmerican people of Welsh descentHonorary Commanders of the Order of the British EmpireAmerican film producersFilm producers from CaliforniaHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from August 2010Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleArticles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2011Use mdy dates from February 2012Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          As enigmatic as he is talented, Kevin Spacey has always kept the details of his private life closely guarded. As he explained in a 1998 interview with the London Evening Standard, "the less you know about me, the easier it is to convince you that I am that character on screen. It allows an audience to come into a movie theatre and believe I am that person".There are, however, certain biographical facts to be had - for starters, Kevin Spacey Fowler was the youngest of three children born to Thomas and Kathleen Fowler in South Orange, New Jersey. His mother was a personal secretary, his father a technical writer whose irregular job prospects led the family all over the country. They eventually settled in southern California, where young Kevin developed into quite a little hellion - after he set his sister's tree house on fire, he was shipped off to the Northridge Military Academy, only to be thrown out a few months later for pinging a classmate on the head with a tire. Spacey then found his way to Chatsworth High School in the San Fernando Valley, where he managed to channel his dramatic tendencies into a successful amateur acting career. In his senior year, he played "Captain von Trapp" opposite classmate Mare Winningham's "Maria" in "The Sound of Music" (the pair later graduated as co-valedictorians). Spacey claims that his interest in acting - and his nearly encyclopedic accumulation of film knowledge - began at an early age, when he would sneak downstairs to watch the late late show on TV. Later, in high school, he and his friends cut class to catch revival films at the NuArt Theater. The adolescent Spacey worked up celebrity impersonations (James Stewart and Johnny Carson were two of his favorites) to try out on the amateur comedy club circuit.He briefly attended Los Angeles Valley College, then left (on the advice of another Chatsworth classmate, Val Kilmer) to join the drama program at Juilliard. After two years of training he was anxious to work, so he quit Juilliard sans diploma and signed up with the New York Shakespeare Festival. His first professional stage appearance was as a messenger in the 1981 production of "Henry VI".Festival head Joseph Papp ushered the young actor out into the "real world" of theater, and the next year Spacey made his Broadway debut in Henrik Ibsen's "Ghosts". He quickly proved himself as an energetic and versatile performer (at one point, he rotated through all the parts in David Rabe's "Hurlyburly"). In 1986, he had the chance to work with his idol and future mentor, Jack Lemmon, on a production of Eugene O'Neill's "Long Day's Journey Into Night". While his interest soon turned to film, Spacey would remain active in the theater community - in 1991, he won a Tony Award for his turn as "Uncle Louie" in Neil Simon's Broadway hit "Lost in Yonkers" and, in 1999, he returned to the boards for a revival of O'Neill's "The Iceman Cometh".Spacey's film career began modestly, with a small part as a subway thief in Heartburn (1986). Deemed more of a "character actor" than a "leading man", he stayed on the periphery in his next few films, but attracted attention for his turn as beady-eyed villain "Mel Profitt" on the TV series Wiseguy (1987). Profitt was the first in a long line of dark, manipulative characters that would eventually make Kevin Spacey a household name: he went on to play a sinister office manager in Glengarry Glen Ross (1992), a sadistic Hollywood exec in Swimming with Sharks (1994), and, most famously, creepy, smooth-talking eyewitness Verbal Kint in The Usual Suspects (1995).The "Suspects" role earned Spacey an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor and catapulted him into the limelight. That same year, he turned in another complex, eerie performance in David Fincher's thriller Se7en (1995) (Spacey refused billing on the film, fearing that it might compromise the ending if audiences were waiting for him to appear). By now, the scripts were pouring in. After appearing in Al Pacino's Looking for Richard (1996), Spacey made his own directorial debut with Albino Alligator (1996), a low-key but well received hostage drama. He then jumped back into acting, winning critical accolades for his turns as flashy detective Jack Vincennes in L.A. Confidential (1997) and genteel, closeted murder suspect Jim Williams in Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil (1997). In October 1999, just four days after the dark suburban satire American Beauty (1999) opened in US theaters, Spacey received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Little did organizers know that his role in Beauty would turn out to be his biggest success yet - as Lester Burnham, a middle-aged corporate cog on the brink of psychological meltdown, he tapped into a funny, savage character that captured audiences' imaginations and earned him a Best Actor Oscar.No longer relegated to offbeat supporting parts, Spacey seems poised to redefine himself as a Hollywood headliner. He says he's finished exploring the dark side - but, given his attraction to complex characters, that mischievous twinkle will never be too far from his eyes.In February 2003 Spacey made a major move back to the theatre. He was appointed Artistic Director of the new company set up to save the famous Old Vic theatre, The Old Vic Theatre Company. Although he did not undertake to stop appearing in movies altogether, he undertook to remain in this leading post for ten years, and to act in as well as to direct plays during that time. His first production, of which he was the director, was the September 2004 British premiere of the play Cloaca by Maria Goos (made into a film, Cloaca (2003)). Spacey made his UK Shakespearean debut in the title role in Richard II in 2005. In 2006 he got movie director Robert Altman to direct for the stage the little-known Arthur Miller play Resurrection Blues, but that was a dismal failure. However Spacey remained optimistic, and insisted that a few mistakes are part of the learning process. He starred thereafter with great success in Eugene O'Neill's A Moon for the Misbegotten along with Colm Meaney and Eve Best, and in 2007 that show transferred to Broadway. In February 2008 Spacey put on a revival of the David Mamet 1988 play Speed-the-Plow in which he took one of the three roles, the others being taken by Jeff Goldblum and Laura Michelle Kelly.In 2013, Spacey took on the lead role in an original Netflix series, House of Cards. Based upon a British show of the same name, House of Cards is an American political drama. The show's first season received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination to include outstanding lead actor in a drama series.
      Was paid 225 pounds per week for appearing in the play "The Iceman Cometh" at the Almeida Theatre in London (1998).
      Ranked #56 in Empire (UK) magazine's "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time" list. [October 1997]
      Went to Chatsworth High School in Los Angeles with Mare Winningham. During their senior year, Kevin played von Trapp and Mare played Maria in a school production of The Sound of Music. Upon hearing of their Oscar nominations in 1996, Winningham sent a telegram to Spacey saying: "Captain von Trapp - congratulations on your nomination - Maria."
      The use of the name Spacey, while rumored as a combination of Spencer Tracy's names, is actually his mother's maiden name.
      Kevin burnt his sister's tree house down when they were children. This caused his parents to opt for military school, which Kevin promptly left for Chatsworth.
      Appears twice in Total Film's (U.K) '10 Greatest Villains of All Time' poll. His "John Doe", from Se7en (1995) came in at number 10, while his character in The Usual Suspects (1995) was voted fifth. [February 2001]
      Was expelled from Northridge Military Academy (in California) for throwing a tire at a classmate.
      Won Broadway's 1991 Tony Award as Best Actor (Featured Role - Play) for "Lost in Yonkers." He was also nominated in 1999 as Best Actor (Play) for a revival of Eugene O'Neill's "The Iceman Cometh."
      During his appearance on BBC TV's Parkinson (1971) in March 2002, he did impressions of Jack Lemmon, Bill Clinton, Judi Dench, Katharine Hepburn, Al Pacino, Ian McKellen, Peter O'Toole and James Stewart.
      Dedicated the Oscar that he won for Best Actor in American Beauty (1999) to Jack Lemmon. Spacey has said in interviews that he based his performance of Lester Burnham on Lemmon's C.C. Baxter in The Apartment (1960). Appropriately, there is a family connection between those films: Lemmon's love interest was Shirley MacLaine, whose sister-in-law, Annette Bening played Spacey's wife.
      Kevin Spacey's production company, TriggerStreet, is named after an actual street in the San Fernando Valley where Spacey grew up and dreamed of building a theatre and making movies. The late cowboy star Roy Rogers once owned a ranch on the land and named the street for his horse Trigger.
      He was awarded the Laurence Olivier Theatre Award in 1999 (1998 season) for Best Actor for his performance in The Iceman Cometh.
      When they were both performing on Broadway in 1998, he would often meet Dame Judi Dench during intermission or between shows.
      He was awarded the 1998 London Critics Circle Theatre Award (Drama) for Best Actor for his performance in The Iceman Cometh at the Almeida and at the Old Vic Theatres.
      He was awarded the 1998 London Evening Standard Theatre Award for Best Actor for his performance in The Iceman Cometh.
      17 April 2004, London - suffered a head injury after tripping over his dog while pursuing a young man who stole his cell phone. Initially, he reported that the injury was the result of a mugging, but later admitted the truth and stated that he was embarrassed by the situation.
      His Oscar-winning performance as Verbal Kint from his film The Usual Suspects (1995) (1995) was ranked #48 on the American Film Institute's Villains list in their compilation of the 100 years of The Greatest Screen Heroes and Villains.
      Has said that working with Jack Lemmon on a stage production of "A Long Day's Journey into Night" changed his life. Previously possessive of a reckless ambition, he said he was amazed at how Lemmon was both a great actor and generous to a fault as both a co-star and a human being, teaching him that being a good person and a good actor were not mutually exclusive. He still considers Lemmon his role model.
      His guest appearance in Crime Story: The Senator, the Movie Star, and the Mob (1987) was his first major television appearance.
      His performance as "Verbal Kint" in The Usual Suspects (1995) is ranked #100 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time.
      Parodied a mad bald man, "Dr. Evil", in Austin Powers in Goldmember (2002) while portraying a sinister bald man, "Lex Luthor", in Superman Returns (2006).
      Has twice shaved his head completely bald to play the villain in movies. He did it to play "John Doe" in Se7en (1995) and "Lex Luthor" in Superman Returns (2006).
      As part of his research for the role of Bobby Darin in the film Beyond the Sea (2004), Spacey watched several of Michael Bublé's performances.
      April 2000: The Los Angeles Times reported that he was being considered for the role of Inspector Clouseau, in The Pink Panther (2006). The following month, Spacey denied he was in negotiations for the role of Clouseau. He said he'd only had two conversations with MGM about the role, but that since the announcement, claiming he was in the running for it, he'd had to answer 8000 Pink Panther questions.
      As of 2013, he is only one of 6 actors who have a 2-0 winning record when nominated for an acting Oscar. The others are Luise Rainer for The Great Ziegfeld (1936) and The Good Earth (1937); Vivien Leigh for Gone with the Wind (1939) and A Streetcar Named Desire (1951); Helen Hayes for The Sin of Madelon Claudet (1931) and Airport (1970); Hilary Swank for Boys Don't Cry (1999) and Million Dollar Baby (2004); and Christoph Waltz for Inglourious Basterds (2009) and Django Unchained (2012)..
      Co-hosted the Nobel Peace Prize concert for Al Gore because Tommy Lee Jones had to drop out at the last minute.
      In 1970 he attended Northridge Military Academy in Northridge (Los Angeles) California, with producer/director Thomas R. Bond II.
      Thanked by the band Matchbox 20 in the liner notes of their album "Yourself or Someone Like You".
      In November of 2010, Prince Charles presented Kevin Spacey with an award for his services to drama. He was named an honorary Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in recognition for his work at London's Old Vic theatre, where he has been Artistic Director since 2003.
      Was the first Hollywood star to be cast as a lead actor in a fully Chinese-financed film: Dayyan Eng's Inseparable (2011).
      In Total Film's The 150 Greatest Movie Performances of All Time, his Roger "Verbal" Kint in The Usual Suspects (1995) was rated 39th.
      In Total Film's Top 100 Greatest Movie Villains, he ranked 65 for his role as Buddy Ackerman in Swimming with Sharks (1994). His Keiser Soze in The Usual Suspects (1995) was ranked 52 and his John Doe in Se7en (1995) was ranked 13.
      In a Butterfields LA auction on September 10, 2001, the Oscar won by George Stoll for Anchors Aweigh (1945) was being auctioned for $157,000. Kevin bought it and returned it to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
      Kevin's maternal grandfather was the son of Swedish parents. Kevin's other ancestry includes English and Welsh.
      After he dropped out of Julliard, he worked as a shoe salesman and a super in his apartment building.
      Starring in 'National Anthems' at the Old Vic, where he is also Artistic Director [February 2005]
      Announced on Live with Regis and Kathie Lee (1988) that he will be directing and starring in a biopic about singer Bobby Darin. He will also be singing. [February 2003]
      His film, Beyond the Sea (2004), will be showing at the Toronto Film Festival, Sept 2004. [August 2004]
      Being Artistic Director of the Old Vic, he currently plays "A Moon for the Misbegotten", by Eugene O'Neill, opposite Eve Best. [September 2006]
      As of 2014, has appeared in three films that were nominated for the Best Picture Oscar: Working Girl (1988), L.A. Confidential (1997) and American Beauty (1999), with the latter winning in the category.
      Was the first choice to play President Whitmore in Independence Day (1996), but an executive at 20th Century Fox refused to let producer Dean Devlin cast him in the role, feeling he didn't have the potential to be a big-time movie star. Ten months later, Spacey won his first Academy Award.
      [on winning the Best Actor Oscar for his performance in American Beauty (1999))] This has definitely been the highlight of my day.
      On American Beauty (1999): "I read the screenplay and nearly fell out of bed. I thought I better meet him quick before someone else read it".
      Discussing occasional misconceptions by women that he is gay: For them it's a challenge. They want to be the one to turn me around. I let them.
      My idea of credibility is primarily self-imposed and it all relates to the thing that I've been interested in as an actor and a director, which is what are you *willing* to live with as a human being? And there's things I'm just not willing to live with--and I won't. And if it means that I stop and find something else in life that interests me or challenges me, so be it.
      The less you know about me, the easier it is to convince you that I am that character on screen. It allows an audience to come into a movie theatre and believe I am that person.
      Success is like death. The more successful you become, the higher the houses in the hills get and the higher the fences get.
      "Beyond the Sea (2004) is not a linear story at all. It's not what people will expect and it's not a biopic. It's my statement".
      If you're lucky enough to do well, it's your responsibility to send the elevator back down.as quoted in Woman's World, 2-22-05 issue.
      I was beginning to feel I just didn't want to go through another 10 years of living in hotels, making three or four movies a year. I long for the ritual of theater. I adore it. And I want to do plays that challenge me.
      If you look at how most artistic beginnings have been greeted in this country [UK], I'm in very good company. I know I'm a bigger target as long as I'm seen as a Hollywood movie star instead of as an actor of the theater, even an artistic director. They don't accept that I come in to work here every day, and have done for the last two-and-a-half years, and will continue to do so.
      There is no prize, out there. The only prize is, this one, and what you feel and what you want to accomplish. And if you can, as you start out, these what could be lean years or could be fat years. I feel that I very often watch a lot of young people sort of meander around without any idea about why they're doing what they're doing. I mean to want and to be ambitious and to want to be successful, is not enough. That's just desire. To know what you want, to understand why you're doing it, to dedicate every breath in your body to achieve... If you feel you have something to give, if you feel that your particular talent is worth developing, is worth caring for then there's nothing you can't achieve.
      "As far as I'm concerned, when I looked at what happened in my career in 2000 - after American Beauty (1999) - I thought it couldn't get much better. What was I going to spend the rest of my life doing? Trying to top myself? Trying to stay hot, trying to make sure I was in the right movies? I don't give a s**t. I'm trying to do something with my success which is bigger than myself. I'm no longer interested in my personal career. I am interested in the impact I can have on a lot of other people's careers and on audiences".
John Normington was a remarkable talent and all of us at the Old Vic are deeply saddened by his passing. We were fortunate to have John in the company of The Entertainer, where so many audiences had the chance to see his extraordinary performance as Archie Rice's father. John brought a wide range of experience to his characters throughout a diverse and successful career that touched the lives of all who worked with him. We were honored to have enjoyed John's company for as long as we had him. His spirit and influence remained throughout and now that same spirit joins the other great actors who have played the Old Vic stage, where he will always be remembered with admiration and affection. They don't make them like him anymore. We send our love and condolences to John's partner, family and friends.
      [As Artistic Director of London's Old Vic Theatre] I'm living my dream. I'm doing it the way I want to do it. I'm working with an extraordinary group of people at that theatre who are dedicated and who really have in so many ways helped us discover what our ethos is.
      I don't care about my personal acting career any more. I'm done with it. After 10 years of making movies and going better than I ever could have imagined, I sort of had to ask myself: What am I supposed to do with all of this success that I have had? Am I just going to keep making movie after movie and be concerned with all of that 'Are you up, are you down, are you hot, are you not?', and I don't really care. What I care about is working with people, what I care about is the remarkable experience of being able to be a part of bringing people together.
      I was doing a play called 'The Iceman Cometh' at the Old Vic, and in the middle of the quietest moment of the second act, a phone started ringing. I felt the anger starting in my toes and it came right out of my mouth, as loud as anything else I'd said on the stage, I looked out to the audience and said, 'Tell them we're busy!' And it got a round of applause.
      I love living in London. I can say with all sincerity that London is my home. This is my seventh year in London, fifth season at the Old Vic. I will never renounce being American but there is a part of me that is British now. I may go for dual citizenship, who knows?
      (On traveling to Africa with Bill Clinton in 2002) He invited me. It was an opportunity to go to Africa, which I'd always been fascinated by. He's the first president to go there while he was in office. He went to raise money and awareness for a number of issues: AIDS, debt, economic relief. We went to seven different countries in 10 days-Ghana, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda, and then to the town of Johannesburg for an event with Mandela. It was just a remarkable experience.
      [on undertaking dark roles]: They're great parts! These are the parts audiences love to hate! First of all, you don't play a villain. You play a person who is doing things they think are quite justified. It's not one thing that makes a person do something. It's a lifetime of experience and motivations and relationships and terrors. We too often, conveniently and cutely, try to label everything so that we understand it, and there are things we'll never f---ing understand. ever. All we can do is just watch them.
      [on Se7en (1995)] I liked it because it was such a dangerous script and showed just what human beings are capable of. Here was a movie in which Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt, who always win in every movie they ever do, simply don't win. I felt that was outrageous for a commercial movie....It's a great thriller or mystery, but on another level it's a film about the fact that, if you only look at a person through one lens, or only believe what you're told, you can often miss the truth that is staring you in the face. It's so easy for us to misperceive and see the things in others that we want to see. And, when we're wrong, and often we're dead wrong, we miss the truth.
      [on Albino Alligator (1996)] Directing a film was something I was yearning to do. I always wanted to see if I had the capacity to be a good storyteller.
      I'm lucky if I find one movie a year that's worth doing, and when I do find one, it usually only takes 20-30 days to shoot.
      [on House of Cards (2013) and Netflix] This is a really new perspective... to drop them ease the episodes] all at once but I think that's how we watch TV now. Because this is the first time they [Netflix] are doing drama, they don't even have the offices to do this compared with the other networks. I feel sorry for the makers of the third series they do - when they have the offices (and can interfere).
      [on the current state of film versus TV] I was lucky to get into film at a time (the 1990s) that was very interesting for drama. But if you look now, the focus is not on the same kind of films that were made in the 90s. When I look now, the most interesting plots, the most interesting characters, they are on TV.
      [on Netflix airing all 13 episodes of House of Cards (2013) at once] I think in some ways maybe this proves, with the way in which an audience has been able to find the series, that we have learned the lesson the music industry didn't learn. Give people what they want it, in the form they want it in, at a reasonable price, and they will buy it and they won't steal it.
      The camera doesn't know if it's a TV camera, or a streaming camera, or. a movie camera - it is just a camera. It doesn't change our process in terms of how we work. What did change our process was that we weren't obligated or asked by Netflix to do a pilot. We were just able to get on with the story-telling from the get-go.
      [on why he hasn't made a movie since Horrible Bosses (2011)] Unless it's Martin Scorsese, and it's a really significant role, fuck off. I'm not playing someone's brother. I'm not playing the station manager. I'm not playing the FCC chairman.
      The theater has always been dying. They've been saying that for centuries. And you know what, it just keeps limping along and doing alright. By the way, the single biggest money-making franchise in the United States is Broadway.... I think, and this is my honest opinion, as long as people want to tell stories, and as long as people want to hear those stories, the theater will be alive and well for all time. [2014]
      [on the difference between working in film and on stage] Theater is my primary allegiance. And I've not only had such an extraordinary life in the theater, but I've also been given the incredible opportunity to have a life in film... But I always try to remember this: no matter how good an actor might be in movie, they'll never be any better in that movie. That's it. But in theater, we can be better next Tuesday than we were this Tuesday, we can be better infinitely. It is why we call the film 'Now.' It's not just the first word of the first sentence of the play, it is what theater is, it's NOW, it's at this moment, it's here and it's gone. And to people who think it's the same thing every night, I always make the analogy that it's like tennis. You can go out and play tennis eight times a week. And it's always the same rules, but it's always a different game, every single time. That's what it's like, when we go on stage every night. [2014]
      I look at the last 10 years, where I've done a play every year... and I'd like to think that this decade has made me a better actor. All that work has prepared me to do the best work that I can do, and I'm pretty convinced that if I hadn't gone and done this, I wouldn't have been prepared for a thing like 'House of Cards.' [2014]
      [on Horrible Bosses 2 (2014)] I think it is a little bit crazier. I'm very glad that almost everybody is back for it and I so love working with Jason Sudeikis and Jason Bateman and Charlie Day because being opposite them in a scene when they're riffing and they're improv-ing and they're trying different ways to do scenes, it is the hardest thing in the world not to absolutely lose your cookies. We spend most of our time laughing and any time somebody wants to pay me to come and laugh all day long, I'm there.
      I am one of these actors where I believe very strongly that if you want to get a part, you have to do anything within reason to get that part. I admire Woody Allen so much. I was at a point where every time he announces a new movie, I never get an audition and nobody ever calls me to come in. I was like, "You know what? I am going to just write Woody Allen." So, I introduced myself and sent him a Netflix subscription and said "I don't know if you've seen my work, but you might want to watch this series." He wrote me back a warm and wonderful letter, and thanked me for the Netflix. He said he'd seen me play lots of different roles and said he absolutely would consider me in a film.
      I was in a piano bar. Some guy was absolutely convinced that I was that musician...what's his name? The guy in Genesis? Phil Collins! To the point that I even put on a British accent and signed a napkin as him.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Kevin Spacey Fowler was the youngest of three children born in South Orange, New Jersey. His father Thomas had an irregular job as a technical writer which led the family to move around the country.
Once settled in California, Kevin proved troublesome and after setting his sister’s treehouse on fire was enrolled in the Northridge Military Academy. Any attempts to redeem himself were short lived when he was thrown out a few months later due to more mischief.
A stint in amateur dramatics at the Chatsworth High School in San Fernando Valley channelled his thespian talents. He even played a young Captain von Trapp in ‘The Sound of Music’ as a student among many other shows.
The teenage Spacey also showed a flair for impersonations; Jimmy Stewart and Johnny Carson being two of his favourites. He would later prove how talented his impersonation skills are as a guest on BBC’s Michael Parkinson Show in 2002.
Spacey’s first professional stage role was as a messenger in ‘Henry VI’ when he signed up with the New York Shakespeare festival in 1981. The following year he made he Broadway debut in Henrik Ibsen’s ‘Ghosts’.
Quickly gaining a reputation for being a versatile and competent actor he finally got the chance to work with his idol Jack Lemmon in 1986 in a stage production of Eugene O’Neill’s ‘Long Day’s Journey Into Night’.
Spacey sealed his theatrical status with a Tony award in Neil Simon’s ‘Lost In Yonkers’ on Broadway.
An early opportunity to appear on film was as a subway thief in the Meryl Streep domestic drama ‘Heartburn’ 1986. It was only a small part but more film and TV work followed. Soon Spacey cultivated a reputation for playing dark, sinister types as epitomised in movies ‘Glengarry Glen Ross’ (1992) and cult lo-budget flick ‘Swimming with Sharks’ (1994).
But the versatile and talented actor’s breakthrough movie was the highly acclaimed 1995 hit ‘The Usual Suspects’, playing the creepy, smooth talking Verbal Klint. Spacey won a Best Supporting Oscar for the role and was soon catapulted into the big league.
Spacey’s dedication to his craft has meant that he has always kept a low profile with the public regarding his private life. He once said of his enigmatic persona "The less you know about me, the easier it is to convince you that I am that character on screen. It allows an audience to come into a movie theatre and believe I am that person".
Many of Spacey’s films are noted for their twists such as ‘Usual Suspects’, ‘The Life of David Gale’ and American Beauty’.
He even refused screen billing on the thriller ‘Se7en’ fearing it might ruin the end of the movie if audiences were expecting him.
The Oscar winning ‘LA Confidential’ (1998) brought Spacey to an even wider International audience and earned him several nominations. But it was the sensational ‘American Beauty’ (1999) written by Alan ‘Six Feet Under’ Ball that finally won Spacey a Best Actor Oscar for his funny and savage character Lester Burnham.
Spacey went on to star as the villainous Lex Luthor in the Bryan Singer-directed production, ‘Superman Returns’, which opened in the summer of 2006. This was followed by 2007's ‘Fred Claus’ and ‘21’, as well as 2008's TV film ‘Recount’, which garnered critical acclaim. His portrayal of Ron Klain in the 2000 US presidential election earned him four nominations including the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor and the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor.
Spacey has had a close affinity with the UK ever since taking on the role of Artistic Director of London’s Old Vic Theatre. He has appeared several times on various London stages including Islington’s Almeida in Eugene O’Neill’s ‘The Ice Man Cometh’ for which he won several awards including a Lawrence Olivier Theatre Award in 1999.
The Oscar winning actor’s love for the theatre is believed to surpass his interest in making movies. He is quoted as saying “The movies are not my first priority, the theatre is.” In 2005, he took on the role of Richard II at the Old Vic. The same year landed him a Doctor of Letters, honoris causa from the London South Bank University.
His relentless association with the UK and love for all things dramatic saw him appointed the Cameron Mackintosh Visiting Professor of Contemporary Theatre at St Catherine's College, Oxford, in 2008. Two years later Spacey received another honour when Prince Charles made him a CBE for services to drama at an event in Clarence House on behalf of the Queen.
His relationship with past British monarchs was reignited in 2010 when it was announced that Spacey would play the title character in William Shakespeare's ‘Richard III’ at the Old Vic from June 2011. Part of Sam Mendes' Bridge Project, and the first collaboration between the two since ‘American Beauty’, the play is one of Shakespeare's best-known history productions and charts the rise to power and short reign of the king.
Spacey has always kept the details of his private life closely guarded, with his sexual orientation frequently the subject of much speculation in the media. Indeed, much was made in the British tabloid press of a recent incident where he claimed he was mugged in a south London park at 4.30 in the morning.
=======================================================
Kevin Matthew  Fowler, a.k.a. Kevin Spacey, was born July 26, 1959, in South Orange, New Jersey.  He was the youngest of three children   born to Thomas  Fowler, a contract technical writer, and Kathleen Fowler, a private secretary and homemaker.  
As a contract worker,  Kevin's father Thomas went from job to job and the family moved constantly as Thomas pursued his work. These upheavals left a young Kevin feeling uprooted and rebellious.  
"When I was about nine or 10 I went through a time  of real rebellion within my family. I was mad, had no  focus and was interested in nothing at all. I started to play with matches,  caused trouble and did stupid things that kids should not do. As a result, my parents decided to send me to military  school. I stayed there for a year or so and then got thrown out, because I got  in to a fight. It was not a fair fight and I did what was right, but they had  rules that if you were involved in trouble of any kind you had to go. It was  fortuitous. I went back to public school and some teachers turned me on  to theatre and acting. That was the key moment in my life." -- Kevin Spacey,  Spectrum Magazine, January 14, 2001
After his stint at Northridge Military Academy, Kevin went on to  attend Canoga Park High School  where he found his calling when he started acting in school plays.  While performing in a school production of  Arthur Miller's All My Sons, Kevin  was singled out and recruited for the renown drama department at Chatsworth High School.  At Chatsworth, Kevin had the  opportunity to act in a number of plays and would graduate from there in  1977.  During his senior year, he was cast in  the role of Captain Georg von Trapp for the school's production of The Sound of Music, with classmate actress Mare Winningham cast  opposite him as Maria.  
It was during his  high school years that Kevin officially adopted the surname Spacey, his mother's  maiden name.  After high school, Kevin  Spacey tried his luck as a stand up comedian on the amateur comedy club circuit.  While performing during those early years,  Kevin also honed his skills as celebrity mimic, a skill he still  displays to this day, often to the surprise and delight of his audiences.   His impressions of the likes of Johnny  Carson, Al Pacino, and Christopher Walken, are always dead-on.
After briefly attending Los   Angeles Valley College, Kevin left on the advice of another famous  Chatsworth classmate, Val Kilmer, who convinced him at the age of 19 to enroll  in the drama program at Julliard in New York City.
 Kevin did just that, and spent the next two years  training hard at Julliard before abruptly quitting in 1981. 
"I just dropped out," he said,  smiling. "I had no prospects, no agent, no money, nothing. Then I got an  audition for the New York  Shakespeare Festival in the Park by basically browbeating the casting office. I  played a messenger with, like, six lines in Henry IV, Part One. It was my first  job in New York  as a professional actor, and it was pretty exciting, but after that I just  couldn't get any acting work. I was working as a hat-check guy in a restaurant  when I decided to see Joe Papp for a job." Papp was the influential  founder and director of the New York  Shakespeare Festival. He gave Spacey a job as office help.
"While working  there, I got cast as the lead in an off-off Broadway play, The Robbers, and got  my first New York  review - in the Village Voice.  It was  extremely complimentary, because they compared me to both Marlon Brando and  Karl Malden in the same sentence, so for weeks my friends called me 'Marlon  Malden.  Joe Papp showed up at the play  one night and fired me the next day. I was stunned, because it was paying my  rent. Joe said, 'I saw an actor last night onstage, and you've become too  comfortable here.' He did me the greatest favor in the world by literally  shoving me out the door. Four months later, Joe Papp was in the opening-night  audience of my first Broadway play." -- Kevin Spacey, Parade October 24,  1999
Kevin soon made his Broadway  debut in a 1982 production of Henrik Ibsen's Ghosts opposite Liv Ullmann.
The first big break  for Kevin Spacey came along when he was auditioning for the Tom Stoppard play, The Real Thing.  Kevin didn't get that part, but he was approached  by director Mike Nichols, who cast Kevin in his production of David Rabe's Hurlyburly.
 Spacey eventually  understudied for all the male leads in the play and this adaptability led  Nichols to cast Kevin in his first movie role as a subway thief who mugs Meryl  Streep's character in the 1986 picture, Heartburn.  Two years later, the director and actor  worked together once again on Working Girl, where Spacey played a small  part as a sleazy businessman.
Between 1987 and 1992, Kevin did a substantial amount  of television work and appeared regularly on the series Wiseguy as  deranged criminal Mel Profitt.   While  Kevin was developing his reputation in the television and film industries, he  still remained active in the theater community, and in 1991 won a Tony Award for  his role as "Uncle Louie" in Neil Simon's Broadway hit Lost in Yonkers.
 During this time,  Kevin also had an opportunity to work with his idol and future mentor, Jack  Lemmon, in a 1986 production of Eugene O'Neill's Long Day's Journey Into Night. Kevin would go on to work with Jack Lemmon in  the 1988 NBC miniseries, The Murder of  Mary Phagan, and once again when Spacey played Lemmon's son-in-law in the  1989 feature film, Dad.
 The last time Kevin  Spacey had an opportunity to work with Jack Lemmon was in 1992, when Spacey  was cast as the put upon office manager in the film, Glengarry Glen Ross,  and Lemmon played the harried salesman who was never given the 'good'  leads.   Though they would not work  together again, Jack Lemmon remained a close friend and mentor of Kevin's all the way up  until his death from cancer in June of 2001.
"He [Jack Lemmon] actually picked me to play one  of his sons and he was like a father figure to me. He was so hard-working, so  kind. Even if he was in a bad mood, he was generous. He didn't give two hoots  about all the attendant stuff, he just wanted to always do good work." --  Kevin Spacey, Times Online, September 05, 2004
Spacey made his  producing debut in 1994 with Swimming With Sharks, where he also  co-starred as a malicious Hollywood  executive.  Kevin was nominated for an Independent Spirit Award for his portrayal of the abusive studio executive.  Also that year, he played one-half of the  bickering Connecticut  couple in the dark comedy The Ref, co-starring Denis Leary.  
 Kevin's big breakthrough  year came in 1995 with the role of the enigmatic, crippled con-man "Verbal"  Kint in The Usual Suspects.  Kevin  Spacey won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his work in the critically  acclaimed hit.  And if that weren't enough,  the same year Spacey won additional acclaim for his role as a serial killer in  the stylish but creepy thriller, Seven.
 Spacey made his debut  as a director in 1996, working with Matt Dillon, Faye Dunaway and Skeet Ulrich  in the film festival favorite, Albino Alligator.  Kevin followed up  that project with an outstanding performance in 1997's award winning L.A.  Confidential.  Kevin Spacey's  portrayal of Sergeant Jack Vincennes in that film garnered awards such as the Best  Supporting Actor award from both the Boston Society of Film Critics and the Society of Texas Film Critics. 
Kevin also formed his independent production company in 1997, Trigger Street Productions. Spacey created Trigger Street as a venue for young  writers, cinematographers, directors and actors who might not otherwise get their work in front of the right power brokers and decision makers. 
            We were really focusing on developing relationships  with literary agents, with playwrights, with going out and trying to find as  much content and interesting new voices and writers as we possibly could. The  fact we ended up producing a film called "The Big Kahuna" a couple of  years ago with Danny DeVito, and also produced "The Iceman Cometh,"  which is a play that I did in New York, was kind of a surprise.
"But this year really had been the year that we had sort of focused on really  kind of pulling the trigger, as we like to call it, over at our place. We've  done a film called "The United States of Leland," with a first-time  writer/director who's 27 years old named Matthew Hoge.
We're not just giving an opportunity to  somebody, but also trying to nurture them, trying to protect them, trying to  give them as many resourceful tools, and a crew and a cast, to help them make  their dream come true. And at the same time, help them learn what it's like to  work with producers; to negotiate yourself in what's sometimes the treacherous  waters of trying to make your dream happen on." -- Kevin Spacey, 'Moneyline with Lou Dobbs', October 18, 2002
 In that same year, 1997, Kevin played accused murderer  Jim Williams in the film version of Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil which was directed by Clint Eastwood.  Kevin Spacey was given an opportunity to demonstrate another of his many  talents by singing Johnny Mercer's That Old Black Magic on the film's  official soundtrack.
 1998 began with Spacey performing alongside Samuel L.  Jackson in The Negotiator, and later that year Kevin narrated the voice  of a grasshopper in A Bug's Life.   Also in 1998, the actor hit the boards once again, headlining in a London  stage production of Eugene O'Neill's The  Iceman Cometh.  A role he would  reprise on Broadway in 1999. 
When the film American Beauty was  released in late 1999, critics and audiences alike were blown away by Kevin  Spacey's performance as Lester Burnham in the modern masterpiece directed by Sam Mendes.  Kevin's brilliant work in the  role garnered him a host of awards, most notably the Oscar, for Best Actor and  the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Male Actor in a Leading Role. 
 During the Academy Awards ceremony Kevin  Spacey dedicated his Oscar for Best Actor to his friend and mentor, Jack  Lemmon.  By winning his second Academy Award,  Kevin Spacey became one of only six male actors to have won the Oscar in both  the lead and supporting categories.  Jack  Lemmon, Robert DeNiro, Jack Nicholson, Gene Hackman, and Denzel Washington are  the only others to have won both.   
 Kevin was greeted with quite a buzz at the 1999 Toronto International  Film Festival for his role in American Beauty, but he also attended the festival to promote The Big Kahuna, a smaller film which he both co-starred in and produced.
 On October 5, 1999, Kevin Spacey was honored by  receiving a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.   Among those who attended the ceremony were Jack Lemmon, Edward Norton,  Frances Fisher, and Kevin's proud mother, Kathleen Fowler.  
 Kevin turned out another three films in 2001.  He appeared with Helen Hunt and Haley Joel  Osment in Pay It Forward, co-starred with Jeff Bridges as a suspected alien in K-PAX, and played a struggling reporter in The Shipping News with Julianne Moore and Dame Judi Dench.
 Kevin Spacey relaunched the web site Triggerstreet.com in  2002,  as an online community for unrepresented screenwriters and short film directors. The site immediately took off with thousands of online users uploading their work, reviewing work created by their peers, and participating in online competitions and short film festivals. 
Spacey's new web site, TriggerStreet.com, encourages  aspiring filmmakers to submit screenplays in the hope that something can get  developed. 'I've done incredibly well, and I've done incredibly well because  the material I found early in my career was from first-time writers, first-time  directors, first-time playwrights. If it weren't for that talent, I wouldn't  have a career,' he asserts. 'If one person gets a break [the web site accrued  50,000 registrations in its first month], then it's been successful.'  -- Kevin Spacey, Marie Claire (UK), April 2003
 Off screen, Kevin Spacey visited Africa in September 2002  along with former US President  Bill Clinton to fight AIDS and encourage economic development in Ghana, Nigeria,  Rwanda, Mozambique and South Africa.  He also worked alongside Elton John in  presenting a star-studded charity concert to raise funds for repairing one of London's famous old  theaters, The Old Vic.
 During 2003, Kevin played an anti-capital punishment  advocate accused of murder in The Life of David Gale, and he also  produced and had a supporting role in the independent film The United States of Leland.
 Early that same year, Kevin Spacey announced that he would be moving to London  to become the artistic director of The Old Vic Theatre Company, which was a new  company set up to save the venerable Old Vic from neglect and decay.  Spacey made a commitment to remain in that  leading post for at least ten years, and to act in as well as to direct plays during  that time.  
 Spacey has directed The Old Vic Theatre Company ever since and more recently has committed to stay in the post until 2015. His  first production at The Old Vic was the September 2004 British premiere of the play Cloaca written by Maria Goos.  Kevin directed Cloaca, which was also made into a 2003 television film.  
At the same time he was putting on productions at The  Old Vic, Spacey continued with his film career.  In 2004, he starred in, directed, co-wrote and co-produced his dream project, Beyond the Sea, a biopic of singer Bobby Darin.  Spacey provided his own vocals on the film's soundtrack and appeared in several tribute concerts around the time of the movie's release.
 It took Spacey five years to bring the Bobby Darin  project to the big screen, and his hard work and determination paid off when he  received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Lead Actor and a Grammy nomination  for Best Soundtrack. 
"It all started, frankly, with my mother. My mother was  a huge Bobby Darin fan, so I grew up in a house where Bobby Darin records were  playing all the time - and Sinatra and the Big Bands. There's no question we're  influenced by our upbringing and what we're surrounded by. By the time I was  15, I was pretty convinced that Bobby Darin was the coolest cat that ever  walked the face of the earth. – Kevin Spacey, The Buffalo  News, November 2003
Oh! My mother had a  huge influence in my life and I was lucky to have a woman of infinite taste and  knowledge and intelligence who, I think, raised me well, who I was close with,  who I sought out. My whole life I sought my mother out. And I'm glad she died  knowing that this is the movie I was going to make. I was taking care of her  because she had contracted a brain tumor and the last eleven months of her life  I was writing the script, I was recording for rehearsal tracks and getting  ready to do the movie. And she wanted me to do this movie more than any other.  I think she would be quite pleased and proud that we finally made it happen.  Because the movie is about mothers and sons and it just made sense to me that  the film was for her. -- Kevin Spacey, Voice of America - December 16, 2004
 Kevin hit the boards again at The Old Vic in 2005 taking on the title role in the Shakespearian play, Richard II, and in 2006 he convinced  movie director Robert Altman to direct for the stage a little-known Arthur  Miller play Resurrection Blues.  Kevin then starred in Eugene O'Neill's A Moon for the Misbegotten along with  Eve Best, a show which eventually transferred to Broadway in 2007.
"I've always been a theatre rat and ended up  having a film career that has surprised me, so I feel that I want to do more  theatre, so I just decided that I didn't want to spend the next ten years  making movie after movie after movie after movie after movie and occasionally  trying to fit a play in, so I thought I'd rather do it the other way  around.  So I'm going to do play after  play after play and occasionally fit a movie in."  -- Kevin Spacey, Film Monthly, April 2004
Kevin was cast as the villainous Lex Luthor in Bryan  Singer's 2006 Superman Returns, and in 2007, he co-starred with Vince Vaughn  and Paul Giamatti in the comedy about Santa's disgruntled older brother, Fred Claus.
Back at The Old Vic, Spacey put on a revival of the  David Mamet play Speed-the-Plow in  2008, where he took one of the three roles, the others being taken by Jeff Goldblum  and Laura Michelle Kelly. In early 2009 Kevin Spacey directed Joe Sutton's Complicit, starring Richard Dreyfuss, Elizabeth McGovern and David Suchet. 
 Also in 2008, Kevin was cast as an MIT lecturer in the film 21 along with Kate Bosworth and Laurence Fishburne.  Another accomplishment during the same year was Kevin's  portrayal of Ron Klain, the General Counsel to Al Gore's recount committee, in  the HBO film Recount.  A film which Kevin also  produced and for which he earned Golden Globe, Emmy, and SAG nominations  for Best Actor in a TV-Movie.  
 Kevin Spacey continued to be just as prolific during 2009 when  he took on the role of Jack Abramoff in the film Casino Jack, worked  opposite George Clooney in Men Who Stare at Goats, and was cast as a  disillusioned psychiatrist in Shrink. In 2010 Kevin    starred as a  billionaire inventor in Father of Invention and was cast as one of the horrible bosses in the comedy Horrible Bosses.  Also in 2010, Kevin was cast alongside Demi Moore, Paul Bettany and Simon Baker in the film Margin Call.
On November 3, 2010, Kevin Spacey was named an honorary Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in recognition for his work in theatre. Prince Charles presented the award  at a private ceremony in his official London residence, Clarence House.  The CBE is only given to foreign nationals in the case of exceptional service to Britain.
"I was hugely, hugely delighted that Prince Charles has awarded me the CBE, which the Queen has so generously given to me for my services to theatre. I am so honored to live and work in Britain on behalf of the Old Vic Theatre."  -- Kevin Spacey, after receiving the CBE award
The Kevin Spacey Foundation was setup in 2010 to to support young actors, writers, directors and producers with the passion and potential to succeed in the competitive worlds of film and theatre. The foundation is a homage of sorts to Spacey's own mentor, the late Jack Lemmon.
"Jack had a philosophy: if you have done well, then you're obligated to send the elevator back down for others." -- Kevin Spacey
Kevin Spacey inhabited the role of Shakespeare's Richard III  in a play that ran at the The Old Vic  from June until September 2011. He  then took the play on a worldwide tour finishing with a U.S. engagement at the Brooklyn Academy of Music from January  through March  2012.
Next, Spacey took on the lead role of Frank Underwood in the original Netflix series,   House of Cards, an acclaimed and very popular American political drama. In July 2013, House of Cards received nine of Netflix's fourteen total Emmy nominations and went on to win three. The show also earned four Golden Globe Award nominations in December 2013, and won one for Best Actress in a Drama Series. 
Kevin once again returned to the Old Vic stage during late May 2014 with a two-and-a-half week run in the one-man show Clarence Darrow. 
During the past decade at the  Old Vic Theatre, Kevin Spacey has overseen more than 39 plays, starred in eight and directed two. He also managed a staff of 75 and became adept at raising money. He will likely officially step down from his role as Artistic Director of the Old Vic in 2015. 
"I never wanted to go to the Old Vic and not have it survive long after I was gone. It's not about me; it's about that theater. And the more that it's able to grow and do everything it should do without me, then I've done my job."  -- Kevin Spacey
 Clearly, Kevin Spacey is a tireless artist who has  demonstrated that he can competently fill the shoes of an actor, director,  producer, writer, and an artistic director of a theatre company.  
 This Everything Kevin Spacey website is continually updated  with new images, news, and project details, so be sure to check back often for the  latest updates on Kevin Spacey's many creative endeavors!
My father used to have all these conversations with me about being an actor and how difficult that was going to be. And he was most worried that I was going to go through a life that was similar to his, of being unemployed. -- Kevin Spacey, The Guardian, Feb 16, 2002
Copyright © 2014 EverythingSpacey.com.  All rights reserved.  Designed by Web Development Artistry.    Disclaimer | Privacy Policy 
=======================================================
Gender: Male Born: July 26, 1959 Birthplace: South Orange, New Jersey, USA Nationality: United States 
From All Movie Guide: An actor whose remarkable versatility has often been described as chameleon-like, Kevin Spacey has made an art of portraying a gallery of morally ambiguous characters ranging from the mildly shady to the all-out murderous. His reputation as one of the best-respected actors of his generation was bolstered by an Oscar, a Tony, and an award as Best Actor of the Decade from England's Empire magazine in 1999.The son of a technical procedure writer and a secretary, Spacey was born in South Orange, NJ, on July 26, 1959. His family moved a great deal thanks to his father's job, eventually settling for a time in Los Angeles. It was there that Spacey -- who had previously done a stint at military school -- attended Chatsworth High School, where he was very active in the theater. After an attempt at standup comedy, Spacey went to Juilliard, though his time was cut short after his second year, when he decided to quit school and begin his career.He made his theatrical debut in 1981 with Shakespeare in the Park, performing alongside the likes of Mandy Patinkin and John Goodman. The actor continued to be a fixture on the theater scene throughout the decade, performing both on Broadway and in regional productions. It was through the theater that he got his first big break: While auditioning for a Tom Stoppard play, Spacey was approached by director Mike Nichols, who cast him in his production of David Rabe's {+Hurlyburly}. The actor's work in the play led Nichols to cast him as a subway mugger in his 1986 Heartburn. Two years later, the director and actor worked together again in Working Girl, in which Spacey had a small but memorable role as a sleazy businessman.By this time, Spacey was starting to work steadily in film, although he maintained his stage work, winning a 1990 Tony Award for his role in the Broadway production of {+Lost in Yonkers}. He also did a substantial amount of television work, appearing on the series Wiseguy as deranged criminal Mel Proffitt. Criminal or morally questionable activities were to figure largely in Spacey's subsequent portrayals: His first starring role in a film was as the husband of a murdered woman in the 1992 Consenting Adults. The same year, he won acclaim for his portrayal of a foul-mouthed, leech-like real estate agent in James Foley's screen adaptation of the David Mamet play, {+Glengarry Glen Ross}. Spacey landed his next memorable film role as yet another foul-mouthed jerk in the 1994 Swimming With Sharks, which he also co-produced. He was nominated for an Independent Spirit Award for his portrayal of an abusive studio executive, and he gained further recognition the same year for his entirely different role in The Ref, in which he played one half of a constantly arguing married couple. However, it was with his performance in the following year's The Usual Suspects that Spacey fully stepped into the spotlight. As the enigmatic, garrulous "Verbal" Kint, Spacey was one of the more celebrated aspects of the critically lauded sleeper hit, winning a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his work. The actor won additional acclaim the same year for his role as a serial killer in the stylish and unrelentingly creepy thriller Seven. Spacey went on to make his directorial debut the following year with Albino Alligator. A New Orleans-based crime drama starring Matt Dillon, Faye Dunaway, and Gary Sinise, the film won some positive reviews, though it made little impact at the box office. In addition to directing, Spacey kept busy with acting, appearing the same year in A Time to Kill and Al Pacino's documentary Looking for Richard. The actor went on to star in Clint Eastwood's highly anticipated 1997 adaptation of John Berendt's {-Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil} and then had a sizable role in the big-budget The Negotiator in 1998. The same year, he also lent his voice to the computer-animated A Bug's Life and starred in the screen adaptation of {+Hurlyburly}. While doing steady film work, Spacey also continued to appear on the stage, winning raves for his performance in an adaptation of Eugene O'Neill's {+The Iceman Cometh}, first on the London stage in 1998, and then on Broadway the following year. Also in 1999, Spacey won an Academy Award as Best Actor for American Beauty, director Sam Mendes' dark comedy about a man experiencing a mid-life crisis. Following up Beauty with starring roles in The Big Kahuna and Ordinary Decent Criminal, Spacey would later appear as a mental patient who claims to be from a distant planet in K-PAX. K-Pax proved to be a minor flop, as did the actor's other major film in 2001, Lasse Hallstrom's adaptation of The Shipping News. Although Spacey drew positive notices for his portrayal of a man trying to start a new life in Newfoundland, the film, which also starred Julianne Moore, Cate Blanchett, and Judi Dench, quickly sank at the box office and received only a lukewarm reception from critics.Spacey maintained a busy schedule throughout 2003, appearing in three disparate projects that reflected his extraordinary versatility. Besides cropping up as himself in the third Austin Powers outing, Austin Powers: Goldmember, he played the title character of The Life of David Gale, the story of a University of Texas professor whose anti-capital punishment stance assumes very personal meaning when he is convicted of rape and murder and lands on death row; the picture received a critical drubbing and faded quickly from view. That year, Spacey also starred in The United States of Leland, playing the father of a fifteen-year-old (Ryan Gosling) who murders an autistic child.
2004 marked a key year for Spacey. The actor -- who had dreamed of portraying crooner Bobby Darin since childhood, and spent years striving to produce a biopic of the late singer through his production house, Trigger Horse Productions, ultimately realized that goal in December '04. In addition to starring Spacey as Darin, the biopic, entitled Beyond the Sea, enlisted Kate Bosworth as Sandra Dee, John Goodman as Steve Blauner, and Brenda Blethyn as Polly Cassotto. Beyond earned a decidedly mixed critical reception.In 2005, Spacey cut back on his acting schedule and devoted more attention to his role as artistic director of the legendary Old Vic Theatre in London -- a position he had assumed in 2003, under ten-year contract. In a Charlie Rose appearance c. 2005, the actor openly discussed his desire to use his position to revive a series of theatrical classics and reestablish The Vic as one of the world's premier stage venues. Unfortunately, Spacey's work here also earned some derision; under his aegis, The Vic mounted Arthur Miller's {+Resurrection Blues} in May 2006 - an effort helmed by Robert Altman - and it drew vicious critical pans, one from a reviewer who demanded that Spacey resign. Although Spacey listened to the complaints about the Altman effort, (shelving the production during the theater's busy summer tourist season), he vowed to continue his efforts at the Vic unabated.Summer 2006 also saw the actor appearing in the highly anticipated big-budget extravaganza Superman Returns, playing Lex Luthor to Brandon Routh's Superman/Clark Kent and Kate Bosworth's Lois Lane. With a powerhouse supporting cast that includes Frank Langella (Good Night, and Good Luck.), and Eva Marie Saint (North by Northwest), the picture predictably opened up to spectacular box office (becoming one of summer's top grossers) and enthusiastic critical notices. Those who did criticize the film singled out Spacey's interpretation of the Luthor role.About a month prior to the Superman debut, Spacey signed with Warner Brothers to co-star in Joe Claus (originally titled Fred Claus), a Christmas comedy that reteamed Wedding Crashers director David Dobkin with funnyman Vince Vaughn, and enlisted Paul Giamatti (American Splendor, Sideways) as a co-star. Additional roles in the years that followed further reflected Spacey's penchant for the offbeat, such as his portrayal of an envious military man caught up in psychic phenomena in the satire The Men Who Stare at Goats (2009), corrupt lobbyist Jack Abramoff in the acerbic comedy Casino Jack (2010) and a sadistic boss with a taste for humiliation in Horrible Bosses (2011). Meanwhile, at about the same time, Spacey took on the role of one of Shakespeare's most iconic villains in the Old Vic's production of {+Richard III} - for which he earned considerable critical praise. ~ Rebecca Flint Marx, Rovi      
Institution - The Juilliard School			Location - New York, NY			Major - drama						Year range - 1979-1981			
Institution - The Juilliard School			Location - New York , New York			Major - Performing Arts						Year range - 1979 - 1981			
Institution - Chatsworth High School			Location - Chatsworth , California									Year range - 1977			
© 2010 All Media Guide, LLC Portions of content provided by All Movie Guide ®, a trademark of All Media Guide, LLC
