=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Upon a torse argent and gules, Three ostrich plumes each per pale gules and argent, the mantling gules doubled argent.
Theodore "T.R." Roosevelt, Jr. (/ˈroʊzəvɛlt/ ROH-zə-velt)[a] (October 27, 1858 – January 6, 1919) was an American author, naturalist, explorer, historian, and politician who served as the 26th President of the United States. He was a leader of the Republican Party (the "GOP") and founder of the Progressive Party. He is noted for his exuberant personality, range of interests and achievements, and his leadership of the Progressive Movement, as well as his "cowboy" persona and robust masculinity.[3] Born into a wealthy family in New York City, Roosevelt was a sickly child who suffered from asthma. To overcome his physical weakness, he embraced a strenuous life. He was home-schooled and became an eager student of nature. He attended Harvard University where he studied biology, boxed, and developed an interest in naval affairs. He entered politics in the New York state legislature, determined to become a member of the ruling class. In 1881, one year out of Harvard, he was elected to the New York State Assembly, where he became a leader of the reform faction of the GOP. His book The Naval War of 1812 (1882) established him as a learned historian and writer.
When his first wife Alice died two days after giving birth in February 1884, he was heartbroken and in despair; he temporarily left politics and became a rancher in the Dakotas. When blizzards destroyed his cattle he returned to New York City politics, running and losing a race for mayor. In the 1890s he took vigorous charge of the city police as Commissioner. By 1897 Roosevelt was in effect running the Navy Department. When the war with Spain that he had called for broke out in 1898, he helped form the famous Rough Riders, a combination of wealthy Easterners and Western cowboys. He gained national fame for his courage in battle in Cuba, then returned to be elected governor of New York. He was the GOP nominee for Vice President with William McKinley, campaigning successfully against radicalism and for prosperity, national honor, imperialism (regarding the Philippines), high tariffs and the gold standard. Roosevelt became President after McKinley was assassinated. He was inaugurated at age 42, the youngest person to become president. He attempted to move the GOP toward Progressivism, including trust busting and increased regulation of businesses. In November 1904 he was reelected in a landslide against conservative Democrat Alton Brooks Parker. Roosevelt called his domestic policies a "Square Deal", promising a fair deal to the average citizen while breaking up monopolistic corporations, holding down railroad rates, and guaranteeing pure food and drugs. He was the first president to speak out on conservation, and he greatly expanded the system of national parks and national forests. By 1907 he propounded more radical reforms, which were blocked by the conservative Republicans in Congress. His foreign policy focused on the Caribbean, where he built the Panama Canal and guarded its approaches. There were no wars, but his slogan, "Speak softly and carry a big stick" was underscored by sending the greatly expanded Navy—the Great White Fleet—on a world tour. He negotiated an end to the Russo-Japanese War, for which he won the Nobel Peace Prize.
At the end of his second term, Roosevelt supported his close friend William Howard Taft for the 1908 Republican nomination. After leaving office, he toured Africa and Europe, and on his return in 1910 he broke with President Taft on issues of progressivism and personalities. In the 1912 election Roosevelt tried but failed to block Taft's renomination. He then launched the Progressive ("Bull Moose") Party that called for progressive reforms, splitting the Republican vote. That allowed Democrat Woodrow Wilson to win the White House and Congress, while the Taft conservatives gained control of the GOP for decades. Roosevelt then led a major expedition to the Amazon jungles and contracted several illnesses. From 1914 to 1917 he campaigned for American entry into World War I, and reconciled with GOP leadership. He was seen as the frontrunner for the GOP nomination in the 1920 election, but his health collapsed and he died in 1919. Roosevelt has consistently been ranked by scholars as one of the greatest U.S. Presidents.[4] His face adorns Mount Rushmore alongside George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and Abraham Lincoln.[5]
Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. was born on October 27, 1858, in a four-story brownstone at 28 East 20th Street, in the modern-day Gramercy section of New York City. He was the second of four children born to glass businessman and philanthropist Theodore "Thee" Roosevelt, Sr. and socialite Martha Stewart "Mittie" Bulloch. He had an older sister named Anna ("Bamie"), a younger brother named Elliott, and a younger sister named Corinne. Elliott was the father of First Lady Anna Eleanor Roosevelt, the wife of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Thee was of Dutch, English, Irish, and Welsh descent while Mittie had Scottish, English, and French ancestry. Thee was the fifth son of businessman Cornelius Van Schaack "C.V.S." Roosevelt and Margaret Barnhill. Thee's fourth cousin businessman James Roosevelt I was the father of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Mittie was the younger daughter of Major James Stephens Bulloch and Martha P. "Patsy" Stewart.[6]
Roosevelt's youth was in large part shaped by his poor health and his need to overcome severe asthma, with debilitating impact on the body and the personality. He experienced recurring sudden nighttime asthma attacks that caused near deathlike experiences of being smothered to death, terrifying the boy and his parents. Doctors had no cure.[7] Nevertheless he was energetic and mischievously inquisitive.[8] His lifelong interest in zoology began at age seven when he saw a dead seal at a local market – after obtaining the seal's head, Roosevelt and two cousins formed what they called the "Roosevelt Museum of Natural History". Having learned the rudiments of taxidermy, he filled his makeshift museum with animals that he killed or caught, then studied and prepared for display. At age nine, he codified his observation of insects with a paper entitled "The Natural History of Insects".[9]
Thee had a significant influence on him. Theodore Jr. later wrote: "My father, Theodore Roosevelt, was the best man I ever knew. He combined strength and courage with gentleness, tenderness, and great unselfishness. He would not tolerate in us children selfishness or cruelty, idleness, cowardice, or untruthfulness." Family trips abroad, including tours of Europe in 1869 and 1870, and Egypt in 1872, also had a lasting impact.[10] Hiking with his family in the Alps in 1869, he found he could actually keep pace with his father. He had discovered the significant benefits of physical exertion to minimize his asthma and bolster his spirits.[11][12] With encouragement from his father, he then began a heavy regime of exercise. After being manhandled by two older boys on a camping trip, a boxing coach was added, to strengthen a weakened body and psyche.[13][14]
Roosevelt later articulated the abiding influence of the courageous men he found in his reading as well as in his family: "I was nervous and timid. Yet from reading of the people I admired – ranging from the soldiers of Valley Forge and Morgan's riflemen, to the heroes of my favorite stories – and from hearing of the feats of my southern forefathers and kinsfolk and from knowing my father, I felt a great admiration for men who were fearless and who could hold their own in the world, and I had a great desire to be like them."[15]
Young Theodore was mostly home schooled by tutors and his parents. Biographer Henry William Brands opined: "The most obvious drawback to the home schooling Roosevelt received was uneven coverage of the various areas of human knowledge."[17] He was solid in geography, from self study during travels, and bright in history and biology, French, and German; however, he struggled in mathematics and the classical languages. He entered Harvard University on September 27, 1876. Shortly before Roosevelt left for Harvard, his father told him "Take care of your morals first, your health next, and finally your studies".[18]
After recovering from devastation over his father's death on February 9, 1878, Roosevelt redoubled his activities. He did well in science, philosophy, and rhetoric courses but continued to struggle in Latin and Greek. He studied biology intently and was already an accomplished naturalist and published ornithologist; he read prodigiously with an almost photographic memory.[19] While at Harvard, Roosevelt was active in rowing and boxing; he was runner-up in a Harvard boxing tournament. Roosevelt was a member of the Alpha Delta Phi literary society, the Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity, and the Porcellian Club; he also was an editor of The Harvard Advocate. Roosevelt graduated Phi Beta Kappa (22nd of 177) from Harvard with an A.B. magna cum laude on June 30, 1880.[18]
He underwent a physical examination after graduation – his doctor diagnosed him with heart problems and recommended he avoid strenuous activity, advice which he spurned.[20] He entered Columbia Law School, and was an able student, but found the law often a frustration of irrationality; he spent much of his time writing a book on the War of 1812. Roosevelt became entirely disenchanted with the monotonous study of law and soon found a diversion to satisfy his gregarious nature – it came in the form of political discussions – which he encountered at Morton Hall on 59th Street, the headquarters for New York's 21st District Republican Association. When pushed to run for public office, he dropped out of law school to pursue his new goal, saying later "I intended to be one of the governing class."[21]
While at Harvard, Roosevelt began a systematic study of the role played by the nascent US Navy in the War of 1812, largely completing two chapters of a book he published after graduation.[22][23] Assisted by two uncles, he scrutinized original source materials and official US Navy records. Roosevelt's carefully researched book, published in 1882, was comparable to modern doctoral dissertations, complete with drawings of individual and combined ship maneuvers, charts depicting the differences in iron throw weights of cannon shot between American and British forces, and analyses of the differences between English and American leadership down to the ship-to-ship level. Published after Roosevelt's graduation from college, The Naval War of 1812 was praised for its scholarship and style, and demonstrated Roosevelt as a scholar of history. One modern naval historian wrote: "Roosevelt's study of the War of 1812 influenced all subsequent scholarship on the naval aspects of the War of 1812 and continues to be reprinted. More than a classic, it remains, after 120 years, a standard study of the war."[24] Roosevelt summarized one of the primary morals of the war thus: "It must be but a poor spirited American whose veins do not tingle with pride when he reads of the cruises and fights of the sea-captains, and their grim prowess, which kept the old Yankee flag floating over the waters of the Atlantic for three years, in the teeth of the mightiest naval power the world has ever seen"[25]
On his 22nd birthday, Roosevelt married socialite Alice Hathaway Lee, daughter of banker George Cabot Lee and Caroline Watts Haskell. Their daughter Alice Lee Roosevelt was born on February 12, 1884. Alice died two days after their daughter was born from an undiagnosed case of kidney failure (in those days called Bright's disease), which had been masked by the pregnancy. In his diary, Roosevelt wrote a large 'X' on the page and then, "The light has gone out of my life." His mother Mittie died of typhoid fever on the same day, at 3:00 am, some eleven hours earlier, in the same house. Distraught, he left baby Alice in the care of his sister Bamie in New York City while he took time to grieve. Roosevelt assumed custody of his daughter when she was three.[18]
He also reacted by focusing on work, specifically re-energizing a legislative investigation into corruption in New York City with a concurrent bill to centralize power in the mayor's office.[26] For the rest of his life, he rarely spoke of his wife Alice and did not write about her in his autobiography. He did not mention his marriage to Alice or his second marriage to Edith Kermit Carow when working with Joseph Bucklin Bishop on a biography that included a collection of his letters.[27]
Roosevelt made quick work of his political introduction to the membership in the Republican Party ("GOP") and was soon put forth as the party's candidate for the District's House seat in Albany.[28] He was elected to the New York State Assembly (New York Co., 21st D.) in 1882, 1883, and 1884. He immediately began making his mark, specifically in corporate corruption issues; Jay Gould, head of the New York World, allegedly spearheaded an effort to slander the Manhattan Elevated Co., with the intention of driving down the stock price of the company, allowing Gould to purchase a controlling interest. Gould then arranged for allies in the state assembly to engineer a last minute bill to reduce Manhattan's taxes. Roosevelt and another legislator uncovered the effort and prevented the passage of the bill at the eleventh hour. Roosevelt also exposed suspected collusion in the matter by Judge Theodore Westbrook, and argued for and received approval for an impeachment investigation to proceed. The investigating committee ultimately declined to propose impeachment, but Roosevelt had made inroads to the potential corruption in Albany, and thus assumed a high and positive political profile in multiple publications in NewYork.[29] In 1883, he was the GOP minority candidate for Speaker – in 1884, he lost the nomination for Speaker to Titus Sheard by a vote of 41 to 29 in the GOP caucus.[30] He was a GOP activist during his years in the Assembly, writing more bills than any other legislator.
Roosevelt attended the GOP National Convention in 1884 and fought alongside the Mugwump reformers; they lost to the Stalwart faction that nominated James G. Blaine. In a crucial moment of his budding political career, he resisted the instinct to bolt from the Party that would overwhelm his political sense in 1912. Roosevelt's choice at the convention, Senator George Franklin Edmunds, had little chance for the nomination-indeed, his endorsement was primarily intended as a rebuke of party regulars. Nevertheless, Roosevelt considered his first efforts on the national stage to be a moral victory. He remarked, "We achieved a victory in getting up a combination to beat the Blaine nominee for temporary chairman... To do this needed a mixture of skill, boldness and energy... to get the different factions to come in... to defeat the common foe."[31] He was impressed also by an invitation to speak before his largest audience to date, of ten thousand. Having gotten a taste of national politics, Roosevelt then felt less aspiration for advocacy on the state level; with that, he retired to his new "Chimney Butte Ranch" on the Little Missouri.[31]
Refusing to join other Mugwumps in supporting Grover Cleveland, the Democratic nominee in the general election, he debated with his friend Henry Cabot Lodge the pros and cons of staying loyal, but vocally concentrated on being critical of Cleveland. To complicate matters, Roosevelt was quoted as having said at the conclusion of the GOP convention that he would give "hearty support to any decent Democrat." He later took great pains to attempt to distance himself from the earlier comment, indicating that while he made it, it had not been made "for publication."[32] When asked by a reporter whether he would support Blaine, he replied, "That question I decline to answer. It is a subject I do not care to talk about."[33]
In 1886, Roosevelt was the Republican ("GOP") candidate for mayor of New York City, portraying himself as "The Cowboy of the Dakotas." Based on information spread in the course of the voting, GOP insiders warned voters that the United Labor candidate Henry George was leading and that Roosevelt was likely beat, thus causing a last-minute defection of GOP voters to the Democratic candidate Abram Hewitt. Theodore Roosevelt took third place. The election results showed Hewitt with 90,552 votes, George with 68,110, and Roosevelt with 60,435.[34]
Roosevelt built a second ranch named Elk Horn, thirty-five miles (56 km) north of the boomtown of Medora, North Dakota. On the banks of the Little Missouri, Roosevelt learned to ride western style, rope and hunt, and though he earned the respect of the authentic cowboys, they were not overly impressed.[35] But he identified with the herdsman of history, a man he said possesses, "few of the emasculated, milk-and-water moralities admired by the pseudo-philanthropists; but he does possess, to a very high degree, the stern, manly qualities that are invaluable to a nation."[36][37] He reoriented, and began writing about frontier life for national magazines, as well publishing three books – Hunting Trips of a Ranchman, Ranch Life and the Hunting-Trail, and The Wilderness Hunter.[38]
As a deputy sheriff, Roosevelt pursued three outlaws who had stolen his riverboat and escaped north up the Little Missouri. He captured them but decided against a vigilante hanging; instead, he sent his foreman back by boat, and conveyed the thieves to Dickinson for trial. He assumed guard over them for forty hours without sleep, while reading Leo Tolstoy to keep himself awake. When he ran out of his own books, he read a dime store western that one of the thieves was carrying.[39] On another occasion, while searching for a group of relentless horse thieves, Roosevelt met Seth Bullock, the famous sheriff of Deadwood, South Dakota. The two would remain friends for life.[40]
Roosevelt brought to the west his desire to address the common interests of citizens. He successfully led efforts to organize ranchers to address the problems of overgrazing and other shared concerns; his work resulted in the formation of the Little Missouri Stockmen's Association. He was also compelled to coordinate conservation efforts and was able to form the Boone and Crockett Club, whose primary goal was the conservation of large game animals and their habitats.[41] After the uniquely severe US winter of 1886–1887 wiped out his herd of cattle and those of his competitors, and with it most of his $80,000 investment, Roosevelt returned to the East.[42]
On December 2, 1886, he married his childhood and family friend Edith Kermit Carow (August 6, 1861 – September 30, 1948), a daughter of Charles Carow and Gertrude Elizabeth Tyler.[43] The couple married at St George's, Hanover Square in London, England. English diplomat Cecil Arthur Spring Rice, Roosevelt's close friend, served as best man.[44] The couple honeymooned in Europe and while there Roosevelt led a group to the summit of Mont Blanc, an achievement that resulted in his induction into the Royal Society of London.[45] They had five children:
At the time of Ted's birth, Roosevelt was initially both eager and worried at the same time for Edith after losing Alice shortly after childbirth.[18]
In the 1888 presidential election, Roosevelt successfully campaigned, primarily in the Midwest, for Benjamin Harrison. President Harrison appointed Roosevelt to the United States Civil Service Commission, where he served until 1895, vigorously fought the spoilsmen and demanded enforcement of civil service laws.[46] The New York Sun then described Roosevelt as "irrepressible, belligerent, and enthusiastic"[47] Despite Roosevelt's support for Harrison's reelection bid in the presidential election of 1892, the eventual winner, Grover Cleveland (a Bourbon Democrat), reappointed him to the same post.[48] Roosevelt's close friend and biographer, Joseph Bucklin Bishop, described his assault on the spoils system:
The very citadel of spoils politics, the hitherto impregnable fortress that had existed unshaken since it was erected on the foundation laid by Andrew Jackson, was tottering to its fall under the assaults of this audacious and irrepressible young man... Whatever may have been the feelings of the (fellow Republican party) President (Harrison) – and there is little doubt that he had no idea when he appointed Roosevelt that he would prove to be so veritable a bull in a china shop — he refused to remove him and stood by him firmly till the end of his term.[47]
In 1894 a group of reformist Republicans approached Roosevelt about running for Mayor of New York City again; he declined mostly due to his wife's resistance to being removed from the Washington social set. No sooner had he declined than he realized the missed opportunity to reinvigorate a dormant political career. He retreated to the Dakotas for a time; wife Edith regretted her role in the decision and vowed there would be no repeat of it.[49]
NYC Police Commissioner Roosevelt walks the beat with journalist Jacob Riis in 1894 – Illustration from Riis' autobiography.
Roosevelt became president of the board of New York City Police Commissioners in 1895 for two years and radically reformed the police force. The New York Police Department (NYPD) was reputed as one of the most corrupt in America; the NYPD's history division records that Roosevelt was "an iron-willed leader of unimpeachable honesty, (who) brought a reforming zeal to the New York City Police Commission in 1895."[50] Roosevelt implemented regular inspections of firearms and annual physical exams; he appointed 1,600 recruits based on their physical and mental qualifications, regardless of political affiliation, established Meritorious Service Medals and closed corrupt police hostelries. Also during his tenure a Municipal Lodging House was established by the Board of Charities, and Roosevelt required officers to register with the Board; he as well had telephones installed in station houses.
In 1894, Roosevelt met Jacob Riis, the muckraking Evening Sun newspaper journalist who was opening the eyes of New York's rich to the terrible conditions of the city's millions of poor immigrants with such books as How the Other Half Lives. In Riis' autobiography, he described the effect of his book on the new police commissioner:
When Roosevelt read [my] book, he came... No one ever helped as he did. For two years we were brothers in (New York City's crime-ridden) Mulberry Street. When he left I had seen its golden age... There is very little ease where Theodore Roosevelt leads, as we all of us found out. The lawbreaker found it out who predicted scornfully that he would "knuckle down to politics the way they all did," and lived to respect him, though he swore at him, as the one of them all who was stronger than pull... that was what made the age golden, that for the first time a moral purpose came into the street. In the light of it everything was transformed.[51]
Roosevelt made a habit of walking officers' beats late at night and early in the morning to make sure they were on duty.[52] He made a concerted effort to more uniformly enforce New York's Sunday closing law; in this he ran up against boss Tom Platt as well as Tammany Hall - he was put on notice that the Police Commission was being legislated out of existence. Roosevelt chose to defer rather than split with his party.[53] As Governor of New York State before becoming Vice President in March 1901, Roosevelt later signed an act replacing the Police Commissioners with a single Police Commissioner.[54]
Roosevelt had demonstrated, through his research and writing, a fascination with naval history; President William McKinley, urged by Roosevelt's close friend Congressman Henry Cabot Lodge, appointed Roosevelt as Assistant Secretary of the Navy in 1897.[55] Secretary of the Navy John D. Long cared more for formalities than functions, was in poor health, and left major decisions to Roosevelt. Roosevelt seized the opportunity and began pressing on the president his national security views regarding the Pacific and the Caribbean. Roosevelt was particularly adamant that Spain be ejected from Cuba, to foster the latter's independence and demonstrate U.S. resolve to reenforce the Monroe Doctrine.[56] Ten days after the battleship Maine exploded in the harbor of Havana, Cuba, the Secretary left the office and Roosevelt became Acting Secretary for four hours. Roosevelt cabled the Navy worldwide to prepare for war, ordered ammunition and supplies, brought in experts and went to Congress asking for authority to recruit as many sailors as he wanted.[57] Roosevelt was instrumental in preparing the Navy for the Spanish–American War. Roosevelt had an analytical mind, even as he was itching for war. He explained his priorities to one of the Navy's planners in late 1897:
I would regard war with Spain from two viewpoints: first, the advisability on the grounds both of humanity and self-interest of interfering on behalf of the Cubans, and of taking one more step toward the complete freeing of America from European dominion; second, the benefit done our people by giving them something to think of which is not material gain, and especially the benefit done our military forces by trying both the Navy and Army in actual practice."[58]
Both sides declared war in late April. On April 25, Roosevelt resigned the Navy and together with Army Colonel Leonard Wood, formed the First US Volunteer Cavalry Regiment; the newspapers called them the "Rough Riders." Like many other volunteer units, it was a temporary organization for the duration of the war.[59][page needed]
The regiment trained for several weeks in San Antonio, Texas; after securing modern multiple round Krag smokeless carbines, Roosevelt arrived on May 16. The Rough Riders used some standard issue gear and some of their own design, purchased with gift money. Diversity characterized the regiment, which included Ivy Leaguers, professional and amateur athletes, upscale gentlemen as well as cowboys, frontiersmen, Native Americans, hunters, miners, prospectors, former soldiers, tradesmen, and sheriffs. The Rough Riders were part of the cavalry division commanded by the former Confederate general Joseph Wheeler. It was one of 3 divisions in V Corps under Lt General William Rufus Shafter. Roosevelt and his men departed Tampa on June 13, landed in Daiquiri, Cuba, on June 23, 1898 and marched to Siboney. Wheeler sent elements of the 1st and 10th Regular Cavalry on the lower road northwest and sent the 1st Volunteers "Rough Riders" on the parallel road running along a ridge up from the beach. To throw off his infantry rival, Wheeler left one regiment of his Cavalry Division, the 9th, at Siboney so that he could claim that his move north was only a limited reconnaissance if things went wrong. Roosevelt was promoted to colonel and took command of the regiment when Wood was moved up to command the brigade. The Rough Riders had a short, minor skirmish known as the Battle of Las Guasimas, then fought their way through Spanish resistance and together with the Regulars forced the Spaniards to abandon their positions.[60]
Under his leadership, the Rough Riders became famous for dual charges up Kettle Hill and San Juan Hill on July 1, 1898. Roosevelt had the only horse, and rode back and forth between rifle pits at the forefront of the advance up Kettle Hill, an advance that he urged in absence of any orders from superiors. He was forced to walk up the last part of Kettle Hill on foot, because of barbed wire entanglement. The victories came at a cost of 200 killed and 1000 wounded.[61]
Roosevelt commented on his role in the battles: "On the day of the big fight I had to ask my men to do a deed that European military writers consider utterly impossible of performance, that is, to attack over open ground an unshaken infantry armed with the best modern repeating rifles behind a formidable system of entrenchments. The only way to get them to do it in the way it had to be done was to lead them myself."[62]
In August, Roosevelt and other officers demanded that the soldiers be returned home. Roosevelt always recalled the Battle of San Juan Hill as "the great day of my life" and "my crowded hour." In 2001, Roosevelt was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for his actions; he had been nominated during the war but Army officials, annoyed at his grabbing the headlines, blocked it.[63] After return to civilian life, Roosevelt preferred to be known as "Colonel Roosevelt" or "The Colonel." However, the "Teddy" name remained much more popular with the public, even though Roosevelt openly despised it. Men working closely with Roosevelt customarily called him "Colonel" or "Theodore".[64]
The war hero left the Army, and discovered New York Republicans needed him because their current governor was tainted by scandal and would probably lose. He campaigned vigorously on his war record winning the 1898 state election by a historical margin of 1%.[65]
Governor Roosevelt learned a great deal about current economic issues and political techniques that later proved valuable to his presidency. He was exposed to the problems of trusts, monopoly, labor relations, and conservation. Chessman argues that Roosevelt's program "rested firmly upon the concept of the square deal by a neutral state." The rules for the Square Deal were "honesty in public affairs, an equitable sharing of privilege and responsibility, and subordination of party and local concerns to the interests of the state at large."[66]
By holding twice-daily press conferences—an innovation—he remained connected with his middle-class political base.[67] The governor successfully pushed the Ford Franchise-Tax bill which taxed public franchises granted by the state and controlled by corporations, declaring that "a corporation which derives its powers from the State, should pay to the State a just percentage of its earnings as a return for the privileges it enjoys."[68] He rejected "boss" Thomas C. Platt's worries that this approached Bryanite Socialism, explaining that without it New York voters might get angry and adopt public ownership of streetcar lines and other franchises.[69]
New York state government affected many interests, and the power to make appointments to policy-making positions was a key role for the governor. Platt insisted he be consulted; Roosevelt appeared to comply but then made his own decisions. Historians marvel that Roosevelt managed to appoint so many first-rate men with Platt's approval. He even enlisted Platt's help in securing reform, as in spring 1899 when the boss pressured state senators to vote for a civil service bill that the secretary of the Civil Service Reform Association called "superior to any civil service statute heretofore secured in America."[70]
Chessman argues that as governor Roosevelt developed the principles that shaped his presidency, especially insistence upon the public responsibility of large corporations, publicity as a first remedy for trusts, regulation of railroad rates, mediation of the conflict of capital and labor, conservation of natural resources and protection of the less fortunate members of society.[66]
Roosevelt anticipated a second term as governor or in the alternative a cabinet post in the War Department; his friends (especially Henry Cabot Lodge) saw that as a dead end. They promoted him for vice president, and no one else of prominence was actively seeking that job. Grass roots opinion in the Party wanted Roosevelt as vice president. His friends were pushing and so were his foes. Roosevelt's reforming zeal ran afoul of the insurance and franchise businesses who had a major voice in the New York GOP. Platt therefore engineered his removal from the state by pushing hard for the governor to accept the GOP nomination as vice president in 1900. McKinley refused to consider Roosevelt as Secretary of War, but saw no risk in making him Vice President. He went along although his campaign manager Mark Hanna thought Roosevelt was too cowboy-like. While the party bosses were pleased with their success in engineering Roosevelt's next political foray, the nominee, very much to the contrary, thought he had "stood the state machine on its head".[71]
The office of vice president was a powerless sinecure and did not suit Roosevelt's aggressive temperament.[72] However campaigning for it played to his skills. Roosevelt threw himself into the campaign with his accustomed energy, crisscrossing the nation denouncing the radicalism of William Jennings Bryan in contrast to the heroism of the soldiers and sailors who fought and won the war against Spain. Bryan had strongly supported the war itself, but he denounced the annexation of the Philippines as imperialism that would spoil America's innocence. Roosevelt countered that it was best for the Filipinos to have stability, and the Americans to have a proud place in the world. With the nation basking in peace and prosperity, the voters gave McKinley an even larger landslide then in 1896.[73] Roosevelt's six months as Vice President (March to September 1901) were uneventful.[74] On September 2, 1901, Roosevelt first publicized an aphorism that thrilled his supporters: "Speak softly and carry a big stick, and you will go far."[75]
On September 6, President McKinley was shot by an anarchist acting alone while in Buffalo, New York. Initial reports suggested his condition was improving, so Roosevelt, after paying a visit to the ailing president, embarked for the west. When McKinley's condition worsened Roosevelt rushed back. McKinley died on September 14 and Roosevelt was sworn in at the Ansley Wilcox House.[18] The following month Roosevelt invited Booker T. Washington to dinner at the White House; to his dismay, this sparked a riotous reaction across the South, and Roosevelt reacted with astonishment and protest, saying he looked forward to many future dinners with Washington. Upon further reflection, Roosevelt wanted to ensure this had no effect on political support in the South, and further invitations to Washington were avoided.[76] Roosevelt kept McKinley's Cabinet and promised to continue McKinley's policies. In the November 1904 presidential election, Roosevelt won the presidency in his own right in a landslide victory against Alton Brooks Parker. His vice president was Charles Warren Fairbanks of Indiana.[18]
One of his first notable acts as president was to deliver a 20,000-word address to Congress[77] asking it to curb the power of large corporations (called "trusts"). He also spoke in support of organized labor to the further chagrin of big business, but to their delight he endorsed the gold standard, protective tariffs and lower taxes.[78] For his aggressive use of United States antitrust law he became known as the "trust-buster." He brought 40 antitrust suits, and broke up such major combinations as the largest railroad and Standard Oil, the largest oil company.[79]
In May 1902, anthracite coal miners went on strike, threatening a national energy shortage. After threatening the coal operators with intervention by federal troops, Roosevelt won their agreement to an arbitration of the dispute by a commission which succeeded in stopping the strike, dropping prices and retiring furnaces; the accord with J.P. Morgan resulted in the workers getting more pay for fewer hours, but with no union recognition.[80][81] Journalist Ray Baker quoted Roosevelt concerning his policy towards capitalists and laborers: "My action on labor should always be considered in connection with my action as regards capital, and both are reducible to my favorite formula – a square deal for every man."[82] Roosevelt thought it was particularly important for the government to supervise the workings of the railway to avoid corruption in interstate commerce; the result was the Hepburn bill which established control over railroad rates.[83]
Roosevelt responded to public anger over the abuses in the food packing industry by pushing Congress to pass the Meat Inspection Act of 1906 and The Pure Food and Drug Act. The Meat Inspection Act of 1906 banned misleading labels and preservatives that contained harmful chemicals. The Pure Food and Drug Act banned food and drugs that are impure or falsely labeled from being made, sold, and shipped. Roosevelt was also served as honorary president of the school health organization American School Hygiene Association from 1907 to 1908, and in 1909 he convened the first White House Conference on the Care of Dependent Children.[84]
During the Panic of 1907 nearly all agreed that a more flexible system to ensure liquidity was needed – the Republicans sought a response to the money supply by the bankers whereas the Democrats sought government control; Roosevelt was unsure but leaned towards the Republican view while continuing to denounce corporate corruption.[85] Nonetheless, in 1910, Roosevelt commented on "enormously wealthy and economically powerful men" and suggested "a graduated inheritance tax on big fortunes... increasing rapidly in amount with the size of the estate."[86][87]
Roosevelt was inclined to extend the regulatory reach of his office. In a moment of frustration, House Speaker Joseph Gurney Cannon commented on Roosevelt's desire for executive branch control in domestic policy-making: "That fellow at the other end of the avenue wants everything from the birth of Christ to the death of the devil." Biographer Brands states that, "Even his friends occasionally wondered whether there wasn't any custom or practice too minor for him to try to regulate, update or otherwise improve."[88] In fact, Roosevelt's willingness to exercise his power included attempted rule changes in the game of football; at the Naval Academy, he sought to force retention of martial arts classes and to revise disciplinary rules. He even ordered changes made in the minting of a coin whose design he disliked, and ordered the Government Printing Office to adopt simplified spellings for a core list of 300 words according to reformers on the Simplified Spelling Board. He was forced to rescind the latter after substantial ridicule from the press and a resolution of protest from the House.[89]
In the late 1890s Roosevelt had been an ardent imperialist, and vigorously defended the permanent acquisition of the Philippines in the 1900 election campaign. After the rebellion ended in 1901, he largely lost interest in the Philippines and Asian expansion generally, despite the contradictory opinion of his Secretary of War, William Howard Taft. As president he primarily directed the nation's overseas ambitions on the Caribbean, especially locations that had a bearing on the defense of his pet project, the Panama Canal.[90]
In December 1902 the Germans, English, and Italians sought to impose a naval blockade against Venezuela in order to force the repayment of delinquent loans. Roosevelt was particularly concerned with the motives of Germany's Kaiser Wilhelm. He succeeded in forging an agreement from the aggressors to submit to arbitration by a tribunal at the Hague, and averted the Venezuela Crisis of 1902–1903.[91] The latitude granted the Europeans by the arbiters was in part responsible for the "Roosevelt Corollary" to the Monroe Doctrine, which the President issued in 1904: "Chronic wrongdoing or an impotence which results in a general loosening of the ties of civilized society, may in America, as elsewhere, ultimately require intervention by some civilized nation, and in the Western Hemisphere, the adherence of the United States to the Monroe doctrine may force the United States, however reluctantly, in flagrant cases of such wrongdoing or impotence, to the exercise of an international police power."[92]
The pursuit of an isthmus canal in Central America during this period focused on two possible routes – Nicaragua and Panama, then a rebellious district within Columbia. Roosevelt convinced Congress of the Panamanian alternative and a treaty was approved, only to be rejected by the Columbian government. When the Panamanians learned of this, a rebellion followed, was supported by Roosevelt, and succeeded. A treaty with the new Panama government was then reached in 1903 for construction of the canal.[93] In 1905 Roosevelt offered to mediate a treaty to end the Russo-Japanese War. The parties agreed to meet in Portsmouth, New Hampshire and ironed out a final conflict over division of Sakhalin – Russia took the northern half and Japan the south, and Japan dropped its demand for an indemnity.[94] In 1906, following a disputed election, an insurrection ensued in Cuba; Roosevelt sent Secretary of War Taft to monitor the situation and was convinced of his authority to unilaterally authorize Taft to deploy Marines if necessary, without congressional approval.[95] The Gentlemen's Agreement of 1907 resolved unpleasant racial tensions with Japan. Tokyo was angered over the segregation of Japanese children in San Francisco schools. That was ended but Japan also agreed not to allow unskilled workers to emigrate to the U.S.[96]
Building on McKinley's effective use of the press, Roosevelt made the White House the center of news every day, providing interviews and photo opportunities. After noticing the White House reporters huddled outside in the rain one day, he gave them their own room inside, effectively inventing the presidential press briefing. The grateful press, with unprecedented access to the White House, rewarded Roosevelt with ample coverage.[97]
Roosevelt normally enjoyed very close relationships with the press, which he used to keep in daily contact with his middle-class base. While out of office, he made a living as a writer and magazine editor. He loved talking with intellectuals, authors, and writers. He drew the line, however, at expose-oriented scandal-mongering journalists who during his term set magazine subscriptions soaring by their attacks on corrupt politicians, mayors, and corporations. Roosevelt himself was not usually a target, but his speech in 1906 coined the term "muckraker" for unscrupulous journalists making wild charges. "The liar," he said, "is no whit better than the thief, and if his mendacity takes the form of slander he may be worse than most thieves." [98]
Roosevelt and the press did come to blows briefly in one instance. Ever since 1904 he had come in for periodic criticism for the manner in which he facilitated the Panama Canal. In the least judicious use of executive power according to biographer Brands, Roosevelt near the end of his term demanded that the Justice Department bring charges of criminal libel against Joseph Pulitzer's New York World. That publication had accused him of "deliberate misstatements of fact" in his defense of family members criticized relating to the Panama affair. As the Justice Department had predicted, and so advised Roosevelt, though indictment was obtained, the case was ultimately dismissed in federal court – it was not a federal offense, but one enforceable at the state court level.[99]
The control and management of the Republican Party lay in the hands of chairman Mark Hanna until McKinley's death. Hanna's domination, and potential rivalry for the party's nomination in 1904, began to wane with his own health and ultimate death early that year. In deference to Hanna's conservative loyalists, Roosevelt at first offered the party chairmanship to Cornelius Bliss, but he declined. Roosevelt then turned to his own man, George B. Cortelyou of New York, the first Secretary of Commerce and Labor. To buttress his hold on the party's nomination, Roosevelt made it clear that anyone opposing Cortelyou would be considered as opposing the President, and he wanted the names.[100] The President secured his own nomination but his preferred vice-presidential nominee Robert R. Hitt was replaced by Charles Warren Fairbanks.[101]
For the general election campaign, the democrats nominated Alton Brooks Parker. While Roosevelt followed the tradition of incumbents in not actively campaigning on the stump, he sought to control the campaign's message through specific instructions to Cortelyou. He also attempted to manage the release of statements from the White House by the press, by forming the Ananias Club – to include any journalist who repeated a statement made by the president without approval; the penalty was restriction of further access.[102] Roosevelt defeated Parker with a popular vote of 56% to 38% and an electoral college vote of 336 to 140. Before his inauguration ceremony he declared he would not serve another term.[103]
Before leaving office, Roosevelt declared William Howard Taft to be a "genuine progressive", when Roosevelt pushed through the nomination of his Secretary of War for the Presidency in 1908. In January of that year Roosevelt wrote the following to Taft: "Dear Will: Do you want any action about those federal officials? I will break their necks with the utmost cheerfulness if you say the word!" Just weeks later he branded as "false and malicious" the charge that he was using the offices at his disposal to favor Taft.[104]
Taft easily defeated three-time candidate William Jennings Bryan. Taft promoted a different progressivism, one that stressed the rule of law and preferred that judges rather than administrators or politicians make the basic decisions about fairness. Taft usually proved a less adroit politician than Roosevelt and lacked the energy and personal magnetism, not to mention the publicity devices, the dedicated supporters, and the broad base of public support that made Roosevelt so formidable. When Roosevelt realized that lowering the tariff would risk severe tensions inside the Republican Party—pitting producers (manufacturers and farmers) against merchants and consumers—he stopped talking about the issue. Taft ignored the risks and tackled the tariff boldly, on the one hand encouraging reformers to fight for lower rates, and then cutting deals with conservative leaders that kept overall rates high. The resulting Payne-Aldrich tariff of 1909 was too high for most reformers, but instead of blaming this on Senator Nelson Wilmarth Aldrich and big business, Taft took credit, calling it the best tariff ever. He again had managed to alienate all sides. While the crisis was building inside the Party, Roosevelt was touring Africa and Europe, to allow Taft to be his own man.[105]
Roosevelt had attempted to refashion Taft into a younger version of himself, but as soon as Taft began to display his individuality, Roosevelt unveiled his disenchantment. He was even offended on election night when Taft wrote and indicated that his success had been possible not just through the efforts of Roosevelt, but also his brother Charley. Roosevelt was further alienated when Taft, again intent on becoming his own man, did not consult him about cabinet appointments. Cabot Lodge empathized with Roosevelt, and so declined an offer as Secretary of State; eventually Roosevelt heard his whispers about second thoughts on Capitol Hill as to Taft.[106]
Unlike Roosevelt, Taft never attacked business or businessmen in his rhetoric. However, he was attentive to the law, so he launched 90 antitrust suits, including one against the largest corporation, US Steel, for an acquisition that Roosevelt had personally approved. Consequently, Taft lost the support of antitrust reformers (who disliked his conservative rhetoric), of big business (which disliked his actions), and of Roosevelt, who felt humiliated by his protégé. More trouble came when Taft fired Roosevelt's friend and appointee Gifford Pinchot, a leading conservationist. Pinchot alleged that Taft's Secretary of Interior Richard Ballinger was in league with big timber interests. Conservationists sided with Pinchot, and Taft alienated yet another vocal constituency. The left wing of the Republican Party began agitating against Taft. Senator Robert M. La Follette, Sr. of Wisconsin joined with Pinchot, William White and Hiram Johnson to create the National Progressive Republican League; their objectives were to defeat the power of political bossism at the state level and to replace Taft at the national level. Roosevelt declined to unite in this group—he was then still reluctant to leave the GOP.[107] Roosevelt, back from Europe, unexpectedly launched an attack on the courts. He gave his famous speech at Osawatomie, Kansas, in August 1910 which was the most radical of his career and openly initiated his break with the Taft administration and the conservative Republicans. Osawatomie was well known as the base used by John Brown when he launched his bloody attacks on slavery. Advocating a program of "New Nationalism", Roosevelt emphasized the priority of labor over capital interests, a need to more effectively control corporate creation and combination and proposed a ban on corporate political contributions.[108]
Roosevelt shortly thereafter made it clear in a meeting with Lloyd Carpenter Griscom, a New York Republican regular, that the president no longer enjoyed his support, since he had "deliberately abandoned" their previous close relations.[109] Taft was deeply upset. In the 1910 Congressional elections, Democrats won a majority in the House, significantly diminished the Republican's hold on the Senate and Taft's reelection in 1912 was rendered doubtful. The Republican progressives interpreted the defeat as compelling argument for the wholesale reorganization of the party In 1911, and Roosevelt reacted with renewed interest in more personal political endeavors.[107] Despite skepticism of La Follette's new League, Roosevelt expressed general support for progressive principles; in fact, between January and April 1911 Roosevelt wrote a series of articles for The Outlook defending what he called "the great movement of our day, the progressive nationalist movement against special privilege, and in favor of an honest and efficient political and industrial democracy".[110]
In March 1909, shortly after the end of his presidency, Roosevelt left New York for the Smithsonian-Roosevelt African Expedition, a safari in east and central Africa outfitted by the Smithsonian Institution.[111] Roosevelt's party landed in Mombasa, British East Africa (now Kenya), traveled to the Belgian Congo (now Democratic Republic of the Congo) before following the Nile to Khartoum in modern Sudan. Financed by Andrew Carnegie and by his own proposed writings, Roosevelt's party hunted for specimens for the Smithsonian Institution and for the American Museum of Natural History in New York.[112] The group, led by the legendary hunter-tracker RJ Cunninghame, included scientists from the Smithsonian and was joined from time to time by Frederick Selous, the famous big game hunter and explorer. Among other items, Roosevelt brought with him four tons of salt for preserving animal hides, a lucky rabbit's foot given to him by boxer John L. Sullivan, a Holland and Holland double rifle in .500/450 donated by a group of 56 admiring Britons, a Winchester 1895 rifle in .405 Winchester, an Army (M1903) Springfield in .30-06 caliber stocked and sighted for him, a Fox No. 12 shotgun, and the famous Pigskin Library, a collection of classics bound in pig leather and transported in a single reinforced trunk. Participants on the Expedition included Roosevelt's son Kermit along with Edgar Alexander Mearns, Edmund Heller, and John Alden Loring.
Roosevelt and his companions killed or trapped approximately 11,400[112] animals, from insects and moles to hippopotamuses and elephants. The 1000 large animals included 512 big game animals, including six rare White rhinos. The expedition consumed 262 of the animals. Tons of salted animals and their skins were shipped to Washington, D.C.; the quantity was so large that it took years to mount them all, and the Smithsonian shared many duplicate animals with other museums. Regarding the large number of animals taken, Roosevelt said, "I can be condemned only if the existence of the National Museum, the American Museum of Natural History, and all similar zoological institutions are to be condemned.[113]
Although the safari was ostensibly conducted in the name of science, it was as much a political and social event as it was a hunting excursion; Roosevelt interacted with renowned professional hunters and land-owning families, and met many native peoples and local leaders. Roosevelt became a Life Member of the National Rifle Association, while President, in 1907, after paying a $25 fee.[114] He later wrote a detailed account in the book African Game Trails,[115] where he describes the excitement of the chase, the people he met, and the flora and fauna he collected in the name of science.
In November 1911 a group of Ohio Republicans endorsed Roosevelt for the party's nomination for president; the endorsers included James Garfield and Dan Hanna. This was notable, in that it emanated from Taft's home state. Roosevelt conspicuously declined to make a statement requested by Garfield - that he flatly refuse a nomination. Soon thereafter Roosevelt said, "I am really sorry for Taft… I am sure he means well, but he means well feebly, and he does not know how! He is utterly unfit for leadership and this is a time when we need leadership." In January 1912 Roosevelt declared "if the people make a draft on me I shall not decline to serve".[116] Later that year Roosevelt spoke before the Constitutional Convention in Ohio, openly referred to himself as a progressive and endorsed progressive reforms – even including popular review of state judicial decisions.[117] In reaction to Roosevelt's proposals for popular overrule of court decisions, Taft said, "such extremists are not progressives – they are political emotionalists or neurotics".[118]
Roosevelt began to envision himself as the savior of the Republican party (the "GOP") from defeat in the upcoming Presidential election and announced himself as a candidate for the GOP banner. In February 1912 Roosevelt announced in Boston "I will accept the nomination for president if it is tendered to me. I hope that so far as possible the people may be given the chance through direct primaries to express who shall be the nominee.[119][120] Both Elihu Root and Cabot Lodge could then see the ultimate defeat of the party in the next election due to this lethal division; and Taft considered he was witnessing the end of his career – it was only a matter of whether he would be defeated by his own party or in the general election even at that point.[121]
The 1912 primaries represented the first extensive use of the presidential primary, a reform achievement of the progressive movement. The primaries in the South, where party regulars dominated, went for Taft, as well as New York, Indiana, Michigan, Kentucky and Massachusetts. Meanwhile Roosevelt won in Illinois, Minnesota, Nebraska, South Dakota, California, Maryland and Pennsylvania; Roosevelt also won Taft's home state of Ohio. These primary elections, while demonstrating Roosevelt's continuing popularity with the electorate, were not pivotal. The final credentials of the state delegates at the national convention were determined by the national committee, which was controlled by the party leaders, headed by the incumbent president. At the Republican Convention in Chicago, though Taft's victory was not immediate, the ultimate outcome was inevitably in his favor.[122]
Excerpts from a speech given by Theodore Roosevelt at Carnegie Hall, March 12, 1912. Recorded August 1912 by Thomas Edison. Duration 4:07.
Once his defeat as the GOP nominee was probable, Roosevelt announced that he would "accept the progressive nomination on a progressive platform and I shall fight to the end, win or lose". At the same time Roosevelt prophetically said, "My feeling is that the Democrats will probably win if they nominate a progressive".[123] After two weeks at the GOP convention, Roosevelt asked his followers to leave the hall, and they moved to the Auditorium Theatre. Then Roosevelt, along with key allies such as Pinchot and Albert Beveridge created the Progressive Party, structuring it as a permanent organization that would field complete tickets at the presidential and state level. It was popularly known as the "Bull Moose Party", which got its name after Roosevelt told reporters, "I'm as fit as a bull moose."[124] At the convention Roosevelt cried out, "We stand at Armageddon and we battle for the Lord." Roosevelt's platform echoed his 1907–8 proposals, calling for vigorous government intervention to protect the people from the selfish interests;
"To destroy this invisible Government, to dissolve the unholy alliance between corrupt business and corrupt politics is the first task of the statesmanship of the day.[125][126] This country belongs to the people. Its resources, its business, its laws, its institutions, should be utilized, maintained, or altered in whatever manner will best promote the general interest. This assertion is explicit... Mr. Wilson must know that every monopoly in the United States opposes the Progressive party... I challenge him... to name the monopoly that did support the Progressive party, whether... the Sugar Trust, the US Steel Trust, the Harvester Trust, the Standard Oil Trust, the Tobacco Trust, or any other... Ours was the only program to which they objected, and they supported either Mr. Wilson or Mr. Taft"[127]
While Roosevelt was campaigning in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on October 14, 1912, a saloonkeeper named John Flammang Schrank shot him, but the bullet lodged in his chest only after penetrating his steel eyeglass case and passing through a thick (50 pages) single-folded copy of the speech he was carrying in his jacket.[128] Roosevelt, as an experienced hunter and anatomist, correctly concluded that since he was not coughing blood, the bullet had not completely penetrated the chest wall to his lung, and he declined suggestions to go to the hospital immediately. Instead, he delivered his scheduled speech with blood seeping into his shirt.[129] He spoke for 90 minutes. His opening comments to the gathered crowd were, "Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know whether you fully understand that I have just been shot; but it takes more than that to kill a Bull Moose."[130] Afterwards, probes and x-ray showed that the bullet had lodged in Roosevelt's chest muscle but did not penetrate the pleura, and it would be less dangerous to leave it in place. Roosevelt carried it with him for the rest of his life.[131]
Because of the bullet wound, Roosevelt was taken off the campaign trail in the final weeks of the race (which ended election day, November 5). Though the other two campaigners stopped their own campaigns in the week Roosevelt was in the hospital, they resumed it once he was released. The bullet lodged in his chest exacerbated his rheumatoid arthritis and prevented him from doing his daily stint of exercises; Roosevelt would soon become obese as well.[132] Roosevelt, for many reasons, failed to move enough Republicans in his direction. He did win 4.1 million votes (27%), compared to Taft's 3.5 million (23%). However, Wilson's 6.3 million votes (42%) were enough to garner 435 electoral votes. Roosevelt had 88 electoral votes to Taft's 8 electoral votes. But Pennsylvania was Roosevelt's only eastern state; in the Midwest, he carried Michigan, Minnesota, and South Dakota; in the West, California, and Washington; he did not win any southern states.
A friend of Roosevelt's, Father John Augustine Zahm, had searched for new adventures and found them in the forests of South America. After a briefing of several of his own expeditions, he persuaded Roosevelt to commit to such an expedition in 1912. To finance the expedition Roosevelt received support from the American Museum of Natural History, promising to bring back many new animal specimens. Roosevelt's popular book Through the Brazilian Wilderness[133] describes his expedition into the Brazilian jungle in 1913 as a member of the Roosevelt-Rondon Scientific Expedition, co-named after its leader, Brazilian explorer Cândido Rondon. The book describes the scientific discovery, scenic tropical vistas, and exotic flora and fauna experienced during the adventure.
The initial party. From left to right (seated): Father Zahm, Rondon, Kermit, Cherrie, Miller, four Brazilians, Roosevelt, Fiala. Only Roosevelt, Kermit, Cherrie, Rondon, and the Brazilians traveled down the River of Doubt.
Once in South America, a new far more ambitious goal was added: to find the headwaters of the Rio da Duvida, the River of Doubt, and trace it north to the Madeira and thence to the Amazon River. It was later renamed Roosevelt River in honor of the former President. Roosevelt's crew consisted of his son Kermit, naturalist Colonel Rondon, George K. Cherrie, sent by the American Museum of Natural History, Brazilian Lieutenant João Lira, team physician Dr. José Antonio Cajazeira, and 16 skilled paddlers and porters (called camaradas [comrades] in Portuguese). The initial expedition started somewhat tenuously on December 9, 1913, at the height of the rainy season. The trip down the River of Doubt started on February 27, 1914.
During the trip down the river, Roosevelt suffered a minor leg wound after he jumped into the river to try to prevent two canoes from smashing against the rocks. The flesh wound he received, however, soon gave him tropical fever that resembled the malaria he contracted while in Cuba fifteen years before.[132] Because the bullet lodged in his chest from the assassination attempt in 1912 was never removed, his health worsened from the infection.[134] This weakened Roosevelt so greatly that six weeks into the adventure he had to be attended day and night by the expedition's physician and his son, Kermit. By then he could not walk because of the infection in his injured leg and an infirmity in the other, due to a traffic accident a decade earlier. Roosevelt was riddled with chest pains, fighting a fever that soared to 103 °F (39 °C) and at times so delirious that he would repeat endlessly the opening line from Coleridge's poem Kubla Khan. Regarding his condition as a threat to the survival of the others, Roosevelt insisted he be left behind to allow the poorly provisioned expedition to proceed as rapidly as it could. Only an appeal by his son persuaded him to continue.[135]
Despite Roosevelt's continued decline and loss of over 50 pounds (20 kg), Commander Rondon reduced the pace of the expedition to ensure his commission's mapmaking and other geographical tasks, which required regular stops to fix the expedition's position by sun-based survey. Upon Roosevelt's return to New York, friends and family were startled by his physical appearance and fatigue. Roosevelt wrote, perhaps prophetically, to a friend that the trip had cut his life short by ten years. For the rest of his few remaining years he would be plagued by flare-ups of malaria and leg inflammations so severe as to require surgery.[136] Before Roosevelt had even completed his sea voyage home, doubts were raised over his claims of exploring and navigating a completely uncharted river over 625 miles (1,000 km) long. When he had recovered sufficiently he addressed a standing-room-only convention organized in Washington, D.C. by the National Geographic Society and satisfactorily defended his claims.
When World War I began in 1914, Roosevelt strongly supported the Allies and demanded a harsher policy against Germany, especially regarding submarine warfare. Roosevelt angrily denounced the foreign policy of President Wilson, calling it a failure regarding the atrocities in Belgium and the violations of American rights.[137] In 1916, he campaigned energetically for Charles Evans Hughes and repeatedly denounced Irish-Americans and German-Americans who Roosevelt said were unpatriotic because they put the interest of Ireland and Germany ahead of America's by supporting neutrality. He insisted one had to be 100% American, not a "hyphenated American" who juggled multiple loyalties. When the U.S. entered the war in 1917, Roosevelt sought to raise a volunteer infantry division, but Wilson refused.[138][139]
Roosevelt's attacks on Wilson helped the Republicans win control of Congress in the off-year elections of 1918. Roosevelt was popular enough to seriously contest the 1920 Republican nomination, but his health was broken by 1918, because of the lingering malaria. His family and supporters threw their support to Roosevelt's old military companion, General Leonard Wood, who was ultimately defeated by Taft supporter Warren G. Harding.[140] His youngest son Quentin, a pilot with the American forces in France, was shot down behind German lines on July 14, 1918 at the age of 20. It is said that Quentin's death distressed Roosevelt so much that he never recovered from his loss.[141]
Despite his health issues, Roosevelt remained active to the end of his life; he was an enthusiastic proponent of the Scouting movement. The Boy Scouts of America gave him the title of Chief Scout Citizen, the only person to hold such title. One early Scout leader said, "The two things that gave Scouting great impetus and made it very popular were the uniform and Teddy Roosevelt's jingoism."[142] On the night of January 5, 1919 at 11:00 PM, he experienced breathing problems. He felt better after treatment from his family physician Dr. George W. Faller and went to bed. Theodore's last words were "Please put out that light, James" to his family servant James Amos. Between 4:00 AM and 4:15 AM the next morning, Roosevelt died unexpectedly in his sleep at Sagamore Hill from a blood clot detaching itself from a vein and entering his lungs.[134] Upon receiving word of his death, his son Archie telegraphed his siblings simply, "The old lion is dead."[141] Woodrow Wilson's vice president, Thomas R. Marshall, said that "Death had to take Roosevelt sleeping, for if he had been awake, there would have been a fight."[143] In addition to sisters Corinne and Bamie and his wife Edith, Theodore was survived by five children and eight grandchildren.[18]
Theodore Roosevelt introduced the phrase "Square Deal" to describe his progressive views in a speech delivered after leaving the office of the Presidency in August 1910. In his broad outline, he stressed equality of opportunity for all citizens and emphasized the importance of fair government regulations of corporate 'special interests'. Roosevelt was one of the first Presidents to make conservation a national issue. In his speech at Osawatomie, Kansas, on August 31, 1910, he outlined his views on conservation of the lands of the United States. He favored using America's natural resources, but opposed wasteful consumption.[144] One of his most lasting legacies was his significant role in the creation of 5 national parks, 18 national monuments, and 150 National Forests, among other works of conservation. Roosevelt was instrumental in conserving about 230 million acres (930,000 km2) of American soil among various parks and other federal projects.[145] In the 21st century, historians have paid renewed attention to President Roosevelt as "The Wilderness Warrior" and his energetic promotion of the conservation movement. He collaborated with his chief advisor, Gifford Pinchot, the chief of the Forest Service. Pinchot and Roosevelt scheduled a series of news events that garnered nationwide media attention in magazines and newspapers. They used magazine articles, speeches, press conferences, interviews, and especially large-scale presidential commissions. Roosevelt's goal was to encourage his middle-class reform-minded base to add conservation issues to their repertoire of issues.[146]
In an 1894 article on immigration, Roosevelt said, "We must Americanize in every way, in speech, in political ideas and principles, and in their way of looking at relations between church and state. We welcome the German and the Irishman who becomes an American. We have no use for the German or Irishman who remains such... He must revere only our flag, not only must it come first, but no other flag should even come second."[147]
Roosevelt took an active interest in immigration, and within months of assuming the presidency had launched an extensive reorganization of the federal immigration depot at Ellis Island. Roosevelt himself "straddled the immigration question,"[148] taking the position that "we cannot have too much immigration of the right sort, and we should have none whatever of the wrong sort."[149] As president, his stated preferences were relatively inclusive, across the then diverse and mostly European sources of immigration:
It is unwise to depart from the old American tradition and discriminate for or against any man who desires to come here and become a citizen, save on the ground of that man's fitness for citizenship... We can not afford to consider whether he is Catholic or Protestant, Jew or Gentile; whether he is Englishman or Irishman, Frenchman or German, Japanese, Italian, or Scandinavian or Magyar. What we should desire to find out is the individual quality of the individual man...[150]
He was the first president to appoint a Jewish representative to a cabinet position – Secretary of Commerce and Labor, Oscar Solomon Straus, 1906–9. Straus (who had helped co-found the Immigration Protective League in 1898) became thereby, in 1906, the Roosevelt Administration's cabinet official overseeing immigration, through which appointment he helped secure passage of, and implement, the US Immigration Act of 1907.[151][152][153]
In 1886 Roosevelt criticized lifestyle among Native Americans, stating: "I don't go so far as to think that the only good Indians are dead Indians, but I believe nine out of ten are, and I shouldn't like to inquire too closely into the case of the tenth. The most vicious cowboy has more moral principle than the average Indian. Turn three hundred low families of New York into New Jersey, support them for fifty years in vicious idleness, and you will have some idea of what the Indians are. Reckless, revengeful, fiendishly cruel, they rob and murder, not the cowboys, who can take care of themselves, but the defenseless, lone settlers on the plains. As for the soldiers, an Indian chief once asked Sheridan for a cannon. 'What! Do you want to kill my soldiers with it?' asked the general. 'No,' replied the chief, 'want to kill the cowboy; kill soldier with a club.'" He later became much more favorable.[154][155]
Regarding African-Americans, Roosevelt said, "I have not been able to think out any solution of the terrible problem offered by the presence of the Negro on this continent, but of one thing I am sure, and that is that inasmuch as he is here and can neither be killed nor driven away, the only wise and honorable and Christian thing to do is to treat each black man and each white man strictly on his merits as a man, giving him no more and no less than he shows himself worthy to have."[156]
Roosevelt appointed numerous African Americans to federal office, such as Walter L. Cohen of New Orleans, Louisiana, a leader of the Black and Tan Republican faction whom he named register of the federal land office.[157]
Contrasting the European conquest of North America with that of Australia, Roosevelt wrote: "The natives [of Australia] were so few in number and of such a low type, that they practically offered no resistance at all, being but little more hindrance than an equal number of ferocious beasts";[158] however, the Native Americans were "the most formidable savage foes ever faced ever encountered by colonists of European stock."[159] He regarded slavery as "a crime whose shortsighted folly was worse than its guilt" because it "brought hordes of African slaves, whose descendants now form immense populations in certain portions of the land."[160] Contrasting the European conquest of North America with that of South Africa, Roosevelt felt that the fate of the latter's colonists would be different because, unlike the Native American, the African "neither dies out nor recedes before their advance", meaning the colonists would likely "be swallowed up in the overwhelming mass of black barbarism."[161]
Starting in 1907 eugenicists in many States started the forced sterilization of the sick, unemployed, poor, criminals, prostitutes, and the disabled. Roosevelt said in 1914: "I wish very much that the wrong people could be prevented entirely from breeding; and when the evil nature of these people is sufficiently flagrant, this should be done. Criminals should be sterilized and feeble-minded persons forbidden to leave offspring behind them."[162]
Roosevelt was a prolific author, writing with passion on subjects ranging from foreign policy to the importance of the national park system. Roosevelt was also an avid reader of poetry. Poet Robert Frost said Roosevelt "was our kind. He quoted poetry to me. He knew poetry."[163]
As an editor of Outlook magazine, he had weekly access to a large, educated national audience. In all, Roosevelt wrote about 18 books (each in several editions), including his Autobiography,[164] The Rough Riders[165] History of the Naval War of 1812,[166] and others on subjects such as ranching, explorations, and wildlife. His most ambitious book was the four volume narrative The Winning of the West, which connected the origin of a new "race" of Americans (i.e. what he considered the present population of the United States to be) to the frontier conditions their ancestors endured throughout the 17th, 18th, and early 19th centuries.
In 1907, Roosevelt became embroiled in a widely publicized literary debate known as the nature fakers controversy. A few years earlier, naturalist John Burroughs had published an article entitled "Real and Sham Natural History" in the Atlantic Monthly, attacking popular writers of the day such as Ernest Thompson Seton, Charles G. D. Roberts, and William J. Long for their fantastical representations of wildlife. Roosevelt agreed with Burroughs' criticisms, and published several essays of his own denouncing the booming genre of "naturalistic" animal stories as "yellow journalism of the woods". It was the President himself who popularized the negative term "nature faker" to describe writers who depicted their animal characters with excessive anthropomorphism.[167]
Roosevelt intensely disliked being called "Teddy," and was quick to point out this fact to those who referred to him as such, though it would become widely used by newspapers during his political career. He attended church regularly. Of including the motto "In God We Trust" on money, in 1907 he wrote, "It seems to me eminently unwise to cheapen such a motto by use on coins, just as it would be to cheapen it by use on postage stamps, or in advertisements." He was also a member of the Freemasons and Sons of the American Revolution.[168]
Roosevelt had a lifelong interest in pursuing what he called, in an 1899 speech, "The Strenuous Life". To this end, he exercised regularly and took up boxing, tennis, hiking, rowing, polo, and horseback riding. As governor of New York, he boxed with sparring partners several times a week, a practice he regularly continued as President until once being hit so hard in the face he became blind in his left eye (a fact not made public until many years later). Thereafter, he practiced judo attaining a third degree brown belt and continued his habit of skinny-dipping in the Potomac River during winter.[169][170]
He was an enthusiastic singlestick player and, according to Harper's Weekly, in 1905 showed up at a White House reception with his arm bandaged after a bout with General Leonard Wood.[171] Roosevelt was an avid reader, reading tens of thousands of books, at a rate of several a day in multiple languages. Along with Thomas Jefferson, Roosevelt is often considered the most well read of any American politician.[172]
Historians credit Roosevelt for changing the nation's political system by permanently placing the presidency at center stage and making character as important as the issues. His notable accomplishments include trust busting and conservationism. He is a hero to liberals for his proposals in 1907–12 that presaged the modern welfare state of the New Deal Era, and put the environment on the national agenda. Conservatives admire his "big stick" diplomacy and commitment to military values. Dalton says,"Today he is heralded as the architect of the modern presidency, as a world leader who boldly reshaped the office to meet the needs of the new century and redefined America's place in the world."[173]
However, liberals have criticized him for his interventionist and imperialist approach to nations he considered "uncivilized". Conservatives reject his vision of the welfare state and emphasis on the superiority of government over private action. Historians typically rank Roosevelt among the top five presidents.[174][175]
Dalton says Roosevelt is remembered as, "one of the most picturesque personalities who has ever enlivened the landscape."[176] His friend, historian Henry Adams proclaimed
Roosevelt, more than any other man... showed the singular primitive quality that belongs to ultimate matter — the quality that medieval theology assigned to God — he was pure act.[177]
Recent biographers have stressed Roosevelt's personality. Cooper compared him with Woodrow Wilson, and discovered both of them played both the roles of warrior and priest.[178] Dalton stressed his strenuous life.[179] Sarah Watts examined the desires of the "Rough Rider in the White House."[180] Brands calls Roosevelt "the last romantic," arguing that his romantic concept of life emerged from his belief that "physical bravery was the highest virtue and war the ultimate test of bravery."[181]
TR as the exemplar of American masculinity has become a major theme.[182] As president he repeatedly warned American men that they were becoming too office-bound, too complacent, too comfortable with physical ease and moral laxity, and were failing in their duties to propagate the race and exhibit masculine vigor.[183] French historian Serge Ricard says, "the ebullient apostle of the Strenuous Life offers ideal material for a detailed psycho-historical analysis of aggressive manhood in the changing socio-cultural environment of his era; McKinley, Taft, or Wilson would perhaps inadequately serve that purpose."[184] He promoted competitive sports and the Boy Scouts of America, founded in 1910, as the way forward.[185] Brands shows that heroic displays of bravery were essential to Roosevelt's image and mission:
What makes the hero a hero is the romantic notion that he stands above the tawdry give and take of everyday politics, occupying an ethereal realm where partisanship gives way to patriotism, and division to unity, and where the nation regains its lost innocence, and the people their shared sense of purpose.[186]
Roosevelt was included with Presidents George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and Abraham Lincoln at the Mount Rushmore Memorial, designed in 1927 with the approval of Republican President Calvin Coolidge.[citation needed] For his gallantry at San Juan Hill, Roosevelt's commanders recommended him for the Medal of Honor. In the late 1990s, Roosevelt's supporters again took up the flag for him. On January 16, 2001, President Bill Clinton awarded Theodore Roosevelt the Medal of Honor posthumously for his charge up San Juan Hill, Cuba, during the Spanish–American War. His eldest son Ted received the Medal of Honor for heroism at the Battle of Normandy in 1944. The Roosevelts thus became one of only two father-son pairs to receive this honor (the other pair being Arthur MacArthur, Jr. and Douglas MacArthur).
He was awarded an honorary doctorate (LL.D.) by Yale University in October 1901, during celebrations for the bicentenary of the university.[187] Roosevelt's legacy includes several other important commemorations. The United States Navy named two ships for Roosevelt: the USS Theodore Roosevelt (SSBN-600), a submarine that was in commission from 1961 to 1982; and the USS Theodore Roosevelt (CVN-71), an aircraft carrier that has been on active duty in the Atlantic Fleet since 1986. On November 18, 1956, the United States Postal Service released a 6¢ Liberty Issue postage stamp honoring Roosevelt. A second stamp of face value 32¢ was issued on February 3, 1998 as part of the Celebrate the Century stamp sheet series.
In 2008 Columbia Law School awarded a law degree to Roosevelt, posthumously making him a member of the class of 1882.[188] In Chicago, the city renamed 12th Street to Roosevelt Road four months after Roosevelt's death.[189]
Theodore Roosevelt impersonator Joe Wiegand performs October 27, 2008 in the East Room of the White House, during a celebration of Roosevelt's 150th birthday.
Roosevelt's 1901 saying "Speak Softly and Carry a Big Stick" is still quoted by politicians and columnists in different countries—not only in English but also in translation to various other languages.[75] A quote from Roosevelt's 1912 Progressive Party platform was cited as an epigram by Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks, in his 2006 manifesto: "Behind the ostensible government sits enthroned an invisible government, owing no allegiance and acknowledging no responsibility to the people. To destroy this invisible government, to dissolve the unholy alliance between corrupt business and corrupt politics is the first task of the statesmanship of the day."[190]
One lasting popular legacy of Roosevelt is the stuffed toy bears—teddy bears—named after him following an incident on a hunting trip in Mississippi in 1902. Roosevelt famously refused to shoot a defenseless black bear. After the cartoonist Clifford K. Berryman illustrated the President with a bear, a toy maker heard the story and named the teddy bear after Roosevelt. Bears and later bear cubs became closely associated with Roosevelt in political cartoons thereafter, despite Roosevelt openly despising being called "Teddy".[64] On June 26, 2006, Roosevelt made the cover of TIME magazine with the lead story, "The Making of America—Theodore Roosevelt—The 20th Century Express": "At home and abroad, Theodore Roosevelt was the locomotive President, the man who drew his flourishing nation into the future."[191]
In 1905, Roosevelt, an admirer of various western figures, named Captain Bill McDonald of the Texas Rangers, as his bodyguard and entertained the legendary Texan in the White House. Ironically, in the 1912 campaign, McDonald was Woodrow Wilson's bodyguard. Wilson thereafter named the Democrat McDonald as U.S. Marshal for the Northern district of Texas.[192]
Roosevelt has been portrayed many times in film and on television. Karl Swenson played him in the 1967 western picture Brighty of the Grand Canyon, the story of a real-life burro who guided Roosevelt on a hunting trip to find mountain lions.[193] He was also portrayed by actor Tom Berenger in 1997 for the TNT movie Rough Riders, a made-for-cable film about his exploits during the Spanish–American War in Cuba.[194] Frank Albertson played Roosevelt in the episode "Rough and Ready" of the CBS series My Friend Flicka."[195] Robin Williams portrayed Roosevelt in the form of a wax mannequin that comes to life in Night at the Museum and its sequel Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian.[citation needed]
Theodore Roosevelt was one of the first presidents whose voice was recorded for posterity. Several of his recorded speeches survive.[196] A 4.6-minute voice recording,[197] which preserves Roosevelt's lower timbre ranges particularly well for its time, is among those available from the Michigan State University libraries (this is the 1912 recording of The Right of the People to Rule, recorded by Edison at Carnegie Hall). In the audio clip sponsored by the Authentic History Center includes his defense[198] of the Progressive Party in 1912 wherein he proclaims it the "party of the people" in contrast with the other major parties.
Bishop, Joseph Bucklin (July 18, 2007), Theodore Roosevelt and His Time, Google, retrieved September 14, 2010 
Brands, Henry William (1997), TR: The Last Romantic (full biography), New York: Basic Books, ISBN 978-0-465-06958-3, OCLC 36954615 .
Cooper, John Milton (1983), The Warrior and the Priest: Woodrow Wilson and Theodore Roosevelt (dual scholarly biography), ISBN 978-0-674-94751-1 .
Dalton, Kathleen (2002), Theodore Roosevelt: A Strenuous Life (full scholarly biography), ISBN 0-679-76733-9 .
Harbaugh, William Henry (1963), The Life and Times of Theodore Roosevelt (full scholarly biography) .
Morris, Edmund (1979), The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt, 1. To 1901 ; vol 2: Theodore Rex 1901–1909 (2001); vol 3: Colonel Roosevelt (2010); Pulitzer prize for Volume 1.
Putnam, Carleton (1958), Theodore Roosevelt (biography), I: The Formative Years , only volume published, to age 28.
Ricard, Serge, ed. (2011), A Companion to Theodore Roosevelt , excerpt and text search, 28 new essays by scholars; focus on historiography.
DiSilvestro, Roger (2011), Theodore Roosevelt in the Badlands: A Young Politician's Quest in the American West, Walker & Co, ISBN 978-0-8027-1721-4 .
Fehn, Bruce (2005), "Theodore Roosevelt and American Masculinity", Magazine of History 19 (2): 52–59, ISSN 0882-228X  Provides a lesson plan on TR as the historical figure who most exemplifies the quality of masculinity.
Gluck, Sherwin (1999), TR's Summer White House, Oyster Bay . Chronicles the events of TR's presidency during the summers of his two terms.
Greenberg, David (2011), "Beyond the Bully Pulpit", Wilson Quarterly 35 (3): 22–29 . The president's use of publicity, rhetoric and force of personality .
Millard, Candice (2005), River of Doubt: Theodore Roosevelt's Darkest Journey ; his deadly 1913–14 trip to the Amazon.
McCullough, David (1981), Mornings on Horseback: The Story of an Extraordinary Faimly, a Vanished Way of Life and the Unique Child Who Became Theodore Roosevelt, Simon & Schuster , best seller; to 1886.
——— (2001) [1981], Mornings on Horseback, The Story of an Extraordinary Family, a Vanished Way of Life, and the Unique Child Who Became Theodore Roosevelt (popular biography) , to 1884.
O'Toole, Patricia (2005), When Trumpets Call: Theodore Roosevelt after the White House, Simon & Schuster, ISBN 0-684-86477-0 . 494 pp.
Renehan, Edward J (1998), The Lion's Pride: Theodore Roosevelt and His Family in Peace and War, Oxford University Press , examines TR and his family during the World War I period.
Testi, Arnaldo (1995), "The Gender of Reform Politics: Theodore Roosevelt and the Culture of Masculinity", Journal of American History (JStor) 81 (4): 1509–33 .
Thompson, J Lee (2010), Theodore Roosevelt Abroad: Nature, Empire, and the Journey of an American President, Palgrave Macmillan, ISBN 978-0-230-10277-4 , 240 pp. TR in Africa & Europe, 1909–10
Watts, Sarah (2003), Rough Rider in the White House: Theodore Roosevelt and the Politics of Desire . 289 pp.
Yarbrough, Jean M (2012), Theodore Roosevelt and the American Political Tradition, University Press of Kansas , 337 pp; TR's political thought and its significance for republican self-government.
Brinkley, Douglas (2009). The Wilderness Warrior: Theodore Roosevelt and the Crusade for America. New York, NY: HarperCollins. ISBN 978-0-06-056528-2. 
Dorsey, Leroy G (1997), "The Frontier Myth and Teddy Roosevelt's Fight for Conservation", in Gerster, Nicholas; Cords, Myth America: A Historical Anthology II, St. James, NY: Brandywine Press, ISBN 1-881089-97-5 .
Gould, Lewis L (2011), The Presidency of Theodore Roosevelt (2nd ed.) , standard history of his domestic and foreign policy as president.
Murphey, William (March 2013), "Theodore Roosevelt and the Bureau of Corporation: Executive-Corporate Cooperation and the Advancement of the Regulatory State", American Nineteenth Century History 14 (1): 73–111 .
Swanson, Ryan A (2011), "'I Never Was a Champion at Anything': Theodore Roosevelt's Complex and Contradictory Record as America's 'Sports President’", Journal of Sport History 38 (3): 425–46 .
Zacks, Richard (2012), Island of Vice: Theodore Roosevelt's Doomed Quest to Clean Up Sin-Loving New York .
Blum, John Morton (1954), The Republican Roosevelt, Cambridge: Harvard University Press, OCLC 310975 . How TR did politics.
Chace, James (2004), 1912: Wilson, Roosevelt, Taft, and Debs – The Election That Changed the Country, ISBN 978-0-7432-0394-4 , 323 pp.
Gould, Lewis L (2008), Four Hats in the Ring: The 1912 Election and the Birth of Modern American Politics (by a leading scholar) .
Haverkamp, Michael (2001), "Rossevelt and Taft: How the Republican Vote Split in Ohio in 1912", Ohio History 110 (1): 121–35 .
Kohn, Edward P (Spring 2006), "A Necessary Defeat: Theodore Roosevelt and the New York Mayoral Election of 1886", New York History 87: 205–27 .
——— (2006), "Crossing the Rubicon: Theodore Roosevelt, Henry Cabot Lodge, and the 1884 Republican National Convention", Journal of the Gilded Age and Progressive Era 5 (1): 18–45 .
Milkis, Sidney M (2009), Theodore Roosevelt, the Progressive Party, and the Transformation of American Democracy, Lawrence: University Press of Kansas . 361 pp.
Mowry, George E (1939), "Theodore Roosevelt and the Election of 1910", The Mississippi Valley Historical Review 25 (4): 523–34 .
——— (1954), The Era of Theodore Roosevelt and the Birth of Modern America, 1900–1912 (general survey of era) .
Powell, Jim (2006), Bully Boy: The Truth About Theodore Roosevelt's Legacy, Crown Forum, ISBN 0-307-23722-2 . Attacks TR policies from conservative/libertarian perspective.
Beale, Howard K (1956), Theodore Roosevelt and the Rise of America to World Power (standard history of his foreign policy) .
Hendrix, Henry J (2009), Theodore Roosevelt's Naval Diplomacy: The US Navy & the Birth of the American Century .
Holmes, James R (2006), Theodore Roosevelt and World Order: Police Power in International Relations . 328 pp.
Jones, Gregg (2012), Honor in the Dust: Theodore Roosevelt, War in the Philippines, and the Rise and Fall of America's Imperial Dream 
McCullough, David (1977), The Path between the Seas: The Creation of the Panama Canal, 1870–1914 .
Oyos, Matthew (2011), "Courage, Careers, and Comrades: Theodore Roosevelt and the United States Army Officer Corps", Journal of the Gilded Age & Progressive Era 10 (1): 23–58 . On TR's controversial reforms.
——— (2008), "Theodore Roosevelt: Imperialist or Global Strategist in the New Expansionist Age?", Diplomacy and Statecraft 19 (4): 639–57 .
Rofe, J Simon (2008), "'Under the Influence of Mahan': Theodore and Franklin Roosevelt and their Understanding of American National Interest", Diplomacy and Statecraft 19 (4): 732–45 .
———; Thompson, John M (2011), "Internationalists in Isolationist times – Theodore and Franklin Roosevelt and a Rooseveltian Maxim", Journal of Transatlantic Studies 9 (1): 46–62 .
Tilchin, William N (1997), Theodore Roosevelt and the British Empire: A Study in Presidential Statecraft 
Tilchin, William N; Neu, Charles E, eds. (2006), Artists of Power: Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, and Their Enduring Impact on US Foreign Policy, Praeger . 196 pp.
——— (1926), The Works (National ed.) , 20 vol.; 18,000 pages containing most of TR's speeches, books and essays, but not his letters; a CD-ROM edition is available; some of TR's books are available online through Project Bartleby
——— (1941), Hart, Albert Bushnell; Ferleger, Herbert Ronald, eds., Theodore Roosevelt Cyclopedia , Roosevelt's opinions on many issues; online version at Theodore Roosevelt.
——— (1951–1954), Morison, Elting E; Blum, John Morton; Chandler, Alfred D jr, eds., The Letters (annotated ed.) , 8 vols. Very large.
——— (1967), Harbaugh, William, ed., The Writings (one-volume selection of speeches and essays) .
——— (1999) [1882], The Naval War of 1812 Or the History of the United States Navy during the Last War with Great Britain to Which Is Appended an Account of the Battle of New Orleans, New York: The Modern Library, ISBN 0-375-75419-9 .
——— (2004), Auchincloss, Louis, ed., Theodore Roosevelt, The Rough Riders and an Autobiography, Library of America, ISBN 978-1-931082-65-5 .
——— (2004), Auchincloss, Louis, ed., Letters and Speeches, Library of America, ISBN 978-1-931082-66-2 .
———, Original Handwritten and Typed Letters, Notes, and Documents, Shapell Manuscript Foundation .
"Theodore Roosevelt Dies Suddenly at Oyster Bay Home; Nation Shocked, Pays Tribute to Former President; Our Flag on All Seas and in All Lands at Half Mast". The New York Times January 6, 1919
"Roosevelt, Theodore (1858–)", Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition (detailed biography), J rank, 1911 .
"Theodore Roosevelt Association – Founded in 1920 by Roosevelt's friends and admirers to preserve his legacy. Online resources and bibliography". 
Julian L. Street Papers on Theodore Roosevelt at the Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library, Princeton University
Hunting in Many Lands: The Book of the Boone and Crockett Club (1895), Roosevelt, Theodore (Editor). Project Gutenberg. (Also contains a chapter written by Theodore Roosevelt.)
Roosevelt, Theodore (1911). "Revealing and concealing coloration in birds and mammals". Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History 30 (Article 8): 119–231. 
Webcast Panel Discussion of Theodore Roosevelt and US military power moderated by Harry Lembeck, with Dr. Justus Doenecke, Dr. James R. Reckner, and Dr. Allan R. Millett at the Pritzker Military Library on October 25, 2012
Doris A. and Lawrence H. Budner Collection on Theodore Roosevelt ("Budner Roosevelt Collection") held by SMU's DeGolyer Library contains correspondence, ephemera, audiovisual materials, periodicals, newspapers, photographs, and more related to President Theodore Roosevelt. There are also two related collections of prints and photographs.
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Theodore_Roosevelt&oldid=610610371"					
Categories: Theodore Roosevelt1858 births1919 deaths19th-century American writers20th-century American writersAmerican autobiographersAmerican ChristiansAmerican essayistsAmerican explorersAmerican historiansAmerican huntersAmerican judokaAmerican members of the Dutch Reformed ChurchAmerican military personnel of the Spanish–American WarAmerican naval historiansAmerican Nobel laureatesAmerican people of Dutch descentAmerican people of English descentAmerican people of French descentAmerican people of Irish descentAmerican people of Scottish descentAmerican people of Welsh descentAmerican political writersAmerican politicians with physical disabilitiesAmerican progressivesAmerican ProtestantsAmerican ranchersAmerican shooting survivorsBulloch familyBurials in New YorkCardiovascular disease deaths in New YorkColumbia University alumniCommissioners of the New York City Police DepartmentExplorers of AmazoniaGovernors of New YorkHarvard University alumniHistory of the United States (1865–1918)Members of the American Philosophical SocietyMembers of the New York State AssemblyNew York Progressives (1912)New York RepublicansNobel Peace Prize laureatesPeople associated with the American Museum of Natural HistoryPeople associated with the Boy Scouts of AmericaPeople associated with the Hague Peace ConferencesPeople from Long IslandPresidents of the American Historical AssociationPresidents of the United States who were FreemasonsPresidents of the United StatesProgressive Era in the United StatesReformed Church in America ChristiansRepublican Party (United States) presidential nomineesRepublican Party (United States) vice presidential nomineesRepublican Party Presidents of the United StatesRepublican Party state governors of the United StatesRepublican Party Vice Presidents of the United StatesRoosevelt familySons of the American RevolutionSpanish–American War recipients of the Medal of HonorUnited States Army Medal of Honor recipientsUnited States Army officersUnited States presidential candidates, 1904United States presidential candidates, 1912United States presidential candidates, 1916United States vice-presidential candidates, 1900Vice Presidents of the United StatesWriters from New YorkHidden categories: Use mdy dates from April 2011Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from April 2014Articles with hAudio microformatsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2014Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersArticles containing video clipsSmithsonian Institution Archives relatedWorld Digital Library related 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
With the assassination of President McKinley, Theodore Roosevelt, not quite 43, became the youngest President in the Nation's history. He brought new excitement and power to the Presidency, as he vigorously led Congress and the American public toward progressive reforms and a strong foreign policy.
He took the view that the President as a "steward of the people" should take whatever action necessary for the public good unless expressly forbidden by law or the Constitution." I did not usurp power," he wrote, "but I did greatly broaden the use of executive power."
Roosevelt's youth differed sharply from that of the log cabin Presidents. He was born in New York City in 1858 into a wealthy family, but he too struggled--against ill health--and in his triumph became an advocate of the strenuous life.
In 1884 his first wife, Alice Lee Roosevelt, and his mother died on the same day. Roosevelt spent much of the next two years on his ranch in the Badlands of Dakota Territory. There he mastered his sorrow as he lived in the saddle, driving cattle, hunting big game--he even captured an outlaw. On a visit to London, he married Edith Carow in December 1886.
During the Spanish-American War, Roosevelt was lieutenant colonel of the Rough Rider Regiment, which he led on a charge at the battle of San Juan. He was one of the most conspicuous heroes of the war.
Boss Tom Platt, needing a hero to draw attention away from scandals in New York State, accepted Roosevelt as the Republican candidate for Governor in 1898. Roosevelt won and served with distinction.
As President, Roosevelt held the ideal that the Government should be the great arbiter of the conflicting economic forces in the Nation, especially between capital and labor, guaranteeing justice to each and dispensing favors to none.
Roosevelt emerged spectacularly as a "trust buster" by forcing the dissolution of a great railroad combination in the Northwest. Other antitrust suits under the Sherman Act followed.
Roosevelt steered the United States more actively into world politics. He liked to quote a favorite proverb, "Speak softly and carry a big stick. . . . "
Aware of the strategic need for a shortcut between the Atlantic and Pacific, Roosevelt ensured the construction of the Panama Canal. His corollary to the Monroe Doctrine prevented the establishment of foreign bases in the Caribbean and arrogated the sole right of intervention in Latin America to the United States.
He won the Nobel Peace Prize for mediating the Russo-Japanese War, reached a Gentleman's Agreement on immigration with Japan, and sent the Great White Fleet on a goodwill tour of the world.
Some of Theodore Roosevelt's most effective achievements were in conservation. He added enormously to the national forests in the West, reserved lands for public use, and fostered great irrigation projects.
He crusaded endlessly on matters big and small, exciting audiences with his high-pitched voice, jutting jaw, and pounding fist. "The life of strenuous endeavor" was a must for those around him, as he romped with his five younger children and led ambassadors on hikes through Rock Creek Park in Washington, D.C.
Leaving the Presidency in 1909, Roosevelt went on an African safari, then jumped back into politics. In 1912 he ran for President on a Progressive ticket. To reporters he once remarked that he felt as fit as a bull moose, the name of his new party.
While campaigning in Milwaukee, he was shot in the chest by a fanatic. Roosevelt soon recovered, but his words at that time would have been applicable at the time of his death in 1919: "No man has had a happier life than I have led; a happier life in every way."
The Presidential biographies on WhiteHouse.gov are from “The Presidents of the United States of America,” by Frank Freidel and Hugh Sidey. Copyright 2006 by the White House Historical Association.
background: url(http://www.whitehouse.gov/files/images/tout/feedback_tout_long.png) no-repeat 0px 0px;
=======================================================
The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.
6/02 “Leadership in American Politics”	Jeffery A. Jenkins.  9:30AM 5/09 “2014 National Fellowship Conference”	The annual spring conference brings the fellows together with their mentors to present the fruits of their fellowship year.  9:15AM 5/07 “Stokely Carmichael and the Freedom Summer That Changed History”	Peniel E. Joseph.  11:00AM 5/02 “The Life of the Law”	A Symposium Commemorating the 50th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  9:00AM 
↑ Theodore Roosevelt Front PageA Life in BriefLife Before the PresidencyCampaigns and ElectionsDomestic AffairsForeign AffairsLife After the PresidencyFamily LifeThe American FranchiseImpact and LegacyView All PagesA Life in BriefTheodore Roosevelt, who came into office in 1901 and served until 1909, is considered the first modern President because he significantly expanded the influence and power of the executive office. From the Civil War to the turn of the twentieth century, the seat of power in the national government resided in the U.S. Congress. Beginning in the 1880s, the executive branch gradually increased its power. Roosevelt seized on this trend, believing that the President had the right to use all powers except those that were specifically denied him to accomplish his goals. As a result, the President, rather than Congress or the political parties, became the center of the American political arena. 
As President, Roosevelt challenged the ideas of limited government and individualism. In their stead, he advocated government regulation to achieve social and economic justice. He used executive orders to accomplish his goals, especially in conservation, and waged an aggressive foreign policy. He was also an extremely popular President and the first to use the media to appeal directly to the people, bypassing the political parties and career politicians. 
Frail and sickly as a boy, "Teedie" Roosevelt developed a rugged physique as a teenager and became a lifelong advocate of exercise and the "strenuous life." After graduating from Harvard, Roosevelt married Alice Hathaway Lee and studied law at Columbia University. He dropped out after a year to pursue politics, winning a seat in the New York Assembly in 1882.   Click to read Roosevelt's diary entry from the Theodore Roosevelt Center. A double tragedy struck Roosevelt in 1884, when his mother and his wife died in the same house on the same day. Roosevelt spent two years out West in an attempt to recover, tending cows as a rancher and busting outlaws as a frontier sheriff. In 1886, he returned to New York and married his childhood sweetheart, Edith Kermit Carow. They raised six children, including Roosevelt's daughter from his first marriage. After losing a campaign for mayor, he served as Civil Service commissioner, president of the New York City Police Board, and assistant secretary of the Navy. All the while, he demonstrated honesty in office, upsetting the party bosses who expected him to ignore the law in favor of partisan politics.
When the Spanish-American War broke out in 1898, Roosevelt volunteered as commander of the 1st U.S. Volunteer Cavalry, known as the Rough Riders, leading a daring charge on San Juan Hill. Returning as a war hero, he became governor of New York and began to exhibit an independence that upset the state's political machine. To stop Roosevelt's reforms, party bosses "kicked him upstairs" to the vice presidency under William McKinley, believing that in this position he would be unable to continue his progressive policies. Roosevelt campaigned vigorously for McKinley in 1900—one commentator remarked, "Tis Teddy alone that's running, an' he ain't a runnin', he's a gallopin'." Roosevelt's efforts helped ensure victory for McKinley. But his time as vice president was brief; McKinley was assassinated in 1901, making Roosevelt the President of the United States.
By the 1904 election, Roosevelt was eager to be elected President in his own right. To achieve this, he knew that he needed to work with Republican Party leaders. He promised to hold back on parts of his progressive agenda in exchange for a free hand in foreign affairs. He also got the reluctant support of wealthy capitalists, who feared his progressive measures, but feared a Democratic victory even more. TR won in a landslide, becoming the first President to be elected after gaining office due to the death of his predecessor. Upon victory, he vowed not to run for another term in 1908, a promise he came to regret.
As President, Roosevelt worked to ensure that the government improved the lives of American citizens. His "Square Deal" domestic program reflected the progressive call to reform the American workplace, initiating welfare legislation and government regulation of industry. He was also the nation's first environmentalist President, setting aside nearly 200 million acres for national forests, reserves, and wildlife refuges. 
In foreign policy, Roosevelt wanted to make the United States a global power by increasing its influence worldwide. He led the effort to secure rights to build the Panama Canal, one of the greatest engineering feats at that time. He also issued his "corollary" to the Monroe Doctrine, which established the United States as the "policeman" of the Western Hemisphere. In addition, he used his position as President to help negotiate peace agreements between belligerent nations, believing that the world should settle international disputes through diplomacy rather than war. 
Roosevelt is considered the first modern U.S. President because he greatly strengthened the power of the executive branch. He was also an extremely popular President—so popular after leaving office in 1909 that he was able to mount a serious run for the presidency again in 1912. Believing that his successor, William Howard Taft, had failed to continue his program of reform, TR threw his hat into the ring as a candidate for the Progressive Party. Although Roosevelt was defeated by Democrat Woodrow Wilson, his efforts resulted in the creation of one of the most significant third parties in U.S. history. 
With the onset of World War I in 1914, Roosevelt advocated that the United States prepare itself for war. Accordingly, he was highly critical of Wilson's pledge of neutrality. Once the United States entered the war in 1917, all four of Roosevelt's sons volunteered to serve, which greatly pleased the former President. The death of his youngest son, Quentin, left him deeply distraught. Theodore Roosevelt died less than a year later.
=======================================================
The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.
6/02 “Leadership in American Politics”	Jeffery A. Jenkins.  9:30AM 5/09 “2014 National Fellowship Conference”	The annual spring conference brings the fellows together with their mentors to present the fruits of their fellowship year.  9:15AM 5/07 “Stokely Carmichael and the Freedom Summer That Changed History”	Peniel E. Joseph.  11:00AM 5/02 “The Life of the Law”	A Symposium Commemorating the 50th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  9:00AM 
↑ Theodore Roosevelt Front PageA Life in BriefLife Before the PresidencyCampaigns and ElectionsDomestic AffairsForeign AffairsLife After the PresidencyFamily LifeThe American FranchiseImpact and LegacyView All PagesLife Before the PresidencyTheodore Roosevelt was born on October 27, 1858, and grew up in New York City, the second of four children. His father, Theodore, Sr., was a well-to-do businessman and philanthropist. His mother, Martha "Mittie" Roosevelt, was a Southerner, raised on a plantation in Georgia. 
"Teedie" grew up surrounded by the love of his parents and siblings. But he was always a sickly child afflicted with asthma. As a teenager, he decided that he would "make his body," and he undertook a program of gymnastics and weight-lifting, which helped him develop a rugged physique. Thereafter, Roosevelt became a lifelong advocate of exercise and the "strenuous life." He always found time for physical exertions including hiking, riding horses, and swimming. 
As a young boy, Roosevelt was tutored at home by private teachers. He traveled widely through Europe and the Middle East with his family during the late 1860s and early 1870s, once living with a host family in Germany for five months. In 1876, he entered Harvard College, where he studied a variety of subjects, including German, natural history, zoology, forensics, and composition. He also continued his physical endeavors, taking on boxing and wrestling as new pursuits.
During college, Roosevelt fell in love with Alice Hathaway Lee, a young woman from a prominent New England banking family he met through a friend at Harvard. They were married in October 1880. Roosevelt then enrolled in Columbia Law School, but dropped out after one year to begin a career in public service. He was elected to the New York Assembly and served two terms from 1882 to 1884. 
A double tragedy struck Roosevelt in 1884. On February 12th, Alice gave birth to a daughter, Alice Lee. Two days later, Roosevelt's mother died of typhoid fever and his wife died of kidney disease within a few hours of each other—and in the same house. For the next few months, a devastated Roosevelt threw himself into political work to escape his grief. Finally, he left his daughter in the care of his sister and fled to the Dakota Badlands. 
Once out West, Roosevelt soaked in the frontier lifestyle. He bought two ranches and a thousand head of cattle. He flourished in the hardships of the western frontier, riding for days, hunting grizzly bears, herding cows as a rancher, and chasing outlaws as a frontier sheriff. Roosevelt headed back East in 1886; a devastating winter the following year wiped out most of his cattle. Although he would frequent the Dakota Badlands in subsequent years to hunt, he was ready leave the West and return to his former life. 
One of the reasons he did so was because of a rediscovered love with his childhood sweetheart, Edith Kermit Carow. The two were married in England in 1886 and moved to Oyster Bay, New York, into a house known as Sagamore Hill. In addition to raising Roosevelt's first child, Alice, he and Edith had five children: Theodore, Kermit, Ethel, Archibald, and Quentin.
After returning to New York, Roosevelt continued his writing career, which began with the publication of his book, The Naval War of 1812, in 1882. He wrote a number of books during this period, including The Life of Thomas Hart Benton (1887), The Life of Gouverneur Morris (1888), and The Winning of the West (four volumes, 1889-1896). 
Roosevelt also resumed his political career by running unsuccessfully for mayor of New York City in 1886. In 1888, he campaigned for Republican presidential nominee Benjamin Harrison. When Harrison won the election, he appointed Roosevelt to the U.S. Civil Service Commission. Roosevelt was re-appointed to the Commission by Democratic President Grover Cleveland in 1893. As commissioner, he worked hard to enforce the civil service laws, although he regularly clashed with party regulars and politicians who wanted him to ignore the law in favor of patronage. 
Roosevelt served dutifully as a commissioner until he accepted the presidency of the New York City Police Board in 1895. He demonstrated honesty in office, much to the displeasure of party bosses. He also cleaned up the corrupt Police Board and strictly enforced laws banning the sale of liquor on the Sabbath.
In 1897, the newly elected Republican President, William McKinley, appointed Roosevelt assistant secretary of the Navy. Roosevelt had long believed in the importance of the Navy and the role it played in national defense. As acting secretary of the Navy, he responded to the explosion of the U.S. battleship Maine in Havana Harbor in 1898 by putting the Navy on full alert. (See McKinley biography, Foreign Affairs section, for details.) Roosevelt instructed Commodore George Dewey to make ready for war with Spain by taking the necessary steps for bottling up the Spanish squadron in Asian waters. He also asked Dewey to prepare for the probable invasion of the Philippines. 
When the Spanish-American War began, Roosevelt resigned as assistant secretary of the Navy and volunteered for service as commander the 1st U.S. Volunteer Cavalry, a unit known as the Rough Riders—an elite company comprised of Ivy League gentlemen, western cowboys, sheriffs, prospectors, police officers, and Native Americans. Once in Cuba, Roosevelt distinguished himself by leading them on a charge—on foot—up San Juan Hill (actually Kettle Hill) on the outskirts of Santiago. The contingent suffered heavy casualties.
The Rough Riders returned to the United States as war heroes. Their varied backgrounds, colorful leader, and bravery on the battlefield brought them considerable attention. Roosevelt personally reveled in his time in the military. He later wrote about his military exploits: "I would rather have led that charge and earned my colonelcy than served three terms in the United States Senate. It makes me feel as though I could now leave something to my children which will serve as an apology for my having existed."
Roosevelt returned home a war hero and caught the eye of Republican leaders in New York who were looking for a gubernatorial candidate. He agreed to run for governor against a popular Democrat, Judge Augustus van Wyck, the candidate of Tammany Hall. Roosevelt carried the election by just a few thousand votes; his victory stemmed largely from the work of the state's Republican Party boss, Thomas C. Platt, who threw the full support of his political machine behind the hero of San Juan Hill. Although Platt and Roosevelt had agreed to consult each other on matters of policy and patronage, the new governor was his own man. TR steadfastly refused to appoint party regulars as State Insurance Commissioner or Public Works Commissioner—the two most important patronage jobs in the state. 
When Governor Roosevelt supported a bill for the taxation of the value and assets of public services (gas, water, electric, and streetcars), his actions led to an explosive break with Platt. Almost overnight the insurance companies, the construction contractors, and the privately owned public service corporations realized that all the money they were contributing to Platt's political machine brought them little if any influence with Governor Roosevelt.
Boss Platt knew that something had to be done with the governor before he completely destroyed the Republican state machine. Consulting with Mark Hanna, the top Republican political boss in the nation, Platt conspired to "kick [Roosevelt] upstairs" to the vice presidency in 1900. (Vice President Garret Hobart had just died in office.) This would keep Roosevelt from running for a second term in New York (the governorship was a two-year term in those days). Roosevelt reluctantly agreed, persuaded that the vice presidency might lead to a shot at the White House in 1904. He also knew that the party bosses had rigged the convention, making it nearly impossible for him to avoid being nominated.
The Republican convention nominated TR by acclamation. Thereafter, Roosevelt campaigned furiously for the Republican presidential candidate, William McKinley, matching his Democratic opponents, William Jennings Bryan and Adlai E. Stevenson, move for move. Roosevelt traveled more than 21,000 miles on a special campaign train, making hundreds of speeches, and more than three million people saw him in person. He spoke in 567 cities in twenty-four states. "Tis Tiddy alone that's running," observed Mr. Dooley (a press columnist who used an exaggerated Irish accent to make political observations) "an' he ain't a runnin', he's gallopin'." 
The Republican ticket overwhelmed the Democrats, racking up an 861,757 vote plurality, the largest Republican victory in years. McKinley won the popular vote of 7.2 million (292 Electoral College votes) to Bryan's 6.3 million (155 Electoral College votes). McKinley won his bid for reelection over Bryan by an even larger margin than he had garnered in 1896.
In September 1901, however, an assassin's bullet killed President McKinley (see McKinley biography, Death of the President section). This tragedy put Theodore Roosevelt ("that damned cowboy"—according to Mark Hanna, the top Republican political boss in the nation) in the White House as the nation's twenty-sixth President. He was the youngest person ever to serve in that capacity. Neither the nation nor the presidency would ever be the same again.
=======================================================
.tra_top{ width:222px; height:340px; display:block; position: absolute; z-index:99998; background: url(/atf/cf/{01a413bf-e254-454d-b340-8502d6ea02de}/TRA_TOP.PNG) no-repeat;}
DIV#home #contentPrimary {background:#cc0000 /*url(/atf/cf/{01a413bf-e254-454d-b340-8502d6ea02de}/GRADIENT_DOWN.PNG) 0% 0% repeat-x*/;}
About UsHistory of the TRALeadershipAwardsWhat We DoTeddy Bears for KidsAnnual MeetingPolice AwardsPolice Awards Honor RollPublic Speaking CompetitionsPartnership with the USS TRJunior Officer Honor RollPartnership with Historic SitesStrenuous Life AdventuresMembershipMembership ApplicationGift of MembershipChaptersNew England ChapterCapital Area ChapterGivingDonate NowDonate a USA Teddy BearDonate a Classic Teddy BearMemorial And TributeBlogNewsDoris Kearns Goodwin Headlines Annual MeetingComasco honored for leadership aboard USS TRTRA Launches New WebsiteThe Fight for ElkhornScholars/EducatorsLesson PlansPublicationsThe ArenaTRA JournalResourcesBrief BiographyThe PRESIDENTThe SOLDIERThe CONSERVATIONISTThe HUNTERThe AUTHORThe FAMILY MANThe NAVAL STRATEGISTReal Teddy Bear Story
.glidecontenttoggler a.toc{ -moz-opacity: 0.6;opacity:.60;filter: alpha(opacity=60);margin-top:0px;padding:0;}
.glidecontenttoggler a.toc.selected{ -moz-opacity: 1;opacity:1;filter: alpha(opacity=100); overflow:hidden}
z-index:99999; background: #082253; color:#fff; display:none; -moz-opacity: 0.7;opacity:.70;filter: alpha(opacity=70); }
.slide_credit { width: 325px; height: 75px; padding-left: 12px; float:left;padding-top: 10px; color:#fff}
.slide_share { float:left; width:160px; padding-left: 12px; border-bottom:1px solid #fff; padding-top: 10px; height: 75px; }
.slide_num { background-color:#b9b9ba; width: 98px; text-align:center; vertical-align:middle; height: 15px; display:block;}
The Theodore Roosevelt Association is a historical and public service organization dedicated to perpetuating the memory and ideals of Theodore Roosevelt. While looking back at Roosevelt’s life, times, and legacy, we have our sights on the future through programs that recognize brave and
gifted individuals, inspire public service, bring comfort to sick children and develop tomorrow’s leaders.
Since 1986, Teddy Bears for Kids has brought comfort and so more to hospitalized children nationwide. Through relationships with 65 hospitals and partnering organizations, we’ve reached 80,000 sick kids nationwide. Our goal for 2013 is 100,000.
TR's Elkhorn Ranch Site in North Dakota, part of Theodore Roosevelt National Park, faces commercial development threats from the state’s Bakken Oil Boom. 
June 19, 20144:30 PM - 6:00 PMHarvard University VisitAugust 16, 20149:00 AM - 5:00 PMVisit to the Chittenden Locks October 24, 2014 - October 25, 20149:00 AM - 5:00 PM95th Annual Meeting 
MEMBERSHIPMembership ApplicationGift of MembershipWHAT WE DOTeddy Bears for KidsAnnual MeetingPolice AwardsPublic Speaking CompetitionsPartnership with the USS TRPartnership with Historic SitesStrenuous Life AdventuresGIVINGDonate NowDonate a USA Teddy BearMemorial and TributeDonate a Classic Teddy BearCONTACTContact Us
MEMBERSHIPMembership ApplicationGift of MembershipWHAT WE DOTeddy Bears for KidsAnnual MeetingPolice AwardsPublic Speaking CompetitionsPartnership with the USS TRPartnership with Historic SitesStrenuous Life AdventuresGIVINGDonate NowDonate a USA Teddy BearMemorial and TributeDonate a Classic Teddy BearCONTACTContact Us
=======================================================
.tra_top{ width:222px; height:340px; display:block; position: absolute; z-index:99998; background: url(/atf/cf/{01a413bf-e254-454d-b340-8502d6ea02de}/TRA_TOP.PNG) no-repeat;}
DIV#home #contentPrimary {background:#cc0000 /*url(/atf/cf/{01a413bf-e254-454d-b340-8502d6ea02de}/GRADIENT_DOWN.PNG) 0% 0% repeat-x*/;}
About UsHistory of the TRALeadershipAwardsWhat We DoTeddy Bears for KidsAnnual MeetingPolice AwardsPolice Awards Honor RollPublic Speaking CompetitionsPartnership with the USS TRJunior Officer Honor RollPartnership with Historic SitesStrenuous Life AdventuresMembershipMembership ApplicationGift of MembershipChaptersNew England ChapterCapital Area ChapterGivingDonate NowDonate a USA Teddy BearDonate a Classic Teddy BearMemorial And TributeBlogNewsDoris Kearns Goodwin Headlines Annual MeetingComasco honored for leadership aboard USS TRTRA Launches New WebsiteThe Fight for ElkhornScholars/EducatorsLesson PlansPublicationsThe ArenaTRA JournalResourcesBrief BiographyThe PRESIDENTThe SOLDIERThe CONSERVATIONISTThe HUNTERThe AUTHORThe FAMILY MANThe NAVAL STRATEGISTReal Teddy Bear Story
.glidecontenttoggler a.toc{ -moz-opacity: 0.6;opacity:.60;filter: alpha(opacity=60);margin-top:0px;padding:0;}
.glidecontenttoggler a.toc.selected{ -moz-opacity: 1;opacity:1;filter: alpha(opacity=100); overflow:hidden}
z-index:99999; background: #082253; color:#fff; display:none; -moz-opacity: 0.7;opacity:.70;filter: alpha(opacity=70); }
.slide_credit { width: 325px; height: 75px; padding-left: 12px; float:left;padding-top: 10px; color:#fff}
.slide_share { float:left; width:160px; padding-left: 12px; border-bottom:1px solid #fff; padding-top: 10px; height: 75px; }
.slide_num { background-color:#b9b9ba; width: 98px; text-align:center; vertical-align:middle; height: 15px; display:block;}
The Theodore Roosevelt Association is a historical and public service organization dedicated to perpetuating the memory and ideals of Theodore Roosevelt. While looking back at Roosevelt’s life, times, and legacy, we have our sights on the future through programs that recognize brave and
gifted individuals, inspire public service, bring comfort to sick children and develop tomorrow’s leaders.
Since 1986, Teddy Bears for Kids has brought comfort and so more to hospitalized children nationwide. Through relationships with 65 hospitals and partnering organizations, we’ve reached 80,000 sick kids nationwide. Our goal for 2013 is 100,000.
TR's Elkhorn Ranch Site in North Dakota, part of Theodore Roosevelt National Park, faces commercial development threats from the state’s Bakken Oil Boom. 
June 19, 20144:30 PM - 6:00 PMHarvard University VisitAugust 16, 20149:00 AM - 5:00 PMVisit to the Chittenden Locks October 24, 2014 - October 25, 20149:00 AM - 5:00 PM95th Annual Meeting 
MEMBERSHIPMembership ApplicationGift of MembershipWHAT WE DOTeddy Bears for KidsAnnual MeetingPolice AwardsPublic Speaking CompetitionsPartnership with the USS TRPartnership with Historic SitesStrenuous Life AdventuresGIVINGDonate NowDonate a USA Teddy BearMemorial and TributeDonate a Classic Teddy BearCONTACTContact Us
MEMBERSHIPMembership ApplicationGift of MembershipWHAT WE DOTeddy Bears for KidsAnnual MeetingPolice AwardsPublic Speaking CompetitionsPartnership with the USS TRPartnership with Historic SitesStrenuous Life AdventuresGIVINGDonate NowDonate a USA Teddy BearMemorial and TributeDonate a Classic Teddy BearCONTACTContact Us
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesCash for College! 54 Scholarships Worth $10&#044;000 or MoreErikson's Psychosocial Stages Summary ChartHow to Control Carpenter BeesQuiz - What's Your Leadership Style? [About Psychology]College Interview Questions
Top Related Searchesvolunteer cavalry regimentedith kermit carowcolumbia law schoolassistant secretary of the navyalice hathaway leecivil service commissioner
Born on October 27, 1858 in New York City, Roosevelt grew up very sickly with asthma and other illnesses. As he grew up, he exercised and boxed to try and build up his constitution. His family was wealthy traveling to Europe and Egypt in his youth. He received his earliest education from his aunt along with a series of other tutors before entering Harvard in 1876. Upon graduation he went to Columbia Law School. He stayed there one year before dropping out to begin his political life.
Father: Theodore Roosevelt, Sr. - Wealthy merchant.Mother: Martha "Mittie" Bulloch Roosevelt - Southerner from Georgia who was sympathetic to the Confederate cause.Siblings: Two sisters and a brother.Wife: (1) Alice Hathaway Lee - daughter of a banker. She died at the age of 22. (2) Edith Kermit Carow - Grew up next door to Theodore.Children: By his first wife - one daughter, Alice, who would get married in the White House. By his second wife - four sons and one daughter.
In 1882, Roosevelt became the youngest member of the New York State Assembly. In 1884 he moved to the Dakota territory and worked as a cattle rancher. From 1889-1895, Roosevelt was a U.S. Civil Service Commissioner. He was President of the New York City Police Board from 1895-97 and then Assistant Secretary of the Navy (1897-98). He resigned to join the military. He was elected Governor of New York (1898-1900) and Vice President from March-September 1901 when he succeeded to the presidency.
Roosevelt joined the U.S. Volunteer Cavalry Regiment which became known as the Rough Riders to fight in the Spanish-American War. He served from May-September, 1898 and quickly rose to colonel. On July 1, he and the Rough Riders had a major victory at San Juan charging up Kettle Hill. He was part of the occupying force of Santiago.
Roosevelt became president on September 14, 1901 when President McKinley died after being shot on September 6, 1901. He was the youngest man to ever become president at the age of 42. In 1904, he was the obvious choice for the Republican nomination. Charles W. Fairbanks was his vice presidential nominee. He was opposed by Democrat Alton B. Parker. Both candidates agreed about the major issues and the campaign became one of personality. Roosevelt easily won with 336 out of 476 electoral votes.
Roosevelt did not run in 1908 and retired to Oyster Bay, New York. He went on a safari to Africa where he collected specimens for the Smithsonian Institute. Even though he promised not to run again, he sought the Republican nomination in 1912. When he lost, he formed the Bull Moose Party. His presence caused the vote to be split allowing Woodrow Wilson to win. Roosevelt was shot in 1912 by a would be assassin but was not seriously injured. He died on January 6, 1919 of a coronary embolism.
President Roosevelt served through most of the first decade of the 1900's. He was determined to build a canal across Panama. America aided Panama in gaining independence from Colombia. The U.S. then created a treaty with the newly independent Panama to gain the canal zone in exchange for $10 million plus annual payments.
The Monroe Doctrine is one of the keystones of American foreign policy. It says that the western hemisphere is off limits to foreign encroachment. Roosevelt added the Roosevelt Corollary to the Doctrine. This stated that it was the responsibility of America to intervene with force if necessary in Latin America to enforce the Monroe Doctrine. This was part of what became known as 'Big Stick Diplomacy'.
From 1904-05, the Russo-Japanese War occurred. Roosevelt was the mediator of the peace between the two countries. Due to this, he won the 1906 Nobel Peace Prize.
While in office, Roosevelt was known for his progressive policies. One of his nicknames was Trust Buster because his administration used existing antitrust laws to fight against corruption in the railroad, oil, and other industries. His policies concerning trusts and labor reform were part of what he called the "Square Deal."
Upton Sinclair wrote about the disgusting and unsanitary practices of the meat packing industry in his novel The Jungle. This resulted in the Meat Inspection and the Pure Food and Drug Acts in 1906. These laws required the government to inspect meat and protect consumers from food and drugs that might be dangerous.
Roosevelt was well-known for his conservation efforts. He was known as the Great Conservationist. During his time in office, over 125 million acres in national forests were set aside under public protection. He also established the first national wildlife refuge.
In 1907, Roosevelt made an agreement with Japan known as the Gentleman's Agreement whereby Japan agreed to slow the immigration of laborers to America and in exchange the U.S. would not pass a law like the Chinese Exclusion Act.
Roosevelt was a fiery individualist who embodied American culture of the early 1900's. His conservationism and willingness to take on big business are examples of why he is considered to be one of the better presidents. His progressive policies set the stage for important reforms of the 20th century.
More About Theodore RooseveltTheodore Roosevelt QuotesTheodore Roosevelt Fast FactsTop Ten Most Influential PresidentsSuggested ReadingTop Six Presidential Foreign Policy DoctrinesChart of the PresidentsPresidential Guru Quiz
Related ArticlesThe Presidents of the United States - Presidents 31-40President Franklin D. Roosevelt - BiographyPresident Theodore Roosevelt - Fast FactsTheodore Roosevelt Island in Washington, DCTeddy Roosevelt Quotes 
13 Original ColoniesTop Causes of the Civil WarPresidents of the USWhat Caused the Great Depression?What Happened Today?
The Top 5 Causes That Led to World War I. Could...Top 5 Causes of the Great Depression5 Things That Caused the U.S. Civil WarWhat Caused the American Revolution?American History Timelines - Wars with American...
Civil War - History of the Civil WarColonial AmericaIndustrial RevolutionWorld War IIEras of American HistoryAmerican CultureEconomic HistoryGovernment and PoliticsHistorical FiguresWars and DiplomacyStates and TerritoriesSocial HistoryScience and TechnologyHistorical Fun & ResourcesScandals and CrimeBlog
American HistoryAbout.comEducationAmerican HistoryHistorical FiguresUS PresidentsTheodore RooseveltTheodore Roosevelt - Twenty-Sixth President of the United StatesAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
