=======================================================
S.M.S.I., The Kasparov AgencyWeb LinksContact UsBiographyMilestonesPhoto GalleryKasparov TodayActivitiesKeynote Speaking EngagementsSeminarSimulBooking InquiriesKasparov MerchandiseBooks
Kasparov and Karpov battled each other five times in seven years for the world championship title. (Compare this to Kramnik who beat Kasparov in 2000 and then took four years before he played Leko, a hand-picked opponent for the title - ironically at the time Kramnik was ranked #3 in the world and Leko #6.)
The 1984 the world championship match which was in progress was called off by the FIDE President Florencio Campomanes.
These were the golden years of the World Championship matches and the match in Sevilla in 1987 was the most widely televised chess match in the world.
Then followed title defenses against Nigel Short in London in 1993, against Vishy Anand in New York City in 1995 where they played on the 106th Floor of the World Trade Center and Mayor Rudolf Giuliani made the first move on of all days, "September eleventh".
In 2000 after 15 years, Kasparov's reign as World Champion came to end with a loss to Kramnik in London.
Then followed the legendary 1984 World Chess Championship resulting in a notorious decision by Florencio Campomanes (FIDE President) to call off the match because of players fatigue.  Although widely favored to win the world title if they had continued, Garry Kasparov lost 10 points and Anatoly Karpov gained 10 points, thus winning back the #1 spot he had just surrendered to Kasparov.  Karpov's #1 position was short-lived.  On Nov. 9th, 1985 Garry Kasparov defeated Anatoly Karpov for the world title and coincidentally by January of 1986 he had regained the #1 spot.
He has made the #1 rating his own for most of the past 20 years, although for a brief period in January of 1996, Vladimir Kramnik joined him as co #1, each of them had a 2775 ELO  points rating.  Kasparov soon however opened the gap between himself and Kramnik who eventually fell to the #3 behind Vishy Anand.  As of January 1st, 2005, Garry Kasparov retains his #1 rating, Vishy Anand is second and Vladmir Kramnik has since fallen behind Topalov to #4.
Kasparov first was rated #1 in 1984 and except for the short period mentioned above, he has been the top rated player in the world for over 20 years (1984 - 2005).
In February 1996 in Philadelphia, he played IBM's Deep Blue computer.  His opponent was able to analyze 50 billion moves in three minutes. In NYC in May 1997, Kasparov again played the monster computer.  The series stands at one match each and the World Champion, backed by the world's estimated 200 million Chess players, challenged IBM to a tie-breaking third match.  IBM cashed in its silicon chips and sailed off into the sunset, satisfied with a tied series.  These two matches created two incredible statistics.  Chess received the greatest exposure the game has ever known and IBM's PR unit was quoted as saying that the company received over one billion dollars in quantifiable publicity and 72 million hits on their Internet site.
In Jan of 2003 FIDE's President, Kirsan Ilyumzhinov decided to hold a world championship challenge match between the world's #1 ranked player vs. the reigning world computer chess champion, an Israeli program called Deep Junior.  The highly publicized and tightly contested event played in New York City saw Garry Kasparov battle the  computer to a 3 - 3 draw.
Later on in 2003, Kasparov made world headlines when he played X3D's Fritz computer program to a draw in four games.  What was unusual about this contest was Kasparov's use of darkly tinted 3-D glasses with the added handicap of speaking his moves without ever touching the board.
The restless Russian is always looking for new challenges and for the past decade has astounded the Chess world by beating some of the world's strongest Olympic chess teams, playing four to six Grandmasters simultaneously.
Apart from his match against Deep Blue, Kasparov has always been at the cutting edge of innovations in chess.  For four months in 1999, he battled THE WORLD on the internet in a Microsoft sponsored event which opened new frontiers for chess.
On a lighter note, he played Boris Becker "live" on CNN for one hour.  Garry was in Manhattan and Boris was in Munich.
In 1988, a computer program was devised to analyze a vast collection of chess statistics in order to create a ranking of the all-time chess greats.  Top of the list was the twenty-five year old Russian Garry Kasparov, above Capablanca, Karpov, Fischer and the rest.
In March 2005, Garry Kasparov won the Linares Super Tournament for the ninth time in sixteen years (90, 92, 93, 97, 99, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2005).
Winning Linares, the "Wimbledon of Chess" for four straight years was one thing, but even more spectacular was that his win in Linares in 2002 made it ten super-tournament victories in a row for the world's number one.  The scoreboard:  Linares 4, Wijk aan Zee 3, Sarajevo 2 and Astana 1.
Kasparov has been at the forefront of the use of computers in chess and in 1998, he played against Bulgarian Grandmaster Veselin Topalov in the first highly publicized game of Advanced Chess in Leon, Spain.  Advanced Chess is Man & Computer vs Man & Computer and the fascination for everyday chess fans is that they feel that they are "peeking" inside the minds of the great players as they make their moves.
Those close to Garry know his unrestrained contagious laugh, his kindness and caring and know him as a multi-faceted human being.  All of his adult life the courage of his convictions has been put to the test.  His matches against Anatoly Karpov (the previous champion closely connected with the Communist establishment) were widely regarded as a show of individual opposition to the authoritarian state.  He had difficulties with the USSR Sports Committee, the Communist Party and even the KGB.  He was in the forefront of the anti-Communist movement, resulting in real threats to his person.
The BRAIN CLUB & SYNAPSIA in London elected Garry as its first "Brain of the Year" and described him as "The World Chess Champion, athlete and humanitarian both, and a cultivated and curious man who closely follows literature, films and politics". 
He is a regular on TV talk shows. He has made half a dozen TV commercials in three countries and his Pepsi-Cola ad, shown during the Superbowl in 2001, was nominated for a Cleo Award, the highest achievement in TV advertising.
After the spectacular success of the multiple-volume "My Great Predecessors" which follows the history of the twelve world champions who preceded Garry Kasparov, he has embarked on another even more ambitious project. "How Life Imitates Chess" will be released in a dozen languages.  It will be Kasparov's first venture into the larger general book publishing world.  
Garry Kasparov is a new "star" on the worldwide speakers circuit.  He has thrown himself into this new profession with the zeal and gusto that exemplifies the Kasparov manner of enthusiastically attacking anything worthwhile whether old or new.
In 2006 he has delivered more than twenty speeches to top companis around the world, on a wide array of topics.
Kasparov has a passion for expanding chess into the educational system in the world at large.  He is passionate about the Kasparov Chess Foundation which is headquartered in the US and is promoting chess in the classroom nationwide.
On Friday, 11th March, 2005, Kasparov announced his retirement from competitive chess after twenty-two years as the Number One Ranked Player in the World.
Kasparov is busy campaigning throughout the length and breadth of Russia and, as he explains, "We are not fighting to win elections - we are fighting for having elections. The goal is to bring all opposition groups into a broad coalition to return Russia to the path of democracy."
In 2004, Garry Kasparov was elected Co-Chairman of the ALL RUSSIA CIVIL CONGRESS and in 2006, he became Chairman of the UNITED CIVIL FRONT OF RUSSIA. These and other political and human rights leaders have now come together under the coalition banner of THE OTHER RUSSIA, which organizes pro-democracy rallies nationwide. Garry Kasparov is now the leader of The Other Russia coalition.
Three websites are available for more information, www.kasparovagent.com, www.theotherrussia.org and www.kasparov.com.
Garry KasparovGarry Kasparov has been the highest-rated chess player in the world for over twenty years and is widely considered the greatest chess player that ever lived.view biography
SpeechesForceful, compelling and knowledgable are words to describe a speech by Garry Kasparov. Speaking in English, he is the new experience on the speaker's circuit.learn more
Homepage  |  About Us  |  Garry Kasparov  |  Speeches & Activities  |  Books & Merchandise  |  Contact Us
Copyright © 2007-2010. SMSI, Inc. / Owen Williams. All rights reserved.Tel: 1 561 833 4220   Fax: 1 561 833 4810  Email: 
=======================================================
Garry Kimovich Kasparov (Russian: Га́рри Ки́мович Каспа́ров, Russian pronunciation: [ˈɡarʲɪ ˈkʲiməvʲɪt͡ɕ kɐˈsparəf]; born Garik Kimovich Weinstein,[2] 13 April 1963) is a Russian (formerly Soviet) chess Grandmaster, former World Chess Champion, writer, and political activist, considered by many to be the greatest chess player of all time.[3] From 1986 until his retirement in 2005, Kasparov was ranked world No. 1 for 225 out of 228 months. His peak rating of 2851,[4] achieved in 1999, was the highest recorded until 2013. Kasparov also holds records for consecutive professional tournament victories (15) and Chess Oscars (11).
Kasparov became the youngest ever undisputed World Chess Champion in 1985 at age 22 by defeating then-champion Anatoly Karpov.[5] He held the official FIDE world title until 1993, when a dispute with FIDE led him to set up a rival organization, the Professional Chess Association. In 1997 he became the first world champion to lose a match to a computer under standard time controls, when he lost to the IBM supercomputer Deep Blue in a highly publicized match. He continued to hold the "Classical" World Chess Championship until his defeat by Vladimir Kramnik in 2000.
Kasparov announced his retirement from professional chess on 10 March 2005, so that he could devote his time to politics and writing. He formed the United Civil Front movement, and joined as a member of The Other Russia, a coalition opposing the administration and policies of Vladimir Putin. In 2008, he announced an intention to run as a candidate in the 2008 Russian presidential race, but failure to find a sufficiently large rental space to assemble the number of supporters that is legally required to endorse such a candidacy, led him to withdraw. Although he is widely regarded in the West as a symbol of opposition to Putin,[6] support for him as a candidate was low.[7] He is currently on the board of directors for the Human Rights Foundation.
Kasparov was born Garik Kimovich Weinstein (Russian: Гарик Вайнштейн) in Baku, Azerbaijan SSR (now Azerbaijan), Soviet Union. His father, Kim Moiseyevich Weinstein, was Russian Jewish, and his mother, Klara Shagenovna, was Armenian.[8][9][10][11] Kasparov has described himself as a "self-appointed Christian", although "very indifferent".[12]
Kasparov first began the serious study of chess after he came across a chess problem set up by his parents and proposed a solution.[13] His father died of leukemia when Garry was seven years old.[14] At the age of twelve, Garry adopted his mother's Armenian surname, Gasparyan, modifying it to a more Russified version, Kasparov.[15]
From age 7, Kasparov attended the Young Pioneer Palace in Baku and, at 10 began training at Mikhail Botvinnik's chess school under noted coach Vladimir Makogonov. Makogonov helped develop Kasparov's positional skills and taught him to play the Caro-Kann Defence and the Tartakower System of the Queen's Gambit Declined.[16] Kasparov won the Soviet Junior Championship in Tbilisi in 1976, scoring 7 points of 9, at age 13. He repeated the feat the following year, winning with a score of 8½ of 9. He was being trained by Alexander Shakarov during this time.
In 1978, Kasparov participated in the Sokolsky Memorial tournament in Minsk. He had been invited as an exception but took first place and became a chess master. Kasparov has repeatedly said that this event was a turning point in his life, and that it convinced him to choose chess as his career. "I will remember the Sokolsky Memorial as long as I live", he wrote. He has also said that after the victory, he thought he had a very good shot at the World Championship.[17]
He first qualified for the Soviet Chess Championship at age 15 in 1978, the youngest ever player at that level. He won the 64-player Swiss system tournament at Daugavpils over tiebreak from Igor V. Ivanov, to capture the sole qualifying place.
Kasparov rose quickly through the World Chess Federation rankings. Starting with an oversight by the Russian Chess Federation, he participated in a grandmaster tournament in Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina (then part of Yugoslavia), in 1979 while still unrated (he was a replacement for Viktor Korchnoi who was originally invited but withdrew due to threat of boycott from the Soviet). Kasparov won this high-class tournament, emerging with a provisional rating of 2595, enough to catapult him to the top group of chess players (at the time, number 15 in the world)[18]). The next year, 1980, he won the World Junior Chess Championship in Dortmund, West Germany. Later that year, he made his debut as second reserve for the Soviet Union at the Chess Olympiad at Valletta, Malta, and became a Grandmaster.
As a teenager, Kasparov tied for first place in the USSR Chess Championship in 1981–82. His first win in a superclass-level international tournament was scored at Bugojno, Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1982. He earned a place in the 1982 Moscow Interzonal tournament, which he won, to qualify for the Candidates Tournament.[19] At age 19, he was the youngest Candidate since Bobby Fischer, who was 15 when he qualified in 1958. At this stage, he was already the No. 2-rated player in the world, trailing only World Chess Champion Anatoly Karpov on the January 1983 list.
Kasparov's first (quarter-final) Candidates match was against Alexander Beliavsky, whom he defeated 6–3 (four wins, one loss).[20] Politics threatened Kasparov's semi-final against Viktor Korchnoi, which was scheduled to be played in Pasadena, California. Korchnoi had defected from the Soviet Union in 1976, and was at that time the strongest active non-Soviet player. Various political maneuvers prevented Kasparov from playing Korchnoi, and Kasparov forfeited the match. This was resolved by Korchnoi allowing the match to be replayed in London, along with the previously scheduled match between Vasily Smyslov and Zoltán Ribli. The Kasparov-Korchnoi match was put together on short notice by Raymond Keene. Kasparov lost the first game but won the match 7–4 (four wins, one loss).
In January 1984, Kasparov became the No. 1 ranked player in the world, with a FIDE rating of 2710. He became the youngest ever world No. 1, a record that lasted 12 years until being broken by Vladimir Kramnik in January 1996; the record is currently held by Magnus Carlsen, a former pupil of Kasparov.
Later in 1984, he won the Candidates' final 8½–4½ (four wins, no losses) against the resurgent former world champion Vasily Smyslov, at Vilnius, thus qualifying to play Anatoly Karpov for the World Championship. That year he joined the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU), as a member of which he was elected to the Central Committee of Komsomol in 1987.
The World Chess Championship 1984 match between Anatoly Karpov and Garry Kasparov had many ups and downs, and a very controversial finish. Karpov started in very good form, and after nine games Kasparov was down 4–0 in a "first to six wins" match. Fellow players predicted he would be whitewashed 6–0 within 18 games.[21]
In an unexpected turn of events, there followed a series of 17 successive draws, some relatively short, and others drawn in unsettled positions. Kasparov lost game 27, then fought back with another series of draws until game 32, his first-ever win against the World Champion. Another 14 successive draws followed, through game 46; the previous record length for a world title match had been 34 games, the match of José Raúl Capablanca vs. Alexander Alekhine in 1927.
Kasparov won games 47 and 48 to bring the scores to 5–3 in Karpov's favour. Then the match was ended without result by Florencio Campomanes, the President of Fédération Internationale des Échecs (FIDE), and a new match was announced to start a few months later. The termination was controversial, as both players stated that they preferred the match to continue. Announcing his decision at a press conference, Campomanes cited the health of the players, which had been strained by the length of the match.
The match became the first, and so far only, world championship match to be abandoned without result. Kasparov's relations with Campomanes and FIDE were greatly strained, and the feud between them eventually came to a head in 1993 with Kasparov's complete break-away from FIDE.
The second Karpov-Kasparov match in 1985 was organized in Moscow as the best of 24 games where the first player to win 12½ points would claim the World Champion title. The scores from the terminated match would not carry over. But in the event of a 12–12 draw, the title would remain with Karpov. On 9 November 1985, Kasparov secured the title by a score of 13–11, winning the 24th game with Black, using a Sicilian defense. He was 22 years old at the time, making him the youngest ever World Champion,[22] and breaking the record held by Mikhail Tal for over 20 years.[23] Kasparov's win as Black in the 16th game has been recognized as one of the all-time masterpieces in chess history.
As part of the arrangements following the aborted 1984 match, Karpov had been granted (in the event of his defeat) a right to rematch. Another match took place in 1986, hosted jointly in London and Leningrad, with each city hosting 12 games. At one point in the match, Kasparov opened a three-point lead and looked well on his way to a decisive match victory. But Karpov fought back by winning three consecutive games to level the score late in the match. At this point, Kasparov dismissed one of his seconds, grandmaster Evgeny Vladimirov, accusing him of selling his opening preparation to the Karpov team (as described in Kasparov's autobiography Unlimited Challenge, chapter Stab in the Back). Kasparov scored one more win and kept his title by a final score of 12½–11½.
A fourth match for the world title took place in 1987 in Seville, as Karpov had qualified through the Candidates' Matches to again become the official challenger. This match was very close, with neither player holding more than a one-point lead at any time during the contest. Kasparov was down one full point at the time of the final game, and needed a win to draw the match and retain his title. A long tense game ensued in which Karpov blundered away a pawn just before the first time control, and Kasparov eventually won a long ending. Kasparov retained his title as the match was drawn by a score of 12–12. (All this meant that Kasparov had played Karpov four times in the period 1984–87, a statistic unprecedented in chess. Matches organized by FIDE had taken place every three years since 1948, and only Botvinnik had a right to a rematch before Karpov.)
A fifth match between Kasparov and Karpov was held in New York and Lyon in 1990, with each city hosting 12 games. Again, the result was a close one with Kasparov winning by a margin of 12½–11½. In their five world championship matches, Kasparov had 21 wins, 19 losses, and 104 draws in 144 games.
With the World Champion title in hand, Kasparov began opposing FIDE. Beginning in 1986, he created the Grandmasters Association (GMA), an organization to represent professional chess players and give them more say in FIDE's activities. Kasparov assumed a leadership role. GMA's major achievement was in organizing a series of six World Cup tournaments for the world's top players. A somewhat uneasy relationship developed with FIDE, and a sort of truce was brokered by Bessel Kok, a Dutch businessman.
This stand-off lasted until 1993, by which time a new challenger had qualified through the Candidates cycle for Kasparov's next World Championship defense: Nigel Short, a British grandmaster who had defeated Anatoly Karpov in a qualifying match, and then Jan Timman in the finals held in early 1993. After a confusing and compressed bidding process produced lower financial estimates than expected,[24] the world champion and his challenger decided to play outside FIDE's jurisdiction, under another organization created by Kasparov called the Professional Chess Association (PCA). This is where a great fracture in the lineage of World Champions began.
In an interview in 2007, Kasparov called the break with FIDE the worst mistake of his career, as it hurt the game in the long run.[25]
Kasparov and Short were ejected from FIDE, and played their well-sponsored match in London. Kasparov won convincingly by a score of 12½–7½. The match considerably raised the profile of chess in the UK, with an unprecedented level of coverage on Channel 4. Meanwhile, FIDE organized a World Championship match between Jan Timman (the defeated Candidates finalist) and former World Champion Karpov (a defeated Candidates semifinalist), which Karpov won.
There were now two World Champions: PCA champion Kasparov, and FIDE champion Karpov. The title remained split for 13 years.
Kasparov defended his title in a 1995 match against Viswanathan Anand at the World Trade Center in New York City. Kasparov won the match by four wins to one, with thirteen draws. It was the last World Championship to be held under the auspices of the PCA, which collapsed when Intel, one of its major backers, withdrew its sponsorship in retaliation for Kasparov's choice to play a 1996 match against Deep Blue, which augmented the profile of IBM, one of Intel's chief rivals.[26]
Kasparov tried to organize another World Championship match, under another organization, the World Chess Association (WCA) with Linares organizer Luis Rentero. Alexei Shirov and Vladimir Kramnik played a candidates match to decide the challenger, which Shirov won in a surprising upset. But when Rentero admitted that the funds required and promised had never materialized, the WCA collapsed.
This left Kasparov stranded, and yet another organization stepped in—BrainGames.com, headed by Raymond Keene. No match against Shirov was arranged, and talks with Anand collapsed, so a match was instead arranged against Kramnik.
During this period, Kasparov was approached by Oakham School in the United Kingdom, at the time the only school in the country with a full-time chess coach,[27] and developed an interest in the use of chess in education. In 1997, Kasparov supported a scholarship programme at the school.[28] Kasparov also won the Marca Leyenda trophy that year.
The Kasparov-Kramnik match took place in London during the latter half of 2000. Kramnik had been a student of Kasparov's at the famous Botvinnik/Kasparov chess school in Russia, and had served on Kasparov's team for the 1995 match against Viswanathan Anand.
The better-prepared Kramnik won game 2 against Kasparov's Grünfeld Defence and achieved winning positions in Games 4 and 6. Kasparov made a critical error in Game 10 with the Nimzo-Indian Defence, which Kramnik exploited to win in 25 moves. As White, Kasparov could not crack the passive but solid Berlin Defence in the Ruy Lopez, and Kramnik successfully drew all his games as Black. Kramnik won the match 8½–6½. Kasparov became the first player to lose a world championship match without winning a game since Emanuel Lasker lost to José Raúl Capablanca in 1921.
After losing the title, Kasparov won a series of major tournaments, and remained the top rated player in the world, ahead of both Kramnik and the FIDE World Champions. In 2001 he refused an invitation to the 2002 Dortmund Candidates Tournament for the Classical title, claiming his results had earned him a rematch with Kramnik.[29]
Kasparov and Karpov played a four-game match with rapid time controls over two days in December 2002 in New York City. Karpov surprised the experts and emerged victoriously, winning two games and drawing one.[30]
Due to Kasparov's continuing strong results, and status as world No. 1 in much of the public eye, he was included in the so-called "Prague Agreement", masterminded by Yasser Seirawan and intended to reunite the two World Championships. Kasparov was to play a match against the FIDE World Champion Ruslan Ponomariov in September 2003. But this match was called off after Ponomariov refused to sign his contract for it without reservation. In its place, there were plans for a match against Rustam Kasimdzhanov, winner of the FIDE World Chess Championship 2004, to be held in January 2005 in the United Arab Emirates. These also fell through due to lack of funding. Plans to hold the match in Turkey instead came too late. Kasparov announced in January 2005 that he was tired of waiting for FIDE to organize a match and so had decided to stop all efforts to regain the World Championship title.
According to chess historian Edward Winter: "Increasing shifts of opinion against Kasparov were detectable from 1985 onwards, but it was not until 1987, and the publication of his autobiography Child of Change, a deeply untrustworthy shambles, that the real deterioration in his public standing began." In a Chess Notes feature article titled "Reflections on Garry Kasparov", Edward Winter offers a summary of Kasparov's public perception in the 1980s–2000s.[31]
After winning the prestigious Linares tournament for the ninth time, Kasparov announced on 10 March 2005 that he would retire from serious competitive chess. He cited as the reason a lack of personal goals in the chess world (he commented when winning the Russian championship in 2004 that it had been the last major title he had never won outright) and expressed frustration at the failure to reunify the world championship.
Kasparov said he may play in some rapid chess events for fun, but intends to spend more time on his books, including both the My Great Predecessors series (see below) and a work on the links between decision-making in chess and in other areas of life, and will continue to involve himself in Russian politics, which he views as "headed down the wrong path".
Kasparov has been married three times: to Masha, with whom he had a daughter before divorcing; to Yulia, with whom he had a son before their 2005 divorce; and to Daria, with whom he also has a child.[32][33]
On 22 August 2006, in his first public chess games since his retirement, Kasparov played in the Lichthof Chess Champions Tournament, a blitz event played at the time control of 5 minutes per side and 3 second increments per move. Kasparov tied for first with Anatoly Karpov, scoring 4½/6.[34]
Garry Kasparov and Anatoly Karpov played a 12-game match from 21–24 September 2009, in Valencia, Spain. It consisted of four rapid (or semi rapid) games, in which Kasparov won 3–1 and eight blitz games, in which Kasparov also won 6–2, winning the match with total result 9–3. The event took place exactly 25 years after the two players' legendary encounter at World Chess Championship 1984.[35]
Kasparov actively coached Magnus Carlsen for approximately one year beginning in February 2009. The collaboration remained secret until September 2009.[36] Under Kasparov's tutelage, Carlsen in October 2009 became the youngest ever to achieve a FIDE rating higher than 2800, and rose from world number four to world number one. While the pair initially planned to work together throughout 2010,[37] in March of that year it was announced that Carlsen had split from Kasparov and would no longer be using him as a trainer.[38] According to an interview with the German magazine Der Spiegel, Carlsen indicated that he would remain in contact and that he would continue to attend training sessions with Kasparov,[39] but in fact no further training sessions were held and the cooperation gradually fizzled over the course of the Spring.[40]
In May 2010 it was revealed that Kasparov had aided Viswanathan Anand in preparation for the World Chess Championship 2010 against challenger Veselin Topalov. Anand won the match 6½–5½ to retain the title.[41]
Also in May 2010 he played 30 games simultaneously, winning each one, against players at Tel-Aviv University in Israel.[42]
In January 2011, Kasparov began training the American grandmaster Hikaru Nakamura. The first of several training sessions was held in New York just prior to Nakamura's participation in the Tata Steel Chess tournament in Wijk aan Zee, the Netherlands.[43] In December 2011, it was announced that the cooperation had come to an end.[44]
Kasparov played two blitz exhibition matches in the autumn of 2011. The first, in September against French grandmaster Maxime Vachier-Lagrave, in Clichy (France), which Kasparov won 1½–½. The second was a longer match consisting of eight blitz games played on 9 October, against English grandmaster Nigel Short. Kasparov won again by a score of 4½–3½.
On 7 October 2013 Kasparov announced his candidacy for World Chess Federation president during a reception in Tallinn, Estonia, where the 84th FIDE Congress took place.[45]
(Rapid, blitz and blindfold games not included; listed as +wins −losses =draws as of 2 May 2014.)[46]
Kasparov joined the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) in 1984 and in 1987 was elected to the Central Committee of Komsomol. But in 1990 he left the party and together with his family fled from Baku to Moscow on a chartered plane[47] when pogroms against Armenians in Baku took place forcing thousands of ethnic Armenians to flee Azerbaijan.[48]
In May Kasparov took part in the creation of the Democratic Party of Russia. Kasparov was in June 1993 involved with the creation of the "Choice of Russia" bloc of parties and in 1996 took part in the election campaign of Boris Yeltsin. In 2001 he voiced his support for the Russian television channel NTV.[10]
In 1991, Kasparov received the Keeper of the Flame award from the Center for Security Policy (a US think tank) for his contributions "to the defence of the United States and American values around the world".[33][49][50][51][52]
In April 2007, it was asserted[53] that Kasparov was a board member of the National Security Advisory Council of Center for Security Policy,[49] a "non-profit, non-partisan national security organization [in Washington, DC] that specializes in identifying policies, actions, and resource needs that are vital to American security".[50] Kasparov confirmed this and added that he was removed shortly after he became aware of it. He noted that he did not know about the membership and suggested he was included in the board by accident because he received the 1991 Keeper of the Flame award from this organization.[51][52] But Kasparov maintained his association with the leadership by giving speeches at think tanks such as the Hoover Institution.[33]
After his retirement from chess in 2005, Kasparov turned to politics and created the United Civil Front, a social movement whose main goal is to "work to preserve electoral democracy in Russia".[54] He has vowed to "restore democracy" to Russia by toppling the President of Russia Vladimir Putin, of whom he is an outspoken critic.[55][56][57]
Kasparov was instrumental in setting up The Other Russia, a coalition which opposes Putin's government. The Other Russia has been boycotted by the leaders of Russia's mainstream opposition parties, Yabloko and Union of Rightist Forces as they are concerned about its inclusion of radical nationalist and left-wing groups such as the National Bolshevik Party and former members of the Rodina party including Viktor Gerashchenko, a potential presidential candidate. But regional branches of Yabloko and the Union of Rightist Forces have opted to take part in the coalition. Kasparov says that leaders of these parties are controlled by the Kremlin,[58] despite the fact that they both publicly oppose the president's policies.
On 10 April 2005, Kasparov was in Moscow at a promotional event when he was struck over the head with a chessboard he had just signed. The assailant was reported to have said "I admired you as a chess player, but you gave that up for politics" immediately before the attack.[59] Kasparov has been the subject of a number of other episodes since.[60][61]
Kasparov helped organize the Saint Petersburg Dissenters' March on 3 March 2007 and The March of the Dissenters on 24 March 2007, both involving several thousand people rallying against Putin and Saint Petersburg Governor Valentina Matviyenko's policies.[62][63]
On 14 April 2007, he was briefly arrested by the Moscow police while heading for a demonstration, following warnings by the prosecution office on the eve of the march, stating that anyone participating risked being detained. He was held for some 10 hours and then fined and released.[64]
Speaking about Kasparov, former KGB general Oleg Kalugin in 2007 remarked, "I do not talk in details—people who knew them are all dead now because they were vocal, they were open. I am quiet. There is only one man who is vocal and he may be in trouble: [former] world chess champion [Garry] Kasparov. He has been very outspoken in his attacks on Putin and I believe that he is probably next on the list."[66]
On 30 September 2007, Kasparov entered the Russian Presidential race, receiving 379 of 498 votes at a congress held in Moscow by The Other Russia.[67]
In October 2007, Kasparov announced his intention of standing for the Russian presidency as the candidate of the "Other Russia" coalition and vowed to fight for a "democratic and just Russia". Later that month he traveled to the United States, where he appeared on several popular television programs, which were hosted by Stephen Colbert, Wolf Blitzer, Bill Maher, and Chris Matthews.
On 24 November 2007, Kasparov and other protesters were detained by police at an Other Russia rally in Moscow. This followed an attempt by about 100 protesters to break through police lines and march on the electoral commission, which had barred Other Russia candidates from parliamentary elections.[68] He was subsequently charged with resisting arrest and organizing an unauthorized protest and given a jail sentence of five days. He was released from jail on 29 November.[69] Putin spoke briefly about the incident in an interview with Time magazine later that year, saying: "Why did Mr. Kasparov, when arrested, speak out in English rather than Russian? When a politician works the crowd of other nations rather than the Russian nation, it tells you something."[70]
On 12 December 2007, Kasparov announced that he had to withdraw his presidential candidacy due to inability to rent a meeting hall where at least 500 of his supporters could assemble to endorse his candidacy, as is legally required. With the deadline expiring on that date, he explained it was impossible for him to run. Kasparov's spokeswoman accused the government of using pressure to deter anyone from renting a hall for the gathering and said that the electoral commission had rejected a proposal that separate smaller gatherings be held at the same time instead of one large gathering at a meeting hall.[71]
Kasparov was among the 34 first signatories and a key organizer of the online anti-Putin campaign "Putin must go", started on 10 March 2010.
Kasparov was named Chairman of the Human Rights Foundation in 2011, succeeding the recently deceased author, activist, and former Czech president Václav Havel.[72] On 31 January 2012 Kasparov hosted a meeting of opposition leaders planning a mass march on 4 February 2012, the third major opposition rally held since the disputed State Duma elections of December 2011. Among other opposition leaders attending were Alexey Navalny and Yevgenia Chirikova.[73]
On 17 August 2012 Kasparov was arrested and beaten outside of the court while examining the court case involving the all-female punk band Pussy Riot.[74] On 24 August he was cleared of charges that he took part in an unauthorized protest against the conviction of three members of Pussy Riot. Judge Yekaterina Veklich said there were "no grounds to believe the testimony of the police". He could still face criminal charges over a police officer's claims that the opposition leader bit his finger while he was being detained.[75] He later thanked all the bloggers and reporters who provided video evidence that contradicted the testimony of the police.[citation needed]
Kasparov wrote in February 2013 that "fascism has come to Russia....Project Putin, just like the old Project Hitler, is but the fruit of a conspiracy by the ruling elite. Fascist rule was never the result of the free will of the people. It was always the fruit of a conspiracy by the ruling elites!"[76]
In April 2013, Kasparov joined in an HRF condemnation of Kanye West for having performed for the leader of Kazakhstan in exchange for a $3 million paycheck, saying that West "has entertained a brutal killer and his entourage" and that his fee "came from the loot stolen from the Kazakhstan treasury."[77]
Kasparov denied rumors in April 2013 that he planned to leave Russia for good. "I found these rumors to be deeply saddening and, moreover, surprising," he wrote. "I was unable to respond immediately because I was in such a state of shock that such an incredibly inaccurate statement, the likes of which is constantly distributed by the Kremlin’s propagandists, came this time from Ilya Yashin, a fellow member of the Opposition Coordination Council (KSO) and my former colleague from the Solidarity movement."[78]
In an April 2013 op-ed piece, Kasparov accused prominent Russian journalist Vladimir Posner of failing to stand up to Putin and to earlier Russian and Soviet leaders.[79]
Kasparov was presented with the Morris B. Abram Human Rights Award, UN Watch's annual human-rights prize, in 2013. The organization praised him as "not only one of the world’s smartest men" but "also among its bravest."[80]
At the 2013 Women in the World conference, Kasparov told the Daily Beast's Michael Moynihan that democracy no longer existed in what he called Russia's "dictatorship."[81]
Kasparov said at a press conference in June 2013 that if he returned to Russia he doubted he would be allowed to leave again, given Putin's ongoing crackdown against dissenters. "So for the time being," he said, "I refrain from returning to Russia." He explained shortly thereafter in an article for the Daily Beast that this had not been intended as "a declaration of leaving my home country, permanently or otherwise," but merely an expression of "the dark reality of the situation in Russia today, where nearly half the members of the opposition’s Coordinating Council are under criminal investigation on concocted charges." He noted that the Moscow prosecutor’s office was "opening an investigation that would limit my ability to travel," making it impossible for him to fulfill "professional speaking engagements" and hindering his "work for the nonprofit Kasparov Chess Foundation, which has centers in New York City, Brussels, and Johannesburg to promote chess in education."[81]
Kasparov further wrote in his June 2013 Daily Beast article that the mass protests in Moscow 18 months earlier against fraudulent Russian elections had been "a proud moment for me." He recalled that after joining the opposition movement in March 2005, he had been criticized for seeking to unite "every anti-Putin element in the country to march together regardless of ideology." Therefore the sight of "hundreds of flags representing every group from liberals to nationalists all marching together for 'Russia Without Putin' was the fulfillment of a dream." Yet most Russians, he lamented, had continued to "slumber" even as Putin had "taken off the flimsy mask of democracy to reveal himself in full as the would-be KGB dictator he has always been."[82]
Kasparov responded with several sardonic Twitter postings to a September 2013 New York Times op-ed by Putin. "I hope Putin has taken adequate protections," he tweeted. "Now that he is a Russian journalist his life may be in grave danger!" Also: "Now we can expect NY Times op-eds by Mugabe on fair elections, Castro on free speech, & Kim Jong-un on prison reform. The Axis of Hypocrisy."[83]
In a 12 May 2013, op-ed for the Wall Street Journal, Kasparov questioned reports that the Russian security agency, the FSB, had fully cooperated with the FBI in the matter of the Boston bombers. He noted that the elder bomber, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, had reportedly met in Russia with two known jihadists who "were killed in Dagestan by the Russian military just days before Tamerlan left Russia for the U.S." Kasparov argued, "If no intelligence was sent from Moscow to Washington" about this meeting, "all this talk of FSB cooperation cannot be taken seriously." He further observed, "This would not be the first time Russian security forces seemed strangely impotent in the face of an impending terror attack," pointing out that in both the 2002 Moscow theater siege and the 2004 Beslan school attack, "there were FSB informants in both terror groups—yet the attacks went ahead unimpeded." Given this history, he wrote, "it is impossible to overlook that the Boston bombing took place just days after the U.S. Magnitsky List was published, creating the first serious external threat to the Putin power structure by penalizing Russian officials complicit in human-rights crimes." In sum, Putin's "dubious record on counterterrorism and its continued support of terror sponsors Iran and Syria mean only one thing: common ground zero."[84]
Kasparov wrote in July 2013 about the trial in Kirov of fellow opposition leader Alexei Navalny, who had been convicted "on concocted embezzlement charges," only to see the prosecutor, surprisingly, ask for his release the next day pending appeal. "The judicial process and the democratic process in Russia," wrote Kasparov, "are both elaborate mockeries created to distract the citizenry at home and to help Western leaders avoid confronting the awkward fact that Russia has returned to a police state." Still, Kasparov felt that whatever had caused the Kirov prosecutor's about-face, "my optimism tells me it was a positive sign. After more than 13 years of predictable repression under Putin, anything different is good."[85]
Kasparov wrote in Time Magazine on 18 September 2013 that he considered the "chess metaphors thrown around during the world’s response to the civil war in Syria" to be "trite" and rejected what he called "all the nonsense about 'Putin is playing chess and Obama is playing checkers,' or tic-tac-toe or whatever." Putin, argued Kasparov, "did not have to outplay or outthink anyone. He and Bashar Assad won by forfeit when President Obama, Prime Minister Cameron and the rest of the so-called leaders of the free world walked away from the table." There is, he lamented, "a new game at the negotiating table where Putin and Assad set the rules and will run the show under the protection of the U.N."[86] Kasparov said in September 2013 that Russia was now a dictatorship.[87] In the same month he told an interviewer that "Obama going to Russia now is dead wrong, morally and politically," because Putin's regime "is behind Assad."[88]
Kasparov maintains a summer home in the Croatian city of Makarska. In early February 2014, Kasparov applied for citizenship by naturalisation in Croatia, adding that he was finding it increasingly difficult to live in Russia. According to an article in The Guardian, Kasparov is "widely perceived" as having been a vocal supporter of Croatian independence during the early 1990s. On 28 February 2014, his application for naturalisation was approved, and he is now a Croatian passport holder.[89]
Kasparov spoke out several times about Putin's antigay laws and the proposed Sochi Olympics boycott. He explained in August 2013 that he had opposed Russia’s bid from the outset, since hosting the Olympics would "allow Vladimir Putin’s cronies to embezzle hundreds of millions of dollars" and "lend prestige to Putin’s authoritarian regime." Kasparov added that Putin's anti-gay law was "only the most recent encroachment on the freedom of speech and association of Russia’s citizens," which the international community had largely ignored. Instead of supporting a games boycott, which would "unfairly punish athletes," Kasparov called for athletes and others to "transform Putin’s self-congratulatory pet project into a spotlight that exposes his authoritarian rule for the entire world to see."[90] In September, Kasparov expanded on his remarks, saying that "forcing athletes to play a political role against their will is not fair" and that politicians should not "hide behind athletes." Instead of boycotting Sochi, he suggested, politicians should refuse to attend the games and the public should "put pressure on the sponsors and the media." Coca-Cola, for example, could put "a rainbow flag on each Coca-Cola can" and NBC could "do interviews with Russian gay activists or with Russian political activists." Kasparov also emphasized that although he was "still a Russian citizen," he had "good reason to be concerned about my ability to leave Russia if I returned to Moscow."[91]
Related to the Crimean crises the Russian federative regulator, Gozkomnadzor, blocked access to the web page kasparov.ru at the demand of the public prosecutor.[92]
Kasparov holds the record for the longest time as the No. 1 rated player in the world—from 1986 to 2005 (Vladimir Kramnik shared the No. 1 ranking with him once, in the January 1996 FIDE rating list).[93] He was also briefly ejected from the list following his split from FIDE in 1993, but during that time he headed the rating list of the rival PCA. At the time of his retirement, he was still ranked No. 1 in the world, with a rating of 2812. His rating has fallen inactive since the January 2006 rating list.[94]
In January 1990 Kasparov achieved the (then) highest FIDE rating ever, passing 2800 and breaking Bobby Fischer's old record of 2785. He held the record for the highest rating ever achieved until his former student Magnus Carlsen attained a new record high rating of 2861 in January, 2013. On the July 1999 and January 2000 FIDE rating lists Kasparov reached a 2851 Elo rating, at that time the highest rating ever achieved.[95]
There was a time in the early 1990s when Kasparov was over 2800 and the only person in the 2700s was Anatoly Karpov.
According to the unofficial Chessmetrics calculations, Kasparov was the highest rated player in the world continuously from February 1985 until October 2004.[96] He also holds the highest all-time average rating over a 2 (2877) to 20 (2856) year period and is second to only Bobby Fischer's (2881 vs 2879) over a one-year period.
Kasparov's style of play has been compared by many to Alekhine's.[97][98] Kasparov himself has described his style as being influenced chiefly by Alekhine, Tal and Fischer.[99] Kramnik has opined that "[Kasparov's] capacity for study is second to none", and said "There is nothing in chess he has been unable to deal with."[100] Carlsen, whom Kasparov coached from 2009 to 2010, said of Kasparov, "I've never seen someone with such a feel for dynamics in complex positions."[101] Kasparov was known for his extensive opening preparation and aggressive play in the opening.[102][103]
Kasparov played in a total of eight Chess Olympiads. He represented the Soviet Union four times and Russia four times, following the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991. In his 1980 Olympiad debut, he became, at age 17, the youngest player to represent the Soviet Union or Russia at that level, a record which was broken by Vladimir Kramnik in 1992. In 82 games, he has scored (+50 −3 =29), for 78.7% and won a total of 19 medals, including team gold medals all eight times he competed. For the 1994 Moscow Olympiad, he had a significant organizational role, in helping to put together the event on short notice, after Thessaloniki canceled its offer to host, a few weeks before the scheduled dates. Kasparov's detailed Olympiad record, from,[104] follows.
Kasparov made his international teams debut for the USSR at age 16 in the 1980 European Team Championship and played for Russia in the 1992 edition of that championship. He won a total of five medals. His detailed Euroteams record, from,[105] follows.
Kasparov also represented the USSR once in Youth Olympiad competition, but the detailed data at Olimpbase is incomplete; the Chessmetrics Garry Kasparov player file has his individual score from that event.
Kasparov holds the record for most consecutive professional tournament victories, placing first or equal first in 15 individual tournaments from 1981 to 1990.[citation needed] The streak was broken by Vasily Ivanchuk at Linares 1991, where Kasparov placed 2nd, half a point behind him. The details of this record winning streak follow:[19]
Kasparov has written books on chess. He published a controversial[106] autobiography when still in his early 20s, originally titled Child of Change, later retitled Unlimited Challenge. This book was subsequently updated several times after he became World Champion. Its content is mainly literary, with a small chess component of key unannotated games. He published an annotated games collection in 1985: Fighting Chess: My Games and Career[107] and this book has also been updated several times in further editions. He also wrote a book annotating the games from his World Chess Championship 1985 victory, World Chess Championship Match: Moscow, 1985.
He has annotated his own games extensively for the Yugoslav Chess Informant series and for other chess publications. In 1982, he co-authored Batsford Chess Openings with British grandmaster Raymond Keene and this book was an enormous seller. It was updated into a second edition in 1989. He also co-authored two opening books with his trainer Alexander Nikitin in the 1980s for British publisher Batsford—on the Classical Variation of the Caro-Kann Defence and on the Scheveningen Variation of the Sicilian Defence. Kasparov has also contributed extensively to the five-volume openings series Encyclopedia of Chess Openings.
In 2000, Kasparov co-authored Kasparov Against the World: The Story of the Greatest Online Challenge[108] with grandmaster Daniel King. The 202-page book analyzes the 1999 Kasparov versus the World game, and holds the record for the longest analysis devoted to a single chess game.[109]
In 2003, the first volume of his five-volume work Garry Kasparov on My Great Predecessors was published. This volume, which deals with the world chess champions Wilhelm Steinitz, Emanuel Lasker, José Raúl Capablanca, Alexander Alekhine, and some of their strong contemporaries, has received lavish praise from some reviewers (including Nigel Short), while attracting criticism from others for historical inaccuracies and analysis of games directly copied from unattributed sources. Through suggestions on the book's website, most of these shortcomings were corrected in following editions and translations. Despite this, the first volume won the British Chess Federation's Book of the Year award in 2003. Volume two, covering Max Euwe, Mikhail Botvinnik, Vasily Smyslov and Mikhail Tal appeared later in 2003. Volume three, covering Tigran Petrosian and Boris Spassky appeared in early 2004. In December 2004, Kasparov released volume four, which covers Samuel Reshevsky, Miguel Najdorf, and Bent Larsen (none of these three were World Champions), but focuses primarily on Bobby Fischer. The fifth volume, devoted to the chess careers of World Champion Anatoly Karpov and challenger Viktor Korchnoi, was published in March 2006.
His book Revolution in the 70s (published in March 2007) covers "the openings revolution of the 1970s–1980s" and is the first book in a new series called "Modern Chess Series", which intends to cover his matches with Karpov and selected games. The book "Revolution in the 70s" concerns the revolution in opening theory that was witnessed in that decade. Such systems as the controversial (at the time) "Hedgehog" opening plan of passively developing the pieces no further than the first three ranks are examined in great detail. Kasparov also analyzes some of the most notable games played in that period. In a section at the end of the book, top opening theoreticians provide their own "take" on the progress made in opening theory in the 1980s.
In 2007 he wrote How Life Imitates Chess, an examination of the parallels between decision-making in chess and in the business world.
In 2008 Kasparov published a sympathetic obituary for Bobby Fischer, writing "I am often asked if I ever met or played Bobby Fischer. The answer is no, I never had that opportunity. But even though he saw me as a member of the evil chess establishment that he felt had robbed and cheated him, I am sorry I never had a chance to thank him personally for what he did for our sport."[110]
Kasparov works closely with Mig Greengard and his comments can often be found on Greengard's blog (apparently no longer active).
Kasparov is currently collaborating with Max Levchin and Peter Thiel on The Blueprint, a book calling for a revival of world innovation, due out in March 2013 from W. W. Norton & Company.
Kasparov played against thirty-two different chess computers in Hamburg, winning all games, but with some difficulty.[111]
In February 1996, IBM's chess computer Deep Blue defeated Kasparov in one game using normal time controls, in Deep Blue - Kasparov, 1996, Game 1. Kasparov gained three wins and two draws and won the match 4–2.
In May 1997, an updated version of Deep Blue defeated Kasparov 3½–2½ in a highly publicized six-game match. The match was even after five games but Kasparov lost quickly in Game 6. This was the first time a computer had ever defeated a world champion in match play. A documentary film was made about this famous matchup entitled Game Over: Kasparov and the Machine.
Kasparov claimed that several factors weighed against him in this match. In particular, he was denied access to Deep Blue's recent games, in contrast to the computer's team, which could study hundreds of Kasparov's.
After the loss Kasparov said that he sometimes saw deep intelligence and creativity in the machine's moves, suggesting that during the second game, human chess players, in contravention of the rules, intervened. IBM denied that it cheated, saying the only human intervention occurred between games. The rules provided for the developers to modify the program between games, an opportunity they said they used to shore up weaknesses in the computer's play revealed during the course of the match. Kasparov requested printouts of the machine's log files but IBM refused, although the company later published the logs on the Internet.[113] Although Kasparov wanted another rematch, IBM declined and ended their Deep Blue program.
In January 2003, he engaged in a six-game classical time control match with a $1 million prize fund which was billed as the FIDE "Man vs. Machine" World Championship, against Deep Junior.[115] The engine evaluated three million positions per second.[116] After one win each and three draws, it was all up to the final game. After reaching a decent position Kasparov offered a draw, which was soon accepted by the Deep Junior team. Asked why he offered the draw, Kasparov said he feared making a blunder.[117] Originally planned as an annual event, the match was not repeated.
In November 2003, he engaged in a four-game match against the computer program X3D Fritz, using a virtual board, 3D glasses and a speech recognition system. After two draws and one win apiece, the X3D Man–Machine match ended in a draw. Kasparov received $175,000 for the result and took home the golden trophy. Kasparov continued to criticize the blunder in the second game that cost him a crucial point. He felt that he had outplayed the machine overall and played well. "I only made one mistake but unfortunately that one mistake lost the game."[119]
The Blueprint: Reviving Innovation, Rediscovering Risk, and Rescuing the Free Market (2013, W. W. Norton & Co)
Mr. Kasparov, who fled from Baku last Thursday, told the French television. He is unable to resolve the nationality problem, and should assume responsibility for what has happened, he said. Mr. Kasparov fled from Baku to Moscow on a chartered plane." 
Borik, Otto (1991). Kasparov's Chess Openings: A World Champion's Repertoire. Trafalgar Square Pub. ISBN 0-943955-39-4. 
Stohl, Igor (2005). Garry Kasparov's Greatest Chess Games, Volume 1. Gambit Publications. ISBN 1-904600-32-8. 
Stohl, Igor (2006). Garry Kasparov's Greatest Chess Games, Volume 2. Gambit Publications. ISBN 1-904600-43-3. 
Károlyi, Tibor; Aplin, Nick (2007). Kasparov's Fighting Chess 1993–1998. Batsford. ISBN 0-7134-8994-4.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help)
Károlyi, Tibor; Aplin, Nick (2007). Kasparov's Fighting Chess 1999–2005. Batsford. ISBN 978-0-7134-8984-2. 
Károlyi, Tibor; Aplin, Nick (2009). Kasparov: How His Predecessors Misled Him About Chess. Batsford. ISBN 978-1-906388-26-3. 
United Civil Front, a civic political movement to ensure Democracy in the Russian Federation, initiated by Garry Kasparov
Categories: 1963 birthsLiving peoplePeople from BakuChess coachesChess grandmastersChess Olympiad competitorsRussian chess playersArmenian chess playersRussian chess writersAzerbaijani people of Armenian descentRussian people of Armenian descentRussian people of Jewish descentPeople of Azerbaijani-Jewish descentNaturalized citizens of CroatiaRussian politiciansRussian dissidentsRussian sportsperson–politiciansSoviet chess playersSoviet chess writersWorld chess championsWorld Junior Chess ChampionsSolidarnost politiciansRussian liberalsOther Russia (coalition)2011–13 Russian protestsHidden categories: Articles with Russian-language external linksAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from September 2010Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from July 2013Articles containing Russian-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2013Articles with unsourced statements from August 2007Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersCommons category with local link same as on WikidataUse dmy dates from October 2012Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiersVIAF different on Wikidata 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/loading-indicator._V192185253_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif');
        background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/buttons._V243643239_.gif')
    background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/traffic/s9m/alert-small._V195630253_.gif");
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/donsbeak-sm-up._V197474569_.png) no-repeat 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite-mini.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
Garry Kasparov grew up in Baku, Azerbaijan (USSR) and became the youngest ever world chess champion in 1985 at the age of 22. He held that title until 2000. He retired from professional chess in March 2005 to found the United Civil Front in Russia, and has dedicated himself to establishing free and fair elections in his homeland. A longtime contributing editor at The Wall Street Journal, Kasparov travels around the world to address corporations and business audiences on strategy and leadership, and he appears frequently in the international media to talk about both chess and politics. When not traveling he divides his time between Moscow and St. Petersburg.
Garry Kasparov grew up in Baku, Azerbaijan (USSR) and became the youngest ever world chess champion in 1985 at the age of 22. He held that title until 2000. He retired from professional chess in March 2005 to found the United Civil Front in Russia, and has dedicated himself to establishing free and fair elections in his homeland. A longtime contributing editor at The Wall Street Journal, Kasparov travels around the world to address corporations and business audiences on strategy and leadership, and he appears frequently in the international media to talk about both chess and politics. When not traveling he divides his time between Moscow and St. Petersburg.
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/tile-blue-bg._V46870869_.gif)
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tl._V192184760_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tm._V192184721_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tr._V192184429_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bl._V192184824_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bm._V192184603_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-br._V192545463_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tl2._V192545542_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tr2._V192545537_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-bl._V192545543_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-br._V192545543_.gif);
Help us improve our Author Pages by updating your bibliography and submitting a new or current image and biography.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
body {background-image:url(http://www.gkasparov.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/BKD_pattern_1.gif);background-repeat:repeat;background-attachment:scroll;background-position:center;font-family:Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;}
h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6,h7,#sitetitle .title {font-family:Calibri,Arial,sans-serif;font-weight: !important;}
Forceful, challenging, and entertaining are words often used to describe a speech by Garry Kasparov. His subject matter ranges from decision-making to strategic planning and from innovation to intuition. He has appeared at some of the world’s most admired companies and biggest conferences. Read more about inviting a world champion to inspire and challenge you.
“Chess in education is a dynamic tool that teaches many essential skills. It is also a perfect way to introduce technology into the learning environment.” Founded by Garry Kasparov in 2002, KCF’s mission is to bring the many educational benefits of chess to children by providing a complete chess curriculum and enrichment programs. With its […]
Russian dissident and organizer, global leader for individual freedom, democracy, and human rights. From his early battles with the Soviet sports authorities to becoming the Putin dictatorship’s loudest critic, Garry Kasparov has fought to bring democracy and transparency to his nation. In 2005, he founded the United Civil Front and helped organize the first large […]
6/5/2014 – During the first round of the Norway Chess tournament, Garry Kasparov appeared in the commentary box hosted by Dirk Jan Ten Geuzendam, editor-in-chief of New in Chess, and Nigel Short. While analyzing the games in progress, he also answered questions regarding players such as Caruana and Karjakin, and clarified a number of points […]
FULL TRANSCRIPT OF GARRY KASPAROV’S SPEECH AT MILTON FRIEDMAN PRIZE FOR ADVANCING LIBERTY 2014 Garry Kasparov @Kasparov63 · 21h Wow, very nice comments from @KJTorrance on Fox, thank you! “A little flattery will support a man through great fatigue.” – James Monroe
Garry Kasparov Keynote Milton Friedman Prize for Advancing Liberty 2014 Cato Institute Event – New York City – The Waldorf Astoria – May 21, 2014 Thank you for inviting me here today to speak about a few topics dear to my Soviet-born heart: individual freedom, limited government, and traditional American values! If only my die-hard […]
On Sunday, May 18th, Garry appeared on Fox Business News program with Maria Bartiromo to discuss ways of resolving Ukrainian crisis and his campaign for FIDE presidency. 
Dear Mr. Verhofstadt, I write to you out of deep concern over the crisis in Ukraine and what it means for the future of Europe and the world. Tomorrow is the European Union Presidential Debate. You and the other main candidates will discuss many important topics, to be sure, but the greatest crisis the EU […]
May 22nd, 2014 FULL STORY Milton Friedman Prize for Advancing Liberty 2014 Cato Institute Event – New York City – The Waldorf Astoria – May 21, 2014 In his keynote, Garry Kasparov said he’s working on a book about “the shift away from traditional American values of liberty, risk-taking and sacrifice.” The title of the project — […]
Friends, As the FIDE election date approaches, I continue to visit federations all over the world to promote the values that make me who I am today: honesty, integrity and hard work. When I am FIDE’s next president, I will bring change to the organization: FIDE will do more to support national federations - not the other way around.  I will also […]
Garry Kasparov: Cut Off the Russian Oligarchs and They’ll Dump PutinTarget their assets abroad, their mansions and IPOs in London, their yachts. Use banks, not tanks. By Garry Kasparov | March 7, 2014 VIDEO: Human Rights Foundation Chairman Garry Kasparov on why the U.S. won’t respond to Putin’s aggression in Ukraine. For the second time in […]
Garry was recently a special guest of ‘Enterprises Estonia’ at the Mobile World Congress and played an evening chess simul games, as part of the Baltic state’s event expo. Estonia has an ambitious program of introducing chess into schools that the former world champion strongly advocates, considering that his FIDE campaign slogan is education, social media […]
Garry appeared on Opening Bell with Maria Bartiromo • FOX Business Network to discuss Putin’s invasion of Ukraine. Press the link for Part II  Press the link for Part III 
Follow Garry on TwitterAs requested, my open letter to Guy Verhofstadt on Ukraine & EU on my site instead of Facebook. http://t.co/1NyVYibEoV @Rooseken 06:18:44 PM May 14, 2014 in reply to RoosekenSo saying EU should ignore Ukraine and appease Russia for econ ties "for jobs" is short-sighted & foolish. The instability has real costs. 05:44:42 PM May 14, 2014@kasparov63 
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Garry Kasparov was born on April 13, 1963 in Baku, USSR [now Azerbaijan] as Garry Kimovich Weinstein.
      Kasparov is pronounced kahs-PAH-rof. His father was named Kim Moiseyevich Weinstein, but died when Garry was seven, and the boy later adopted the Russian version of his mother's Armenian maiden name, Kasparian.
      His parents had thought to teach him music, but one day at the age of 5 he suggested to them the solution to a chess problem they had been baffled by the night before. His mother, Klara, gave up her job to travel and work with him when he qualified for the World Championship. Chess expert Gabriel Schoenfeld once called Kasparov the "Mikhail Baryshnikov" of chess.
      After holding the official FIDE World Chess Champion title from 1985 to 1993, he left the organization and founded the Professional Chess Association, whose World Champion he was until 2000.
      Founded United Civil Front, a social movement trying to prevent Russia from returning to totalitarianism, which makes him President Vladimir Putin's strongest opponent.
      In the hands of this young man lies the future of chess. -- Mikhail Botvinnik, chess world champion in 1948-1957, 1958-1960, and 1961-1963
      I have great energy and I have great tasks ahead of me. I want to serve chess through games, books that are works of art. I would like to bring the game closer to many people all over the world.
      It was nothing to do about science. It was one zeal to beat Garry Kasparov. And when a big corporation with unlimited resources would like to do so, there are many ways to achieve the result.
      Chess history is best viewed through the game's evolution: the Romantic Era of the 19th Century, the Hypermodernism of the early 20th, the post-World War II dominance of the Soviet School. They hail from all over the world, as illustrated by current world champion Viswanathan Anand of India and young Norwegian Magnus Carlsen. I had the opportunity to train Carlsen in 2009, and his intuitive style conserves the mystique of chess at a time when every CP-enhanced fan thinks the game is easy. Carlsen is as charismatic and independent as he is talented. If he can rekindle the world's fascination with the royal game, we will soon be living in the Carlsen Era.
      One of the countless and endless debates around [Bobby] Fischer were whether his behavioral excesses were the product of an unbalanced yet sincere soul, or an extension of his all-consuming drive to conquer. He had his strong principles, but the predator in him was well aware of the effect his antics had on his opponents.
      Many strong chess players go on to successful careers as currency and stock traders, so I suppose there is considerable crossover in the pattern-matching and intuitive calculation skills required. But the aptitude for playing chess is nothing more than that. My argument has always been that what you learn from using the skills you have - analyzing your strengths and weaknesses - is far more important.
=======================================================
On June 6, 1775, a mysterious impostor, calling herself Princess Tarakanova, was imprisoned in the Peter and Paul Fortress in St. Petersburg.…
Peter Carl Faberge was a world famous master jeweler and head of the ‘House of Faberge’ in Imperial Russia in the waning days of the Russian Empire. 
 AFP Photo / Ferenc IszaGarry Kasparov, born Garry Weinstein, is a Russian chess grandmaster, a former World Chess Champion, a writer and a political activist. He is considered by many the greatest chess player of all time.Childhood
The future grandmaster was born in the city of Baku in Azerbaijan on 13 April 1963. No one really knows where his outstanding talent came from – his family was never interested in the game and no one seemed to have a knack for it. Garry’s father was an electrical engineer and his mother worked as a telemechanic. His grandfather, Moses Weinstein, was a celebrated composer and a conductor who was a music director at several drama theatres in Baku, and thus well-known and respected in theatrical circles.
Everyone on his father’s side of the family was in some way connected to music: Garry’s uncle was a composer and an honored arts worker of Azerbaijan and his grandmother was a high school music teacher.Still, it was Garry’s father who decided to teach his five-year-old son how to play chess. By the time the boy had turned seven, his father felt he could no longer keep up with his son’s acquisitive mind and decided to send Garry to the chess hobby group at the Baku Palace of the Pioneers (a sort of Soviet children's recreation center). Image from www.wikimedia.orgThe year Garry started studying chess, a tragic event happened in his family – his father died of leukemia. Five years later, when Garry was 12, his mother, a beautiful Armenian woman named Clara Kasparyan, changed Garry’s surname to Kasparov – a slavicized version of her own maiden name. The decision was made upon the consent of all the relatives in order to make the boy’s future career in chess easier. By then young Garry had become promising chess player and Clara decided to dedicate all her free time and energy to her talented son.After his father’s death, Garry was brought up by his mother, who was an authoritarian woman and tried to make decisions for her son whenever it was possible. Whenever her famous son was interviewed, she never hesitated to tell the interviewer how to sit and what questions to ask.Chess career
Kasparov’s career, indeed, seemed meteoric: at the age of ten Garry entered the chess school headed by former World Chess Champion Mikhail Botvinnik; by the age of fifteen the talented boy would become Botvinnik’s assistant.
 Image from www.sports.ruIn 1975, when Kasparov was just twelve, he participated in the simultaneous chess display organized by the Palace of the Pioneers. Garry played with the then World Chess Champion Anatoly Karpov and managed to wrest out a draw, but at the last gasp he made a mistake and lost. Within the same tournament Kasparov played with Victor Korchnoy and practically forced the grandmaster to tie the score.
A year later the thirteen-year-old genius was awarded the title of USSR Junior Chess Champion. Two years after that, in 1978, Kasparov participated in the Sokolsky Memorial Chess Tournament in Minsk, Belorussia. He had been invited as an exception, but won and was awarded the title of Master of Sports in chess. Kasparov has repeatedly said that this event was a turning point in his life, and that it convinced him to choose chess as his future career. He also said that after the victory he thought he had a very good shot at the World Championship.
 Image from www.armchess.amIn 1980 Garry, aged 17, became the youngest ever grandmaster and thus drew near Bobby Fisher’s record; the latter was famous for having been awarded the title of World Junior Chess Champion at the age of 23. The following year Kasparov was awarded the title of USSR Chess Champion thus becoming the youngest chess champion in the history of his country.But despite his blossoming chess career, he decided it would be useful to enter the Azerbaijan Teaching Institute of Foreign Languages from which he successfully graduated in 1986. The studies turned out to do Kasparov a world of good as he fluently spoke several foreign languages and could easily do without an interpreter when traveling abroad.Championship game Image from www.gzt.ru
It was clear from early on that Garry had the playing strength to face the then World Chess Champion Anatoly Karpov – an irreplaceable favorite of the Russian Chess Federation. But first Garry had to pass the test of the Candidates Tournament to qualify, which he did quite easily.
Kasparov played his first chess championship game against Anatoly Karpov. The match was not limited in time: the one to win six games in a row was automatically awarded the championship title. It was Karpov’s decision to have a termless match, even though Kasparov was strongly against it.The match beat all endurance records – it started on 10 September 1984 and ended on 15 February 1985. At first Karpov was leading by a score of 5:0, but then he seemed to relax or get tired and began to loose. Some time later the score was 5:3 and the match was interrupted. This was decided by Florencio Campomanes who then occupied the post of FIDE president. The official reason for interrupting the match was the fatigue of both players; still after this incident, termless matches were annihilated – the two men now had to play just 24 games. And according to the existing chess rules, if the match ended in a draw Karpov would retain his crown.The crucial match between the two men began on 1 September 1985 and lasted for two months. On 30 November Kasparov won by a score of 13:11 and was officially announced the thirteenth World Chess Champion; unofficially he also became the world’s youngest world chess champion. Before Kasparov this unofficial title belonged to Mikhail Tal who was 23 at the time he won the championship.Kasparov and Karpov met three more times: the first rematch took place in 1986 in London and Saint Petersburg, the second was held in 1987 in Seville and the third was organized in 1990 in New York and Lion. All three matches ended fortunately for Kasparov, though in Seville he nearly lost, but managed to end the game in a draw.Grandmasters’ Association AFP Photo / Hugo Philpott
In 1993 Kasparov, who did not exactly like and support the way FIDE was run, left the body and founded the Grandmasters Association (GMA), an organization that was supposed to represent professional chess players and give them more say in FIDE's activities. FIDE in its turn took his leave in bad part and immediately de-listed the self-willed player and deprived him of his World Chess Champion title.
GMA's major achievement was organizing a series of six World Cup tournaments for the world's top players. Under its umbrella Kasparov was once again awarded the title of GMA World Chess Champion, winning matches against Nigel Short in 1993 and Viswanathan Anand in 1995. In 2000 Kasparov, however, lost to Vladimir Kramnik thus handing the champion’s title to him.Human versus computerThe matches Kasparov played with computers attracted mass attention from both professional chess players and amateurs.He played his first such match against the IBM Deep Blue chess computer in February 1996 and though he won by a score of 4:2, he still lost the first game. The fact that he failed to whitewash the computer was not too pleasant for the World Champion.So in 1997, in order to prove himself in the right, Kasparov met with the same, though slightly modified and improved opponent – the perfected version of Deep Blue. This time the result was even more disappointing - Garry lost the whole match, and Deep Blue was the first ever computer to jump not just an opponent, but a World Chess Champion.After the match Kasparov demanded that he be explained how the computer “hit upon the idea” of making one of its moves; and when the explanation was not given he taxed IBM with trickery, claiming that the machine was “helped” by a human being at least once. And as the chess program the computer used was kept secret and was never revealed to the broad public, the computer’s victory remained highly doubtful. AFP Photo / Tim Clary
In 2003 Kasparov resumed his attempts to beat the computer and played two matches against the professional chess programs Deep Junior and Deep Fritz; both matches ended in a draw. This time there were no accusations from Kasparov.
On 10 March 2005, after winning the prestigious Linares Tournament for the ninth time, Kasparov announced that he had decided to retire from competitive chess. When asked about the reasons for his decision, Kasparov explained he had no more goals to achieve in this sport, having been awarded all the possible titles. He comforted the public, though, saying that he was still ready to play some rapid chess games and matches “gratia artis.” The chief aim of the former World Champion now was to write books dedicated to chess.In September 2009, exactly 25 years after his first legendary match at the World Chess Championship in 1984, Garry Kasparov and Anatoly Karpov met in Spain to play a 12-game match. The match included four rapid games in which Kasparov won 3:1.Quite recently Kasparov has tried his hand at coaching, his first student being Magnus Carlsen who he began to coach in March 2009. Under Kasparov's direction, in October 2009, Carlsen became the youngest player ever to achieve a FIDE rating higher than 2800, and immediately was ranked as the world’s number one chess player.Kasparov in politicsIn 1984 Garry Kasparov joined the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and in 1987 was elected to the Central Committee of Komsomol (the youth branch of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union). But in 1990 he left the Party, claiming that it was a criminal organization, which he had joined in the sale of career progression. AFP Photo / Alexander Nemenov
In May 1990 Kasparov was among the few founders of the Democratic Party of Russia. Aside from this, Garry became a co-founder of the "Echo of Moscow" radio station. For quite a long time Kasparov was a principal shareholder, but in the mid-nineties he made up his mind to sell his stock of shares to Vladimir Gusinsky, a Russian media tycoon.
In January 1991 Kasparov was appointed Chairman of the Democratic Party of Moscow, and he managed to get the party to join the Democratic Russia movement.During the second Democratic Party Congress in April 1991 Kasparov's outline of the party program was not accepted and he left, announcing that he was going to create the Liberal Union. In June 1991 the first Union assembly took place but hardly more than two hundred people attended. And though officially Kasparov signed the declaration of the Liberal Union formation, organizationally the Union was never documented.In June 1993 Kasparov got involved in the creation of the Choice of Russia bloc of parties and in 1996 he participated in the election campaign of Boris Yeltsin.During Vladimir Putin’s presidency Kasparov harshly criticized the then president. In 2004 after the Beslan tragedy he had an article published in The Wall Street Journal entitled "Putin must leave."In 2005, after his retirement from chess, Kasparov was appointed head of the oppositional United Civil Front. Image from www.lenta.ru
He also participated in the oppositional alliance The Other Russia and took an active part in the Marches of Dissent, hardly involving more than one or two thousand people. These political opposition protests were held for several springs in a row in Moscow, Saint Petersburg, Nizhny Novgorod, Samara and Chelyabinsk regardless of the fact that they were not officially permitted by the authorities. Despite all of Kasparov's attempts to attract attention to his actions, the number of people who actually turned up at the marches was usually several times less that the one before.
Kasparov helped organize the Saint Petersburg Dissenters' Marches on 3 March and 24 March 2007, both involving not more than two thousand people rallying against federal and local government policies. On 14 April Kasparov was arrested by the Moscow police while heading for one of the demonstrations, which were all officially banned, but still organized and attended by enthusiasts. He was officially warned by the prosecution office on the eve of the march, and though he knew anyone participating in the march risked being detained, he ignored the warning. He was held for more than 10 hours, but then was released on bail.Soon after the brief detention Kasparov was summoned by the FSB (the main domestic Russian security agency) for questioning for allegedly violating Russian anti-extremist laws. However, there had nothing against Kasparov, and very soon he was let go. AFP Photo / Alexey Sazonov
Kasparov’s political activity also included being Chairman of the Committee 2008 – an umbrella organization of the Russian democratic opposition, formed in January 2004.
In September 2007 Kasparov announced his decision to run for president in 2008 with The Other Russia alliance, but he had violated the rules for submitting the necessary documents to the Central Election Commission of the Russian Federation and thus was not allowed to stand in the elections.In November 2007 Kasparov and other protesters were detained by police at an Other Russia rally in Moscow. Such punitive measures were taken after the attempt by about 100 protesters to break through police lines and march on the electoral commission, which had barred the Other Russia candidates from the elections. Kasparov was charged with resisting arrest and organizing an authorized protest. He spent five days in detainment.A year later, in 2008, Kasparov, upset by his ill luck in the elections, participated in the creation of the Solidarity oppositional political movement.The former World Chess Champion has been harshly criticized by journalists and politicians; he has been accused of lying, disinformation and offensiveness. In June 2007 self-exiled Russian tycoon Boris Berezovsky accused him of lying, as the latter insisted Berezovsky never financed The Other Russia. Later that year Kasparov withdrew from the upcoming presidential elections due to a lack of public support.More interesting factsIn the mid 1980s and 1990s Kasparov was asked to be a member of the KVN jury - a Russian humor TV show where teams that consisted mainly of students competed by performing improvisations and prepared sketches, giving funny answers to questions.In 1991 the US Center for Security Policy gave Garry Kasparov the Keeper of the Flame Award. The CSP focused on national security issues, and since 1990, has recognized individuals for devoting their public careers to the defense of the United States and American values throughout the world. The extraordinary individuals who received the award were called the Keepers of the Flame. The majority of awards have gone to senior military figures and Republican politicians, thus making Kasparov a glaring exception.Books AFP Photo / Martin Bureau
When Kasparov was a little over twenty, he wrote an autobiography entitled “Child of Change”; the book was later renamed “Unlimited Challenge” and Kasparov updated it as his chess career developed and the number of awards and prizes he received grew. This is the only book ever written by Kasparov whose content is mainly literary and which doesn’t abound in chess details and theory.
A separate book was dedicated to all the games that were played in the framework of Kasparov’s termless match with Anatoly Karpov.In 1982, Garry co-authored “Batsford Chess Openings” with the British grandmaster Raymond Keene and the book immediately became a bestseller not just among chess professionals - it also grew immensely popular with the broader public that tracked his career with great interest.In 2003 Kasparov’s first book in the “Garry Kasparov on My Great Predecessors” series was published. The series was dedicated to world chess champions and their most worthy opponents. It was much praised by reviewers.Another cycle of books on chess entitled “Modern Chess Series” and was supposed to describe the matches Kasparov had played and some other outstanding games the grandmaster considered interesting and instructive.In 2007 Kasparov wrote a book entitled “How Life Imitates Chess” which presented an attempt, and quite a successful one, to illustrate the similarities between the decision-making that takes place during a chess match and that which takes place in life. AFP Photo / Michael KapplerFamily and private lifeThe great chess player was married four times – three of the marriages were official and the fourth was not.
Right after graduating from university Garry moved in with Marina Neelova, a future famous Russian actress, and in 1987 their daughter Nika was born, which, however, didn’t prevent the young couple from parting quite soon after the girl’s birth.
Kasparov married officially for the first time in 1989; his choice was Maria Arapova, a young and talented interpreter. The marriage was not long-lasting, even though the couple had a daughter Polina – and after five years they separated. Maria and Polina moved to the US, where Kasparov had bought them an apartment.In 1996 Garry married again, this time to Julia Vovk whom he met in Riga after one of his matches. Less than a year after the ceremony their son Vadim was born, but this again did not prevent his parents from divorcing. Nine years later, in 2005 Kasparov married Daria Tarasova who was then a student of one of the Saint Petersburg universities.Simply the bestDespite the doubtful matches Kasparov played against the computers he is still considered to be one of the greatest chess players of our time. In November 2004 he participated in the Russian Chess Championship and won quite confidently.In 2007 a very well known consulting company, Synectics, released its ratings of the top one hundred geniuses in the field of science, politics, art and entrepreneurship. Quite naturally Garry Kasparov was not just present on the list – he was ranked 25.Written by Anna Yudina, RT
Anna Chakvetadze is the winner of seven WTA professional tennis tours and has been seeded among the Top Five in the world. 
Alina Kabayeva is one of the most beautiful women in Russia and the country´s most successful rhythmic gymnast to date.  Her career wins include 18 World Championship medals, 2 Olympic medals and 25 European Championship medals.
Dinara Safina is a professional Russian tennis player and the second Russian after Maria Sharapova to rank World No.1. 
In 2000 FIFA named Lev Yashin as the best goalkeeper of the 20th century and established the Yashin Award for the Best Goalkeeper.
Marat Safin is a retired tennis player, who held the number one world ranking, has won fifteen titles, including two Grand Slam titles and two Davis Cups. 
Nikolai Valuev is a Russian boxer who became the Russian Champion in 1999 and Champion of the World, according to the Pan-Asian Boxing Association in 2000. 
=======================================================
Garry Kasparov, in full Garri Kimovich Kasparov, original name Garri Weinstein or Harry Weinstein   (born April 13, 1963, Baku, Azerbaijan, U.S.S.R.), Russian chess master who became the world chess champion in 1985.
Kasparov was born to a Jewish father and an Armenian mother. He began playing chess at age 6, by age 13 was the Soviet youth champion, and won his first international tournament at age 16 in 1979. Kasparov became an international grandmaster in 1980. From 1973 to 1978 he studied under former world champion Mikhail Botvinnik.
Kasparov first challenged the reigning world champion Anatoly Karpov in a 1984–85 match, after he survived the Fédération Internationale des Échecs (FIDE; the international chess federation) series of elimination matches. Kasparov lost four out of the first nine games but then adopted a careful defensive stance, taking an extraordinarily long series of drawn games with the champion. With Kasparov finally having won three games from the exhausted Karpov, FIDE halted the series after 48 games, a decision protested by Kasparov. In the two players’ rematch in 1985, Kasparov narrowly defeated Karpov in a 24-game series and thereby became the youngest official champion in the history of the game.
In 1993 Kasparov and the English grandmaster Nigel Short left FIDE and formed a rival organization, the Professional Chess Association (PCA). In response, FIDE stripped the title of world champion from Kasparov, who defeated Short that same year to become the PCA world champion. In 1995 he successfully defended his PCA title against Viswanathan Anand of India.
In 1996 Kasparov defeated a powerful IBM custom-built chess computer known as Deep Blue in a match that attracted worldwide attention. Kasparov and the team of Deep Blue programmers agreed to have a rematch in 1997. Deep Blue’s intelligence was upgraded, and the machine prevailed. Kasparov resigned in the last game of the six-game match after 19 moves, granting the win to Deep Blue. In 2000 Kasparov lost a 16-game championship match to Vladimir Kramnik of Russia.
Kasparov retired from competitive chess in 2005, though not from involvement in chess. In particular, he produced an acclaimed series of books, Kasparov on My Great Predecessors (2003–06), that covered all the world chess champions from Wilhelm Steinitz through Karpov, as well as many other great players. He also kept in the public eye with his decision in 2005 to start a political organization, the United Civil Front, to oppose Russian Pres. Vladimir Putin. In 2006 Kasparov was one of the prime movers behind a broad coalition of political parties that formed the Other Russia, a group held together by only one goal: ousting Putin from power. In 2007, following several protest marches organized by the coalition in which Kasparov and other participants were arrested, the Other Russia chose Kasparov as its candidate for the 2008 presidential election but was unable to nominate him by the deadline.
"Garry Kasparov". Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online.Encyclopædia Britannica Inc., 2014. Web. 06 Jun. 2014<http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/313020/Garry-Kasparov>.
Garry Kasparov. (2014). In Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved from http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/313020/Garry-Kasparov
Garry Kasparov. 2014. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Retrieved 06 June, 2014, from http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/313020/Garry-Kasparov
Encyclopædia Britannica Online, s. v. "Garry Kasparov", accessed June 06, 2014, http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/313020/Garry-Kasparov.
        While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies.
            Click anywhere inside the article to add text or insert superscripts, subscripts, and special characters.
            You can also highlight a section and use the tools in this bar to modify existing content:
                    You can double-click any word or highlight a word or phrase in the text below and then select an article from the search box.
                    Or, simply highlight a word or phrase in the article, then enter the article name or term you'd like to link to in the search box below, and select from the list of results.
    You can make it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by keeping a few points in mind:
You may find it helpful to search within the site to see how similar or related subjects are covered.
At the bottom of the article, feel free to list any sources that support your changes, so that we can fully understand their context. (Internet URLs are best.)
    Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions.
=======================================================
=======================================================
Years covered: 1973 to 2012 Last FIDE rating: 2812Highest rating achieved in database: 2851Overall record: +787 -120 =773 (69.9%)*    * Overall winning percentage = (wins+draws/2) / total games       Based on games in the database; may be incomplete.       668 exhibition games, odds games, etc. are excluded from this statistic.
  Sicilian (192)     B30 B40 B31 B50 B33  Ruy Lopez (102)     C92 C84 C97 C67 C80  Nimzo Indian (86)     E32 E34 E21 E20 E46  Queen's Indian (80)     E12 E15 E17 E16  Queen's Gambit Declined (80)     D37 D31 D35 D30 D38  Slav (62)     D19 D10 D15 D11 D17 
  Sicilian (343)     B90 B84 B82 B83 B22  King's Indian (159)     E92 E97 E76 E60 E75  Sicilian Najdorf (112)     B90 B92 B97 B93 B96  Grunfeld (98)     D85 D97 D76 D78 D87  Sicilian Scheveningen (69)     B84 B82 B83 B80 B81  English (34)     A15 A10 A11 A13 
NOTABLE GAMES: [what is this?]   Kasparov vs Topalov, 1999 1-0   Karpov vs Kasparov, 1985 0-1   Kasparov vs Kramnik, 1994 1-0   Kramnik vs Kasparov, 1994 0-1   Kasparov vs Karpov, 1990 1-0   Kasparov vs Anand, 1995 1-0   Karpov vs Kasparov, 1993 0-1   Kasparov vs Portisch, 1983 1-0   Adams vs Kasparov, 2005 0-1   Kasparov vs Karpov, 1986 1-0WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS: [what is this?]   Karpov-Kasparov World Championship Match (1984)    Karpov-Kasparov World Championship Match (1985)    Karpov-Kasparov World Championship Rematch (1986)    Kasparov-Karpov World Championship Match (1987)    Kasparov-Karpov World Championship Match (1990)    Kasparov-Short World Championship Match (1993)    Kasparov-Anand World Championship Match (1995)    Kasparov-Kramnik World Championship Match (2000)
                                                Chess - English                                            
We are working hard to make Chess.com available in over 70 languages. Check back over the year as we develop the technology to add more, and we will try our best to notify you when your language is ready for translating!
