=======================================================
Karl Christian Rove (born December 25, 1950) is an American Republican political consultant and policy advisor.[1] He was Senior Advisor and Deputy Chief of Staff during the George W. Bush administration until Rove's resignation on August 31, 2007. He has also headed the Office of Political Affairs, the Office of Public Liaison, and the White House Office of Strategic Initiatives. Since leaving the White House, Rove has worked as a political analyst and contributor for Fox News, Newsweek and The Wall Street Journal.
Prior to his White House appointments, he is credited with the 1994 and 1998 Texas gubernatorial victories of George W. Bush, as well as Bush's 2000 and 2004 successful presidential campaigns. In his 2004 victory speech Bush referred to Rove as "the Architect". Rove has also been credited for the successful campaigns of John Ashcroft (1994 U.S. Senate election), Bill Clements (1986 Texas gubernatorial election), Senator John Cornyn (2002 U.S. Senate election), Governor Rick Perry (1990 Texas Agriculture Commission election), and Phil Gramm (1982 U.S. House and 1984 U.S. Senate elections).
Karl Rove was born in Denver, Colorado, the second of five children, and was raised in Sparks, Nevada. His biological father left the family when Rove and his older brother were children. His mother, Reba Louise (née Wood), was a gift shop manager, and his mother's second husband, Louis Claude Rove, Jr. (1928–2004), who adopted him[2] and whom Rove knew as his father, was a geologist.[3][4]
In 1965, his family moved to Salt Lake City, where Rove entered high school, becoming a skilled debater.[5] Rove described his high school years as "I was the complete nerd. I had the briefcase. I had the pocket protector. I wore Hush Puppies when they were not cool. I was the thin, scrawny little guy. I was definitely uncool." Encouraged by a teacher to run for class senate, Rove won the election. As part of his campaign strategy he rode in the back of a convertible inside the school gymnasium sitting between two attractive girls before his election speech.[6] While at Olympus High School,[7] he was elected student council president his junior and senior years. Rove was also a Teenage Republican and served as Chairman of the Utah Federation of Teenage Republicans.
Rove began his involvement in American politics in 1968. In a 2002 Deseret News interview, Rove explained, "I was the Olympus High chairman for (former United States Senator) Wallace F. Bennett's re-election campaign, where he was opposed by the dynamic, young, aggressive political science professor at the University of Utah, J.D. Williams."[8] Bennett was reelected to a third six-year term in November 1968. Through Rove's campaign involvement, Bennett's son, Bob Bennett—a future United States Senator from Utah—would become a friend. Williams would later become a mentor to Rove.
In December 1969, the man Rove had known as his father left the family, and divorced Rove's mother soon afterwards.[9][10] After his parents' divorce, Rove learned from his aunt and uncle that the man who had raised him was not his biological father; both he and his older brother Eric were the children of another man. Rove has expressed great love and admiration for his adoptive father and for "how selfless" his love had been.[11] On September 11, 1981, Rove's mother committed suicide in Reno, Nevada.[12]
In the fall of 1969, Rove entered the University of Utah, on a $1,000 scholarship,[13] as a political science major and joined the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. Through the University's Hinckley Institute of Politics, he got an internship with the Utah Republican Party. That position, and contacts from the 1968 Bennett campaign, helped him land a job in 1970 on Ralph Tyler Smith's unsuccessful re-election campaign for Senate from Illinois against Democrat Adlai E. Stevenson III.
In the fall of 1970, Rove used a false identity to enter the campaign office of Democrat Alan J. Dixon, who was running for Treasurer of Illinois. He stole 1000 sheets of paper with campaign letterhead, printed fake campaign rally fliers promising "free beer, free food, girls and a good time for nothing", and distributed them at rock concerts and homeless shelters, with the effect of disrupting Dixon's rally. (Dixon eventually won the election). Rove's role would not become publicly known until August 1973 when Rove told the Dallas Morning News. In 1999 he said, "It was a youthful prank at the age of 19 and I regret it."[14] In his memoir, Rove wrote that when he was later nominated to the Board for International Broadcasting by President George H.W. Bush, Senator Dixon did not kill his nomination. In Rove's account, "Dixon displayed more grace than I had shown and kindly excused this youthful prank."[15]
In June 1971, after the end of the semester, Rove dropped out of the University of Utah to take a paid position as the Executive Director of the College Republican National Committee. Joe Abate, who was National Chairman of the College Republicans at the time, became his mentor.[11] Rove then enrolled at the University of Maryland in College Park in the Fall of 1971, but withdrew from classes during the first half of the semester.[16]
Rove traveled extensively, participating as an instructor at weekend seminars for campus conservatives across the country. He was an active participant in Richard Nixon's 1972 Presidential campaign. A CBS report on the organization of the Nixon campaign from June 1972 includes an interview with a young Rove working for the College Republican National Committee.[17]
Rove held the position of executive director of the College Republicans until early 1973. He left the job to spend five months, without pay, campaigning full-time for the position of national chairman during the time he attended George Mason University.[11] Lee Atwater, the group's Southern regional coordinator, who was two months younger than Rove, managed Rove's campaign. The two spent the spring of 1973 crisscrossing the country in a Ford Pinto, lining up the support of Republican state chairs.
The College Republicans summer 1973 convention at the Lake of the Ozarks resort in Missouri was quite contentious. Rove's opponent was Robert Edgeworth of Michigan. The other major candidate, Terry Dolan of California, dropped out, supporting Edgeworth. A number of states had sent two competing delegates, because Rove and his supporters had made credential challenges at state and regional conventions. For example, after the Midwest regional convention, Rove forces had produced a version of the Midwestern College Republicans constitution which differed significantly from the constitution that the Edgeworth forces were using, in order to justify the unseating of the Edgeworth delegates on procedural grounds,[11] including delegations, such as Ohio and Missouri, which had been certified earlier by Rove himself. In the end, there were two votes, conducted by two convention chairs, and two winners—Rove and Edgeworth, each of whom delivered an acceptance speech. After the convention, both Edgeworth and Rove appealed to Republican National Committee Chairman George H. W. Bush, each contending that he was the new College Republican chairman.
While resolution was pending, Dolan went (anonymously) to the Washington Post with recordings of several training seminars for young Republicans where a co-presenter of Rove's, Bernie Robinson, cautioned against doing the same thing he had done: rooting through opponents' garbage cans. The tape with this story on it, as well as Rove's admonition not to copy similar tricks as Rove's against Dixon, was secretly recorded and edited by Rich Evans, who had hoped to receive an appointment from Rove's competitor in the CRNC chairmanship race.[18] On August 10, 1973, in the midst of the Watergate scandal, the Post broke the story in an article titled "GOP Party Probes Official as Teacher of Tricks".[19]
In response, then RNC Chairman George H.W. Bush, had an FBI agent question Rove. As part of the investigation, Atwater signed an affidavit, dated August 13, 1973, stating that he had heard a "20 minute anecdote similar to the one described in the Washington Post" in July 1972, but that "it was a funny story during a coffee break".[20] Former Nixon White House Counsel John Dean, has been quoted as saying "based on my review of the files, it appears the Watergate prosecutors were interested in Rove's activities in 1972, but because they had bigger fish to fry they did not aggressively investigate him."[21]
On September 6, 1973, three weeks after announcing his intent to investigate the allegations against Rove, George H.W. Bush chose him to be chairman of the College Republicans. Bush then wrote Edgeworth a letter saying that he had concluded that Rove had fairly won the vote at the convention. Edgeworth wrote back, asking about the basis of that conclusion. Not long after that, Edgeworth stated "Bush sent me back the angriest letter I have ever received in my life. I had leaked to the Washington Post, and now I was out of the Party forever."
As National Chairman, Rove introduced Bush to Atwater, who had taken Rove's job as the College Republican's executive director, and who would become Bush's main campaign strategist in future years. Bush hired Rove as a Special Assistant in the Republican National Committee, a job Rove left in 1974 to become Executive Assistant to the co-chair of the RNC, Richard D. Obenshain.
As Special Assistant, Rove performed small personal tasks for Bush. In November 1973, he asked Rove to take a set of car keys to his son George W. Bush, who was visiting home during a break from Harvard Business School. It was the first time the two met. "Huge amounts of charisma, swagger, cowboy boots, flight jacket, wonderful smile, just charisma - you know, wow", Rove recalled years later.[19]
Rove's initial job in Texas was in 1977 as a legislative aide for Fred Agnich, a Texas Republican state representative from Dallas.[22] Later that same year, Rove got a job as executive director of the Fund for Limited Government, a political action committee (PAC) in Houston headed by James A. Baker, III, a Houston lawyer (later President George H. W. Bush's Secretary of State). The PAC eventually became the genesis of the Bush-for-President campaign of 1979–1980.
His work for William Clements during the Texas gubernatorial election of 1978 helped Clements become the first Republican Governor of Texas in over 100 years. Clements was elected to a four-year term, succeeding Democrat Dolph Briscoe. Rove was deputy director of the Governor William P. Clements Junior Committee in 1979 and 1980, and deputy executive assistant to the governor of Texas (roughly, Deputy Chief of Staff) in 1980 and 1981.[23]
In 1981, Rove founded a direct mail consulting firm, Karl Rove & Co., in Austin. The firm's first clients included Texas Governor Bill Clements and Democratic congressman Phil Gramm, who later became a Republican congressman and United States Senator. Rove operated his consulting business until 1999, when he sold the firm to take a full-time position in George W. Bush's presidential campaign.
Between 1981 and 1999, Rove worked on hundreds of races. Most were in a supporting role, doing direct mail fundraising. A November 2004 Atlantic Monthly article estimated that he was the primary strategist for 41 statewide, congressional, and national races, and Rove's candidates won 34 races.[24]
Rove also did work during those years for non-political clients. From 1991 to 1996, Rove advised tobacco giant Philip Morris, and ultimately earned $3,000 a month via a consulting contract. In a deposition, Rove testified that he severed the tie in 1996 because he felt awkward "about balancing that responsibility with his role as Bush's top political advisor" while Bush was governor of Texas and Texas was suing the tobacco industry.[25][citation needed]
In 1977, Rove was the first person hired by George H. W. Bush for his unsuccessful 1980 presidential campaign, which ended with Bush as the vice-presidential nominee.
In 1982, Phil Gramm was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives as a conservative Texas Democrat.
In 1984, Rove helped Gramm, who had become a Republican in 1983, defeat Republican Ron Paul in the primary and Democrat Lloyd Doggett in the race for U.S. Senate.
In 1986, Rove helped Clements become governor a second time. In a strategy memo Rove wrote for his client prior to the race, now among Clements's papers in the Texas A&M University library, Rove quoted Napoleon: "The whole art of war consists in a well-reasoned and extremely circumspect defensive, followed by rapid and audacious attack."
In 1986, just before a crucial debate in campaign, Rove claimed that his office had been bugged by Democrats. The police and FBI investigated and discovered that the bug's battery was so small that it needed to be changed every few hours, and the investigation was dropped.[26] Critics, including other Republican operatives, suspected Rove had bugged his own office to garner sympathy votes in the close governor's race.[27]
In 1988, Rove helped Thomas R. Phillips become the first Republican elected as Chief Justice of the Texas Supreme Court. Phillips had been appointed to the position in November 1987 by Clements. Phillips was re-elected in 1990, 1996 and 2002.[citation needed]
Phillips' election in 1988 was part of an aggressive grassroots campaign called "Clean Slate '88", a conservative effort that was successful in getting five of its six candidates elected. (Ordinarily there were three justices on the ballot each year, on a nine-justice court, but, because of resignations, there were six races for the Supreme Court on the ballot in November 1988.) By 1998, Republicans held all nine seats on the Court.
In 1989, Rove encouraged George W. Bush to run for Texas governor, brought in experts to tutor him on policy, and introduced him to local reporters. Eventually, Bush decided not to run, and Rove backed another Republican for governor who lost in the primary.
In 1990, two other Rove candidates won: Rick Perry, the future governor of the state, became agricultural commissioner, and Kay Bailey Hutchison became state treasurer.
One notable aspect of the 1990 election was the charge that Rove had asked the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to investigate major Democratic officeholders in Texas. In his autobiography, Rove called the whole thing a "myth", saying:
The FBI did investigate Texas officials during that span, but I had nothing to do with it. The investigation was called "Brilab" and was part of a broad anti-corruption probe that looked at officials in Louisiana, Oklahoma, Los Angeles, and Washington, D.C., as well as Texas ... An official for the U.S. Department of Agriculture spotted expenses claimed by Hightower's shop that raised red flags ... enough to indict some of Hightower's top aides; they were later found guilty and sent to prison.
The myth that I had something to do both with spurring the investigation and with airing all of this has stuck around because it is convenient for some to blame me rather than those aides who ran afoul of the law. [1]
In 1991, United States Attorney General Dick Thornburgh resigned to run for a Senate seat in Pennsylvania, one made vacant by John Heinz's death in a helicopter crash. Rove's company worked for the campaign, but it ended with an upset loss to Democrat Harris Wofford. Rove subsequently sued Thornburgh alleging non-payment for services rendered. The Republican National Committee, worried that the suit would make it hard to recruit good candidates, urged Rove to back off. When Rove refused, the RNC hired Kenneth Starr to write an amicus brief on Thornburgh's behalf. After a trial in Austin, Rove prevailed.[11] Karl Rove & Co. v. Thornburgh was heard by U.S. Federal Judge Sam Sparks (who had been appointed by George H.W. Bush in 1991).
Rove was fired from the 1992 Bush presidential campaign after he planted a negative story with columnist Robert Novak about dissatisfaction with campaign fundraising chief Robert Mosbacher Jr. (Esquire Magazine, January 2003). Novak provided some evidence of motive in his column describing the firing of Mosbacher by former Senator Phil Gramm: "Also attending the session was political consultant Karl Rove, who had been shoved aside by Mosbacher." Novak and Rove deny that Rove was the leaker, but Mosbacher maintained that "Rove is the only one with a motive to leak this. We let him go. I still believe he did it."[28] During testimony before the CIA leak grand jury, Rove apparently confirmed his prior involvement with Novak in the 1992 campaign leak, according to National Journal reporter Murray Waas.[29]
1993 Kay Bailey Hutchison senatorial campaign Rove helped Hutchison win a special Senate election in June 1993. Hutchison defeated Democrat Bob Krueger to fill the last two years of Lloyd Bentsen's term. Bentsen resigned to become Secretary of the Treasury in the Clinton administration.
1994 Alabama Supreme Court races In 1994, a group called the Business Council of Alabama hired Rove to help run a slate of Republican candidates for the state supreme court. No Republican had been elected to that court in more than a century. The campaign by the Republicans was unprecedented in the state, which had previously only seen low-key contests. After the election, a court battle over absentee and other ballots followed that lasted more than 11 months. It ended when a federal appeals court judge ruled that disputed absentee ballots could not be counted, and ordered the Alabama Secretary of State to certify the Republican candidate for Chief Justice, Perry Hooper, as the winner. An appeal to the Supreme Court by the Democratic candidate was turned down within a few days, making the ruling final. Hooper won by 262 votes.
Another candidate, Harold See, ran against Mark Kennedy, an incumbent Democratic justice and the son-in-law of George Wallace. The race included charges that Kennedy was mingling campaign funds with those of a non-profit children's foundation he was involved with. A former Rove staffer reported that some within the See camp initiated a whisper campaign that Kennedy was a pedophile.[24] Kennedy won by less than one percentage point.
1994 John Ashcroft senatorial campaign In 1993, according to the New York Times, Karl Rove & Company was paid $300,000 in consulting fees by Ashcroft's successful 1994 Senate campaign. Ashcroft paid Rove's company more than $700,000 over the course of three campaigns.
1994 George W. Bush gubernatorial campaign In 1993, Rove began advising George W. Bush in his successful campaign to become governor of Texas. Bush announced his candidacy in November 1993. By January 1994, Bush had spent more than $600,000 on the race against incumbent Democrat Ann Richards, with $340,000 of that paid to Rove's firm.
Rove has been accused of using the push poll technique to call voters to ask such things as whether people would be "more or less likely to vote for Governor Richards if [they] knew her staff is dominated by lesbians". Rove has denied having been involved in circulating these rumors about Richards during the campaign,[30] although many critics nonetheless identify this technique, particularly as utilized in this instance against Richards, as a hallmark of his career.[31][32][33]
1996 Harold See's campaign for Associate Justice, Alabama Supreme Court A former campaign worker charged that, at Rove's behest, he distributed flyers that anonymously attacked Harold See, their own client. This put the opponent's campaign in an awkward position; public denials of responsibility for the scurrilous flyers would be implausible. Rove's client was elected.[citation needed]
1998 George W. Bush gubernatorial campaign Rove was an adviser for Bush's 1998 reelection campaign. From July through December 1998, Bush's reelection committee paid Rove & Co. nearly $2.5 million, and also paid the Rove-owned Praxis List Company $267,000 for use of mailing lists. Rove says his work for the Bush campaign included direct mail, voter contact, phone banks, computer services, and travel expenses. Of the $2.5 million, Rove said, "[a]bout 30 percent of that is postage". In all, Bush (primarily through Rove's efforts) raised $17.7 million, with $3.4 million unspent as of March 1999.[34] During the course of this campaign Rove's much-reported feud with Rick Perry began, with Perry's strategists believing Rove gave Perry bad advice in order to help Bush get a larger share of the Hispanic vote.[35]
2000 Harold See campaign for Chief Justice For the race to succeed Perry Hooper, who was retiring as Alabama's chief justice, Rove lined up support for See from a majority of the state's important Republicans.[24]
In early 1999, Rove sold his 20-year-old direct-mail business, Karl Rove & Co., which provided campaign services to candidates, along with Praxis List Company (in whole or part) to Ted Delisi and Todd Olsen, two young political operatives who had worked on campaigns of some other Rove candidates. Rove helped finance the sale of the company, which had 11 employees. Selling Karl Rove & Co. was a condition that George W. Bush had insisted on before Rove took the job of chief strategist for Bush's presidential bid.[25]
When George W. Bush was first inaugurated in January 2001, Rove accepted an appointment as Senior Advisor. He was later given the title Deputy Chief of Staff to the President after the successful 2004 Presidential election. In a November 2004 speech, Bush publicly thanked Rove, calling him "the architect" of his victory over John Kerry in the 2004 presidential election.[36]
In April 2006, Rove was reassigned from his policy development role to one focusing on strategic and tactical planning in anticipation of the November 2006 congressional elections.[37]
On May 2, 2007, the Senate Judiciary Committee issued a subpoena to Attorney General Gonzales compelling the Department of Justice to produce all email from Rove regarding the Dismissal of U.S. attorneys controversy no matter what email account Rove may have used, with a deadline of May 15, 2007, for compliance. The subpoena also demanded relevant email previously produced in the Valarie Plame controversy and investigation for the CIA leak scandal (2003).[38]
On August 31, 2007, Karl Rove resigned without responding to the Senate Judiciary Committee subpoena claiming, "I just think it's time to leave."[39][40][41]
On May 22, 2008, Rove was subpoenaed by House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers to testify on the politicization of the Department of Justice. However, on July 10, Rove refused to acknowledge his congressional subpoena citing executive privilege as his reason.[42][43]
On February 23, 2009, Rove was required by Congressional subpoena to testify before the House Judiciary Committee concerning his knowledge of the Dismissal of U.S. attorneys controversy and the alleged political prosecution of former Alabama Governor Don Siegelman, but did not appear on this date. He and former White House Counsel Harriet Miers later agreed to testify under oath before Congress about these matters.[44]
On July 7 and July 30, 2009, Rove testified before the House Judiciary Committee regarding questions about the dismissal of seven U.S. Attorneys under the Bush Administration. Rove was also questioned regarding the federal prosecution of former Alabama Governor Don Siegelman, who was convicted of fraud. The Committee concluded that Rove had played a significant role in the attorney firings.[citation needed]
This article or section may be slanted towards recent events. Please try to keep recent events in historical perspective. (October 2010)
Shortly after leaving the White House, Rove was hired to write about the 2008 Presidential Election for Newsweek.[45] He was also later hired as a contributor for the Wall Street Journal and a political analyst for Fox News. Rove was an informal advisor to 2008 Republican Presidential candidate John McCain, and donated $2,300 to his campaign.[46] His memoir, Courage and Consequence, was published in March 2010.[47] One advance reviewer, Dana Milbank of The Washington Post, said of the book that Rove "revives claims discredited long ago".[48] The controversial book has inspired a grassroots rock and roll compilation of a similar name Courage and Consequence[49] that was released a week before the memoir.
Rove has also spent significant time on the road giving speeches to schools and other groups. Rove was scheduled to give the commencement address at Choate Rosemary Hall, a New England boarding school, but canceled after protests from students and faculty.[50] He instead made a private appearance at the school on February 11, 2008.[51]
On March 9, 2008, Rove appeared at the University of Iowa as a paid speaker to a crowd of approximately 1,000. He was met with hostility and two students were removed by police after attempting a citizen's arrest for alleged crimes committed during his time with the Bush administration. Near the end of the speech, a member of the audience asked, "Can we have our $40,000 back?" Rove replied, "No, you can't."[52]
On June 24, 2008, Rove said of Democratic presidential nominee Barack Obama, "Even if you never met him, you know this guy. He's the guy at the country club with the beautiful date, holding a martini and a cigarette that stands against the wall and makes snide comments about everyone."[53]
Rove agreed to debate one-time presidential candidate and former Senator John Edwards on September 26, 2008, at the University at Buffalo.[54] However, Edwards dropped out and was replaced with General Wesley Clark.[55]
Rove, who was hired by Fox News to provide analysis for the network's election coverage, defended his role on the news team to the Television Critics Association.[56]
On November 3, 2008, Rove spoke on the campus of Washington University in St. Louis on the eve of Election Day.
In 2010, Rove became an advisor to American Crossroads, a Republican 527 organization raising money for the 2012 election effort.[57]
Rove made appearances at a number of campuses, including UC Merced on October 8 as conservatives students, in the College Republicans at UC Merced, sought to provide an alternative perspective since First Lady Michelle Obama and Former President Jimmy Carter spoke at the young campus.[58]
Rove was the guest host of The Rush Limbaugh Show on Monday, August 9, 2010.,[59] marking his first time hosting a radio talk show.
In a profile which appeared in the December 15, 2011 issue of The New Republic, Rove, with his hands-on involvement with American Crossroads, is described as one of the shrewdest navigators of the political climate after the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision which exempted political broadcasts funded by corporations and unions from campaign finance limits. "Rove had no role in creating this new legal environment... but if Rove and his allies did not invent it, they certainly were adroit at exploiting it."[60]
Following Todd Akin's comments regarding "legitimate rape" and the notion that raped women are unlikely to become pregnant, Rove joked about murdering the Missouri Senate candidate, saying "We should sink Todd Akin. If he’s found mysteriously murdered, don’t look for my whereabouts!"[61][62] After multiple news outlets picked up on the story, Rove apologized for the remark.[63] Rove's Crossroads GPS organization had previously pulled its television advertising from Missouri in the wake of the comments.[64]
On November 7, 2012, Rove protested Fox News' call of the 2012 presidential election for Barack Obama, prompting host Megyn Kelly to ask him, "Is this just math that you do as a Republican to make yourself feel better? Or is this real?"[65][66][67]
In 2013 Rove and the PAC American Crossroads created the Conservative Victory Project for the purpose of supporting electable conservative candidates.[68] These efforts have attracted criticism, and even personal attacks, from elements within the Tea Party movement.[69]
Rove married Houston socialite Valerie Mather Wainwright, on July 10, 1976. He moved to Texas in January 1977. His sister and father still remembered "the wedding [that] was so extravagant that [we] ... still recall it with awe".[70] Rove and Wainwright were divorced in early 1980.[71] He attended the University of Texas at Austin in 1977. In July 1999 he told The Washington Post that he did not have a degree because "I lack at this point one math class, which I can take by exam, and my foreign language requirement."[14]
In January 1986, Rove married Darby Tara Hickson,[14] a breast cancer survivor, graphic designer, and former employee of Karl Rove & Company. Rove and Hickson have one son, Andrew Madison Rove, who attended Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas.[72]
In December 2009, Rove and Hickson were granted a divorce in Texas.[73] Dana Perino, Rove's spokesperson, said, "Karl Rove and his wife, Darby, were granted a divorce last week. The couple came to the decision mutually and amicably, and they maintain a close relationship and a strong friendship. There will be no further comment and the family requests that its privacy be respected."[73]
In June 2012, Rove married lobbyist Karen Johnson in Austin, Texas. The wedding was attended by George W. Bush and Steve Wynn.[74]
Rove resides in the Georgetown section of Washington, D.C., and also keeps a house near Austin, Texas.[75]
'^ Lahey, Patrick (May 2, 2007). "Rove Email Subpeona". United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary (via Findlaw). Retrieved May 8, 2007. 
Categories: 1950 birthsLiving peopleSenior Advisors to the PresidentWhite House Deputy Chiefs of StaffTexas RepublicansFox News Channel peopleMembers of the Committee for the Re-Election of the PresidentAmerican political consultantsAmerican political punditsAmerican political writersCollege Republican National Committee chairsConservatism in the United StatesDismissal of United States Attorneys controversyGeorge W. Bush Administration personnelLeadership Institute alumni and associatesAmerican adopteesWriters from Denver, ColoradoPeople from Salt Lake City, UtahPeople from Sparks, NevadaUniversity of Texas at Austin alumniUniversity of Utah alumniHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from March 2014CS1 errors: datesWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2013Articles with unsourced statements from July 2009Articles with unsourced statements from November 2011Articles slanted towards recent events from October 2010Articles with DMOZ linksWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersVIAF different on Wikidata 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Karl Rove served as Senior Advisor to President George W. Bush from 2000–2007 and Deputy Chief of Staff from 2004–2007.  At the White House he oversaw the Offices of Strategic Initiatives, Political Affairs, Public Liaison, and Intergovernmental Affairs and was Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, coordinating the White House policy-making process.
Karl has been described by respected author and columnist Michael Barone in U.S. News & World Report as “…unique…no Presidential appointee has ever had such a strong influence on politics and policy, and none is likely to do so again anytime soon.” Washington Post columnist David Broder has called Karl a master political strategist whose “game has always been long term…and he plays it with an intensity and attention to detail that few can match.” Fred Barnes, executive editor of The Weekly Standard, has called Karl “the greatest political mind of his generation and probably of any generation? He knows history, understands the moods of the public, and is a visionary on matters of public policy.”
Before Karl became known as “The Architect” of President Bush’s 2000 and 2004 campaigns, he was president of Karl Rove + Company, an Austin-based public affairs firm that worked for Republican candidates, non-partisan causes, and non-profit groups. His clients included over 75 Republican U.S. Senate, Congressional, and gubernatorial candidates in 24 states, as well as the Moderate Party of Sweden.
As a Fox News contributor, Karl provides a “genuine feel of inside knowledge,” says David Zurawik, Baltimore Sun television critic. Megan Garber, of the Columbia Journalism Review, says Karl has “focused his punditry on what he knows best: strategy.” Even the New York Times acclaims that “Rove’s substantive contributions may now inspire a little work ethic among the celebrity talking heads who may be forced to bring to the news a little more data and a little less opinion, a recalibration that would be welcome to its devoted viewers.”
Karl writes a weekly op-ed for the Wall Street Journal and is the author of the New York Times Bestseller, "Courage and Consequence: My Life as a Conservative in the Fight."  He has written for various publications, including The Daily Beast, Financial Times, Forbes, FoxNews.com, HumanEvents.com, Newsweek, The Times, Washington Post, and The Weekly Standard.
A Colorado native, he attended the University of Utah, the University of Maryland-College Park, George Mason University, and the University of Texas at Austin.
Karl has taught graduate students at UT Austin’s Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs and undergraduates in a joint appointment from the Journalism and Government departments at the university. He was also a faculty member at the Salzburg Seminar.
He was previously a member of the Board of International Broadcasting, which oversaw the operations of Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty, and served on the White House Fellows regional selection panel. He was also a member of the Boards of Regents at Texas Women's University and East Texas State University.
Karl now serves on the University of Texas Chancellor’s Council Executive Committee and on the Board of Trustees for the Texas Parks and Wildlife Foundation and the Texas State History Museum Foundation. He is a member of the McDonald Observatory Board of Visitors and the Texas Philosophical Society.
=======================================================
Mastermind - Chronology - Karl Rove's Life And Political Career | Karl Rove -- The Architect | FRONTLINE | PBS
The Battle for UkraineFRONTLINE goes inside Ukraine as right-wing nationalists and violent pro-Russian separatists vie for control of the country.WATCH »
Syria: Arming the RebelsFRONTLINE finds Syrian rebel fighters who say theyâre being secretly armed and trained by the United States. WATCH »
Afghanistan / PakistanBiographiesBusiness / Economy / FinancialCriminal JusticeEducationEnvironmentFamily / ChildrenForeign Affairs / DefenseFRONTLINE WorldGovernment / Elections / PoliticsHealth / Science / TechnologyIraq / War on TerrorMediaRace / MulticulturalReligionSocial IssuesSports
1950sA very young Republican Karl Rove is born in Denver in 1950. His father, Louis, is a mineral geologist and travels extensively for work, and the family moves several times during Rove's childhood. At age 9, Rove is a vocal supporter of Richard Nixon's presidential campaign -- so vocal, in fact, that an older girl, a would-be Kennedy voter, beats him up. 
"Karl Rove, I think, was a Republican before he was anything else," says Wayne Slater, author of Bush's Brain. "His sister recounts a story when he was a little kid and other kids had posters of football players or basketball players and sports heroes on the wall, Karl had a poster on his wall, she said, that said, 'Wake Up, America!' He was a conservative, politically conservative person I think well before he could vote."
Rove's family moves to Salt Lake City, where he enrolls at Olympus High School.  Often seen at school carrying a briefcase and wearing a coat and tie, he hones his skills in debate tournaments. He is good at intimidating his opponents -- sometimes bluffing by bringing boxes of index cards that are actually blank. He quickly becomes one of the state's best young debaters. Running successfully for president of the student senate, he beats out a more popular rival with a campaign that pokes gentle fun at professional politicians' tactics. And for a class project, Rove helps out on Senator Wallace Bennett's re-election campaign. 
1969-1970A Senate campaign Rove enters the University of Utah and joins the College Republicans, who send him to Illinois to work on the successful Senate bid of Ralph Smith. Rove will later admit that during the campaign, he goes into the offices of a Democratic candidate for state treasurer, steals stationery, and uses it to mock up fake invitations advertising a party with "free beer, free food, girls and a good time for nothing" -- at the same time as the Democrat's campaign headquarters is scheduled to open. Rove distributes the invitations at hippie communes, concerts, and soup kitchens, and twice as many people as expected show up at the opening. 
Rove's reputation grows in the College Republicans, but at home he is going through a difficult time. During his first year of college his parents divorce and not long after, he learns that Louis Rove, the man he thought was his father, is not. He does not meet his biological father until he is in his 40s. 
1971-1972A talent for direct mail Rove serves as national executive director of the College Republicans. A master at condensing a complicated message into a few forceful points, he puts together direct-mail programs and brochures for the organization. "I didn't know anyone of his age that could put together these type of materials," says Joe Abate, who was chair of the College Republicans at the time and was a mentor to Rove. "It turned out [that it] became his business, his direct mail. And I could see why he became one of the best direct mail political consultants in the country years later. But, his energy, I mean he was 24/7." During this time, Rove also travels extensively, teaching weekend seminars for campus conservatives across the country. 
1973"Dirty tricks" for the College Republicans? Rove leaves school to campaign for chair of the College Republicans and he gets help from a young Lee Atwater, who would later run George H. W. Bush's presidential campaign. The heated campaign splits the College Republicans into warring factions at the national convention where  Rove and his team challenge the credentials of delegates who oppose them. Both Rove and his opponent claim victory and the matter is sent to Republican National Committee Chairman George H. W. Bush for resolution. In the meantime, one of Rove's opponents leaks a tape to The Washington Post of a Rove college seminar, in which Rove recounts a tale of dirty tricks. At Bush's request, an FBI agent questions Rove. Atwater signs an affidavit swearing that the dirty tricks story was told only in jest. A GOP investigating committee eventually clears Rove, and he takes the reins of the College Republicans. Politics has become his passion. But because of this, Rove never gets his college degree. 
As the College Republicans' chairman in Washington, the 22-year old Rove also performs small tasks for Bush, who is becoming one of his mentors. In November, Bush asks Rove to take a set of car keys to his son George W. Bush, who is visiting home during a break from Harvard Business School. Rove is instantly taken with the young Bush's charisma. The two hit it off.
1976-1979Raising money -- and his profile Rove moves to Virginia in 1976 to serve as finance director for the state GOP, which does not have a single fundraising event on its schedule. Within a year, Rove has pulled in more than $400,000 through direct mail. 
In January 1977, he relocates to Texas to work as a fundraiser for George H. W. Bush's presidential-exploration political action committee. Rove also serves as an informal adviser to George W. Bush, who is making his first run for Congress. Money flows into the young Bush's campaign, but Texas is a tough ground for Republicans -- the state is so dominated by Democrats that the number of Republicans in its senate can be counted on one hand. Bush loses. 
Rove fares better with another of his candidates, Bill Clements, who is running for governor. Clements wins, becoming the first Republican elected to that office in 104 years, and he makes Rove his chief of staff. 
Shortly after his move to Texas, Rove marries a Houston socialite, Valerie Wainwright, who is friendly with the Bush family. But Rove's busy schedule keeps him away from home much of the time. She files for divorce in 1979. Two years later, Rove's mother commits suicide.
1981-1984A growing business, a growing political party Rove opens a direct-mail business, Rove + Company, in Austin in 1981. He handpicks Republican candidates to run for statewide races and throws the firm's efforts behind them. At first, he is widely regarded as backing hopeless cases -- "funny, charming, but in a futile situation that no one thought would change very soon," recalls Kim Ross, a lobbyist for the Texas Medical Association. In 1982, every Republican running for a statewide office loses (including Gov. Clements, who is seeking re-election). 
But Rove sees that demographics in Texas are beginning to shift, and the burgeoning suburbs are fertile ground for Republicans seeking new voters. In 1983, Rove engineers U.S. Representative Phil Gramm's switch to the Republican Party and helps him win a Senate seat a year later. By the mid-'80s, thanks to Rove, the Texas GOP has the nation's first voter database and Rove has become a key player in state politics. 
1985-1986A blueprint for winning Rove, eager to see Clements in the governor's seat again, drafts a memo that foreshadows future Rove campaigns. He quotes Napoleon, advising candidates to put forth "a well-reasoned and extremely circumspect defensive, [sic] followed by rapid and audacious attack." In a later memo, he tells his candidates to focus on suburban voters, emphasizing education, traditional values and lower taxes and to take pains to appear "compassionate." Using Rove's strategy, Clements regains the governor's office in 1986. That year, Rove marries Darby Hickson, a graphic designer who works for his company.
1987-1988Rove helps remake the Texas Supreme Court Rove finds a neglected issue, tort reform, and turns it into a campaign weapon. The state Supreme Court, dominated by Democrats, regularly issues rulings that reward plaintiffs with huge amounts of money. The story is pushed to "60 Minutes," which runs an expose probing the influence of campaign money, particularly from Democratic trial lawyers, on judicial decisions in Texas. The issue receives widespread attention. Aided by an aggressive grassroots campaign called "Clean Slate '88," Rove engineers the election of a Republican as the state's chief justice, and conservatives go on to win five of the six open seats on the court that year. The judicial wins also help Rove build up a group of donors in the business community, and it has the added benefit of shutting down the trial lawyers -- and cutting off their money to the Democrats.
1989-1990Bush puts off a run for office; Rove focuses elsewhere Rove begins to nudge George W. Bush toward a run for Texas governor, bringing in experts to tutor him on policy and introducing him to local reporters. But Bush worries that voters will cry nepotism if he runs during his father's presidency and he postpones his candidacy. Rove backs another Republican for governor, but his candidate loses in the primaries and Democrat Ann Richards ultimately wins office in 1990. 
Still, Texas Republicans are increasingly finding that they can succeed in statewide races. Other Rove candidates are winning: Rick Perry, the future governor of the state, becomes agriculture commissioner, and Kay Bailey Hutchison becomes treasurer. "[Rove] ultimately, by the early 1990s, was the single most powerful political figure in Texas in determining who was on the ballot and who was not …" says Wayne Slater, author of Bush's Brain. "Karl's imprimatur was absolutely needed. Because unless you had the okay from Karl … then it was clear to the rest of the Republican Party that you would not have the money you needed to run a successful campaign."
1993-1994Bush wins the governorship Rove helps Hutchison win a special Senate election in 1993. He also has interests in Alabama, where he helps the GOP try to take control of the state Supreme Court, much as he did in Texas. But his real focus is still on George W. Bush.
 In 1993, he again urges George W. Bush to run for governor against Richards -- and this time, Bush agrees. According to Washington Post reporter Dana Milbank, Rove gives Bush a book, The Dream and the Nightmare by Myron Magnet, that will later form the basis of "compassionate conservatism." He also relies on many of his time-tested strategies, such as campaigning in small towns and the growing suburbs. Bush runs on four major issues: juvenile justice, tort reform, welfare reform, and education.
"So you had this model of four issues," says Slater, "so whenever George Bush was asked in the governor's race about a fifth issue or a sixth issue or a seventh issue, he invariably stayed on message, and moved back to these four issues." Bush is a longshot to beat Ann Richards, the extremely popular incumbent. But he rides a wave that also sweeps Republicans into power at the federal level, and in 1994 becomes Texas governor.
1995-1996Power in Texas and victories in Alabama Newly installed as governor, Bush pushes hard for the policies he campaigned on, but he also reaches out to Democratic legislators. Soon, buzz begins about an eventual presidential run. Rove's influence is still felt in the state legislature; in 1996, with the victory of Rove candidate Robert Duncan, Republicans gain control of the Texas senate. Rove's efforts in Alabama also bear fruit. According to The Atlantic Monthly, Rove allegedly arranges for the printing of anonymous fliers viciously attacking Harold See, his own candidate for a state Supreme Court seat. The ploy makes See's opponent look bad, and See wins the race. 
1998-1999The bigger contest ahead Running for re-election in 1998, Bush wins by a wide margin and Republicans also win every other statewide office. But Rove has a bigger contest on his mind: the presidency. Rove turns his full focus toward a Bush presidential run. As he did with Bush's gubernatorial campaign, he brings in teams of experts to tutor the candidate. He also ensures that reporters see Bush talking with luminaries from across the country -- a tactic modeled on William McKinley's 1896 "front porch" campaign. 
A year later, Bush officially announces he will run for president. By June of 1999, he and Rove have raised $36.3 million, nearly triple the previous record. According to the New York Review of Books, around this time Rove begins making national media contacts and forges an alliance with anti-tax lobbyist Grover Norquist, a renowned coalition builder within the Republican Party. 
Partly due to his fundraising juggernaut, Bush becomes the early favorite to win the Republican Party's presidential nomination. But he faces unexpectedly stiff competition from Arizona Sen. John McCain, a "straight-talking" Vietnam War hero who appeals to moderate Republicans and independents -- and whose campaign is being run by one of Rove's biggest rivals from his Texas days, John Weaver. Rove underestimates McCain's appeal, particularly in a state with open primaries, and is caught off-guard when McCain trounces Bush in the New Hampshire contest. "I think that any almost other campaign would not have survived that defeat. We lost by 19 points," says Republican strategist Mark McKinnon. "Guys that worked with me in that campaign who have worked on other presidential campaigns were literally packing their bags." 
Instead, Rove and Bush move on to the South Carolina primary, where they run a much tougher campaign, questioning McCain's commitment to pro-life policies, baiting him into going off message, and co-opting his own image as a reformer. In South Carolina, McCain faces a brutal whispering campaign about his mental health, his wife's admitted battle with a dependency on prescription drugs and whether he had fathered a black child out of wedlock. (The McCains had adopted a Bangladeshi child from Mother Teresa's orphanage.) Bush, whose campaign denies any role in the rumors, wins by a wide margin in South Carolina, and by March, McCain is out of the race. 
July-NovemberThe 2000 Campaign Rove feels that although the GOP is divided into several factions, the special interests within it can be brought together by their common views on certain issues. As a result, George W. Bush runs on some of the same planks that served him well in his Texas campaigns -- particularly education, which complements his "compassionate conservative" image -- and Rove encourages him to also emphasize faith-based initiatives. 
"They felt that the compassionate conservative notion provided an umbrella that let them not only speak to the base, but to speak to others who might be swing voters, others who might be a little more moderate in the party … ," says Washington Post reporter Dan Balz. "[The] issues always fit in, but it was always a sense of those issues as a way of stitching together the strongest Republican base you could have and build out from there."
Nov. 7, 2000Election Day Despite the last-minute revelation of Bush's 1976 DUI charge -- a development that Rove blames for a sudden dip in Bush's numbers -- the Republican camp projects confidence on Election Day. "You have Karl Rove travelling with the press, throwing a football around with the press, giving these predictions of these amazing Electoral College totals," says Washington Post reporter Mike Allen. "And it was an effort to build momentum." 
As the exit-polls and election results come in, and the networks first give Florida to Gore and then recant, Bush grows worried and calls his parents to warn them it could "be a long night." Rove, watching the results, knows that the networks are forgetting the Florida Panhandle, which he expects to show strong turnout for Bush. At 2 a.m. the morning after Election Day, the first of many Bush staffers are dispatched to Florida. 
With votes still being counted in Florida, Bush operatives are already planning their strategy for the 2004 election. Bush finally gains the presidency on Dec. 12. A month later, Rove -- now a senior adviser to the president and occupying the White House office that formerly belonged to Hillary Clinton -- launches the "72-Hour Task Force," an experiment in using grassroots efforts to win a campaign in its last three days.
Rove has already realized the importance of evangelical Christians to the Republican coalition. He believes that 4 million of them failed to vote for Bush in 2000, partly because of the Bush DUI charge. Rove begins to formulate a new strategy: Energize the conservative base and go after the evangelicals, Hispanics, Catholics, and other potential affinity groups to build a Republican majority.
 "The 72-hour project was designed, in a way, to get a piece here and a piece there," says Washington Post reporter Dan Balz. "How do we get social conservatives more significantly than we've been able to get them? How do we get people who have just moved into an area, who ought to be our voters, but who may be irregular voters? How do we get Hispanics? How do we get Roman Catholics? And there are pieces for all of that." 
Arriving at the White House, 50-year old senior adviser Karl Rove sets up an informal network -- comprised largely of consultants and unknown state legislators around the country -- to keep him abreast of political opinion in their regions. He also calls meetings once a week with the chiefs of staff at the cabinet agencies. "This is a White House that very much made sure that each one of [the agencies] out there is a mouthpiece for the president [and that they] do exactly as they've been told to do," says Washington Post reporter Dana Milbank. "So as another layer of White House control Karl has these meetings to find out what's being planned at the Cabinet agency, and more importantly, to tell them what they should be planning in the Cabinet agencies."
Summer 2001Gearing up for '02 and '04 In seminars with White House officials, Rove lays out his goals for the 2002 and 2004 campaigns, including appealing to minority voters, union households, and technology-sector workers. But Bush, who has by now withdrawn from the Kyoto Treaty negotiations and decided to limit stem-cell research, is already becoming a polarizing president. In reaction to Bush's policies, Sen. James Jeffords of Vermont leaves the Republican Party, eliminating the Republican majority in the Senate. The increasing opposition to Bush influences Rove's new strategy. 
"They made this decision that there was going to only be a 7 percent swing vote," says Washington Post reporter Thomas Edsall. "Given that, it was much more important to shift the focus from past focuses on persuasion … and switch it to motivation … of your own people, but ones who are not getting out there to vote, either because they're not registered or because they're just too lazy." 
Domestic policy and politics take a backseat after the terrorist attacks on the U.S. on Sept. 11, 2001. "I think what you felt in the early moments at least, after 9/11, was the absence of Rove," says Washington Post reporter Dana Milbank. "He has plenty of things to say about welfare, economic policy and taxes. He's not a military guy. … He receded quite a bit as a public figure." 
But Rove continues quietly planning for Bush's re-election. In November, the 72-Hour Task Force tracks five different elections around the country. The chief finding: grassroots get-out-the-vote efforts really can work. 
April-June 2002The return of Rove With the war in Afghanistan won, Rove starts to re-assert his influence. Karen Hughes, Bush's campaign communications director who sometimes competed with Rove for power, resigns as a White House counselor and is replaced by Dan Bartlett, a Rove protégé since the age of 22. Some observers notice a more confrontational tone emanating from the White House and more aggressive appeals to its conservative base. 
In June, a PowerPoint presentation written by Rove -- and describing the war on terror as a crucial campaign issue -- is mysteriously found in Lafayette Park, across from the White House. 
November 2002The 72-Hour Task Force and a historic victory In the 2002 midterm elections, the GOP focuses on turnout, volunteer activity, and early voting, implementing lessons it learned from the 72-Hour Task Force's experiments the previous year. Rove, who handpicked many of the candidates and the issues they have run on, also hammers Democrats for their opposition to the Republican homeland security bill. Conventional wisdom is that the president's party typically loses seats in the midterm elections, but Republicans pick up seats in both houses, winning back control of Congress, and enhancing its numbers in statewide races in North Carolina, Florida, and Georgia. The president's approval ratings are also still high in the wake of 9/11.
2003Laying the groundwork for Bush's re-election Rove's original plan for Bush's race now looks outdated. In May, Rove meets with the president and lays out a new strategy: Raise $170 million or more. Maximize the turnout from the base. Energize suburban voters. 
In July he tells Republican National Committee chairman Ed Gillespie that the key will be registering previously unaffiliated voters as Republicans. By the end of the year, Rove has resolved to bury Howard Dean (he is less concerned about John Kerry) and is pushing Bush to raise ever more money. Dean's loss in the Iowa caucuses -- and his resulting infamous "scream" speech -- is only a month and a half away.
Rove finds himself in an awkward position. After pounding McCain in the 2000 primaries, he must find a way to bring the senator, who is also being pursued by John Kerry, into Bush's camp. To do so will require Rove to make peace with an enemy from his days in Texas politics: John Weaver, McCain's chief adviser. Rove succeeds, McCain publicly embraces the president the next month. 
Meanwhile, Rove and the Bush campaign turn their efforts to discrediting Kerry, emphasizing the candidate's seeming "flip-flops" in his position over the war in Iraq. [For more on this, see FRONTLINE's interview with Bush strategist Mark McKinnon.]
August-October 2004The last big push Rove pushed for the Republican convention to be in New York so as to capitalize on the memory of 9/11, and he gets his wish. He is also pleased with Bush's performance in the presidential debates. He begins to make more time for personal appearances and talking with the press. But as the election gets closer, he feels the stress of the campaign and obsesses over "metrics," or precise, constant measurements of voter registration numbers and many other indicators of voter turnout for those groups the Republicans have targeted. 
A week before the election, some Republicans are concerned, but Rove predicts victory. "They had it, in their own mind, down to a science," says Washington Post report Dan Balz. "Call this many people, you'll get this percent vote. … They seemed to believe they had more options on the table than Kerry did."
Rove is initially upset by the early exit-poll numbers, which he receives via phone on Air Force One. They indicate a Kerry landslide. But he quickly realizes that they are not an accurate picture of the actual results. His get-out-the-vote strategy is in full swing, and he has recruited hundreds of thousands of volunteers, particularly in fast-growing rural and suburban areas, a throwback to his early success in Texas. Crunching numbers late into the night, Rove deduces Bush will win both Ohio and Florida. Around 10:30 p.m., he tells Bush to hold back on declaring victory -- but he nonetheless makes his own triumphant announcement to the senior staff.
"Everyone in the room knew what that meant," says Washington Post reporter Mike Allen. "He was the architect of the public policies that got them there, he was the architect of the campaign platform, he was the architect of the fundraising strategy, he was the architect of the state-by-state strategy, he was the architect of the travel itinerary. His hand was in all of it." 
A few days later, Rove tells reporters this has been his last presidential campaign. A week later, he backtracks, noting that people in the White House have told him it was "a really stupid thing to say." 
February 2005"They aren't kidding around" Rove is promoted. President Bush announces that he will now be assistant to the president, deputy chief of staff and a senior adviser, the title reflecting influence over both politics and policy. Rove also gets a new office, just steps away from the Oval Office. 
With Bush re-elected, Rove is thinking long-term. He intends to use both politics and policy to create a permanent Republican majority. He designs a legislative agenda that he hopes will lead to future Republican gains. High on the list: an overhaul and partial privatization of Social Security, and the appointment of "strict constructionist" judges who will reverse what many Republicans see as judicial activism. "I think what they are trying to do is bigger than the Great Society, and approaches the New Deal," says Washington Post reporter Thomas Edsall. "They aren't kidding around."
This chronology was compiled from articles and excerpts from the following magazines, newspapers, television reports, Web sites and books:
Bush's Brain, by Wayne Slater; Frontline's "The Choice 2004;" The New Yorker; The Washington Post; Boy Genius, by Lou Dubose, Jan Reid, and Carl M. Cannon; Newsweek; The Los Angeles Times; The Atlantic Monthly; U.S. News & World Report; Esquire; The New York Review of Books; PBS's P.O.V. program on Texas politics.
Sam Gwynne, Wayne Slater, Thomas Edsall, Dan Balz, Bill Miller, Christine Todd Whitman, Grover Norquist, Mary Matalin, Joe Abate, Rick Davis, David Weeks, David Broder, Kimble Ross, Royal Masset, Reggi Bashur, Ken Mehlman, Ralph Reed, Matthew Dowd, Tom Philips, Ed Gillespie, Mark McKinnon, Laura Blumenfeld, Dana Milbank, Mike Allen, Terry Nelson, Sara Taylor, and Mike DuHaime
=======================================================
of friends and associates. He was chairman of the College Republicans when George Herbert Walker Bush was chairman of the state Republican
put George W. Bush in the White House," Salon magazine, June 16, 1999, (http://www.salon.com/news/feature/1999/06/16/advisors/index1.html);
=======================================================
In his book and the various interviews and speeches surrounding publication, Karl Rove has made a point of attacking information Wayne Slater and I reported and published regarding Rove's background and the formative years of his political belief system.  The topic he has seemed most prickly about deals with his father's sexual orientation.  As is his practice, Rove ignores facts to practice skilled denial.   
Louis Rove's personal life was nobody's business until his adopted son decided to make gay rights a wedge issue in the campaigns of George W. Bush. Rove, who recently pleaded for privacy during divorce from his wife Darby, pushed policies in campaigns that were designed to interfere in the private lives of gays, lesbians, and transgender people. Rove has no right to demand privacy when he refuses to respect it in the lives of other individuals and families.  His relationship with his father is context for his politics and interest in his father is a consequence of those politics.    
When he was interviewed by Matt Lauer on The Today Show, Rove said he had no idea if his father was gay.  If this is the case, Karl was one of the few people who knew Louis Rove that was not aware of his sexual orientation.  In our book, The Architect: Karl Rove and the Dream of Absolute Power, (I disagreed with the publisher's hyperbolic subtitle), I interviewed several people in Palm Springs, California about Louis Rove and his politically ambitious son.  Joseph Koons, who was Louis Rove's best friend for 13 years, told me, "Louie didn't hide the fact that he was gay. But he didn't play it up either.  We had lots of gay and straight friends.  I was never the effeminate type and neither was Louie.  We didn't play it up that way, either.  But he was gay.  And so am I."
Although Joe Koons, a retired insurance company executive, was the only one of Louis Rove's gay friends to go on the record for our book, two other neighbors were quoted and confirmed that Rove had lived openly as a gay man.  Koons took Rove to numerous social gatherings with other older gay men but Louis preferred to spend his time at home in his Palm Springs neighborhood.  Koons said he was not romantically involved with Louis but was as "close as a brother" and that Karl was completely aware of his father's sexual orientation.  
During an interview for our first book on Rove, Bush's Brain: How Karl Rove Made George W. Bush Presidential, we asked the president's political guru about the causes for the breakup of his parent's marriage and what might have driven his mother, Reba Wood Rove, to commit suicide.  At the time, we were not aware of Louis Rove's sexual orientation and were simply asking Karl to speculate because he remembered so vividly his father coming home on Christmas Eve, an ensuing argument, and then the end of the marriage without any real explanation from his mother.  An astute observer even at 19 when the marriage failed, Rove continues to claim 40 years later that he had no clue then or now that his dad way gay.  When I went to Palm Springs in 2005 prior to the publication of The Architect, one of Louis Rove's neighbors literally laughed when I told him Karl claimed he didn't know what happened to his parents' marriage.
"He [Karl] was obviously hurt by the divorce.  It's just absurd when he says, 'I had no idea what the problems were with my parents and their marriage.'  He knew damned good and well what was going on.  His father had decided to come out of the closet."  
In fact, according to Louis Rove's best friend Joe Koons, Rove not only knew his father's sexual orientation but also was comfortable with it and had accepted his father's honesty. 
"I don't recall that there was any great tension over it," Koons told me during the 2005 interview.  "I don't know how much impact that plays in the family and when they did find out about it.  Karl is certainly not dumb.  I am sure he knows more than anyone about his father's position.  The times I spent with Karl and Louie were wonderful and Karl was always just very, very nice." 
Karl, in fact, according to Koons and Louis Rove's neighbors, was a frequent visitor to Palm Springs beginning in the 80s and vacationed almost annually with his father in Santa Fe, New Mexico.  It would have been difficult for Rove to not know this fundamental fact about his father.  
Rove does get one thing correct in his book.  He said that we wrote his father, "after living openly as a gay man," died quietly at home while his son was in the midst of launching the anti-gay issues campaign that was to lead to the re-election of George W. Bush." In his TV interviews, Rove twisted this around to make it sound like we were portraying him as a man who had denied his father, which was not the case.  The chapter in our book regarding Louis and Karl Rove repeatedly makes it clear that Bush's Brain honored and loved Louis and was present for a private memorial service.
Lastly, I want to say bluntly I don't give a damn about Louis or Karl Rove's personal lives.  But when Karl decided that the private and personal lives of other consenting adults needed to be corrected to suit the moral imperatives of his party's political desires, well, then Karl turned his family into a part of the narrative.  As he promotes his revisionist paperweight around the country, he is allowed to take an aggrieved stand of someone whose privacy has been invaded by amoral journalists.  What about the lives harmed or ruined by the sexual politics of Rove's mean-spirited campaigning?  How is that measured? 
Originally, I had told friends I did not want to be drawn into discussions about Rove's book.  I've come to resent the poisonous nature of the discourse in our national politics.  The notion, however, that silence is consent is more than a little unsettling.  Rove started his political ascension with lies and he has now published a book that is filled with a new set of lies that attempt to convince the entirety of America that during the Bush administration everybody got everything wrong; except for Karl and President Bush.  This, too, is another Rove lie.  And it's criminal for myself or anyone else to allow his lies to continue to live.  
                                        In The Architect, a new book chronicling Karl Rove's life and conservative agenda, authors James Moore and Wayne Slater, reveal Rove's father, Louis Rove, was...
=======================================================
He masterminded George Bush's transformation from boozing brat to national leader, and has been called the most powerful adviser in the White House. Now Karl Rove is in charge of the $150m campaign to re-elect Bush. Who is the man the president calls his 'boy genius'? By  Julian Borger
	    In the autumn election season of 1970, a cherubic, bespectacled teenager turned up at the Chicago campaign headquarters of Alan Dixon, a Democrat running for state treasurer in Illinois. No one paid the newcomer much attention when he arrived, or when he left soon afterwards. Nor did anyone in the office make the connection between the mystery volunteer and 1,000 invitations on campaign stationery that began circulating in Chicago's red-light district and soup kitchens, promising "free beer, free food, girls and a good time for nothing" for all-comers at Dixon's headquarters. As political dirty tricks go, it was minor league. Hundreds of the city's heavy drinkers and homeless turned up at a smart Dixon reception looking for free booze. Dixon was embarrassed but the plot failed to stop his momentum: he was elected state treasurer and went on to become a senator. But the teenager who stole his letterheads, Karl Rove, has gone even further.  Over the past week, Rove, now aged 53, has been in his White House office overseeing George Bush's $150m re-election strategy. The Bush camp was content to keep its powder dry while the Democrats were selecting their candidate, but now that John Kerry has been officially chosen, Republican campaigning proper has begun.  Steering it, and constantly at Bush's shoulder, is the president's "political adviser", Rove. The nerdy political brawler with only a secondary school education is now the man the president likes to call his "boy genius" - a testament to Rove's role in orchestrating Bush's rise from a feckless, hard-drinking politician's brat to Texas governor to president in barely a decade. And unlike other electoral svengalis who have gone before him, Rove has carried his power intact from the campaign bus to the White House.  "I think it's an enormous position of power, and it's hard to overstate. I think he's unique in the modern presidency," says Lou Dubose, a Texan journalist and Rove biographer. Rove's office is tight-lipped about the extent of his duties, but the few un-vetted memoirs to have escaped from this highly disciplined administration have all portrayed him as the single most powerful figure in it, with the (possible) exceptions of the president and vice-president.  "Karl is enormously powerful, maybe the single most powerful person in the modern, post-Hoover era ever to occupy a political adviser post near the Oval Office," John DiIulio, a former presidential adviser, wrote in a notoriously frank email to a journalist from Esquire magazine, after resigning in 2001. "Little happens on any issue without Karl's OK, and often he supplies such policy substance as the administration puts out."   Earlier this year, for instance, Paul O'Neill, Bush's former treasury secretary, gave an account of a pivotal cabinet meeting in late 2002 to discuss a second round of deep tax cuts, at which the president apparently had second thoughts about focusing so much of the benefits on the wealthy. "Didn't we already give them a break at the top?" Bush asks, according to O'Neill's account. Rove brings the president back in line, urging him to "stick to principle". Rove won the day, and O'Neill was forced out of the cabinet.  By his own account, Rove's sights are set even further into the future than Bush's re-election. He has spoken about strategic shifts of power that happen every so often in American history. The precedent he often refers to was set over a century ago by William McKinley, another Republican with brilliant advisers, who narrowly defeated a populist Democrat (William Jennings Bryan) in 1896 and established a Republican hegemony that lasted more than three decades.  The Republicans now control the presidency, the senate, and the house of representatives. Rove's task now is to consolidate that dominance of the White House and Capitol Hill and then use it to recast the Washington's third source of power, the supreme court, from its current cautious conservatism to a more red-blooded Republicanism.  To achieve that, Rove has to win the November elections for the Republicans. They have all the advantages of incumbency, but there is disillusion in the air over unemployment and the Iraq war, and a newly united Democratic party behind Kerry is making inroads in the polls. On the other hand, the Republicans have Rove, to whom no other campaign strategist comes close.  Rove prepared for the harder edges of US politics by surviving his youth. Born on Christmas Day 1950 in Denver, Colorado, he grew up in or near the Rockies, where his father worked as a geologist. On his 19th birthday, his father walked out on him. Soon afterwards, he found out that he was not his father after all, the news dropped into a dinner-table conversation by his aunt and uncle. Twelve years later, alone in Reno, his mother committed suicide.  At high school in Utah, Rove was known as a nerd and a motor-mouth, unpopular but irrepressibly opinionated. While his peers were fixated on girls he became obsessed with school politics, campaigning for student positions in a precocious jacket and tie. Although his parents were apolitical, he was a vocal Nixon supporter from the age of nine.  Like Dick Cheney, he avoided the Vietnam draft with a college deferment, but gave up his education to work on Republican campaigns, and never got a degree. He launched his political career by wresting control of the College Republicans, a radical group in the Nixon era. It was an unpleasant business. In an interesting precursor to the Florida battle 17 years later, Rove took on his opponent, Robert Edgeworth, principally on procedural grounds - challenging the credentials of every single Edgeworth delegate to the1973 College Republican convention and putting forward a rival delegate.  The aggressive tactics won the 22-year-old Rove a walk-on role in the Watergate saga that was consuming the nation. A report was published in the Washington Post on August 10, 1973, titled "[Republican party] Probes Official as Teacher of Tricks", gave an account, based on tape recordings, of how Rove and a colleague had been touring the country giving young Republicans political combat training, in which they recalled their feats of derring-do, such as Rove's Chicago heist at the Dixon headquarters.  At the time, Rove claimed the tape had been doctored to exclude a warning to the audience not to try to emulate any of his past misdeeds. Others present simply remember a caution not to get caught. The publicity forced the intervention of the Republican National Committee and its chairman, a former Texas congressman clinging on to his political career: George Herbert Walker Bush. After considering the case, Bush Sr took action. He drove Edgeworth out of the party on suspicion of having leaked the tapes, and hired Rove, bringing him to Washington.  The incident marked the genesis of the Rove-Bush axis and it was in Washington that Rove met the younger Bush. He fell, politically speaking, in love. "Huge amounts of charisma, swagger, cowboy boots, flight jacket, wonderful smile, just charisma - you know, wow," Rove recalled years later. In 1977, Rove was sent to Texas, in theory to run a political action committee, but according to one Texan political consultant who knew him at the time, "It was really to baby-sit Bush back when Bush was drinking".   While doing that, Rove discovered his true calling. He set up a "direct mail" operation, Rove + Company [sic], pinpointing potential Republican voters and sending them fundraising or voter registration letters written specifically to appeal to the target audience.  At this time, he married Valerie Wainright, a wealthy Houston woman from the Bush social circle, but the marriage could not withstand his consuming preoccupation with politics.(He married his second wife, Darby, in 1986.)  Rove was in Texas at a turning point in its political history. The Democrats' hegemony, inherited from the civil war era, was crumbling, as the party moved to the left and Republican northerners moved into the state's city suburbs. Election by election, post by post, the Republicans began to take over the state, and Rove was there to help them.  The 1986 governor's race was a prime example. The contest between Rove's Republican client, Bill Clements, and the Democratic incumbent, Mark White, was neck and neck, when Rove announced he had found an electronic listening device in his office, and cried foul. The furore swung the election to Clements and to this day Texan Democrats are convinced Rove concocted the whole episode.  Eight years later, another Democrat, Anne Richards, occupied the governor's mansion, but Rove was promoting another Republican candidate, George W Bush. Governor Richards' advisers laughed openly at the challenge, but they were in for a shock. "We did not believe that Bush would be as disciplined as he was. He was extremely disciplined," recalls George Shipley, who was then Richards' campaign adviser. "Karl gave him 10 index cards and said, 'This is what you are going to say. Don't confuse yourself with the issues.' It's the model for the presidency."  In its last days, the 1994 campaign also turned nasty. Texan voters began receiving calls from "pollsters" asking questions such as: "Would you be more or less likely to vote for Governor Richards if you knew her staff is dominated by lesbians?" In the business, it is called "push-polling" and Shipley has no doubt who was behind it."Rove has used this kind of dirty tricks in every campaign he's ever run."  Only circumstantial evidence links Rove to the push-polling. In fact, his fingerprints have not been found on any dirty tricks since his College Republican days. Ray Sullivan, a political consultant who worked for Rove on a string of campaigns, argues that Rove is the target of "revisionist history" that portrays every low blow in every campaign to his orchestration. "He can be tough," Sullivan says, but insists he was always fair. "Politics in Texas is a contact sport. It is rough and tumble but those who cut corners and don't back up claims with facts don't last very long and Karl has lasted longer than anyone."  Last year, however, Rove's taste for personal politics entangled him in an extraordinary spy scandal. He is reported to have made calls to Washington journalists last July identifying a CIA undercover agent, Valerie Plame, who was married to Joseph Wilson, a former ambassador who had called into question the administration's claims about Iraq's alleged nuclear programme. Rove allegedly told the journalists that Plame was "fair game" because her husband had gone public with his criticism.  A grand jury is now investigating the leak of Plame's name, a federal felony. Rove has denied being its source, and Wilson believes now he may have tried to push the story only after her name had already been published. Rove has yet to appear before the grand jury, but he has retained an expensive Washington lawyer.  It is a dangerous moment for Rove, but he has escaped from a litany of political scandals unscathed, and even enhanced. Bush's other nickname for the Boy Genius is "Turd Blossom" - a Texanism for a flower that blooms from cattle excrement. This year, there should be ample opportunity for him to earn the title.
		   		    			    									   	This article appeared  on p2 of the G2 section of 					   	the Guardian
                                    			Sam Wollaston gets a hands-on (well, hands-on-ish) preview of the future of motoring on the highways of Gothenburg
                                    			Unmanned aircraft are taking off everywhere. Charles Arthur attempts to pilot one
  .m-zeitgeist ol li.footer { clear: both; padding-left: 0px !important; padding-top: 5px !important; }
  .m-zeitgeist #most-zeitgeist ol li .zeit-link {background-color: #fff; padding: 5px 0 9px 5px; border-top: 1px dotted #999; margin-bottom: 0px;  }  
  .m-zeitgeist #most-zeitgeist ol li.footer { border-top:1px dotted #999; padding: 5px 0 9px 10px; margin-left: 5px }  
  .m-zeitgeist #most-zeitgeist .what-is { float: none; padding: 0 3px; vertical-align: middle; cursor: pointer; }
  .zeit-popup { position: absolute; display: none; background-color: #dbedf3; color: #333; padding: 6px; width: 200px; }    
                                    			Follow NSA-related developments as controversy over leaks continues to make headlines
	.m-guardianbookshop h4 { border-top: none !important; font-weight: bold; margin-left: 5px !important; padding: 5px 0 8px 0 !important; }
	.m-guardianbookshop input { border: 1px solid #999; width: 75%; min-height: 16px; margin-top: 8px; padding: 3px 2px;}
                                    			Bradley Wiggins capped his remarkable sporting year by taking home the big prize at the ceremony in London
                                    			A glass of wine with a rough sleeper, Santa in trunks, a thousand partying Muscovites … in a My Best Shot special, top photographers pick the image that sums up winter for them
                                    			Kimon, an eight-year-old pet female long-tailed monkey, treats a kitten as her baby in Bintan Island, Indonesia
=======================================================
ul.multicol2,ul.multicol3 {float:left;width:100%;margin:0;padding:0;list-style:none;text-align:center}
Karl RovePresidential AdvisorBorn: 25 December 1950Birthplace: Denver, ColoradoBest known as: The chief political advisor to George W. BushKarl Rove was often called "Bush's Brain" for his political genius in directing George W. Bush's successful campaigns for governor of Texas and president of the United States.  Rove became active in Republican party politics in the 1970s,  when he knew Bush's father, George H. W. Bush.  Rove ran the elder Bush's unsuccessful primary campaign for president against Ronald Reagan in 1980, and then worked in Texas for Republican politicians, among them Senator Phil Gramm.  He started a consulting firm, Karl Rove & Company, in 1981 and began to pile up political successes as well as complaints about his aggressive and sometimes underhanded campaign tactics. He helped guide George W. Bush to wins in the Texas gubernatorial elections in 1994 and 1998, then ran Bush's successful presidential campaigns in 2000 and 2004.  He remained a close advisor to Bush in the White House, managing the Office of Political Affairs, the Office of Public Liaison and the Office of Strategic Initiatives. He resigned at the end of August, 2007, and became a commentator for the cable channel Fox News.Copyright © 1998-2014			by Who2?, LLC. All rights reserved.More on Karl Rove from Infoplease:
Karl Rove, - Karl Rove, one of President Bush's closest advisers, was revealed to be the secret source used ...Karl Rove - Biography of Karl Rove, The chief political advisor to George W. BushBush's Brain - Starring Jacques Vroom2005 People in the News - 2005 People in the News Mahmoud Abbas (Abu Mazen), Jack Abramoff, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Askar ...Joseph Maxwell (Max) CLELAND - Joseph Maxwell (Max) CLELAND (1942-Â ) Senate Years of Service: 1997- 2003 Party: Democrat ...
Warning: fsockopen(): php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
Warning: fsockopen(): unable to connect to :3128 (php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known) in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/loading-indicator._V192185253_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif');
        background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/buttons._V243643239_.gif')
    background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/traffic/s9m/alert-small._V195630253_.gif");
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/donsbeak-sm-up._V197474569_.png) no-repeat 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite-mini.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
Karl Rove served as Senior Advisor to President George W. Bush from 2000-2007 and Deputy Chief of Staff from 2004-2007. At the White House he oversaw the Offices of Strategic Initiatives, Political Affairs, Public Liaison, and Intergovernmental Affairs and was Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, coordinating the White House policy-making process.Karl has been described by respected author and columnist Michael Barone in U.S. News & World Report as "...unique...no Presidential appointee has ever had such a strong influence on politics and policy, and none is likely to do so again anytime soon." Washington Post columnist David Broder has called Karl a master political strategist whose "game has always been long term...and he plays it with an intensity and attention to detail that few can match." Fred Barnes, executive editor of The Weekly Standard, has called Karl "the greatest political… Read more(please enable JavaScript to read more)
Karl Rove served as Senior Advisor to President George W. Bush from 2000-2007 and Deputy Chief of Staff from 2004-2007. At the White House he oversaw the Offices of Strategic Initiatives, Political Affairs, Public Liaison, and Intergovernmental Affairs and was Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, coordinating the White House policy-making process.Karl has been described by respected author and columnist Michael Barone in U.S. News & World Report as "...unique...no Presidential appointee has ever had such a strong influence on politics and policy, and none is likely to do so again anytime soon." Washington Post columnist David Broder has called Karl a master political strategist whose "game has always been long term...and he plays it with an intensity and attention to detail that few can match." Fred Barnes, executive editor of The Weekly Standard, has called Karl "the greatest political mind of his generation and probably of any generation... He knows history, understands the moods of the public, and is a visionary on matters of public policy."Before Karl became known as "The Architect" of President Bush's 2000 and 2004 campaigns, he was president of Karl Rove + Company, an Austin-based public affairs firm that worked for Republican candidates, non-partisan causes, and non-profit groups. His clients included over 75 Republican U.S. Senate, Congressional, and gubernatorial candidates in 24 states, as well as the Moderate Party of Sweden.As a Fox News contributor, Karl provides a "genuine feel of inside knowledge," says David Zurawik, Baltimore Sun television critic. Megan Garber, of the Columbia Journalism Review, says Karl has "focused his punditry on what he knows best: strategy." Even the New York Times acclaims that "Rove's substantive contributions may now inspire a little work ethic among the celebrity talking heads who may be forced to bring to the news a little more data and a little less opinion, a recalibration that would be welcome to its devoted viewers."Karl writes a weekly op-ed for the Wall Street Journal, is a Newsweek columnist, and is the author of the forthcoming book "Courage and Consequence" (Threshold Editions).A Colorado native, he attended the University of Utah, the University of Maryland-College Park, George Mason University, and the University of Texas at Austin.Karl has taught graduate students at UT Austin's Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs and undergraduates in a joint appointment from the Journalism and Government departments at the university. He was also a faculty member at the Salzburg Seminar.He was previously a member of the Board of International Broadcasting, which oversaw the operations of Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty, and served on the White House Fellows regional selection panel. He was also a member of the Boards of Regents at Texas Women's Union and East Texas State University.Karl now serves on the Board of Trustees for the Texas Parks and Wildlife Foundation and the Texas State History Museum Foundation. He is also a member of the McDonald Observatory Board of Visitors and the Texas Philosophical Society.
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/tile-blue-bg._V46870869_.gif)
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tl._V192184760_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tm._V192184721_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tr._V192184429_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bl._V192184824_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bm._V192184603_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-br._V192545463_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tl2._V192545542_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tr2._V192545537_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-bl._V192545543_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-br._V192545543_.gif);
Help us improve our Author Pages by updating your bibliography and submitting a new or current image and biography.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
.media td{text-align:center;vertical-align:bottom;padding:.5em;padding-top:1em;max-width:180px;width:25%;}.media a{text-decoration:none;font-size:9pt;}.media img{box-shadow:1px 1px 5px #111;-webkit-box-shadow:1px 1px 5px #111;-moz-box-shadow:1px 1px 5px #111;clear:both;text-align:center;vertical-align:middle;background:#fff;padding:5px;margin:5px;border:1px solid #bbb;}.media small{color:#008000;font-size:8pt;clear:both;}.media a, .media small{width:99%;white-space:nowrap;overflow:hidden;text-overflow:ellipsis;-o-text-overflow:ellipsis;-ms-text-overflow:ellipsis;display:inline-block;vertical-align:top;}#IE .media a, #IE .media small{white-space:normal;clear:both;}.media li{margin-left:1em;}.media li img{margin-left:0px;}.hide{position:absolute;text-indent:-1000em;}.clear{clear:both;height:0;}.sep{border-top:1px solid #e5e5e5;margin-top:10px;height:0;}.sprite{text-indent:-9999px;display:block;}.hide, .clear, .sep, .sprite{overflow:hidden;}.clip{position:absolute !important;clip:rect(1px 1px 1px 1px);clip:rect(1px,1px,1px,1px);}.ghost{color:#b9b9b9;}.suggestPanel{position:absolute;display:none;background-color:#fff;text-align:left;border:1px solid #7F9DB9;font-size:12pt;}.suggest_link{padding:2px 6px;overflow:hidden;}.suggest_link_over{padding:2px 6px;overflow:hidden;background-color:#0F6FBC;color:#fff;cursor:pointer;}#ifSpellSuggest{display:inline;}.wdgt> *{margin-bottom:8px;}.wdgt b{background:#CC0000;color:#fff;padding:0px 4px;font-weight:bolder;margin-right:8px;box-shadow:1px 1px 3px #aaa;-webkit-box-shadow:1px 1px 3px #aaa;-moz-box-shadow:1px 1px 3px #aaa;text-shadow:1px 1px 0 #444;}.wdgt a{text-decoration:underline;font-weight:normal;}small.status{vertical-align:text-top;font-size:72%;font-weight:bold;margin:0px 6px 0px -3px;}#infolang{color:#6490CB;font-size:10px;white-space:nowrap;padding:5px 0px;margin:0px;min-width:;background:#f6f8f7 url(http://gfx2.info.com+'/bkg_bar.gif') 80 repeat-x;}#infolang option{border-color:red;background-color:#D2E4FC;color:#6490CB;}#infolang form, #infolang select{padding:0px;margin:0px;vetical-align:top;font-size:10px;}#infolang a{text-decoration:none;color:#6490CB;}#infolang a:hover{text-decoration:underline;color:black;}#f{white-space:nowrap;clear:both;margin-bottom:1em;}#f a, #f a:visited{text-decoration:none;font-weight:normal;}#f a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}#f .links{margin:0 auto 0 auto;display:block;clear:both;text-align:center;}#f .links a{margin:0px 9px;}#f .copy{text-align:center;padding-top:.8em;color:#808080;margin-bottom:2em;}#f .copy .g{margin-left:3em;display:inline;}#f .links, #f .sep{border:0;color:#E5E5E5;}.INFO{float:left;width:154px;height:60px;padding-top:6px;text-align:right;}.INFO img{display:inline;}html, body{font-size:100%;height:100%;font-family:arial, verdana, sans-serif;}html, body, form, h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6, p, ul, table{margin:0;padding:0;}img{border:0;display:block;}ul{list-style-type:none;}a{color:#1D49B2;}a:hover{text-decoration:*;}a:visited{color:*;}#p{font-size:.82em;margin:0 auto;min-width:650px;padding-left:14px;width:992px;}#l{width:150px;float:left;clear:both;margin-top:*;text-align:right;}#r{width:240px;float:left;padding-left:8px;margin-top:*;border-left:1px solid #e5e5e5;overflow:hidden;}#IE6 #r{position:relative;}.rw{margin:10px;}#p.l #w{padding-left:174px;}#p.r #w{padding-right:250px;}#cw{float:left;margin-top:*;width:100%;}#IE6 #cw{width:98%;}#cw .sep{margin:10px 0px 0 -12px;}.cw{margin-left:*;padding-left:*;padding-right:10px;width:auto;}#p.r .cw{margin-right:*;}#hw, #c, #fw{margin:0 auto;width:auto;}#fw{height:90px;}#f .links{padding-top:2em;}.P4 ul li h3, .F3 ul li h3 {display:inline;margin:0;font-size:1em;font-weight:normal;}#l form{margin:1em 0px;}#l label{clear:both;display:block;line-height:1.8em;}#l input{float:right;}.tabs a, .tabs a:visited, .tabs a:active{display:block;font-size:1.2em;outline:none;color:#1d49b2;}.tabs .on a, .tabs .on a:visited, .tabs .on a:active{font-size:1.2em;padding-left:8px;color:#000;}.tabs a{text-decoration:none;padding:0 0 0 8px;}.tabs a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.tabs li{margin:3px 0;line-height:27px;}.tabs .on{display:block;font-weight:bold;border-left:none;}#IE9 .tabs .on, #CHROME .tabs .on, #SAFARI .tabs .on, #IE8 .tabs .on{padding-top:1px;}#IE9 .tabs a{padding-top:1px;}.xtr .sep{margin:11px 10px;}.xtr ul{margin-top:2em;}.xtr li{margin:3px 0;line-height:22px;padding-right:16px;}.xtr a, .xtr a:visited, .xtr a:active{color:#515151;line-height:16px;}.xtr a{padding:0 0 0 9px;text-decoration:none;}.xtr a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.xtr p{padding:0 0 0 8px;margin:0 0 6px;font-weight:bold;}input{-webkit-appearance:none;-webkit-border-radius:0;}#h .sb, #f .sb{float:left;}#h .sb .sb-c, #f .sb .sb-c{padding-left:8px;}#h .sb{padding-top:25px;}.attrib{display:inline-block;}.attrib img{margin-top:3px;}.MSRW{color:#626262;font-size:0.9em;font-weight:normal;margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0;}.qkwSearchBox{border:1px solid transparent;}.qkwSearchBox:hover{border-color:transparent;}.qkwSearchBox input[type="text"]:focus, .qkwSearchBox input[type="search"]:focus{outline:0;outline:thin dotted \9;border-color:#6490cb;-webkit-box-shadow:inset 0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.075), 0 0 8px #6490cb;-moz-box-shadow:inset 0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.075), 0 0 8px #6490cb;box-shadow:inset 0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.075), 0 0 8px #6490cb;}.qkw{color:#000 !important;font-size:1.4em;font-weight:normal;font-family:arial, verdana, sans-serif;width:100%;position:relative;height:28px !important;padding:5px 3px 4px 6px !important;border:1px solid #6490CB !important;background:transparent;}#IE6 .qkw, #IE7 .qkw, #IE8 .qkw{line-height:28px;}.sqkw{cursor:pointer;font-weight:normal;font-size:1.5em;margin:0 0 0 10px;padding:0;display:block;white-space:nowrap;position:relative;text-shadow:0 1px 3px rgba(0,0,0,40);border:none;width:80px !important;line-height:40px;height:40px;}.sqkw:hover{text-shadow:0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.7);}.QKW{position:relative;width:731px !important;float:left;}.QKW .sqkw_{display:inline;color:#fff;border:0;height:39px !important;background:#6490CB;}.QKW .sqkw_:hover{color:#6490CB;}.QKW td{vertical-align:top;}.QKW a, .QKW a:hover, .QKW a:active, .QKW a:visited{text-decoration:none;color:#fff;}#IE6 .QKW form{zoom:100%;}#IE .QKW td{vertical-align:middle;}.P{clear:both;text-align:center;white-space:nowrap;margin:15px 0px 15px -8px;max-width:608px;font-size:1.24em;color:#000;}.P a{text-decoration:none;color:#1d49b2;}.P a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.P a:visited{color:#660099;}.P span, .P span a{font-weight:bold;}.P a, .P span{padding:6px 8px;margin:0 5px;zoom:100%;}.P span.nextRes, .P span.prevRes{padding:0px;margin:0px;}#c{margin-top:8px;}#c .more a:link{text-decoration:none;font-size:1em;}#c .more a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.AYLF a, .aylfResult a{text-decoration:none;color:#1d49b2;font-size:1.1em;text-transform:capitalize;}.AYLF a:visited, .aylfResult a:visited{color:#660099;}.AYLF a:active, .aylfResult a:active{color:#000;}.AYLF a:hover, .AYLF a span:hover, .aylfResult a:hover, .aylfResult a span:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.AYLF li, .aylfResult li{margin:8px 0;}#r .AYLF{margin-bottom:12px;}.AYLF-h{}.AYLF-h ul{margin:6px 0px 0px 0px;}.AYLF-h ul li{display:inline;padding-right:15px;line-height:20px;}.AYLF-h a{text-decoration:none;font-size:1.1em;}.AYLF-h a a:visited{color:#660099;}.AYLF-h a a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.AYLF-h3c{margin-top:4px;}.AYLF-h3c a{text-decoration:none;font-size:1.1em;}.AYLF-h3c a a:visited{color:#660099;}.AYLF-h3c a a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.AYLF-h3c table{clear:both;padding-top:4px;table-layout:fixed;width:100%;}.AYLF-h3c td{text-transform:capitalize;text-overflow:ellipsis;white-space:nowrap;overflow:hidden;}.AYLF-h3c tr{clear:none;}#r ul{margin:-4px 0 0;}#r li.more{float:right;margin:0px;margin-bottom:14px;display:inline-block;*width:50%;zoom:1;*display:inline;}#r img{width:99px;height:auto;max-height:133px;opacity:0;-moz-transition:opacity 2s;-webkit-transition:opacity 2s;-o-transition:opacity 2s;transition:opacity 2s;}#r p.d{color:#444;line-height:16px;display:inline-block;}#r a.more{text-decoration:none;clear:none;display:inline;vertical-align:text-bottom;*width:5%;zoom:1;*display:inline;}#r .media h3{margin-bottom:8px;}#r .media li{margin:0px;padding:0px;vertical-align:top;display:inline-block;zoom:1;*display:inline;}#r .media li.more{margin-top:6px;margin-bottom:16px;}.F3{}.F3{margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0;padding-right:256px;clear:both;}.F3 ul li{margin:14px 0px;max-width:600px;word-wrap:break-word;clear:both;}.F3 ul li a, .F3 ul li a:visited{font-size:1.24em;color:#1d49b2;text-decoration:underline;outline:none;font-weight:normal;}.F3 ul li a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.F3 ul li a, .F3 ul li p.u, .F3 ul li small{width:100%;white-space:nowrap;overflow:hidden;text-overflow:ellipsis;-o-text-overflow:ellipsis;-ms-text-overflow:ellipsis;display:inline-block;vertical-align:top;}#IE .F3 ul li a, #IE .F3 ul li p.u, #IE .F3 ul li small{white-space:normal;clear:both;}.F3 ul li h3{font-weight:bold;}.F3 .sites{overflow:auto;width:100%;}.F3 ul.site{clear:none;padding:4px 0 0 17px;float:left;}.F3 ul.site li{margin:0;width:auto;}.F3 ul.sitel{padding-left:15px;}.F3 .indent{clear:both;}.F3 .hostIndent{clear:both;margin-left:15px;}.F3 .moreResults{padding-top:5px;color:#77c;}.F3 a.ltxt{font-size:1em;color:#77c;text-decoration:none;}.F3 a.ltxt:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.F3 a.ltxt:visited{color:#551a8b;}.F3 a.ltxt:hover{text-decoration:underline;}#p.r .F3{padding-right:0;}#w p, #r p{font-size:1em;}#w ul li p.d, #r ul li p.d{line-height:16px;}#w ul li p.u, #r ul li p.u{color:#009933;text-decoration:none;font-style:normal;height:17px;line-height:16px;}.P4T{margin-top:0;margin-bottom:8px;}.P4B{margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0;}.P4 h3, .F3 h3.small{font-size:1em;font-weight:normal;margin:0 3px 3px 3px;}.P4 h3 a:visited, .F3 h3.small a:visited{color:#1c00c0;}.P4 h3 .hlp, .P4 h3 .txt, .F3 h3.small .hlp, .F3 h3.small .txt{font-size:0.9em;text-decoration:none;color:#6f6f6f;float:right;}.P4{background-color:#f2f9ff;zoom:100%;line-height:1.167;max-width:863px;padding:1px 0px 3px 12px;margin-left:-12px;}.P4 ul a, .P4 ul a:hover, .P4 .desc b{text-decoration:none;}.P4 a{cursor:pointer;display:block;}.P4 ul li:first-child{margin-top:0px;}.P4 ul li{margin-top:9px;margin-bottom:0px;}.P4 ul a{outline:none;}.P4 .P4Link{margin:-3px 0 0;}.P4 ul li h3 a{font-size:1.24em;text-decoration:underline;word-wrap:break-word;color:#1c00c0;}.P4 ul li h3 a:hover, .P4 a:hover .title{text-decoration:underline;}.P4 ul li h3 a:visited, .P4 a:visited .title{color:#1c00c0;}.P4 .desc{display:block;zoom:100%;}.P4 .pdesc{font-size:1em;color:#000000;height:18px;line-height:18px;}#w .P4 ul li p.u{color:#21883B;padding-top:2px;display:inline;}.P4 .sl1col{height:1em;margin-top:4px;width:560px;overflow:hidden;text-overflow:ellipsis;color:#343434;}.P4 .sl1col a{white-space:nowrap;margin-left:15px;}.P4 .sl{line-height:15px;}.P4 .sl li{display:inline;margin:0;}.P4 .sl a{font-size:1em;color:#1c00c0;}.P4 .sl a:focus{outline:thin dotted;}.P4 .sl a:visited{color:#1c00c0;}.P4 .sl a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}table.sl2col{margin:0px;padding:0px;border-spacing:0;border-collapse:collapse;margin-top:2px;}.sl2col td{padding-left:15px;}ul.sl2col{margin-left:15px;width:100%;}ul.sl2col li{width:50%;margin:0px;padding:0px;display:inline-block;vertical-align:top;}#IE7 ul.sl2col li{*display:inline;*zoom:1;}.rated{font-size:11px;line-height:10px;color:#383838;display:inline-block;}#IE .rated, #IE .rated> div{zoom:1;*display:inline;margin:0px 4px;}.rated a:link, .rated a:visited, .rated a:hover{text-decoration:none;color:#3435f3;background:none;border:none;font-size:10px;display:inline;}.rated div.x{margin:0px 4px;}#IE .rated div.x{display:table-cell;vertical-align:middle;}.rated div{height:9px;background:url(http://gfx2.info.com/stars.png) repeat-x scroll right bottom transparent;display:inline-block;width:55px;}.rated .x div{background-position:0px 0px;}.nores,.off,.offf{display:none}#topResults,#bottomResults{width:95%}.P4{background:none}.aylfResult a:link{text-decoration:underline !important}#insp_result_spelling_0{display:inline-table;margin-left:.5em}.P4 a{display:inline} // fix yaho sitelinks.P4 h3 .hlp, .P4 h3 .txt, .F3 h3.small .hlp, .F3 h3.small .txt{margin:0px;padding:0px;}@media (max-device-width: 768px){#c {margin-left:8px} .attrib, #f .QKW, #f .links, #f .INFO, #f .copy .g{display:none !important;} .INFO, .INFO img{height:28px !important;width:auto;} .INFO{padding-left:4px;} #p{font-size: none;margin:0px;padding:0px;width:100%;min-width:100% !important;} #h .sb{padding:0px;} .sb-c{padding:0px !important;height:40px;} .QKW{width:auto !important;float:left;position:absolute;} .P4{max-width:none;margin:0px;padding:0px;} #p.r #w, #p.l #w{padding:0px;}  #w{padding:0px !important;} #l{float: none;text-align:center;width: 100%;display:block;} .tabs{display:none;} .tabs li{border:1px solid red;min-width:12%;float:left;}#fw{height:20px} #f .sb{width:100%;font-size:80%;} #f .copy .g{margin:none;margin-top:1em;white-space:none;display:block;} .sqkw{font-size:.9em;width:44px !important;}}}.nores{margin:4em;font-size:110%;font-family: verdana,sans-serif}.nores p{margin:1em 0}.nores ul{list-style:disc;line-height:1.5em}.nores li{margin-left:4em}
A browser that support JavaScript is required to see most content on this site. Check how to enable JavaScript.
