=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Born May 12, 1907 in Hartford, Connecticut, she was the daughter of a doctor and a suffragette, both of whom always encouraged her to speak her mind, develop it fully, and exercise her body to its full potential. An athletic tomboy as a child, she was also very close to her brother, Tom, and was devastated at age 14 to find him dead, the apparent result of accidentally hanging himself while practicing a hanging trick their father had taught them. For many years after this, Katharine used his birthdate, November 8, as her own. She then became very shy around girls her age, and was largely schooled at home. She did attend Bryn Mawr College, however, and it was here that she decided to become an actress, appearing in many of their productions. After graduating, she began getting small roles in plays on Broadway and elsewhere. She always attracted attention in these parts, especially for her role in "Art and Mrs. Bottle" (1931); then, she finally broke into stardom when she took the starring role of the Amazon princess Antiope in "A Warrior's Husband" (1932). The inevitable film offers followed, and after making a few screen tests, she was cast in A Bill of Divorcement (1932), opposite John Barrymore. The film was a hit, and after agreeing to her salary demands, RKO signed her to a contract. She made five films between 1932 and 1934. For her third, Morning Glory (1933) she won her first Academy Award. Her fourth, Little Women (1933) was the most successful picture of its day. But stories were beginning to leak out of her haughty behavior off- screen and her refusal to play the Hollywood Game, always wearing slacks and no makeup, never posing for pictures or giving interviews. Audiences were shocked at her unconventional behavior instead of applauding it, and so when she returned to Broadway in 1934 to star in "The Lake", the critics panned her and the audiences, who at first bought up tickets, soon deserted her. When she returned to Hollywood, things didn't get much better. From the period 1935-1938, she had only two hits: Alice Adams (1935), which brought her her second Oscar nomination, and Stage Door (1937); the many flops included Break of Hearts (1935), Sylvia Scarlett (1935), Mary of Scotland (1936), Quality Street (1937) and the now- classic Bringing Up Baby (1938). With so many flops, she came to be labeled "box-office poison." She decided to go back to Broadway to star in "The Philadelphia Story" (1938), and was rewarded with a smash. She quickly bought the film rights, and so was able to negotiate her way back to Hollywood on her own terms, including her choice of director and co-stars. The film version of The Philadelphia Story (1940), was a box-office hit, and Hepburn, who won her third Oscar nomination for the film, was bankable again. For her next film, Woman of the Year (1942), she was paired with Spencer Tracy, and the chemistry between them lasted for eight more films, spanning the course of 25 years, and a romance that lasted that long off-screen. (She received her fourth Oscar nomination for the film.) Their films included the very successful Adam's Rib (1949), Pat and Mike (1952), and Desk Set (1957). With The African Queen (1951), Hepburn moved into middle-aged spinster roles, receiving her fifth Oscar nomination for the film. She played more of these types of roles throughout the 50s, and won more Oscar nominations for many of them, including her roles in Summertime (1955), The Rainmaker (1956) and Suddenly, Last Summer (1959). Her film roles became fewer and farther between in the 60s, as she devoted her time to her ailing partner Spencer Tracy. For one of her film appearances in this decade, in Long Day's Journey Into Night (1962), she received her ninth Oscar nomination. After a five-year absence from films, she then made Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967), her last film with Tracy and the last film Tracy ever made; he died just weeks after finishing it. It garnered Hepburn her tenth Oscar nomination and her second win. The next year, she did The Lion in Winter (1968), which brought her her eleventh Oscar nomination and third win. In the 70s, she turned to making made-for-TV films, with The Glass Menagerie (1973), Love Among the Ruins (1975) and The Corn Is Green (1979). She still continued to make an occasional appearance in feature films, such as Rooster Cogburn (1975), with John Wayne, and On Golden Pond (1981), with Henry Fonda. This last brought her her twelfth Oscar nomination and fourth win - the latter currently still a record for an actress.She made more TV-films in the 80s, and wrote her autobiography, 'Me', in 1991. Her last feature film was Love Affair (1994), with Warren Beatty and Annette Bening, and her last TV- film was One Christmas (1994). With her health declining she retired from public life in the mid-nineties. She died at the age of 96 at her home in Old Saybrook, Connecticut.
        Often wore slacks instead of dresses, decades before it became fashionable for  women to do so
      Graduated from Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania in 1928, with a degree in history and philosophy.
      Was named Best Classic Actress of the 20th Century in an Entertainment Weekly on-line poll, just barely (21.5% to 20.6%) beating out runner-up Audrey Hepburn. [September 1999]
      She never watched Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967) because it was Spencer Tracy's last film.
      Walked around the studio in her underwear in the early 1930s when the costume department stole her slacks from her dressing room. She refused to put anything else on until they were returned.
      She was nearly decapitated by an aeroplane propeller when she was rushing about an airport, avoiding the press.
      A leading contender for Scarlett O'Hara in Gone with the Wind (1939), she later served as Maid of Honor at Vivien Leigh's and Laurence Olivier's wedding.
      Ranked #68 in Empire (UK) magazine's "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time" list. [October 1997]
      Aunt of actress Katharine Houghton, who portrayed her character's daughter in Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967).
      Did not suffer from Parkinson's disease. She set the record straight in the 1993 TV documentary Katharine Hepburn: All About Me (1993), which she narrated herself. Quote: "Now to squash a rumor. No, I don't have Parkinson's. I inherited my shaking head from my grandfather Hepburn. I discovered that whiskey helps stop the shaking. Problem is, if you're not careful, it stops the rest of you too. My head just shakes, but I promise you, it ain't gonna fall off!".
      Was a direct descendant of England's King John through one of his illegitimate children. Hepburn played King John's mother, Eleanor of Aquitaine, in The Lion in Winter (1968).
      Turned down the role of Marilla in Anne of Green Gables (1985), but recommended her great-niece, Schuyler Grant for the role of Anne. Schuyler ended up playing Diana instead.
      On American Film Institute's list of "Top 100 U.S. Love Stories," compiled in June 2002, Hepburn led all actresses with six of her films on the list. (Actor Cary Grant, co-star with her in two of them, led the male field, also with six films on list). The duo's The Philadelphia Story (1940) was ranked #44 and their Bringing Up Baby (1938) ranked #51. Hepburn's four other movies on AFI Top "100 Love Movies list" are: - #14 The African Queen (1951) - #22 On Golden Pond (1981) - #58 Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967) - #74 Woman of the Year (1942)
Meryl Streep beat her in the number of Oscar nominations, when she received her 13th Oscar nod for Adaptation. (2002). However, Hepburn still reigns as the only 4-time Oscar recipient for acting.
      As of 2009, "Only Tie in Oscars For Best Actress", Barbra Streisand for Funny Girl (1968) and Katharine Hepburn for The Lion in Winter (1968) in 1969.
      Her father's name was Thomas Hepburn and her mother's name was Katharine Houghton. Each of their six children were given Mrs. Hepburn's maiden name for their middle names.
      Was nominated for two Tony Awards: in 1970 as Best Actress (Musical), for playing the title character, Coco Chanel in "Coco," and in 1982 as Best Actress (Play), for "The West Side Waltz." She lost both times.
      Her maternal grandfather; her father's brother, Charlie; and her older brother, Tom, all committed suicide. These tragedies were never talked about in her family. Ms. Hepburn said of her parents, "There was nothing to be done about these matters and [my parents] simply did not believe in moaning about anything."
      Admitted that she was menstruating while making The African Queen (1951), which resulted in giving her fellow crew members the impression that she was moody and difficult.
      On June 2004 Sotheby's auction house hosted a two-day estate sale auctioning personal belongings of the legendary actress to collectors. The 700-plus items included Hepburn's furniture, jewelry (which included the platinum, diamond and sapphire brooch from one-time lover Howard Hughes which fetched $120,000, six times its estimated price); paperwork (such as personal checks, telegrams, birth certificates, letters, film contracts, movie scripts), and nomination certificates from the Academy Awards. Among other items were casual clothes, and gowns that included her unusual wedding dress to Ludlow Ogden Smith in 1928, made of crushed white velvet with antiqued gold embroidery, which sold for $27,000. Also in the lot were house decorations drawings and paintings done by the actress herself, glamour portraits, and a glass bronze sculpture entitled "Angel on a Wave", which sold for $90,000; while a self-portrait entitled "Breakfast in Bed and a Self-Portrait in Brisbane, Australia", fetched $33,000, some 40 times the estimated price. Movie memorabilia included a ring from 1968's The Lion in Winter (1968), and Gertrude, the canoe from the film On Golden Pond (1981) which was bought for $19,200 by entertainer Wayne Newton. The most sought-after piece and the most expensive item was the bronze bust of Spencer Tracy that Hepburn created herself and that was also featured in their Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967). The audience cheered when the three-inch sculpture sold for $316,000, compared to the estimated $3,000-$5,000. The only awards won by the actress that were auctioned were her 1958 Hasty Pudding Woman of the Year, the annual Shakespeare Club of New York City award, the Fashion Desinger Lifetime Achievement, a few Box Office Blue Ribbons, her Hollywood Walk of Fame plaque and the 1990 Kennedy Center Honor. Hepburn's four Oscars were not included due to contract reasons.
      She was one of the few great stars in Hollywood who made no attempt to sugarcoat her true personality for anyone, a personality that was blunt and feisty.
      Her affair with Howard Hughes was portrayed by Cate Blanchett and Leonardo DiCaprio in The Aviator (2004).
      In The Lion in Winter (1968) she plays the mother of Richard the Lionheart, who is played by Anthony Hopkins. Hopkins later said that Hepburn's voice was, in part, the basis for Hannibal Lecter's voice.
      Expressed great fondness for actors Harrison Ford, John Travolta, Melanie Griffith and Julia Roberts, and great disdain for Meryl Streep, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sylvester Stallone and - in particular - Woody Allen.
      In a letter to Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences President Gregory Peck, she claimed that sentiment for the death of her long-time lover and co-star, Spencer Tracy, had been part of the reason she won her second Oscar for Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967). She told also Peck that she modeled her award-winning characterization of "Christina Drayton" on her mother.
      When Cate Blanchett won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for The Aviator (2004), Hepburn became the first previous Oscar winner to become an Oscar-winning movie role.
      According to Kenneth Lloyd Billingsley's book "Hollywood Party: How Communism Seduced the American Film Industry in the 1930s and 1940s", Hepburn was a leftist in her politics in the 1940s. When the Conference of Studio Unions, headed by suspected Communist Party member Herb Sorrell, launched a strike in 1946-1947 against the studios and fought other unions for control over Hollywood's collective bargaining, she expressed support for him (Sorrell was kidnapped, beaten, and left for dead, during the strike, possibly by the Mafia, which up until the early 1940s, had controlled the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, which was contesting the CSU for jurisdiction over Hollywood unions.) At a Screen Writers Guild meeting during the CSU strike, She also made a speech which anti-communist, anti-CSU SAG activist Ronald Reagan recognized as being based word for word on a CSU strike bulletin. She ignored lover Spencer Tracy's admonition that actors should stay out of politics ("Remember who shot Lincoln"). Despite their family's wealth, her mother had been sympathetic to Marxism and the Soviet Union. On May 19, 1947, Hepburn addressed a Progressive Party rally at the Hollywood Legion Stadium with Progressive Party stalwart and later presidential candidate Henry Wallace (with a crowd that included the likes of Judy Garland, Edward G. Robinson, Lena Horne, Charles Chaplin, Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, Ava Gardner and Danny Kaye), the former vice president of the U.S. who had been sacked from President Harry S. Truman's cabinet for being pro-Soviet. Wearing a red dress, Hepburn delivered a speech, written by Communist Party member and soon-to-be indicted Hollywood Ten member Dalton Trumbo. When another Hollywood Ten screenwriter Ring Lardner Jr., (winner of an Oscar for writing her picture Woman of the Year (1942), was jailed, she wrote a letter of support for him. Years later, in 1964, when Lardner was trying to get Tracy to star in The Cincinnati Kid (1965), he thanked Hepburn her support. She told him she didn't remember writing the letter and refused to talk about it.
      Became very fond of Christopher Reeve, both as an actor and as a person, when he made his Broadway debut opposite her in the 1978 production of "A Matter of Gravity". She became so fond of him that she used to tease him that she wanted him to take care of her when she retired. Ironically, his reply was "Miss Hepburn, I don't think I'll live that long".
      She and Spencer Tracy acted together in 9 movies: Adam's Rib (1949), Desk Set (1957), Keeper of the Flame (1942), Pat and Mike (1952), The Sea of Grass (1947), State of the Union (1948), Without Love (1945), Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967) and Woman of the Year (1942).
      After marrying Ludlow Ogden Smith in 1928, she forced him to change his name to S. Ogden Ludlow. She objected to her married name being "Katharine Smith" because there was already a well-known, and very portly radio singer named 'Kate Smith'.
      One of Hollywood's early tall leading ladies, standing over 5' 7" in an era when most actresses were only a little over 5' 0".
Kate Bosworth has said that Hepburn was her primary inspiration for her portrayal of "Lois Lane" in Superman Returns (2006).
      She thought Melanie Griffith was a good actress, but would fade away quickly. She also saw Julia Roberts as the next big thing. But the actress she loved above all was Vanessa Redgrave. She adored every performance Ms Redgrave has ever given and would tell people that she was, "A thrill to look at and to listen to".
      Did not attend Spencer Tracy's funeral out of respect to his family. Instead she went to the home of writer/director 'Richard Brooks (I)' where she watched, and wept, as he screened Tracy 's Oscar-winning performance in _Captains Courageous (1937) for her. Later, Brooks and his wife 'Jean Simmons' named their only child, Kate Brooks, after Hepburn.
      A resident for most of her life of Manhattan's row of brownstone dwellings renowned as Turtle Bay Gardens, Hepburn lived in the four-story building at 244 East 49th Street (between 2nd & 3rd Avenues). Famous neighbors over the years included, Robert Benton, Stephen Sondheim, Garson Kanin and wife Ruth Gordon.
      Holds the Guiness World Record as the only movie star to win four Academy Awards, all for her leading roles in Morning Glory (1933), Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967), The Lion in Winter (1968), and On Golden Pond (1981).
      Gained a permanent eye infection while failing to close her eyes when she was asked to fall into a Venice Canal during the filming of Summertime (1955).
      Was known for being an avid golfer, tennis player, and swimmer. She was also known for taking cold showers and for driving her bicycle around Manhattan.
      She is a descendant of "Eleanor of Aquitaine", whom she portrayed in The Lion in Winter (1968).
      Was nominated 12 times for the Academy Award, all as Best Actress, and won four times. Jack Nicholson also has 12 nominations (8 as Best Actor and 4 Best Supporting Actor nominations) and three wins (two Best Actor trophies and one Best Supporting Actor gong). Hepburn beat out previous acting nomination record holder Bette Davis (a double winner who was nominated 10 times for an Academy Award, all of them Best Actress nods, and who had also received a write-in nomination in 1934, which was unofficial) with her 11th nod and 3rd win for The Lion in Winter (1968) (a record she extended with her 12 nomination and fourth win for On Golden Pond (1981). Hepburn herself was surpassed by Meryl Streep, with 17 nods (14 in the Best Actress category, 3 in the Best Supporting Actress category) and three wins (two in the Best Actress category and one Best supporting actress award). While it is possible that Nicholson and Streep might equal her four Oscar acting wins, it is improbable that her record of four wins in the top category will ever be surpassed.
      Is one of only five thespians to be nominated for acting honors by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences over five decades: (1930s, 1940s, 1950s, 1960s, 1980s). Only Laurence Olivier (1930s-1970s), Paul Newman (1950s, 1960s, 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s) and Jack Nicholson and Meryl Streep(1970s-2010s) have turned the trick.
      Her performance as "Eleanor of Aquitaine" in The Lion in Winter (1968) is ranked #13 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time (2006).
      Her performance as "Tracy Lord" in The Philadelphia Story (1940) is ranked #54 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time (2006).
      Her performance as "Rose Sayer" in The African Queen (1951) is ranked #94 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time.
      Her performance as "Susan Vance" in Bringing Up Baby (1938) is ranked #21 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time.
      Three films of hers are on the American Film Institute's 100 Most Inspiring Movies of All Time. They are: The African Queen (1951) at #48, On Golden Pond (1981) at #45, and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967) at #35.
      Spoofed in the Warner Bros. animated cartoon Little Red Walking Hood (1937), in which Little Red Riding Hood speaks exactly like her.
      Godmother of Stanley Kramer's daughter Katharine. She was named after Hepburn, who was directed by Kramer in Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967).
      Despite her success at the Oscars, she never attended an Academy Awards ceremony as a nominee. Her only appearance was at the 1974 awards to present the Irving Thalberg Award to her friend Lawrence Weingarten. When she went onstage to a standing ovation, she said "I'm living proof that a person can wait forty-one years to be unselfish.".
      Her former maid, Emma Faust Tillman, held the title of "World's Oldest Person" for only four days (January 24-28, 2007). Her four-day reign, which was certified by the Guinness World Records committee was also the shortest one on record.
      In Italy, most of her films were dubbed by Wanda Tettoni and in the sixties by Anna Miserocchi. She was occasionally dubbed by Lidia Simoneschi, Andreina Pagnani and once by Rina Morelli in Desk Set (1957).
      Was a close friend of actor Peter O'Toole, and it is commonly believed that his daughter, Kate O'Toole, was named after her. However, 'Siân Phillips' stated in her autobiography that their daughter was named after the title character in Shakespeare's 'Taming of the Shrew', inspired by the line 'Kate, Kate, the prettiest Kate in Christendom'.
      One of her closest friends, Canadian portrait artist Myfanwy Pavelic died on May 11, 2007, one day short of Hepburn's 100th birthday anniversary.
      Thought very highly of the acting talents of Jeremy Irons and John Lithgow. She particularly disliked Meryl Streep, claiming she could recognize Streep's constant search for tactics during a performance. Hepburn also thought Glenn Close talented, but said openly Close's feet were too big for audiences to take her seriously as an actress.
      The intersection of East 49th Street and Second Avenue in the borough of Manhattan in New York City was renamed "Katharine Hepburn Place" shortly after her passing. Hepburn lived in a brownstone (244 East 49th Street) which is close to the intersection.
      Was fired by the producer of Travels with My Aunt (1972) early in the filming for demanding too many script changes.
      Her accumulation of 12 Oscar nominations (4 wins) was accomplished over a period of 48 years. Meryl Streep had 12 nominations (2 wins) after only 21 years (with an additional 5 nominations and another Oscar by 2012). Bette Davis scored 10 nominations (2 wins) over 28 years. As of 2012, Streep holds the record for nominations, with 17.
      According to Anthony Harvey - the director of The Lion in Winter (1968) - she kept the Oscar she received for the film in a paper bag and in a cupboard for years after he'd delivered it to her.
      Her first name is often misspelled as Katherine, it is actually spelled Katharine with a second A. She was known for correcting those who spelled it wrong.
      During what is argued by film historians to be the greatest year in classic American cinema, she was a rare star who did not appear in a film in 1939. Instead, she was on stage playing Tracy Lord in "The Philadelphia Story," which proved to be her comeback after being branded as box-office poison.
      Was with Spencer Tracy the night he died. According to her, he had gotten up in the middle of the night to get a glass of milk. She followed the sickly Tracy to the kitchen but before she got there she heard a glass shatter and then a loud thud. She found Tracy dead on the floor; he had suffered a massive heart attack.
      The scene in which her character falls into the canal in Summertime (1955) left her with a permanent eye infection as the water was contaminated.
      Turned down the role of Kitty Foyle in Kitty Foyle (1940). The part was then given to Ginger Rogers, who went on to win the Best Actress Oscar for her performance.
      Survived the Great New England Hurricane of Sept. 21, 1938 while at her summer home in the Borough of Fenwick in Old Saybrook, CT. Reportedly she was there considering a marriage proposal by Howard Hughes. The storm killed at least 682. Hepburn, her family and servants barely escaped with their lives: Soon after fleeing it on foot in the storm, her home was washed away along with her Oscar for her film Morning Glory (1933) which was later found intact. Hepburn rebuilt the home in 1939, and was locally famous for running people off "her" (public) beach in her later years.
      According to her friend and biographer A. Scott Berg, although she said often that Alice Adams (1935) was her favorite film role, it was actually her performance as Mary Tyrone in Long Day's Journey Into Night (1962) that she regarded as her greatest achievement in film.
      Pictured on a 44¢ USA commemorative postage stamp in the Legends of Hollywood series, issued 12 May 2010.
      Desperately wanted to play the role of Alma Winemiller, which was eventually played by Geraldine Page, in Summer and Smoke (1961).
      In 2010, Jason Bateman, who was in one of Hepburn's last movies, This Can't Be Love (1994), told New York Magazine that the legend only wore white Reebok high-top sneakers on and off the set. If a scene called for her to be wearing something fancier, she would wear black socks over the white sneakers.
      In her book "Me: Stories of My Life", she admitted to posing for nude photos when she was in her 20s. The pictures were later lost.
      Although she never committed to her marriage with Ludlow Ogden Smith, and she admitted to treating him poorly, they remained friends for the rest of their lives.
      She was always distant and independent from her family, her younger siblings referred to her as "Aunt Kat".
      Hepburn's record-setting affiliation with New York's legendary Radio City Music Hall will likely never be challenged. Beginning with Christopher Strong (1933) in 1933, seventeen consecutive films of hers played in the huge theater.
      Release of the book, "At Home with Kate: Growing Up in Katharine Hepburn's Household" by Eileen Considine-Meara, daughter of Norah Considine (Kate's longtime cook and housekeeper).
      Is one of 14 Best Actress Oscar winners to have not accepted their Academy Award in person. Hepburn did not accept any of her 4 wins (for Morning Glory (1933), Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967), The Lion in Winter (1968) and _On Golden Pond (1981)). The others are Claudette Colbert, Judy Holliday, Joan Crawford, Vivien Leigh, Anna Magnani, Ingrid Bergman, Sophia Loren, Anne Bancroft, Patricia Neal, Elizabeth Taylor, Maggie Smith, Glenda Jackson and Ellen Burstyn.
      Was the 6th actress to receive an Academy Award; she won the Best Actress Oscar for Morning Glory (1933) at The 6th Academy Awards on March 16, 1934.
Katharine Hepburn and Joan Fontaine both appeared in productions of The Lion in Winter (Hepburn in the 1968 film version, Fontaine in a 1979 Austrian stage production) and both passed away at the age of 96. Hepburn had appeared with Fontaine in Quality Street (1937).
      Received academy awards for her first as well as her final three nominations, with 34 years between her first and second win.
      I'm a personality as well as an actress. Show me an actress who isn't a personality, and you'll show me a woman who isn't a star.
      Love has nothing to do with what you are expecting to get - only with what you are expecting to give - which is everything.
      I often wonder whether men and women really suit each other. Perhaps they should live next door and just visit now and then.
      I can't say I believe in prizes. I was a whiz in the three-legged race that's something you CAN win.
      Once a crowd chased me for an autograph. "Beat it", I said, "go sit on a tack!" "We made you", they said. "Like hell you did", I told them.
      [on fashion] I wear my sort of clothes to save me the trouble of deciding which clothes to wear.
      My father, a surgeon and urologist, studied sex professionally all his life. Before he died at 82, he told me he hadn't come to any conclusions about it at all.
      [on marriage] It's bloody impractical. "To love, honor, and obey". If it weren't, you wouldn't have to sign a contract.
      With all the opportunities I had, I could have done more. And if I'd done more, I could have been quite remarkable.
      I remember as a child going around with "Votes For Women" balloons. I learnt early what it is to be snubbed for a good cause.
      Only when a woman decides not to have children, can a woman live like a man. That's what I've done.
      Acting is a nice childish profession - pretending you're someone else and at the same time selling yourself.
      I think most of the people involved in any art always secretly wonder whether they are really there because they're good - or because they're lucky.
      Life is to be lived. If you have to support yourself, you had bloody well find some way that is going to be interesting. And you don't do that by sitting around wondering about yourself.
      If you want to sacrifice the admiration of many men for the criticism of one, go ahead, get married.
      Life's what's important. Walking, houses, family. Birth and pain and joy. Acting's just waiting for a custard pie. That's all.
      Life can be wildly tragic at times, and I've had my share. But whatever happens to you, you have to keep a slightly comic attitude. In the final analysis, you have got not to forget to laugh.
      It's life isn't it? You plow ahead and make a hit. And you plow on and someone passes you. Then someone passes them. Time levels.
      I can remember walking as a child. It was not customary to say you were fatigued. It was customary to complete the goal of the expedition.
      I have many regrets, and I'm sure everyone does. The stupid things you do, you regret if you have any sense, and if you don't regret them, maybe you're stupid.
      I'm an atheist, and that's it. I believe there's nothing we can know except that we should be kind to each other and do what we can for each other.
      I'm what is known as gradually disintegrating. I don't fear the next world, or anything. I don't fear hell, and I don't look forward to heaven.
      "Isn't it fun getting older?" is really a terrible fallacy. That's like saying I prefer driving an old car with a flat tire.
      [1993] In some ways I've lived my life like a man, made my own decisions, etc. I've been as terrified as the next person, but you've got to keep going.
      [asked what star quality is] It's either some kind of electricity or some kind of energy. I don't know what it is, but whatever it is, I've got it.
      [When Barbara Walters asked her if she owned a skirt] I have one, Ms. Walters. I'll wear it to your funeral.
      [pn Marlon Brando] I don't think he's a limited actor at all - I think he's a very gifted actor. Although I'm afraid he may be a limited person.
      [on Humphrey Bogart] He was a real man -- nothing feminine about him. He knew he was a natural aristocrat -- better than anybody.
      [1954 comment on Judy Holliday] My, I like Judy Holliday! She looks like a Monet model. And she's so -- so defenseless. I like defenseless people. They're the best.
      [on good parts] If it interests you, they don't have to pay you. It's a fascinating business anyway--it's very nice to be paid--but when you do *thrilling* material, it's like buying a piece of furniture that's really good. When you buy it, and it's great, you get *enormous* pleasure out of seeing it, and you never remember how much it cost.
      If you have fame, you never feel that you have fame, if you have the brains of a flea. Because fame is something that's over back of you. It ain't ahead.... Not ahead at all. I mean, if you've done it that's great, but "what are you going to do now?" is the *only* thing that matters.
      Most people, I figure, have a reservoir that you walk into town with your little box of goodies, you know. And this is me, and this is what I have to offer. Then, after a while, you've *sold* all those goodies, and if you don't go away and fill up another box ... you're just repeating. Then you're just growing *old*, and then, for a you know, certain people, there's a time when you're switching from, uh, uh, you're too old to do this, and you're too young to do that, and you have to figure out: what are you? And what really interests you? You see, we're *all* creatures of habit, and we get in a rut, and we run down that rut, happy as bugs. Well, sometimes you're bloody sick of what you're doing. And you haven't got the brains to stop. You know. And you could change, change.
      [about her first TV interview, in 1973] I thought, can you think of any really *good* reason not to do it? Except that, oh, I'm so shy, or oh, my private life, or oh, are they going to find out how boring I am? You know? And that was the only reason *now*, in a sense, *not* to do television. Because it certainly is a method of expression, which has to be accepted as these things come along.
      On personal power: As one goes through life one learns that if you don't paddle your own canoe, you don't move.
      On art: I think most of the people involved in any art always secretly wonder whether they are really there because they're good or they're because they're lucky. If they have time to think.
      When I tested for the movies, it was immediately a warm experience. Exciting but not scary. Why this is I do not know. I just find this medium sympathetic, friendly. It must be that there is no audience, and no critics, in the immediate situation. And the camera never talks back to you. It was fun.
      If you can live for other people away from yourself you will be happy and if you live for yourself then you will not be happy and you won't be able to sleep or do anything else.
      [Observation, 1967] I think they're beginning to think I'm not going to be around much longer. And what do you know. They'll miss me like an old monument. Like the Flatiron Building.
      [on selecting Virginia Weidler to play her sister in The Philadelphia Story (1940)] We got lucky again with the girl-this time little Virginia Weidler, who had me in stitches. She was so terrifyingly funny I truly had a difficult time doing scenes with her. Honestly, I couldn't look at her, she was so funny.
      [on remaining childless] I had such a wonderful upbringing that I had a very high standard of how a father and mother should behave. I couldn't be that way and carry on a movie career.
      I'm an atheist, and that's it. I believe there's nothing we can know except that we should be kind to each other and do what we can for people.
=======================================================
Katharine Houghton Hepburn (May 12, 1907 – June 29, 2003) was an American actress of film, stage and television. Known for her headstrong independence and spirited personality, Hepburn was a leading lady in Hollywood for more than 60 years. She appeared in a range of genres, from screwball comedy to literary drama, and received four Academy Awards for Best Actress—a record for any performer. In 1999, Hepburn was named by the American Film Institute as the greatest female star in Hollywood history.
Raised in Connecticut by wealthy, progressive parents, Hepburn began to act while studying at Bryn Mawr College. After four years in the theatre, favorable reviews of her work on Broadway brought her to the attention of Hollywood. Her early years in the film industry were marked with success, including an Academy Award for her third picture, Morning Glory (1933), but this was followed by a series of commercial failures which led her to be labeled "box office poison" in 1938. After bearing that label for two years, Hepburn masterminded her own comeback, buying out her contract with RKO Radio Pictures and acquiring the film rights to The Philadelphia Story, which she sold on the condition that she be the star. In the 1940s she was contracted to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, where her career focused on an alliance with Spencer Tracy. The screen-partnership spanned 25 years, and produced nine movies.
Hepburn challenged herself in the latter half of her life, as she regularly appeared in Shakespeare stage productions and tackled a range of literary roles. She found a niche playing middle-aged spinsters, such as in The African Queen (1951), a persona the public embraced. Three more Oscars came for her work in Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967), The Lion in Winter (1968) and On Golden Pond (1981). In the 1970s she began appearing in television films, which became the focus of her career in later life. She remained active into old age, making her final screen appearance in 1994 at the age of 87. After a period of inactivity and ill health, Hepburn died in 2003 at the age of 96.
Hepburn famously shunned the Hollywood publicity machine, and refused to conform to society's expectations of women. She was outspoken, assertive, athletic, and wore trousers before it was fashionable for women to do so. She married once, as a young woman, but thereafter lived independently. A 26-year affair with her co-star Spencer Tracy was hidden from the public. With her unconventional lifestyle and the independent characters she brought to the screen, Hepburn came to epitomize the "modern woman" in 20th century America and is remembered as an important cultural figure. She was not related to actress Audrey Hepburn.
Hepburn was born in Hartford, Connecticut, on May 12, 1907, the second of six children. Her parents were Thomas Norval Hepburn (1879–1962), a urologist at Hartford Hospital, and Katharine Martha Houghton (1878–1951), a feminist campaigner. Both fought for social change in America: Thomas Hepburn helped establish the New England Social Hygiene Association, which educated the public about venereal disease,[1] while Katharine Martha headed the Connecticut Woman Suffrage Association and later campaigned for birth control with Margaret Sanger.[2] As a child, Hepburn joined her mother on several "Votes For Women" demonstrations.[3] The Hepburn children were raised to exercise freedom of speech and encouraged to think and debate on any topic they wished.[4] Her parents were criticized by the community for their progressive views, which stimulated Hepburn to fight against barriers she encountered.[5][6] Hepburn said she realized from a young age that she was the product of "two very remarkable parents",[7] and credited her "enormously lucky" upbringing with providing the foundation for her success.[8][9] She remained close to her family throughout her life.[10]
Hepburn's college yearbook photo, 1928. It was while studying at Bryn Mawr College that she chose acting as a career.
The young Hepburn was a tomboy who liked to call herself Jimmy, and cut her hair short like a boy's.[11] Thomas Hepburn was eager for his children to use their minds and bodies to the limit, and taught them to swim, run, dive, ride, wrestle, and play golf and tennis.[12] Golf became a passion for his oldest daughter: she took daily lessons and became very adept, reaching the semi-final of the Connecticut Young Women's Golf Championship.[13] She loved swimming in Long Island Sound, and took ice-cold baths every morning in the belief that "the bitterer the medicine, the better it was for you."[14] Hepburn was a fan of movies from a young age, and went to see one every Saturday night.[15] She would put on plays and perform for her neighbors with friends and siblings for 50 cents a ticket to raise money for the Navajo people.[16]
On April 3, 1921, while visiting friends in Greenwich Village, Hepburn discovered the body of her older brother, Tom (whom she adored),[17] dead from an apparent suicide. He had tied a sheet around a beam and hanged himself.[18] The Hepburn family denied it was suicide and maintained that Tom's death must have been an experiment that had gone wrong.[19] The incident made the teenage Hepburn nervous, moody, and suspicious of people.[20] She shied away from other children, dropped out of Oxford School, and began receiving private tutoring.[21] For many years she used Tom's birthday (November 8) as her own. It was not until her 1991 autobiography, Me: Stories of My Life, that Hepburn revealed her true birth date.[22]
In 1924 Hepburn gained a place at Bryn Mawr College. She attended the institution primarily to satisfy her mother, who had studied there, and recalled disliking the experience.[23] It was the first time she had been in school for several years, and she was self-conscious and uncomfortable with her classmates.[24] She struggled with the scholastic demands of university, and once was suspended for smoking in her room.[25] Hepburn was drawn to acting, but roles in college plays were conditional on good grades. Once her marks had improved, she began performing regularly.[25] The lead role in a production of The Woman in the Moon in her senior year, and the positive response it received, cemented Hepburn's plans to pursue a theatrical career.[13] She graduated with a degree in history and philosophy in June 1928.[26]
Hepburn left university determined to become an actress.[27] The day after graduating,[28] she traveled to Baltimore to meet Edwin H. Knopf, who ran a successful stock theatre company. Impressed by her eagerness, Knopf cast Hepburn in his current production, The Czarina.[29] She received good reviews for her small role, and the Printed Word described her performance as "arresting".[30] She was given a part in the following week's show, but here Hepburn was less accomplished. She was criticized for her shrill voice, and so left Baltimore to study with a voice tutor in New York City.[31]
Knopf decided to produce The Big Pond in New York and called for Hepburn to be the understudy to the leading lady. A week before opening, the lead was fired and replaced with Hepburn, which gave her a starring role after only four weeks in the theatre.[32] On opening night, she turned up late, mixed her lines, tripped over her feet, and spoke too quickly to be comprehensible.[31] She was immediately fired, and the original leading lady rehired. Undeterred, Hepburn joined forces with the producer Arthur Hopkins, and accepted the role of a schoolgirl in These Days. Her Broadway debut came on November 12, 1928, at the Cort Theatre, but reviews for the show were poor and it closed after eight nights.[31] Hopkins promptly hired Hepburn as the lead understudy in Philip Barry's play Holiday. In early December, after only two weeks, she quit to marry Ludlow Ogden Smith, whom she knew from college. She planned to leave the theatre behind, but began to miss the work and quickly resumed the understudy role in Holiday, which she held for six months.[33]
In 1929, Hepburn turned down a role with the Theatre Guild to play the lead in Death Takes a Holiday. She felt the role was perfect, but again she was fired.[34] She went back to the Guild and took an understudy role for minimum pay in A Month in the Country. In the spring of 1930, Hepburn joined a theatre company in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. She left halfway through the summer season, and continued studying with a drama tutor.[35] In early 1931, she was cast in the Broadway production of Art and Mrs. Bottle. She was released from the role after the playwright took a dislike to her, saying "She looks a fright, her manner is objectionable, and she has no talent", but then rehired when no other actress could be found.[36] It went on to be a small success.[37]
Hepburn appeared in a number of plays with a summer stock company in Ivoryton, Connecticut, and she proved to be a hit.[36] During the summer of 1931, Philip Barry asked her to appear in his new play, The Animal Kingdom, alongside Leslie Howard. They began rehearsals in November, Hepburn feeling sure this was the role to make her a star, but Howard disliked the actress and again she was fired.[38] When she asked Barry why she had been let go, he responded, "Well, to be brutally frank, you weren't very good."[38] This unsettled the self-assured Hepburn, but she continued to look for work.[39] She took a small role in an upcoming play, but as rehearsals began she received an offer to read for the lead role in the Greek fable The Warrior's Husband.[40]
The Warrior's Husband proved to be Hepburn's breakout performance. Biographer Charles Higham states that the role was ideal for the actress, requiring an aggressive energy and athleticism, and she enthusiastically involved herself with its production.[41] It opened on March 11, 1932, at the Morosco Theatre on Broadway. Hepburn's first entrance called for her to leap down a narrow stairway with a stag over her shoulder, wearing a short silver tunic. The show ran for three months, and Hepburn received positive reviews.[42] Richard Garland of the New York World-Telegram wrote, "It's been many a night since so glowing a performance has brightened the Broadway scene."[43]
Hepburn's first movie appearance, in the melodrama A Bill of Divorcement (1932). Critics loved the performance and she became an instant star.
A scout for the Hollywood agent Leland Hayward spotted Hepburn's appearance in The Warrior's Husband, and asked her to test for the part of Sydney Fairfield in the upcoming RKO film A Bill of Divorcement.[44] Director George Cukor was impressed by what he saw: "There was this odd creature," he recalled, "she was unlike anybody I'd ever heard." He particularly liked the manner in which she picked up a glass: "I thought she was very talented in that action."[45] Offered the role, Hepburn demanded $1,500 a week, a large amount for an unknown actress.[46] Cukor encouraged the studio to accept her demands and they signed Hepburn to a temporary contract with a three-week guarantee.[27][47] RKO head David O. Selznick recounted that he took a "tremendous chance" in casting the unusual actress.[48]
Hepburn arrived in California in July 1932, at 25 years old. She starred in A Bill of Divorcement opposite John Barrymore, but showed no sign of intimidation.[48][49] Although she struggled to adapt to the nature of film acting, Hepburn was fascinated by the industry from the start.[50] The picture was a success and Hepburn received positive reviews.[51] Mordaunt Hall of The New York Times called her performance "exceptionally fine ... Miss Hepburn's characterization is one of the finest seen on the screen".[52] The Variety review declared, "Standout here is the smash impression made by Katharine Hepburn in her first picture assignment. She has a vital something that sets her apart from the picture galaxy."[53] On the strength of A Bill of Divorcement, RKO signed the actress to a long-term contract.[54] George Cukor became a lifetime friend and colleague—he and Hepburn made ten films together.[55]
Hepburn's second film was Christopher Strong (1933), the story of an aviatrix and her affair with a married man. The picture was not commercially successful, but Hepburn's own reviews were good.[56] Regina Crewe wrote in the Journal American that although her mannerisms were grating, "they compel attention, and they fascinate an audience. She is a distinct, definite, positive personality."[57] Hepburn's third picture confirmed her as a major actress in Hollywood.[58] For playing aspiring actress Eva Lovelace in Morning Glory, she won an Academy Award for Best Actress. She had seen the script on the desk of producer Pandro S. Berman and, convinced that she was born to play the part, insisted that the role be hers.[59] Hepburn chose not to attend the awards ceremony—as she would not for the duration of her career—but was thrilled with the win.[60] Her success continued with the role of Jo in a screen adaptation of Little Women (1933). The picture was a hit, one of the film industry's biggest successes to date,[48] and Hepburn won the Best Actress prize at the Venice Film Festival. Little Women was one of Hepburn's personal favorites and she was proud of her performance, later saying, "I defy anyone to be as good [as Jo] as I was".[58]
By the end of 1933 Hepburn was a respected film actress, but she yearned to prove herself on Broadway.[61] Jed Harris, one of the most successful theatre producers of the 1920s, was going through a career slump.[62] He asked Hepburn to appear in the play The Lake, which she agreed to do for a low salary.[63] Before she was given leave, RKO asked that she film Spitfire (1934). Hepburn's role in the movie was Trigger Hicks, an uneducated mountain girl. It is widely considered one of her worst films, and Hepburn received poor reviews for the effort.[64] She kept a picture of Hicks in her bedroom throughout her life to "[keep] me humble."[65]
The Lake previewed in Washington, D.C., where there was a large advance sale.[63] Harris's poor direction had eroded Hepburn's confidence, and she struggled with the performance.[66] Despite this, Harris moved the play to New York without further rehearsal. It opened at the Martin Beck Theatre on December 26, 1933, and Hepburn was roundly panned by the critics.[67] Dorothy Parker quipped, "Katharine Hepburn runs the gamut of emotions from A to B."[27] Already tied to a ten-week contract, she had to endure the embarrassment of rapidly declining box office sales.[68] Harris decided to take the show to Chicago, saying to Hepburn, "My dear, the only interest I have in you is the money I can make out of you." Hepburn refused, and paid Harris $14,000 to close the production instead.[69] She later referred to Harris as "hands-down the most diabolical person I have ever met",[62] and claimed this experience was important in teaching her to take responsibility for her career.[70]
After the failure of Spitfire and The Lake, RKO cast Hepburn in The Little Minister (1934), based on a Victorian novel by James Barrie, in an attempt to repeat the success of Little Women.[71] There was no such recurrence, and the picture was a commercial failure.[72] The romantic drama Break of Hearts (1935) with Charles Boyer was poorly reviewed and also lost money.[73] After three forgettable films, success returned to Hepburn with Alice Adams (1935), the story of a girl's desperation to climb the social ladder. Hepburn loved the book and was delighted to be offered the role.[74] The film was a hit, one of Hepburn's personal favorites, and gave the actress her second Oscar nomination.[75]
Given the choice of her next feature, Hepburn decided to star in George Cukor's new project, Sylvia Scarlett (1935), which paired her for the first time with Cary Grant.[75] Her hair was cut short for the part, as her character masquerades as a boy for much of the film. Critics disliked Sylvia Scarlett and it was unpopular with the public.[76] She next played Mary Stuart in John Ford's Mary of Scotland (1936), which met with a similarly poor reception.[77] A Woman Rebels (1937) followed, a Victorian era drama where Hepburn's character fights against convention. Quality Street (1937) also had a period setting, this time a comedy. Neither movie was popular with the public, which meant she had made four unsuccessful pictures in a row.[78]
Alongside a series of unpopular films, problems arose from Hepburn's attitude.[79] She had a difficult relationship with the press, with whom she could be rude and provocative.[80] When asked if she had any children, she snapped back, "Yes I have five: two white and three colored."[81] She would not give interviews and denied requests for autographs,[82] which earned her the nickname "Katharine of Arrogance".[83] The public was also baffled by her boyish behavior and fashion choices, and she became a largely unpopular figure.[80][84] Hepburn sensed that she needed to leave Hollywood,[85] so she returned east to star in a theatrical adaptation of Jane Eyre. It had a successful tour,[86] but, uncertain about the script and unwilling to risk failure after the disaster of The Lake, Hepburn decided against taking the show to Broadway.[85] Towards the end of 1936, Hepburn vied for the role of Scarlett O'Hara in Gone With The Wind.[87] Producer David O. Selznick refused to offer her the part because he felt she had no sex appeal. He reportedly told Hepburn, "I can't see Rhett Butler chasing you for twelve years."[88]
Hepburn made four films with Cary Grant. They are seen here in Bringing Up Baby (1938), which flopped on release but has since become a classic screwball comedy.[89]
Hepburn's next feature, Stage Door (1937), paired her with Ginger Rogers in a role which mirrored her own life—that of a wealthy society girl trying to make it as an actress.[90] Hepburn was praised for her work at early previews, which gave her top billing over Rogers.[91] The film was nominated for Best Picture at the Academy Awards, but it was not the box-office hit RKO had hoped for.[90] Industry pundits blamed Hepburn for the small profit, but the studio continued its commitment to resurrecting her popularity.[92] She was cast in Howard Hawks' screwball comedy Bringing Up Baby (1938) alongside Cary Grant. Hepburn played the physical comedy of the film with confidence,[92] and took tips on comedic timing from her costar Walter Catlett.[93] Bringing Up Baby was acclaimed by critics, but it was nevertheless unsuccessful at the box-office.[94] With the genre and Grant both hugely popular at the time, biographer A. Scott Berg believes the blame lay with moviegoers' rejection of Hepburn.[95]
After the release of Bringing up Baby, the Independent Theatre Owners of America included Hepburn on a list of actors considered "Box Office Poison".[95] Her reputation at a low, the next film RKO offered her was Mother Carey's Chickens, a B movie with poor prospects.[95] Hepburn turned it down, and instead opted to buy herself out of her contract for $75,000.[96] Many actors were afraid to leave the stability of the studio system at the time, but Hepburn's personal wealth meant she could afford to be independent.[97] She signed on for the film version of Holiday (1938) with Columbia Pictures, pairing her for the third time with Grant. The comedy was well received by critics, but it failed to draw much of an audience,[98] and the next script offered to Hepburn came with a salary of $10,000—less than she had received at the start of her film career.[99] Reflecting on this change in fortunes, Andrew Britton writes of Hepburn, "No other star has emerged with greater rapidity or with more ecstatic acclaim. No other star, either, has become so unpopular so quickly for so long a time."[100]
As Tracy Lord in The Philadelphia Story (1940), alongside James Stewart. Hepburn said of the role, "I gave her life and she gave me back my career."[28]
Following this decline in her career, Hepburn took action to create her own comeback vehicle. She left Hollywood to look for a stage project, and signed on to star in Philip Barry's new play, The Philadelphia Story. It was tailored to showcase the actress, with the character of socialite Tracy Lord incorporating a mixture of humor, aggression, nervousness, and vulnerability.[101] Howard Hughes, Hepburn's partner at the time, sensed that the play could be her ticket back to Hollywood stardom and bought her the film rights before it even debuted on stage.[102] The Philadelphia Story first toured the United States, to positive reviews, and then opened in New York at the Schubert Theatre on March 29, 1939.[103] It was a big hit, critically and financially, running for 417 performances and then going on a second successful tour.[27]
Several of the major film studios approached Hepburn to produce the movie version of Barry's play.[104] She chose to sell the rights to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM), Hollywood's number one studio,[105] on the condition that she be the star. As part of the deal she also received the director of her choice, George Cukor, but the costars she wanted, Clark Gable and Spencer Tracy, were both unavailable. Louis B. Mayer promised her James Stewart and $150,000 "for anyone else you want or can get."[106] Hepburn chose her friend and previous costar, Cary Grant, to whom she ceded top billing.[107] Before filming began, Hepburn shrewdly noted, "I don't want to make a grand entrance in this picture. Moviegoers ... think I'm too la-di-da or something. A lot of people want to see me fall flat on my face." Thus the film began with Grant knocking the actress flat on her backside.[108] Berg describes how the character was crafted to have audiences "laugh at her enough that they would ultimately sympathize with her", which Hepburn felt was crucial in "recreating" her public image.[109] The Philadelphia Story was one of the biggest hits of 1940, breaking records at Radio City Music Hall.[27] The review in Time declared, "Come on back, Katie, all is forgiven."[110] Herb Golden of Variety stated, "It's Katharine Hepburn's picture ... The perfect conception of all flighty but characterful Main Line socialite gals rolled into one, the story without her is almost inconceivable."[111] Hepburn was nominated for her third Academy Award for Best Actress, and won the New York Film Critics Circle Award for Best Actress.[112][113]
Hepburn was also responsible for the development of her next project, the romantic comedy Woman of the Year. The idea for the film was proposed to her by Garson Kanin in 1941. Hepburn passed the outline on to Joseph L. Mankiewicz at MGM, who expressed an interest in the picture. Kanin recalled how Hepburn contributed to the script, suggesting cuts and word changes, and provided helpful enthusiasm for the project.[114] Hepburn presented the finished product to MGM and demanded $250,000—half for her, half for the authors, Michael Kanin and Ring Lardner, Jr.[115] Her terms accepted, Hepburn was also given the director and costar of her choice, George Stevens and Spencer Tracy. Released in 1942, Woman of the Year was another success. Critics praised the chemistry between the stars, and, says Higham, noted Hepburn's "increasing maturity and polish".[116] The World-Telegram commended two "brilliant performances",[117] and Hepburn received a fourth Academy Award nomination for her role as independent career-woman Tess Harding. During the course of the movie, Hepburn signed a star contract with MGM.[107]
In 1942, Hepburn returned to Broadway to appear in another Philip Barry play, Without Love, which was also written with the actress in mind.[117] Critics were unenthusiastic about the production but with Hepburn's popularity at a high it ran for 16 sold-out weeks.[118] MGM was eager to reunite Tracy and Hepburn for a new picture, and settled on Keeper of the Flame (1942). A dark mystery with a propaganda message on the dangers of fascism, the film was seen by Hepburn as an opportunity to make a worthy political statement.[119] It received poor notices but was a financial success, confirming the popularity of the Tracy–Hepburn pairing.[120]
The majority of films Hepburn did in this period were with Spencer Tracy. She later said the partnership did much to advance her career, as he was the more popular star at the time.[121] The pair are seen here in one of their most successful outings, Adam's Rib (1949).
Since Woman of the Year, Hepburn had committed to a romantic relationship with Tracy and dedicated herself to helping the star, who suffered from alcoholism and insomnia.[122] Her career slowed as a result, and she worked less for the remainder of the decade than she had done in the 1930s—notably by not appearing on-stage again until 1950.[123] Her only appearance in 1943 was a cameo in the morale-building wartime film Stage Door Canteen, playing herself. She took an atypical role in 1944, playing a Chinese peasant in the high-budget drama Dragon Seed. Hepburn was enthusiastic about the film, but it met with a tepid response and she was described as miscast.[124] She then reunited with Tracy for the film version of Without Love (1945), after which she turned down a role in The Razor's Edge to support Tracy through his return to Broadway.[125] Without Love received poor reviews, but a new Tracy–Hepburn picture was a big event and it was popular on release, selling a record number of tickets over Easter-weekend 1945.[126]
Hepburn's next film was Undercurrent (1946), a film noir with Robert Taylor and Robert Mitchum that was poorly received.[127] A fourth film with Tracy came in 1947: a drama set in the American Old West entitled The Sea of Grass. Similarly to Keeper of the Flame and Without Love, a lukewarm response from critics did not stop it from being a financial success both at home and abroad.[128] The same year, Hepburn portrayed Clara Wieck Schumann in Song of Love. She trained intensively with a pianist for the role.[129] By the time of its release in October, Hepburn's career had been significantly affected by her public opposition to the growing anti-communist witch-hunt in Hollywood. Viewed by some as dangerously progressive, she was not offered work for nine months and people reportedly threw things at screenings of Song of Love.[130] Her next film role came unexpectedly, as she agreed to replace Claudette Colbert only days before shooting began on Frank Capra's political drama State of the Union (1948).[131] Tracy had long been signed to play the male- lead, and so Hepburn was already familiar with the script and stepped up for the fifth Tracy–Hepburn picture.[130] Critics responded positively to the film and it performed well at the box-office.[132]
Tracy and Hepburn appeared onscreen together for a third consecutive year in the 1949 film Adam's Rib. Like Woman of the Year, it was a "battle of the sexes" comedy, and was written specifically for the duo by their friends Garson Kanin and Ruth Gordon. A story of married lawyers who oppose each other in court, Hepburn described it as "perfect for [Tracy] and me".[133] Although her political views still prompted scattered picketing at theatres around the country, Adam's Rib was a hit, favorably reviewed and the most profitable Tracy–Hepburn picture to date.[134] The New York Times critic Bosley Crowther was full of praise for the film and hailed the duo's "perfect compatibility".[135]
Hepburn often worked abroad in the 1950s, beginning with The African Queen (1951), which was shot on location in Africa. Pictured is a promotional image for the film, with co-star Humphrey Bogart.
The 1950s saw Hepburn take on a series of professional challenges, and stretch herself further than at any other point in her life at an age when most actresses begin to retreat.[136] Berg describes the decade as "the heart of her vast legacy" and "the period in which she truly came into her own."[137] In January 1950, Hepburn ventured into Shakespeare, playing Rosalind in As You Like It. She hoped to prove that she could play already established material,[28] and said, "It's better to try something difficult and flop than to play it safe all the time."[138] It opened at the Cort Theatre in New York to a capacity audience, and was virtually sold out for 148 shows.[139] The production then went on tour. Reviews for Hepburn varied, but she was noted as the only leading-lady in Hollywood who was performing high-caliber material onstage.[140]
In 1951, Hepburn filmed The African Queen, her first movie in Technicolor. She played Rose Sayer, a prim spinster missionary living in German East Africa at the outbreak of World War I. Costarring Humphrey Bogart, The African Queen was shot mostly on location in the Belgian Congo, an opportunity Hepburn embraced.[141] It proved a difficult experience, however, and Hepburn became ill with dysentery during filming.[142] Later in life, she released a memoir about the experience. The movie was released at the end of 1951 to popular support and critical acclaim,[143] and gave Hepburn her fifth Best Actress nomination at the Academy Awards. The first successful film she had made without Tracy since The Philadelphia Story a decade earlier, it proved that she could be a hit without him and fully reestablished her popularity.[144]
Hepburn went on to make the sports comedy Pat and Mike (1952), the second film written specifically as a Tracy–Hepburn vehicle by Kanin and Gordon. She was a keen athlete, and Kanin later described this as his inspiration for the film: "As I watched Kate playing tennis one day ... it occurred to me that her audience was missing a treat."[145] Hepburn was under pressure to perform several sports to a high standard, many of which did not end up in the film.[146] Pat and Mike was one of the team's most popular and critically acclaimed films, and it was also Hepburn's personal favorite of the nine films she made with Tracy.[147] The performance brought her a nomination for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy.[148]
In the summer of 1952, Hepburn appeared in London's West End for a ten-week run of George Bernard Shaw's The Millionairess. Her parents had read Shaw to her when she was a child, which made the play a special experience for the actress.[149] Two years of intense work had left her exhausted, however, and her friend Constance Collier wrote that Hepburn was "on the verge of a nervous breakdown".[150] Widely acclaimed, The Millionairess was brought to Broadway.[151] In October 1952 it opened at the Shubert Theatre, where despite a lukewarm critical response it sold out its ten-week run.[150] Hepburn subsequently tried to get the play adapted into a film: a script was written by Preston Sturges, and she offered to work for nothing and pay the director herself, but no studio picked up the project.[152] She later referred to this as the biggest disappointment of her career.[149]
In David Lean's romantic drama Summertime (1955). Jane Hudson is one of the popular "spinster" roles Hepburn played in the 1950s.
Pat and Mike was the last film Hepburn completed on her MGM contract, making her free to select her own projects.[151] She spent two years resting and traveling, before committing to David Lean's romantic drama Summertime (1955). The movie was filmed in Venice, with Hepburn playing a lonely spinster who has a passionate love affair. She described it as "a very emotional part" and found it fascinating to work with Lean.[153] At her own insistence, Hepburn performed a fall into a canal and developed a chronic eye infection as a result.[154] The role earned her another Academy Award nomination and has been cited as some of her finest work.[155][156] Lean later said it was his personal favorite of the films he made, and Hepburn his favorite actress.[157] The following year, Hepburn spent six months touring Australia with the Old Vic theatre company, playing Portia in The Merchant of Venice, Kate in The Taming of the Shrew, and Isabella in Measure for Measure. The tour was successful and Hepburn earned significant plaudits for the effort.[158]
Hepburn received an Academy Award nomination for the second year running for her work opposite Burt Lancaster in The Rainmaker (1956). Again she played a lonely woman empowered by a love affair, and it became apparent that Hepburn had found a niche in playing "love-starved spinsters" that critics and audiences enjoyed.[159] Hepburn said of playing such roles, "With Lizzie Curry [The Rainmaker] and Jane Hudson [Summertime] and Rosie Sayer [The African Queen]—I was playing me. It wasn't difficult for me to play those women, because I'm the maiden aunt."[159] Less success that year came from The Iron Petticoat (1956), a reworking of the classic comedy Ninotchka, with Bob Hope. Hepburn played a cold-hearted Soviet pilot, a performance Bosley Crowther called "horrible".[160] It was a critical and commercial failure, and Hepburn considered it the worst film on her resume.[159][160]
Tracy and Hepburn reunited on screen for the first time in five years for the office-based comedy Desk Set (1957). Berg notes that it worked as a hybrid of their earlier romantic-comedy successes and Hepburn's spinster persona,[161] but it performed poorly at the box-office.[162] That summer, Hepburn returned to Shakespeare. Appearing in Stratford, Connecticut, at the American Shakespeare Theatre, she repeated her Portia in The Merchant of Venice and played Beatrice in Much Ado About Nothing. The shows were positively received.[161]
After two years away from the screen, Hepburn starred in a film adaptation of Tennessee Williams' controversial play Suddenly, Last Summer (1959) with Elizabeth Taylor and Montgomery Clift. The movie was shot in London, and was "a completely miserable experience" for Hepburn.[163] She clashed with director Joseph L. Mankiewicz during filming, which culminated with her spitting at him in disgust.[164] The picture was a financial success, and her work as creepy aunt Violet Venable gave Hepburn her eighth Oscar nomination.[165] Williams was pleased with the performance, writing, "Kate is a playwright's dream-actress. She makes dialogue sound better than it is by a matchless beauty and clarity of diction".[166] He wrote The Night of the Iguana (1961) with Hepburn in mind, but the actress, although flattered, felt the play was wrong for her and declined the part, which went to Bette Davis.[167]
Hepburn returned to Stratford in the summer of 1960 to play Viola in Twelfth Night and Cleopatra in Antony and Cleopatra. The New York Post wrote of her Cleopatra, "Hepburn offers a highly versatile performance ... once or twice going in for her famous mannerisms and always being fascinating to watch."[168] Hepburn herself was proud of the role.[169] Her repertoire was further improved when she appeared in Sidney Lumet's film version of Eugene O'Neill's Long Day's Journey Into Night (1962). It was a low-budget production, and she appeared in the film for a tenth of her established salary.[170] She called it "the greatest [play] this country has ever produced" and the role of morphine-addicted Mary Tyrone "the most challenging female role in American drama", and felt her performance was the best screen work of her career.[171] Long Day's Journey Into Night earned Hepburn an Oscar nomination and the Best Actress Award at the Cannes Film Festival. It remains one of her most praised performances.[172]
Following the completion of Long Day's Journey Into Night, Hepburn took a break in her career to care for ailing Spencer Tracy.[173] She did not work again until 1967's Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, her ninth film with Tracy. The movie dealt with the subject of interracial marriage, with Hepburn's niece, Katharine Houghton, playing her daughter. Tracy was dying by this point, suffering the effects of heart disease,[174] and Houghton later commented that her aunt was "extremely tense" during the production.[175] Tracy died 17 days after filming his last scene. Guess Who's Coming to Dinner was a triumphant return for Hepburn and her most commercially successful picture to that point.[176] She won her second Best Actress Award at the Oscars, 34 years after winning her first. Hepburn felt the award was not just for her, but was also given to honor Tracy.[176]
Hepburn quickly returned to acting after Tracy's death, choosing to preoccupy herself as a remedy against grief.[177] She received numerous scripts[178] and chose to play Eleanor of Aquitaine in The Lion in Winter (1968), a part she called "fascinating".[179] She read extensively in preparation for the role, in which she starred opposite Peter O'Toole.[180] Filming took place in Montmajour Abbey in the south of France, an experience she loved despite being—according to director Anthony Harvey—"enormously vulnerable" throughout.[181] John Russell Taylor of The Times suggested that Eleanor was "the performance of her ... career", and proved that she was "a growing, developing, still surprising actress".[182] The movie was nominated in all the major categories at the Academy Awards, and for the second year running Hepburn won the Oscar for Best Actress.[183] The role, combined with her performance in Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, also received a British Academy Film Award (BAFTA) for Best Actress. Hepburn's next appearance was in The Madwoman of Chaillot (1969), which she filmed in Nice immediately after completing The Lion in Winter.[184] The picture was a failure critically and financially, and reviews targeted Hepburn for giving a misguided performance.[185]
From December 1969 to August 1970, Hepburn starred in the Broadway musical Coco, about the life of Coco Chanel. She admitted that before the show, she had never sat through a theatrical musical.[186] She was not a strong singer, but found the offer irresistible and, as Berg puts it, "what she lacked in euphony she made up for in guts".[187] The actress took vocal lessons six times a week in preparation for the show.[187] She was nervous about every performance, and recalled "wondering what the hell I was doing there."[188] Reviews for the production were mediocre, but Hepburn herself was praised and Coco was popular with the public—with its run twice extended.[189] She later said Coco marked the first time she accepted that the public was not against her, but actually seemed to love her.[28] Her work earned a Tony Award nomination for Best Actress in a Musical.[190]
Hepburn stayed active throughout the 1970s, focusing on roles described by Andrew Britton as "either a devouring mother or a batty old lady living [alone]".[1] First she traveled to Spain to film a version of Euripides' The Trojan Women (1971) alongside Vanessa Redgrave. When asked why she had taken the role, she responded that she wanted to broaden her range and try everything while she still had time.[191] The movie was poorly received,[191] but the Kansas City Film Critics named Hepburn's performance the best from an actress that year. In 1971 she signed on to star in an adaptation of Graham Greene's Travels With My Aunt, but was unhappy with early versions of the script and took to rewriting it herself. The studio disliked her changes, so Hepburn abandoned the project and was replaced with Maggie Smith.[192] Her next film, an adaptation of Edward Albee's A Delicate Balance (1973) directed by Tony Richardson, had a small release and received generally unfavorable reviews.[193]
In 1973, Hepburn ventured into television for the first time, starring in a production of Tennessee Williams' The Glass Menagerie. She had been wary of the medium but it proved to be one of the main television events of the year, scoring high in the Nielsen ratings.[194] Hepburn received an Emmy Award nomination for playing wistful Southern mother Amanda Wingfield, which opened her mind to future work on the small screen.[195] Her next project was the television movie Love Among the Ruins (1975), a London-based Edwardian drama with her friend Laurence Olivier. It received positive reviews and high ratings, and earned Hepburn her only Emmy Award.[196]
Hepburn made her only appearance at the Academy Awards in 1974, to present the Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award to Lawrence Weingarten. She received a standing ovation, and joked with the audience, "I'm very happy I didn't hear anyone call out 'It's about time'."[197] The following year, she was paired with John Wayne in the Western Rooster Cogburn, a sequel to his Oscar-winning film True Grit. Echoing her African Queen character Rose Sayer, Hepburn again played a deeply religious spinster who teams up with a masculine loner to avenge a family member's death.[193] The movie received mediocre reviews. Its casting was enough to draw some people to the box office, but it did not meet studio expectations and was only moderately successful.[198]
In 1976, Hepburn returned to Broadway for a three-month run of A Matter of Gravity. The role of eccentric Mrs. Basil was deemed a perfect showcase for the actress,[199] and the play was popular despite poor reviews.[200] It later went on a successful nationwide tour.[201] During its Los Angeles run, Hepburn fractured her hip, but she chose to continue the tour performing in a wheelchair.[202] That year, she was voted "Favorite Motion Picture Actress" by the People's Choice Awards.[203] After three years away from the screen, Hepburn starred in the 1978 film Olly Olly Oxen Free. The adventure comedy was one of the biggest failures of her career—the screenwriter James Prideaux, who worked with Hepburn, later wrote that it "died at the moment of release" and referred to it as her "lost film".[204] Hepburn claimed the main reason she had done it was the opportunity to ride in a hot-air balloon.[205] The television movie The Corn Is Green (1979), which was filmed in Wales, followed. It was the last of ten films Hepburn made with George Cukor, and gained her a third Emmy nomination.[206]
By the 1980s, Hepburn had developed a noticeable tremor, giving her a permanently shaking head.[197][207] She did not work for two years, saying in a television interview, "I've had my day—let the kids scramble and sweat it out."[208] During this period she saw the Broadway production of On Golden Pond, and was impressed by its depiction of an elderly married couple coping with the difficulties of old age.[209] Jane Fonda had purchased the screen rights for her father, actor Henry Fonda, and Hepburn sought to play opposite him in the role of quirky Ethel Thayer.[210] On Golden Pond was a success, the second-highest grossing film of 1981.[211] It demonstrated how energetic the 74-year-old Hepburn was, as she dove fully clothed into Squam Lake and gave a lively singing performance.[209] The movie won her a second BAFTA and a record fourth Academy Award. Homer Dickens, in his book on Hepburn, notes that it was widely considered a sentimental win, "a tribute to her enduring career."[212]
Hepburn also returned to the stage in 1981. She received a second Tony nomination for her portrayal in The West Side Waltz of a septuagenarian widow with a zest for life. Variety observed that the role was "an obvious and entirely acceptable version of [Hepburn's] own public image."[213] Walter Kerr of The New York Times wrote of Hepburn and her performance, "One mysterious thing she has learned to do is breathe unchallengeable life into lifeless lines."[214] She hoped to make a film out of the production, but nobody purchased the rights.[215] Hepburn's reputation as one of America's best loved actors was firmly established by this point, as she was named favorite movie actress in a survey by People magazine and again won the popularity award from People's Choice.[216][217]
In 1984, Hepburn starred in the dark-comedy Grace Quigley, the story of an elderly woman who enlists a hitman (Nick Nolte) to kill her. Hepburn found humor in the morbid theme, but reviews were negative and the box-office was poor.[218] In 1985, she presented a television documentary about the life and career of Spencer Tracy.[219] The majority of Hepburn's roles from this point were in television movies, which did not receive the critical praise of her earlier work in the medium but remained popular with audiences.[220] With each release, Hepburn would declare it her final screen appearance, but she continued to take on new roles.[221] She received an Emmy nomination for 1986's Mrs. Delafield Wants to Marry, then two years later returned for the comedy Laura Lansing Slept Here, which allowed her to act with her grandniece, Schuyler Grant.[222]
Hepburn's final movie appearance was in Love Affair (1994). Critics commented that the 86-year-old had lost none of her powerful screen presence.
In 1991, Hepburn released her autobiography, Me: Stories of my Life, which topped best-seller lists for over a year.[223] She returned to television screens in 1992 for The Man Upstairs, co-starring Ryan O'Neal, for which she received a Golden Globe nomination. In 1994 she worked opposite Anthony Quinn in This Can't Be Love, which was largely based on Hepburn's own life, with numerous references to her personality and career. These later roles have been described as "a fictional version of the typically feisty Kate Hepburn character" and critics have remarked that Hepburn was essentially playing herself.[214][221]
Hepburn's final appearance in a theatrically released film, and her first since Grace Quigley ten years earlier, was Love Affair (1994). At 86 years old, she played a supporting role alongside Annette Bening and Warren Beatty. It was the only film of Hepburn's career, other than the cameo appearance in Stage Door Canteen, in which she did not play a leading role.[224] Roger Ebert noted that it was the first time she had looked frail, but that the "magnificent spirit" was still there and said her scenes "steal the show".[225] The New York Times made similar observations as they reflected on the actress's final big-screen appearance, stating that "if she moved more slowly than before, in demeanor she was as game and modern as she had ever been".[214] Hepburn filmed one final role in the television movie One Christmas (1994), for which she received a Screen Actors Guild Award nomination at 87 years old.[226]
Hepburn was known for being fiercely private,[214] and would not give interviews or talk to fans for much of her career.[82] She distanced herself from the celebrity lifestyle, uninterested in a social scene she saw as tedious and superficial,[227] and she wore casual clothes that went strongly against convention in an era of glamour.[228] She rarely appeared in public, even avoiding restaurants,[229] and once wrestled a camera out of a photographer's hand when he took a picture without asking.[230] Despite her zeal for privacy, she enjoyed her fame, and later confessed that she would not have liked the press to ignore her completely.[231] The protective attitude thawed as she aged; beginning with a two-hour long interview on The Dick Cavett Show in 1973, Hepburn became increasingly open with the public.[232]
"I strike people as peculiar in some way, although I don't quite understand why. Of course, I have an angular face, an angular body and, I suppose, an angular personality, which jabs into people."[214]
"I'm a personality as well as an actress. Show me an actress who isn't a personality and you'll show me a woman who isn't a star."[233]
Hepburn's relentless energy and enthusiasm for life is often cited in biographies,[234] while a headstrong independence became key to her celebrity status.[80][214][235] This self-assuredness meant she could be controlling and difficult; her friend Garson Kanin likened her to a schoolmistress,[236] and she was famously blunt and outspoken.[228] Katharine Houghton commented that her aunt could be "maddeningly self-righteous and bossy".[237] Hepburn confessed to being, especially early in life, "a me me me person".[238] She saw herself as having a happy nature, reasoning "I like life and I've been so lucky, why shouldn't I be happy?"[173] A. Scott Berg knew Hepburn well in her later years, and said that while she was demanding, she retained a sense of humility and humanity.[239]
The actress led an active private life, reportedly swimming and playing tennis every morning.[145] In her eighties she was still playing tennis regularly, as indicated in her 1993 documentary All About Me.[28] She also enjoyed painting, which became a passion later in life.[240] When questioned about politics, Hepburn told an interviewer, "I always just say be on the affirmative and liberal side. Don't be a 'no' person."[5] The anti-communist hysteria in 1940s Hollywood prompted her to political activity, and her name was mentioned at the hearings of the House Un-American Activities Committee[130] although Hepburn denied being a communist sympathizer.[241] Later in life, she openly promoted birth control and supported abortion.[28][80] She practiced Albert Schweitzer's theory of "Reverence for Life",[242] but did not believe in religion or the afterlife.[5] In 1991, Hepburn told a journalist, "I'm an atheist, and that's it. I believe there's nothing we can know except that we should be kind to each other and do what we can for other people."[243] Her public declarations of these beliefs led the American Humanist Association to award her the Humanist Arts Award in 1985.[244]
Hepburn's only husband was Ludlow Ogden Smith, a socialite-businessman from Philadelphia whom she met while a student at Bryn Mawr. The couple married on December 12, 1928, when she was 21 and he was 29.[245] Hepburn had Smith change his name to S. Ogden Ludlow so that she would not be known as "Kate Smith", which she considered too plain.[33] She never fully committed to the relationship and prioritized her career.[245] The move to Hollywood in 1932 cemented the couple's estrangement,[246] and in 1934, she traveled to Mexico to get a quick divorce. Hepburn often expressed her gratitude toward Smith for his financial and moral support in the early days of her career, and in her autobiography called herself "a terrible pig" for exploiting his love.[247] The pair remained friends until his death in 1979.[248]
Soon after moving to California, Hepburn began a relationship with her agent, Leland Hayward, although they were both married.[65] Hayward proposed to the actress once they had each divorced; she declined this, later explaining, "I liked the idea of being my own single self."[249] They were involved for four years.[250] In 1936, while she was touring Jane Eyre, Hepburn began a relationship with entrepreneur Howard Hughes. They first met while Hepburn was filming Sylvia Scarlett, when they were introduced by their mutual friend Cary Grant.[251] Hughes wished to marry her, and the tabloids reported their impending nuptials, but at that time Hepburn was too focused on resurrecting her failing career.[252] They separated in 1938, when Hepburn left Hollywood after being labeled "box office poison".[253]
Hepburn stuck to her decision not to remarry, and made a conscious choice not to have children. She believed that motherhood should be a full-time commitment, and said it was not one she was willing to make.[5] "I would have been a terrible mother," she told Berg, "because I'm basically a very selfish human being."[254] She felt she had partially experienced parenthood through her much younger siblings, which fulfilled any need to have children of her own.[255] Rumors have existed since the 1930s that Hepburn may have been a lesbian or bisexual, which she often joked about.[256] In 2007, William J. Mann released a biography of the actress in which he argued this was the case.[257] In response to this speculation about her aunt, Katharine Houghton said, "I've never discovered any evidence whatsoever that she was a lesbian."[258]
Hepburn had a 26-year relationship with actor Spencer Tracy, although he never divorced his wife. Promotional image for Desk Set (1957)
The most significant relationship of Hepburn's life was with Spencer Tracy. In her autobiography she wrote, "It was a unique feeling that I had for [Tracy]. I would have done anything for him."[259] Lauren Bacall, a close friend, later wrote of how "blindingly" in love Hepburn was with the actor.[260] The relationship has subsequently received much publicity, and it is often cited as one of Hollywood's legendary love affairs.[214][232][261] Meeting when she was 34 and he was 41, Tracy was initially wary of Hepburn, unimpressed by her dirty fingernails and suspecting that she was a lesbian,[262] but Hepburn said she "knew right away that I found him irresistible."[263] Tracy remained married throughout their relationship; although he and his wife Louise had been living separate lives since the 1930s, there was never an official split and neither party pursued a divorce.[264] Hepburn did not interfere, and never fought for marriage.[265]
With Tracy determined to conceal the relationship with Hepburn from his wife, it had to remain private.[266] They were careful not to be seen in public together, and maintained separate residences.[261][267] Tracy was a periodic alcoholic and was frequently depressed; Hepburn described him as "tortured",[268] and she devoted herself to making his life easier.[269] Reports from people who saw them together describe how Hepburn's entire demeanor changed when around Tracy.[270] She mothered and obeyed him, and Tracy became heavily dependent on her.[271] They often spent stretches of time apart due to their work, particularly in the 1950s when Hepburn was largely abroad for career commitments.[272]
Tracy's health declined significantly in the 1960s, and Hepburn took a five-year break in her career to care for him.[173] She moved into Tracy's house for this period, and was with him when he died on June 10, 1967.[273] Out of consideration for Tracy's family, she did not attend his funeral.[274] It was only after Louise Tracy's death, in 1983, that Hepburn began to speak publicly about her feelings for her frequent co-star.[275] In response to the question of why she stayed with Tracy for so long, despite the nature of their relationship, she said, "I honestly don't know. I can only say that I could never have left him."[173] She claimed to not know how Tracy felt about her[276] and that they "just passed twenty-seven years  [sic] together in what was to me absolute bliss."[276]
Hepburn stated in her eighties, "I have no fear of death. Must be wonderful, like a long sleep."[28] Her health began to deteriorate not long after her final screen appearance. In the winter of 1996 she was hospitalized with pneumonia.[277] By 1997 she had become very weak, was speaking and eating very little, and it was feared she would die.[278] She showed signs of dementia in her final years.[279] In May 2003, an aggressive tumor was found in Hepburn's neck. The decision was made not to medically intervene,[280] and she died on June 29, 2003, at the Hepburn family home in Fenwick, Connecticut. She was 96 years old and was buried in Cedar Hill Cemetery in Hartford. Hepburn requested that there be no memorial service.[281]
Hepburn's death received considerable public attention. Many tributes were held on television, and newspapers and magazines dedicated issues to the actress.[282] American president George W. Bush said Hepburn "will be remembered as one of the nation's artistic treasures."[283] In honor of her extensive theatre work, the lights of Broadway were dimmed for the evening of July 1, 2003.[283] In 2004, in accordance with Hepburn's wishes, her belongings were put up for auction with Sotheby's in New York. The event garnered $5.8 million, which Hepburn willed to her family.[284]
"Her best films were when she was presented as a woman on her high horse with slightly pretentious, often comically stated ideas about the world. It was for men to bring her down and get her to reveal herself as quite a good gal, sporty and democratic. We liked the idea that aristocratic people would be humanized by democratic values—in her case, by slightly rough-necked and good-natured males."[172]
According to reports, Hepburn was not an instinctive actor.[285] She liked to study the text and character carefully beforehand, making sure she knew them thoroughly, and then to rehearse as much as possible and film multiple takes of a scene.[180] With a genuine passion for the industry she committed heavily to each role[286] and insisted on learning any necessary skills and performing stunts herself.[287] She was known to learn not only her own lines but also those of her costars.[288] Commenting on her motivation, Stanley Kramer said, "Work, work, work. She can work till everyone drops."[289] Hepburn involved herself in the production of each of her films, making suggestions for the script and stating her opinion on everything from costumes to lighting to camerawork.[290]
The characters Hepburn played were, with very few exceptions, wealthy and intelligent, and often strong and independent.[291] These tough characters tended to be humbled in some form and revealed to have a hidden vulnerability.[292] Garson Kanin described what he called "the formula for a Hepburn success: A high-class, or stuck-up ... girl is brought down to earth by an earthy type, or a lowbrow ... or a cataclysmic situation. It seems to have worked time and time again."[293] Due to this repeated character arc, Britton sees Hepburn as embodying the "contradictions" of the "nature and status of women",[294] as the strong females she depicts are eventually "restored to a safe position within the status quo".[295] Film critic Molly Haskell has commented on the importance of this to Hepburn's career: with an intimidating presence, it was necessary that her characters "do some kind of self-abasement, to stay on the good side of the audience."[80]
Hepburn is one of America's most celebrated actresses,[296] but she has also been criticized for a lack of versatility. Her on-screen persona closely matched her own real personality, something Hepburn admitted herself. In 1991 she told a journalist, "I think I'm always the same. I had a very definite personality and I liked material that showed that personality."[261] Playwright and author David Macaray has said, "Picture Katharine Hepburn in every movie she ever starred in and ask yourself if she's not playing, essentially, the same part over and over ... Icon or no icon, let's not confuse a truly fascinating and unique woman with a superior actress."[297] Another repeated criticism is that her demeanor was too cold.[261]
Hepburn, with her unconventional lifestyle and the independent females she played on screen (such as Tess Harding in Woman of the Year, pictured), represented the emancipated woman in 20th-century America.
Hepburn is considered an important and influential cultural figure. Ros Horton and Sally Simmons included her in their book Women Who Changed The World, which honors 50 women who helped shape world history and culture.[298] She is also named in Encyclopædia Britannica's list of "300 Women Who Changed the World",[228] Ladies Home Journal's book 100 Most Important Women of the 20th century,[299] Variety magazine's "100 Icons of the Century",[300] and she is number 84 on VH1's list of the "200 Greatest Pop Culture Icons of All Time".[301] In 1999, the American Film Institute named Hepburn the "greatest American screen legend" among females.[302]
Regarding Hepburn's film legacy, broadcaster Sheridan Morley said she "broke the mold" for women in Hollywood,[303] where she brought a new breed of strong-willed females to the screen.[228] Film academic Andrew Britton wrote a monograph studying Hepburn's "key presence within classical Hollywood, a consistent, potentially radical disturbance",[295] and pinpoints her "central" influence in bringing feminist issues to the screen.[294] Maryann Pasda DiEdwardo has claimed that Hepburn's performances fostered a "decisiveness toward a new vision of women."[304]
Off screen, Hepburn lived in a manner ahead of her time;[235] she thus came to symbolize the "modern woman" and played a part in changing attitudes towards the gender.[80][305] Horton and Simmons write, "Confident, intelligent and witty, four-time Oscar winner Katharine Hepburn defied convention throughout her professional and personal life ... Hepburn provided an image of an assertive woman whom [females] could watch and learn from."[306] After Hepburn's death, film historian Jeanine Basinger stated, "What she brought us was a new kind of heroine—modern and independent. She was beautiful, but she did not rely on that."[172] Mary McNamara, an entertainment journalist and reviewer for the Los Angeles Times wrote, "More than a movie star, Katharine Hepburn was the patron saint of the independent American female."[80] She was not universally revered by feminists, however, who were angered by her public declarations that women "cannot have it all", meaning a family and a career.[80]
Hepburn's legacy extends to fashion, where she was a pioneer for wearing trousers at a time when it was radical for a woman to do so.[307] She contributed towards making trousers acceptable for women, as fans began to imitate her clothing.[214][308] In 1986 she received a lifetime achievement award from the Council of Fashion Designers of America in recognition of the influence she played in women's fashion.[214]
A number of Hepburn's films have become classics of American cinema, with four of her pictures (The African Queen, The Philadelphia Story, Bringing Up Baby, and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner) featuring on the American Film Institute's list of the 100 Greatest American Films of all time.[309] Adam's Rib and Woman of the Year were included in the AFI's list of the Greatest American Comedies.[310] Her clipped, patrician voice is considered one of the most distinctive in film history.[172] [ Sample, from Stage Door (1937) (help·info)]
Hepburn has been honored with several memorials. The Turtle Bay community in Manhattan, New York City, where she maintained a residence for over 60 years, dedicated a garden in her name in 1997.[311] After Hepburn's death in 2003, the intersection of East 49th Street and 2nd Avenue was renamed "Katharine Hepburn Place".[312] Three years later Bryn Mawr College, Hepburn's alma mater, launched the Katharine Houghton Hepburn Center. It is dedicated to both the actress and her mother, and encourages women to address important issues affecting their gender. The center awards the annual Katharine Hepburn Medal, which "recognizes women whose lives, work and contributions embody the intelligence, drive and independence of the four-time-Oscar-winning actress".[313] The Katharine Hepburn Cultural Arts Center was opened in 2009 in Old Saybrook, Connecticut, the location of the Hepburn family beach home which she loved and later owned.[314] The building includes a performance space and a Katharine Hepburn museum.[315]
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences library[316] and the New York Public Library hold collections of Hepburn's personal papers. Selections from the New York collection, which documents Hepburn's theatrical career, were presented in a five-month exhibition, Katharine Hepburn: In Her Own Files, in 2009.[317] Other exhibitions have been held to showcase Hepburn's career. One Life: Kate, A Centennial Celebration was held at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington from November 2007 to September 2008.[318] Kent State University exhibited a selection of her film and theatre costumes from October 2010 to September 2011 in Katharine Hepburn: Dressed for Stage and Screen.[319] Hepburn has also been honored with her own postal stamp as part of the "Legends of Hollywood" stamp series.[320]
Hepburn is the subject of a one-woman play, Tea at Five, written by Matthew Lombardo. The first act features Hepburn in 1938, after being labeled "box office poison", and the second act in 1983, where she reflects on her life and career.[321] It was first performed in 2002 at the Hartford Stage.[322] Hepburn has been portrayed in Tea at Five by Kate Mulgrew,[321] Tovah Feldshuh,[323] Stephanie Zimbalist,[324] and Charles Busch.[325] Feldshuh also appeared as Hepburn in The Amazing Howard Hughes, a 1977 television movie, while Mearle Ann Taylor later portrayed her in The Scarlett O'Hara War (1980). In Martin Scorsese's 2004 biopic of Howard Hughes, The Aviator, Hepburn was portrayed by Cate Blanchett, who won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance. This marked the first instance where the portrayal of an Academy Award-winning actress was turned into an Academy Award-winning role.[326]
Hepburn won four Academy Awards, the record number for a performer, and a total of 12 Oscar nominations for Best Actress—a number surpassed only by Meryl Streep.[327] Hepburn also holds the record for the longest time span between first and last Oscar nominations, at 48 years.[327] She received two awards and five nominations from the British Academy Film Awards, one award and six nominations from the Emmy Awards, eight Golden Globe nominations, two Tony Award nominations, and awards from the Cannes Film Festival, Venice Film Festival, the New York Film Critics Circle Awards, the People's Choice Awards, and others. Hepburn was inducted into the American Theater Hall of Fame in 1979. She also won a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Screen Actors Guild in 1979 and received the Kennedy Center Honors, which recognize a lifetime of accomplishments in the arts, in 1990.[328][329]
Hepburn was recognized by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for the following performances:
41st Academy Awards (1969): Best Actress, win, for The Lion in Winter (shared with Barbra Streisand for Funny Girl)
During her 66-year career, Hepburn appeared in 44 feature films, 8 television movies, and 33 plays. Her movie career covered a range of genres, including screwball comedies, period dramas, and adaptations of works by America's top playwrights. She appeared on the stage in every decade from the 1920s to the 1980s, performing plays by Shakespeare and Shaw, and a Broadway musical.[330][331]
Berg, Scott A. (2004 edition [First published 2003]). Kate Remembered: Katharine Hepburn, a Personal Biography. London: Pocket. ISBN 0-7434-1563-9.  Check date values in: |date= (help)
Britton, Andrew (2003 edition [First published 1984]). Katharine Hepburn: Star as Feminist. New York City, NY: Columbia University Press. ISBN 0-231-13277-8.  Check date values in: |date= (help)
Chandler, Charlotte (2011 edition [First published 2010]). I Know Where I'm Going: Katharine Hepburn, a Personal Biography. Milwaukee, WI: Applause. ISBN 1-907532-01-3.  Check date values in: |date= (help)
Dickens, Homer (1990 edition [First published 1971]). The Films of Katharine Hepburn. New York City, NY: Carol Publishing Group. ISBN 0-8065-1175-3.  Check date values in: |date= (help)
DiEdwardo, Maryann Pasda (2006). The Legacy of Katharine Hepburn: Fine Art as a Way of Life: A Memoir. Bloomington, IN: AuthorHouse. ISBN 1-4259-6089-8. 
Edwards, Anne (1985). A Remarkable Woman: A Biography of Katharine Hepburn. New York City, NY: William Morrow & Company, Inc. ISBN 0-688-04528-6. 
Haver, Ronald (1980). David O. Selznick's Hollywood. London: Martin Secker & Warburg Ltd. ISBN 0-394-42595-2. 
Hepburn, Katharine (1991). Me: Stories of My Life. New York City, NY: Alfred A. Knopf. ISBN 0-679-40051-6. 
Higham, Charles (2004 edition [First published 1975]). Kate: The Life of Katharine Hepburn. New York City, NY: W. W. Norton. ISBN 0-393-32598-9.  Check date values in: |date= (help)
Horton, Ros and Sally Simmons (2007). Women Who Changed the World. London: Quercus Publishing Plc. ISBN 1-84724-026-7. 
Kanin, Garson (1971). Tracy and Hepburn: An Intimate Memoir. New York City, NY: Viking. ISBN 0-670-72293-6. 
Mann, William J. (2007). Kate: The Woman Who Was Hepburn. New York City, NY: Picador. ISBN 0-312-42740-9. 
Dickstein, Morris (2002). "Bringing Up Baby (1938)", in The A List: The National Society of Film Critics' 100 Essential Films, ed. Jay Carr. Cambridge, MA: Da Capo. ISBN 0-306-81096-4.
Prideaux, James (1996). Knowing Hepburn and Other Curious Experiences. Boston, MA: Faber and Faber. ISBN 0-571-19892-9. 
Verlhac, Pierre-Henri (2009). Katharine Hepburn: A Life in Pictures. San Francisco, CA: Chronicle Books. ISBN 0-8118-6947-4. 
"One Life: Kate, A Centennial Celebration". Online exhibition from the National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution
Katharine Hepburn papers, circa 1854–1997 and undated, held by the Billy Rose Theatre Division, New York Public Library for the Performing Arts
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Katharine_Hepburn&oldid=611145765"					
Categories: Katharine Hepburn1907 births2003 deaths20th-century American actressesAmerican people of English descentAmerican atheistsAmerican film actressesAmerican memoiristsAmerican radio actressesAmerican stage actressesAmerican television actressesAmerican Theater Hall of Fame inducteesBest Actress Academy Award winnersBest Actress BAFTA Award winnersBryn Mawr College alumniBurials at Cedar Hill Cemetery (Hartford, Connecticut)Kennedy Center honoreesMetro-Goldwyn-Mayer contract playersActresses from Hartford, ConnecticutPeople from Middlesex County, ConnecticutOutstanding Performance by a Lead Actress in a Miniseries or Movie Primetime Emmy Award winnersScreen Actors Guild Life Achievement AwardShakespearean actressesVolpi Cup winnersHidden categories: Use mdy dates from June 2012Articles with hCardsArticles with hAudio microformatsCS1 errors: datesCommons category template with no category setCommons category with page title same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersFeatured articles 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
'This tiny slither of land... changed the course of human history':The Queen and Obama leads tributes to D-Day heroes as world leaders join veterans for emotional return to Normandy beaches
Back to the beaches of death and deliverance: British D-Day veterans revisit the battlegrounds and villages they liberated 70 years on to meet the French civilians they helped to free from Nazis
Fred and the Paras return to the killing fields... as daredevil veteran, 89, is greeted by Prince Charles after fearless leap from the skies
        A beach that in 1944 was being pulverised by shells and gunfire and strewn with the brave wounded and dying  heard the lament of a lone piper today as the world remembers those who made the ultimate sacrifice in Nazi-occupied France. US President Barack Obama (top right) and French President Francois Hollande joined veterans at a joint French-American D-Day commemoration ceremony at the Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial in Colleville-sur-mer. Meanwhile, the Queen (centre) bowed her head as she paid her respects to the fallen at the British War Ceremony in Bayeux. She was joined by the Prince of Wales, the Duchess of Cornwall, and Prime Minister David Cameron and his wife Samantha.
Samantha Cameron wears 1940s-inspired suit as she joins Prime Minister at D-Day service of remembrance in France
Back to the beaches of death and deliverance: British D-Day veterans revisit the battlegrounds and villages they liberated 70 years on to meet the French civilians they helped to free from Nazis
       The Prime Minister's wife looked chic and smart in a grey suit and cream blouse as she arrived hand-in-hand with David at the Bayeux Cathedral in Ranville, France. Putting on a united front, the former Smythson creative head held hands with the Prime Minister David, who made a speech at the midnight vigil at Pegasus Bridge.
The British people's greatest day: Today, raise a glass to the ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
      If I had to single out one moment of the struggle which represented the zenith of our national achievement, then it must be D-Day, writes MAX HASTINGS.
The British people's greatest day: Cynics will say it's time to move on. But today raise a glass to the sheer ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
'A battle for life or death is in progress': Read the first breaking news report of D-Day as it happened
      The first breaking news report of D-Day as it happened 70-years-ago has been re-released to mark the anniversary of the beginning of the liberation of Europe.
'The job is not finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite triumph over Farage in Newark by-election
      Declaring the result a 'massive second' for Ukip, Farage said 'tremors are still being felt' two weeks after its triumph in the European Parliament elections. The Conservative candidate Robert Jenrick (pictured inset with David Cameron) attracted 17,431 votes - a comfortable majority over Ukip's Roger Helmer, who received 10,028.
Parents held after son, 11, reaches 15 STONE: Couple arrested on suspicion of child cruelty after 'doctors became concerned about boy's wellbeing
      The parents, from King’s Lynn, Norfolk, claim their son's weight gain is genetic and they have tried to keep his size under control.
      Labour MP Stella Creasy says women will have to ‘breed for Britain’ if immigration is restricted - and she has a point, writes RICHARD LITTLEJOHN.
      Studies show the optimum amount is 3-4mg of caffeine per kilogram of bodyweight one hour prior to exercise.
Use leftover Melba toast... and other money-saving tips by aristocratic politician who lives in a 13-bed manor
      Tory peer Baroness Rawlings, who is married to a multi-millionaire, suggested people reuse their linen and use a bath to warm the room.
Outrage as Vodafone reveals governments can listen in to private mobile phone calls at the 'flick of a switch' across its entire network
      Vodafone said direct-access wires were connected to its network, allowing authorities in 29 countries - including Italy, Malta and Spain - to monitor conversations.
Police searching for Madeleine McCann 'carry out DNA tests on scraps of clothing they found in a concealed pit close to the area where she went missing'
      Forensic experts drafted in from the UK are said to be carrying out analysis of the 'non organic' material, which was found near a hole in the ground on wasteland in Portugal's Praia de Luz resort.
Shot twice, stuffed in a sack and dumped in a canal... but Pakistani girl, 18, SURVIVES botched 'honour killing' carried out by her own family for marrying the man she loved
       Saba Maqsood (pictured) was attacked by her father, uncle, brother and aunt before she was tossed into the canal, said Ali Akbar, a spokesman for police in Hafizabad, Punjab province. It comes just a week-and-a-half after the broad daylight 'honour killing' of another woman in a city centre drew worldwide condemnation. Mr Akbar told Reuters that the most recent case was also 'an honour-related incident'. 'The victim, Saba ... married her neighbour Muhammad Qaiser for love five days ago against the wishes of her family,' he said.
'Fraudsters hijacked our phone line and then stole £41,000 when we called the bank': Customers scammed and then left stranded by their banks
      In two separate cases investigated customers with Lloyds Bank and Nationwide Building Society lost a total of almost £60,000 to the scam.
Suffocated baby's twin returned to parents after judge clears father of accidentally killing her as they slept on sofa, saying the couple 'deserve to be believed'
      The middle class father came under suspicion from Lancashire County Council following the death of his daughter, but judge Mr Justice Peter Jackson (pictured) cleared him of blame.
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left three Canadian Mounties dead and put city on day-long lock-down
      Justin Bourque, 24, was taken into custody early Friday morning after a deadly shootout in Moncton, New Brunswick, that left three police officers dead.
Outrage as actors dressed as Nazis takeover West Sussex airport 24 hours before 70th anniversary of D-day to film scenes for Ryan Reynolds film
      Stars of new Second World War film Woman in Gold, starring Helen Mirren and Ryan Reynolds, arrived at Shoreham Airport today dressed in full Nazi uniform.
Outrage as actors dressed as Nazis takeover West Sussex airport 24 hours before 70th anniversary of D-day to film scenes for Ryan Reynolds film
Does the amount of make-up you wear affect how people treat you? Student tries three different looks to find out
       Brinton Parker, a 21-year-old student at the University of California, was inspired to conduct her experiment after noticing how her peers critiqued people's looks. So during a single week, she went to school wearing three very different make-up looks - bare-faced, moderate and heavy - in a bid to measure the ways it altered how people treated her.
'Chaos and mass delays' as power failure grounds flights at Bristol Airport and passengers are told to wait outside terminal
      Passengers have taken to Twitter to voice their frustration as flights are delayed and the terminal fills with grounded passengers.
Brother of Sudanese woman facing death penalty for 'abandoning her Islamic faith' by marrying a Christian says 'she DESERVES to be executed'
      Al Samani Al Hadi said that he had denounced his sister Meriam Ibrahim to the authorities because his family are 'Muslim people.'
Former Crimewatch presenter Sue Cook tells Rolf Harris trial she too forgot a game show appearance in Cambridge in 1970s and the star 'shouldn't be accused of lying'
      Sue Cook, 65, told the jury at Southwark Crown Court in London that she had forgotten 'loads' of events she had been to over the years.
Obama pleads with Scotland to vote 'No' to independence AND for Britain to stay in the European Union
      The US President, who met David Cameron in Paris, said the union between England and Scotland had 'worked pretty well' and should stay together.
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Ferry captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his boat in a storm
      Steve Kingston, who runs a river ferry company in King's Lynn, Norfolk, refused to take the council's advice to leave his ship. In response the authorities sent in police to carry out the heavy-handed arrest.
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his ferry in a storm
'I thought we were crashing': British holidaymakers' terror as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes dramatic emergency landing after losing cabin pressure
       The Jet 2 flight LS516 (inset, file picture) started to rapidly descend just an hour after departing from Paphos, Cyprus, to Newcastle last night. The plane dropped thousands of feet in minutes, while oxygen masks were deployed for passengers (top). The aircraft was forced to divert to Sofia Airport in Bulgaria, where emergency crews were waiting on the tarmac (bottom). Today, British passengers told of their terror after the plane made an emergency landing due to loss of cabin pressure
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
Back to the beaches of death and deliverance: British D-Day veterans revisit the battlegrounds and villages they liberated 70 years on to meet the French civilians they helped to free from Nazis
      More than 650 ex-servicemen are said to have travelled to Normandy to commemorate the invasion which changed history.
Fred and the Paras return to the killing fields... as daredevil veteran, 89, is greeted by Prince Charles after fearless leap from the skies
      Jock Hutton, 89, who was just 19 when he jumped out of a plane to join the Allied assault on Normandy, performed a tandem jump during the commemorations.
More mass baby graves in Ireland?  Prime Minister Enda Kenny orders an investigation as memorial for 800 dead babies is planned
      The Irish premier spoke from San Francisco as fears emerged that the suspected mass grave at the children's home in Tuam, Co. Galway, pictured, may not be the only one.
More mass baby graves in Ireland?  Prime Minister Enda Kenny orders an investigation as memorial for 800 dead babies is planned
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
      Researchers from London's University of Westminster asked 124 men - half of whom were hungry and half well-fed - to rate different women by attractiveness.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richman poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
       Former Man V. Food host Adam Richman is celebrating is 70lb weight loss with a naked spread in Cosmopolitan UK's July issue. Mr Richman, 40, poses lying down with a soccer ball precariously covering his genitals. He wears soccer cleats and knee socks and is surrounded by a smattering of soccer balls that read 'USA', in reference to this summer's World Cup.
Plain tobacco packaging does NOT help you quit: Australian figures show 59 million MORE cigarettes were sold during first year of ban on branded packs
      Plain packaging laws came into effect in December 2012 under Labor health minister Nicola Roxon, as part of an attempt to discourage smoking, which claims 15,000 lives each year.
      Dr Viren Swami from the University of Westminster said those in love also tend to think their partner is better looking than themselves.
      People who match with each other on the app can now send pictures visible for 24 hours to each other.
Why Tetris is so addictive: Playing the game is like 'scratching an itch' and appeals to our brain's desire to tidy up
      A psychologist from the University of Sheffield has revealed that Tetris appeals to our brain's desire to solve mini tasks, while being tantalised by more problems.
Four generations of depravity: Court orders 'incest family' who lived in remote Australian bush to provide DNA samples to help police unravel decades of sexual abuse
       Two members of a NSW family accused of mass incest have been DNA swabbed following a court order. 'Raylene Colt' and 'Betty Colt' (the legal pseudonyms given to them) were ordered to report to a Sydney police station on Friday to provide samples. The family was discovered in regional NSW in 2012 living in squalid conditions and have been the subject of a child abuse investigation since.
Bergdahl 'declared himself a warrior for Islam and played soccer with his captors after being found by the Taliban wandering along a roadside cursing America'
      Sgt. Bowe Bergdhal converted to Islam during his captivity in Afghanistan, declaring himself a 'mujahid', or warrior for the faith according to secret new documents.
Backlash over Britain's first secret terror trial: MPs call for urgent debate over plans to set 'dangerous precedent' by holding case behind closed doors
      The case - in which a judge declared he would try two suspected terrorists y behind closed doors - was described as a 'dangerous precedent' .
Backlash over Britain's first secret terror trial: MPs call for urgent debate over plans to set 'dangerous precedent' by holding case behind closed doors
The average woman wants to meet ‘the one’ aged 24, have a child at 27 and reach the top of their career by 34
      Nearly two-thirds of those studied had a detailed life plan they try to follow – with targets such as passing their driving test by 19, living healthily by 24 and getting engaged at 26.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
      Vincent Walsh, professor of human brain research at University College London, also proposed they should be allowed to set their own work times, arriving whenever they want.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
Still clutching their rosaries after hundreds of years, eerie photographs show mummies buried in a Czech underground crypt
       A monastery in the Czech Republic has a ghoulish secret for those willing to venture underground - two dozen corpses clutching rosaries are on display. The bodies in the Capuchin Crypt of the Holy Cross Church, in Brno, date back hundreds of years, but they were only recently rediscovered and opened to public viewing.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
      The MEP strolled to his hotel with tourism executive Ande Soteri at 3.42am after a gala dinner, with conference delegates reportedly 'gossiping' that they left the party together in capital Valletta.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
Lying law graduate who claimed boyfriend raped her 11 times so she had an excuse for failing her bar exams faces jail
      Rhiannon Brooker, 30, from Frampton Cotterell, South Gloucestershire, claimed Paul Fensome, 46, forced her to have sex with him on 11 occasions.
      Not everyone who has terminal cancer can find it in themselves to be so valiant and heroic, to face death with such dignified equanimity.
Britain by numbers: How the United Kingdom is a nation divided by health, wealth and what we call our babies
      From fertility and baby names to life expectancy and immigration, there are stark differences between England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
      Researchers at the University of Rochester, in the U.S., say male brains are affected more significantly than female brains.
      In a bitter attack on the UK, Jean-Claude Juncker also condemned what he described as a British campaign against his presidency.
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: How unconventional 25-year marriage to first wife inspired world's greatest living scientist... and a movie
       Eddie Redmayne had books on Albert Einstein in his dressing room when he took on the part of Professor Stephen Hawking for a film about the physicist's 25-year love affair with his first wife Jane (the actor with Felicity Jones in the film, left, and the Hawkings in the 1960s, right). The actor, who shot to stardom in the movie musical Les Miserables, explained that Einstein and Dean were brilliant in their fields and idols to women. Redmayne grinned and said of Hawking (inset): 'Women flock to him, too. He loves women; women love him.'
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
School at centre of alleged Islamist 'Trojan Horse' takeover plot rejects Ofsted report saying it is failing to protect pupils from extremism
      The report - made public yesterday but leaked to the Mail on Monday - said Golden Hillock school in Birmingham (pictured), was doing too little to keep students safe from extremist views.
Sales executives whose boss 'spoke to their breasts not their face' in line for five-figure pay out after tribunal finds he was 'fixated'
      Darren Scott, 55, was obsessed with Diane Nicholl-Pierson’s breasts and regularly spoke to them instead of her face, an employment tribunal found.
Gary Glitter charged with drugging and having sex with girl aged under 13 as he is accused of series of historic sex offences against children
      Gary Glitter is to be charged with eight sexual offences relating to girls aged between 12 and 14, and will appear at Westminster Magistrates Court.
Gary Glitter charged with drugging and having sex with girl aged under 13 as he is accused of series of historic sex offences against children
Mother who was three times over the limit swigged vodka at wheel of her car with her baby daughter sat next to her
      Deborah Poulton, 38, from Poole, Dorset, was pulled over by police after being reported by another driver for dangerous driving.
       Wheeling in on horses and carts, thousands of travellers have pitched up on a privately owned golf course in the small market town of Appleby, Cumbria, for the largest event of its kind in Europe. The week-long Appleby Horse Fair attracts members of the gypsy community from around the world, and has previously been featured in popular Channel 4 show My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding.
          Nigella Lawson lets her hair down at charity dinner... as her production company makes £2.5 million profit in a year
          Prison food went down well then! Chris Brown shows off a fuller physique as he arrives at 'get out of jail free' party thrown by lover Karrueche Tran
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney enters the Big Brother house... and claims she has been celibate for a year
          It's over: Jennifer Lopez and dancer boyfriend Casper Smart 'call it quits'... amid transsexual sexting scandal
          Now that's Fancy! Shipshape Iggy Azalea slips into green bikini for luxury yacht holiday to celebrate 24th birthday
          Samantha Cameron wears 1940s inspired suit as she joins husband David at D-Day service of remembrance in France
          Cara Delevingne shows off her supermodel style in plunging printed silk jumpsuit as she attends Stella McCartney party with pal Jourdan Dunn
          She must've Heard it was a fashion event! Amber steals the limelight as she displays her pins in fetching red minidress at Stella McCartney presentation
          Millie Mackintosh highlights her slender frame in snakeskin jumpsuit at Smirnoff Mix It campaign launch
          Sienna Miller and fiancé Tom Sturridge lead the way during ANOTHER celebrity-packed night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Moss be having fun! Kate looks worse for wear in clashing prints as she hits Prince gig and Chiltern Firehouse with Nick Grimshaw
          Don't mind us! Michael Sheen and Sarah Silverman make a discreet exit after late night out at celebrity haunt Chiltern Firehouse
          Crazy Stupid Stomach! Cheryl Cole reveals her washboard abs in low- cut crop top in stills from video for new single
          Lara Stone shows off her cleavage and slim pins as she is joined by husband David Walliams at Terrence Higgins Trust event
          Team green! Brooke Vincent's 22nd birthday celebrations continue as she hits Manchester in sexy jumpsuit flanked by pals
          Fancy meeting you here! Kim Kardashian and Hilary Duff bring their children to same parenting class in Beverly Hills
          'He's struggling!' Kris Jenner opens up about Rob Kardashian's issues, but does not deny daughter Kourtney is pregnant with third child
          Kourtney Kardashian covers up 'baby bump' in baggy black sweater as she and Scott Disick grab lunch in The Hamptons
          Meet first 10 Big Brother 2014 contestants: A former prostitute, a strict catholic and a one-hit wonder amongst those first in house
          When in Ibiza! TOWIE's Mario Falcone puts his washboard abs on display as he greets topless fans during stag do holiday
          Lovely in lace! Kate Beckinsale steals the show in strapless white dress at Macbeth opening night bash
          Doesn't she get a day off? Alesha Dixon shows off her super flat stomach as she dresses up again for UK premiere of Belle
          Here come the girls! Daisy Lowe sports cropped blouse and flared dress trousers for night out at Scott's with fellow fashionista Alexa Chung
          That's better! Bradley Cooper trades questionably tight shorts for baggy cargo pants as he takes a break from the set of American Sniper
          TOWIE's Gemma Collins wears white skinny jeans with confidence after losing nearly two stone ahead of Marbella special
          'He's lost... but he's no racist': Rapper 50 Cent defends Justin Bieber following N-word storm... as singer 'takes responsibility for his actions'
          Still selfie obsessed! Kendall and Kylie Jenner pucker up for picture... despite being mobbed by fans at book signing
          'She has the perfect body!' Kris Jenner says daughter Kendall's topless modelling shots 'comes with the territory'
          Jumping into action! Emma Willis wins the viewers votes as she kicks off Big Brother 2014 in flattering white all-in-one
          Big Brother 2014 Launch: Pauline Bennet goes on a 'power trip' as a playboy bunny and devout Catholic are amongst first stars to enter the house
          Big Brother reveals first twist of the series as Pauline Bennet is told to pick who wins £5,000 and which housemate is excluded on first night
          Lo(han) and behold... she's out again! Flame-haired Lindsay rocks a grungy leather jacket and skirt combo as she enjoys another night at Chiltern Firehouse
          He's scored! Phil Neville can't resist kissing bikini-clad wife Julie as family holiday in Barbados continues
          You gotta fight for your copyright! Beastie Boys awarded $1.7million after suing drink firm which used their music in commercials
          Look, I can do streetwise too! J-Lo is just Jenny From The Block as she steps out in denim after being branded a 'sell out' at Bronx homecoming 
          Time to update the wardrobe! Chantelle Houghton wears her favourite white blazer as she goes shopping with Dolly
          Together again! Eva Longoria reunites with Desperate Housewives co-star Felicity Huffman at Jane Fonda Tribute
          The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
          Rolling Stones stars Mick Jagger, Ronnie Wood and Charlie Watts visit Jerusalem's Western Wall before first ever Israel concert
          Pastel perfection: Lindsay Lohan reveals very slim pins in pale blue skinny jeans and jumper as she steps out to lunch
          Diary of BGT's ditziest finalist: Lettice on auditioning hungover, her outrageous stage costumes and being loaned a £1.5million violin to perform
          George RR Martin makes fundraising appeal to Game Of Thrones fans to name a character he will kill in upcoming novel
          The Queen lights up the Champs-Élysées: Her Majesty - in her FOURTH chic outfit of the day - has red carpet rolled out for her in Paris ahead of D-Day
          Catherine Zeta-Jones and Morgan Freeman share a friendly kiss gone wrong... as she and Michael Douglas arrive at Hollywood event together
          Pins on parade! Jessica Seinfeld and Liv Tyler wear revealing short summer dresses at Stella McCartney presentation
          'She's celestial... I was born into her': Keith Urban on his divine connection with Nicole Kidman... and how her drug intervention saved him
          She's still got it! Jane Fonda, 76, wows as she accepts lifetime achievement award... days after giving sex tips on Conan O'Brien
          Return Of The Jedi! Mark Hamill, 62, shows he can still handle a Lightsaber during visit to Disney World 37 years after first playing Luke Skywalker
          'You don't always have to be naked!' TLC slam Rihanna for using sex to sell records saying it's the easy way to get to the top in the music industry
          Justin Bieber has been 'non-stop crying' after two videos surface showing him singing vile racial slurs at the age of 14
          Escorted by her Goodfella! Robert De Niro's wife Grace Hightower shines in blue dress at documentary premiere in New York
          A cause close to her heart: Demi Lovato speaks about her own personal struggles during mental health event
          Pregnant Jessica-Jane Clement shows off her growing baby bump as she takes her dogs for a leisurely walk
          'People don't want them here': Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian continue to annoy Hamptons locals with 'outrageous filming demands'
          Lupita Nyong'o to star in and produce big screen adaptation of award-winning novel Americanah
          I'll be back... after my cigar break: Arnold Schwarzenegger takes things slowly as he has a sly puff on set of Terminator: Genesis
          Jaime King parades her pins in sporty cardigan and matching mini-skirt at the McDonald's World Cup party in NYC
          'I am not an opportunist!' Fan who bought Whitney Houston's mansion for $1.5m insists he will NOT open it to the public
          Christie Brinkley, 60, proves you're never too old for leather trousers as she stuns on lunch date with her son Jack
          Showing off her street style! Emmy Rossum awaits Stella McCartney presentation on the sidewalk in chic fringe dress
          Orange Is The New White! Taylor Schilling shows off toned pins in pearl-coloured dress at TheWrap's Emmy Celebration
          'Ready to rumble!' Pretty Little Liars star Tammin Sursok puckers up for the camera as she celebrates returning to work after giving birth seven months ago
          Did she use those scissors on her skirt? LeAnn Rimes sizzles in slinky white dress with thigh-high slit as she cuts ribbon to kick off CMA Music Festival
          Over already? Jennifer Lopez parties in NY with handsome rapper T.I.... as 'cheating' toy boy Casper Smart is nowhere to be seen
          Carey Mulligan and Helena Bonham Carter chant at a Votes for Women rally in first still from upcoming film Suffragette
          Are those clothes from the Thrift Shop? Macklemore and Ryan Lewis make a cool arrival in dapper attire to Sin City nightclub
          Happy to get his kit off! Robbie Williams gets help to change into his football top during preparations for SoccerAid
          One big happy family! Hilary Swank shows her maternal side as she gives her boyfriend's little girl a kiss at French Open
          'I've had a lot of therapy': Katy Perry talks about getting over exes John Mayer and Russell Brand... and how long she's gone without sex in new interview
          Ricky Gervais and longtime partner Jane Fallon attend Derek event after visiting their Muppet pals on Sesame Street
          Date night! Twilight star Ashley Greene stuns in tiny black playsuit at she takes boyfriend Paul Khoury to glitzy event in West Hollywood
          While they were teaching! Sandra Bullock makes a surprise visit to her son Louis' school as she donates goodies to the faculty
          What will Rita think? Calvin Harris parties with ANOTHER mystery woman on a night out as girlfriend Ora enjoys Mexican getaway
          Evan Rachel Wood sued for $30M after bailing on film 10 Things I Hate About Life... as rep slams lawsuit as 'preposterous' and a 'bullying tactic'
          'With you I will go': Kanye West beams as Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli serenades Kim Kardashian at their lavish Florence wedding
          Newlywed Kim Kardashian to spend up to a month shooting KUWTK spin-off in The Hamptons... but Kanye West isn't sure if he wants to join her
          Deja blue: Rosario Dawson is back in her favorite colour after wowing in that revealing gown at the Cannes Film Festival
          'I'm Sporty Spice!' Gisele Bundchen shows off washboard stomach in a bikini for cover shoot as she admits she loves to exercise
          That's her secret! Jordana Brewster shows off svelte arms pushing her son Julian along in his stroller
          The fight for $50m: Bowling For Columbine filmmaker Michael Moore claims wife of 22 years spent recklessly as they prepare for divorce trial
          She's no shrinking violet! Lorde wears purple lipstick from her new Mac collection during bewitching performance in London
          Looking scarily good! Camilla Belle wears a skull print T-shirt as she arrives at LAX after South America trip
          You'll never take King's Landing with THAT! Game Of Thrones star Kit Harington poses with plastic dragon at Universal Studios
          'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richmand poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
          Shane Warne caught kissing and sharing intimate embrace with Playboy cover girl Emily Scott... but he STILL insists he's single
Sword-wielding Sikhs clash at India's Golden Temple during prayers to mark the deadly 1984 military assault at Amritsar
       At least six people were injured as dozens of Sikh radicals clashed with supporters of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC) at the Golden Temple, in Amritsar. It is understood the scuffle erupted over who would speak first at the service, held to remember victims of government offensive Operation Blue Star that left hundreds dead on June 6, 1984.
Lansley had all the urgency of a snail crossing a hosta leaf: QUENTIN LETTS on Yesterday in Parliament
      Andrew Lansley uses thousands of words to say almost nothing, moving at the speed cold honey drips from a teaspoon.
TOM UTLEY: Yes, I risk a lynching by feminists, but why on earth is a 'family friendly' government paying mums to dump children in nurseries?
      The Queen's Speech contained details about a Childcare Payments Bill, which would offer subsidies of up to £2,000 a year to mothers.
TOM UTLEY: Yes, I risk a lynching by feminists, but why on earth is a 'family friendly' government paying mums to dump children in nurseries?
Newborn who died from contaminated hospital drip was just nine days old it emerges as total number of babies seriously ill from the rogue batch has risen to 18
      The baby boy who died from a suspected contaminated drip in London's St Thomas' hospital was today named as nine-day-old Yousef Al-Kharboush
Ten hospital staff suspended after elderly woman died days after being found with 'unexplained and serious injuries' at hospital
      Tegwen Roderick, 88, was being treated at the Cwm Cynon Hospital in Mountain Ash, South Wales (pictured) when the injury was discovered.
Chinese family of three commit suicide after racking up £900 credit card debt with no means of paying it back
      The deaths in the city of Shanghai have stirred a national debate in China over the easy access to credit that people not used to money now have as the country becomes ever more western in its ways.
That'll definitely help: U.S. Secret Service buys special software that can detect SARCASM on Twitter
      The tender calls for a social media analytics software tool that can analyse Twitter data in real-time, identify statistical patterns and present complex data in a clear, concise way.
      Eddie Davenport managed to get himself out of his sickbed to present an award at last Monday’s London Club & Bar Awards at the Intercontinental Hotel.
      Grayson Perry and his wife Philippa turned up at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition party on Wednesday in what looked like mix ’n’ match wardrobes.
Michael Gove and Theresa May to be grilled over their Cabinet bust-up: As top civil servant steps in, PM vows: 'I'll get to the bottom of this'
      The Home Secretary and the Education Secretary will each be interviewed by Cabinet Secretary Sir Jeremy Heywood, according to government sources.
'It's time for the people to speak': Aunt of Spain’s new Queen Letizia tweets her followers calling for a Republic
      Henar Ortiz Alvarez, the aunt of future queen Letizia Ortiz, made her feelings known on Twitter tweeting: It's time for the people to speak...'
Daughter 'had elderly parents shot dead and buried in their garden after mother admitted sleeping with son-in-law... and then she tricked relatives for 15 years into believing they were still alive'
       Susan and Christopher Edwards (right) 'lied to everybody' for 15 years to cover up the killings of Patricia and William Wycherley, (left) from Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, and diverted a total of £245,000 into their own accounts, Nottingham Crown Court was told. Mr Wycherley, 85, and his 63-year-old wife were both shot twice with a revolver over bank holiday weekend in May 1998 and were buried in the garden (centre) prosecutor Peter Joyce QC said.
      But researchers at the University of Pittsburgh found a man's consumption of alcohol had no influence on their daughter's drinking habits.
Conman jailed for posing as Britain's Steven Spielberg to trick animation companies into giving him £800,000
      David Griffiths, 50, (pictured) from Oreton in Shropshire, conned investors by pretending to be a multi-millionnaire owner of a successful production company with close links to animation giants Pixar.
Conman jailed for posing as Britain's Steven Spielberg to trick animation companies into giving him £800,000
Restaurant rage: Living in an area with lots of fast food stores can make you impatient and unable to savour things, researchers warn
      Toronto researchers say just the presence of the chains was enough to cause people to struggle to slow down and savour things.
The transforming desk that moves up and down to keep you fit - and can even track how much exercise you get at the office
      The $3,900 Stir Kinect desk has a motor to raise and lower itself, converting it into a standing desk or a traditional desk.
Scaffolding company fined £5,000 after worker was caught dangling his legs over the edge five floors up with no safety barrier
      JOS Scaffolding Ltd pleaded guilty to breaking safety laws after pictures of its precariously-perched workers on a busy London street were sent to the Health and Safety Executive.
'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die': New book reveals Roman Polanski's private memories of wife Sharon Tate, slaughtered by Charles Manson's 'Family' when she was pregnant
      Sharon Tate's sister Debra has compiled a book of exclusive photographs and memories dedicated to the actress from her husband Roman Polanski.
Enjoy summer while it lasts because storms are on the way this weekend... but at least the damp weather means Britain's largest laburnum arch will be in bloom for even longer
       Saturday will see heavy rain along with some of the worst hailstorms in years - but there could be sunshine on Sunday. Twister tornado-like cloud formations were even spotted snaking their way across fields over Lincolnshire yesterday, while other parts of the UK basked in glorious sunshine and high temperatures, pictured. The Met Office has already issued a yellow severe weather warning for the whole of England and Wales, as well as southern parts of Scotland.
M&S boss takes self-imposed 26% pay cut after failing to turn round profit slump - but he still pockets £1.6m
      Marc Bolland's basic salary was unchanged at £975,000, but his decision to give up a pay rise and to not receive a bonus means his pay package was cut by 26% to £1.59m in 2013/2014.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
      Mr Justice Saunders told the jury a private detective working for the tabloid had accessed the 13-year-old’s phone - but had not deliberately deleted the voicemails.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
Extravagant hen dos now cost guests so much they rival the amount spent on attending the actual wedding!
      Gone are the days of a knees-up down the pub as the average cost of attending a hen do has rocketed and often involves a trip abroad.
      Paula Binns claims the GP at the Gill Medical Centre in Walkden told her to seek advice from a vet instead after taking Lilyanna in when she noticed the parasite.
This is how you catfight, son! Father teaches his kittens the best way to pack a punch when he sees how terrible they are at brawling
       A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video shot in an unknown location that proves boys will be boys no matter the species. The YouTube clip from user kamzer opens with two very young kitten siblings wrestling on a kitchen counter. Suddenly their papa cat peeps up from the floor below and before they can purr 'TKO,' their dad is in the mix teaching them a proper left hook.
Weak pound and high cost of living: Why retiring abroad is now branded 'a luxury' with some popular destinations even pricier than UK
      Experts warned moving abroad is 'no longer an option for the average British person' according to experts, due to rising prices in Europe.
      Ministers are concerned that malicious saboteurs who use the internet to spark civil unrest could get off lightly under current legislation.
Can you tell what it is? From the teeth of a snail and the skin of garlic, microscopic images reveal the world in close up
      British photographer David Maitland took the astonishing pictures to show how the world can look very different close up.
      The new board of the Financial Information Authority has vast international experience and includes a woman for the first time, the Vatican said.
      Annual house price inflation was 8.7 per cent, on Halifax's measure, with the average home costing almost £18,000 more than a year ago.
Tom Sharpe's ashes buried in same Northumberland cemetery as his father where he is laid to rest with bottle of whisky, a cigar and his favourite pen
      The partner of comic author Tom Sharpe who died in Spain last year has driven his ashes 1,200 miles to a small Northumberland church fulfill his dying wish.
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at US university, killing one and wounding three
       Students at Seattle Pacific University say Jon Meis (right) saved countless lives when he sprang into action as the shooter stopped to reload his weapon. The gunman has been identified as Aaron Ybarra, 26 (left). Ybarra is a Seattle resident who lives with his parents. He has allegedly confessed to the shootings and even bragged about the carnage he inflicted on the campus.
      A new report by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau has confirmed that the original search area along the 'seventh arc' of the southern Indian Ocean for MH370 is the right place to be looking for the missing jet.
Daaadddd! British teenagers stay an average of 6.7 metres away from their 'embarrassing' fathers in public
      The average father also does 627 ‘dad miles’ every year on weekends, ferrying teens to and from parties and other social gatherings, often very late into the evening.
Diabetic put her life at risk to lose weight: Mother stopped taking her insulin injections after ballooning to 19 stone
      Hayleigh Juggins, 20, from Bedfordshire, ignored doctors' advice to take insulin after the birth of her daughter, Angel.
Would YOU eat it? Seaside parlour creates battered fish and chip flavoured ice cream - complete with mushy peas
      Teare Wood's Ice Cream Parlour, in Whitby, North Yorkshire, has combined the traditional holiday tastes to tempt tourists.
Thalidomide survivors launch a fresh legal bid against manufacturers of controversial morning sickness pill
      Papers have been filed at the High Court on behalf of eight people whose mothers took the anti-morning sickness drug when pregnant in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
      Research published in the journal The Obstetrician and Gynaecologist shows a small percentage of headaches were caused by potentially life-threatening neurological conditions.
'Can't catch me': Fugitive, 20, who taunted police on Facebook weeps in the dock as he is jailed for stealing thousands from his grandparents and assaulting his mother
       Joe Barlow (left), from Laindon, Essex, was jailed for five separate offences at Basildon Crown Court, including stealing £8,500 from his grandparents’ savings to pay for drugs. He was also convicted of assaulting his mother on Valentine's Day and for an offence of criminal damage. He was sent to prison after spending two and a half months on the run from police during which he taunted officers on Facebook by writing ‘can’t catch me’, and saying he would not turn himself in until he had a meeting with Prime Minister David Cameron (right). He was caught after police posted his mugshot on Facebook with an urgent appeal on May 3 (bottom right).
Flight of a lifetime! 130 tickets go on sale to fly alongside Lancaster bomber that's in UK for last time - but it will set you back £2,150
      The Lancaster will be in the UK, flying from Canada to England, for four days, arriving on August 8, making the 18-hour trip for the first and final time.
      His comments came ahead an International Monetary Fund report, which is expected to warn that potential for runaway house price growth threatens the recovery.
Two people rescued by police after barricading themselves in a bedroom because they were scared of their dog Fluffy
      The dog owners blocked themselves in their home in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, after becoming frightened of their Staffordshire bull terrier, Fluffy (pictured).
Motorcyclist rushed to hospital and bystanders injured by flying debris after crash with a police car
      The motorcyclist suffered left head and leg injuries in the crash at around 1.20pm on the Cotton Street junction with Poplar High Street, in Poplar, east London.
Is this really the best way to woo tourists? Crisis-hit Egypt introduces £15 airport tax ... that will be hidden in cost of flight tickets
      The departure fee - which costs the same amount as a visa for trips up to 30 days - has been criticised as a further deterrent for travellers to visit the destination.
Postal worker posed as Bargain Hunt auctioneer to steal £3,000 from a bank... but was caught when the cashier spotted he was a 'nervous' fake
      Anthony Wolstencroft, 27, from Blackley, Greater Manchester, pictured, pretended to be antiques expert Charles Hanson at a Natwest bank branch.
      After pinpointing three types of stem cells in umbilical cords, Melbourne researchers could be on the verge of a major breakthrough in preventing cerebral palsy.
Woman, 22, seriously hurt in acid attack outside restaurant as 48-year-old female suspect is arrested
      A 48-year-old woman has been arrested on suspicion of causing grievous bodily harm in the attack, which happened in Sandown on the Isle of Wight in the early hours of yesterday.
Woman, 22, seriously hurt in acid attack outside restaurant as 48-year-old female suspect is arrested
Filthy fish and chip shop shut down after dead mice were found rotting while staff cooked meals and droppings were found in spice mix
       Health inspectors investigating an Oldham takeaway discovered rotting mice decaying on a glue trap, left, with a deep fat frying covered in grease and fat, top right, and work surfaces used for preparing food covered in mouse droppings, a court has heard. Owner Sarfaz Rouf told magistrates that he did not have a 'vast knowledge' of food hygiene. Him and Iram Bibi were fined just £250 each and the business has now closed.
Forget passwords, the future of security is SQUIGGLY LINES: How free-form gestures may replace PINs and grids on phones
      During tests, Rutgers University in New Jersey's free-form gestures (pictured) could not be stolen by hackers.
The end of mouldy bread? Edible film made from oils could extend the life of an everyday loaf by more than two weeks
      Scientists at the Federal University of Viçosa in Brazil used essential oils found in clove and oregano to prolong the life of sliced bread (stock image).
Man and women die from ‘overpowering fumes’ after jumping into cesspit to retrieve ‘expensive phone’
      The woman had dropped her device – worth 2,000 yuan (£190) – in the open-pit toilet, reported Dahe, a website run by the Henan provincial government.
From robotic milk maids to self-driving tractors and drones that monitor crops: Scientists reveal the future of farming
      EXCLUSIVE: A Farmer's Weekly survey has revealed which current and futuristic technologies top the wish lists of British farmers.
You will be happy! Thai junta offers free haircuts and puddings to the masses as part of charm offensive after seizing power in military coup
      Army bosses, who seized power in Bangkok just weeks ago, say cheering up the country is a top priority and want to reinstate Thailand as the ‘Land of Smiles’.
You will be happy! Thai junta offers free haircuts and puddings to the masses as part of charm offensive after seizing power in military coup
      Jobless Andrew Boyce won the money and a Porsche Boxster GTS after he snapped up 50 tickets for a draw at the Westfield shopping centre in Stratford, east London
Thor, god of the lie-in! 'Talking' puppy growls 'no' at his owner as he's told to get out of bed at 3:30am
       Thor the dog from Birmingham, Michigan, is seen in a video peacefully lying in bed before being woken up at 3.30am. But showing that it's not just humans who struggle in the morning, the little pup repeatedly growls what sounds like 'no' as he refuses to get up.
      Brand Fatyo from Japan has ditched the traditional size labels in its garments in favour of more literal descriptions such as - titch, skinny, fat and jumbo.
Zoo worker in gorilla suit shot with tranquiliser dart during 'escape drill' because no-one told the vet it wasn't real
      The 35-year-old zoo employee was shot on Monday at Tenerife's Loro Parque Zoo. Staff were taking part in a drill designed to ensure they had an emergency plan in place in case one of the gorillas escaped.
Builder hired to renovate Oxford Street store stole £30,000 of designer goods including sunglasses and perfume during his first shift
      A builder helped himself to £30,000 of designer goods on his first shift when he was hired to renovate Boots on Oxford Street, London.
Don't REIN on my parade! Moment horse bolted from Whitehall procession throwing off its rider (who still got up and saluted the Queen as she came past seconds later)
      As the Queen made her way from Buckingham Palace, Musaqaleh had other plans, bolting off towards Horse Guards Parade.
Versace, Gucci... il Duce? Wardrobe where Mussolini's corpse was kept for 11 years up for auction on eBay
      The wardrobe itself is worthless but, having been the hiding place for the dictator’s corpse between 1946 and 1957, it has ghoulish value for collectors of fascist memorabilia.
How the moon was made: Researchers reveal new evidence Earth was hit by giant object as big as Mars 4.5 billion years ago
      German researchers say their analysis of Apollo moon rocks rocks show Earth was hit by a huge object called 'Theta' which led to the moon's formation.
Did HUMANS wipe out the woolly mammoth? Study finds a direct link between hunting and the extinction of large Ice Age animals
      Researchers at Aarhus University in Denmark came to the conclusion after looking at the pattern of extinctions for 177 species between 132,000 years and 1,000 years ago.
Sky-high WiFi will soon be available across Europe: Passengers on British Airways flights to get internet within three years
      Internet will be soon be available on British Airways flights (pictured) across Europe. The service will be provided by London-based satellite operator Inmarsat.
       Revellers at the rented student house (inset top right) in Fallowfield, Manchester, were plunged into the basement (left) after the floor fell through (right). Students described how 'everyone was screaming' as the boards split, throwing up a cloud of dust. However, nobody was hurt.
William Hague condemns Assad's election victory as 'an insult to Syrians' that bore 'no relation to genuine democracy'
      Tens of thousands took to the streets in government-held areas even before the results were announced on Wednesday evening, waving portraits of Assad and the official Syrian flag.
Tasty Terracotta Army! Food artist makes China's iconic warriors with PIZZA dough (but they won't last thousands of years)
      Annabel de Vetten created the scaled-down warriors to celebrate the opening of Pizza Express' 500th restaurant... in Beijing.
Trans-cending preconceptions: Thought-provoking new photo series celebrates the lives of trans-identified and gender nonconformist individuals
      Rhys Harper, who is based in Syracuse, New York, is hoping his project will help to shift people's perspective on the subject.
Back to the rock! Adventurer leaves the UK for Britain's loneliest outpost in the Outer Hebrides in second attempt to break record
      Nick Hancock will try again to land on Britain's loneliest island Rockall tomorrow, weather permitting, to break the record of 42 days there.
      Ben Baldwin, 22, from Barnsley, has cerebral palsy, severe epilepsy and learning difficulties and is often too ill to go outside, so Tiger visits him in his bed.
An eggs-traordinary find! Ancient reptile fossils shed light on how mysterious Pterosaurs nested like modern-day birds
      The five intact eggs were found in the Xinjiang province, China and all belonged to a previously unknown pterosaur species, Hamipterus tianshanensis.
You appear to have an ad-blocker running which will prevent this page from functioning as intended. Please disable your ad-blocker or set an exception for this page.Today's hottestfashion findsSee moreRihannaWow like Rihanna in an embellished sheer dressRead more ›KarruecheWork a simple white dress into your summer wardrobeRead more ›JenniferStep up your cool style with a pair of fresh sneakersRead more ›KourtneyGo back to black in monochrome Nike trainersRead more ›
          Boho babe: Alessandra Ambrosio forgoes make-up as she runs errands in LA clad in a pretty lilac tie-dye maxi-dress
          King Kevin rules supreme: Spacey is magnificent in one-man show Clarence Darrow, writes QUENTIN LETTS
          BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Let's hear it for the Scottsboro Boys! Brandon Victor Dixon to star in West End production of extraordinary show
          Poetic, haunting... these D-Day letters moved me to tears: CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV
          'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die:' Roman Polanski shares private memories of wife Sharon Tate in new book on pregnant beauty's tragic life
          A hit and miss comedy: There are funny moments, but Jump Street's daft cops fail to reach the hilarious heights of their first film
          This won't do Grace any favours: BRIAN VINER reviews Nicole Kidman's latest film Grace of Monaco
          Hollywood's $800 facial: The secret to Angelina Jolie's glowing skin combines microdermabrasion, laser and a peel
          It's DJ Delta! The Voice Kids coach Goodrem jets home from Hollywood with an edgy new look complete with ripped jeans and shiny headphones
          She's certainly a good advertisement! US TV presenter Maria Menounos promotes her diet and fitness book in shiny black shorts in New York City
          'I gave him every bit of advice but now it's up to him': Usher opens up about his friend Justin Bieber's spiral out of control
          It's ON Again! Spring Breakers star Ashley Benson steps out with her beau Ryan Good wearing a bright playsuit
          Put away the bowl! Cindy Crawford reveals her stunning mane of hair was not always her crowning glory in cute flashback photo
          'I almost killed Tom Cruise!' Emily Blunt recalls terrifying moment she nearly crashed a car while shooting scenes for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Still a sex symbol! Raquel Welch, 73, looks decades younger in white jeans and yellow jacket while out to dinner
          Her own best ad! Kate Hudson displays her washboard abs as she models for fitness line... and shares her workout motivation
          Angela Simmons displays toned physique in sexy summery outfit as she hints at new venture following power lunch with her 'fitness gurus'
          The Devil Wears...white! Meryl Streep goes sinister as the Chief Elder of a dystopian society in The Giver
          Nature girl! Vanessa Hudgens shows off her toned tummy in black crop top and shorts during a vigorous hillside hike
          'I'd be open to doing more True Detective': Matthew McConaughey expresses interest in reprising Rust Cohle TV role
          Pretty as a picture! Jessica Alba shows her passion for prints while leaving the studio with takeout lunch
          That's where she gets it from! Leggy Gigi Hadid is chic in short metallic frock while out with her stylish mother Yolanda Foster
          Natalie Portman is fresh-faced and flawless as she touches down at LAX with husband Benjamin Millepied and their adorable son Aleph
          Good news for Miley Cyrus as police 'arrest two people in their 20s' in connection with star's stolen $100k Maserati
          Hot mama! Country singer Jessie James shows off her trim post-baby body at CMT Awards... just three months after giving birth
          Don't mention the outfit! Even Lena Dunham has 'no comment' over her unflattering ensemble as she enjoys a stroll in New York
          'Superhero workout!' Arrow's Stephen Amell shows off his impressive 'parkour' skills on military inspired obstacle course
          Strong sensitive types! Insurgent's Theo James brings Fault In Their Stars book to the gym while Miles Teller pumps some iron
          Farrah Abraham reveals she's writing a Christian parenting book... despite admitting she needs 'space' from her four-year-old and waxes child's eyebrows
          She's glowing: Holly Willoughby shows off growing bump in navy skater dress as she films This Morning segment
          She's anything but PLANE! Carol Vorderman shows off her pins in hot pink and black dress at photocall after jetting herself back from awards show
          'We've got a Christmas bun in the oven! Coronation Street's Paula Lane announces first pregnancy with childhood sweetheart Tom Shaw on Twitter
          'I'm going to get stick for this': Amy Willerton posts bikini selfie... but worries about how her fans will react
          'Squats are the key! Even 10 make me feel better': Victoria's Secret Angel Candice Swanepoel reveals secrets behind that body
          The lady is a vamp! Rihanna unleashes her rock chick side in a skimpy leather two-piece and fierce lace-up heels for Paris charity event
          Explicit content! Lindsay Lohan can't even manage a supporting role in sheer logo top... but at least gives parental advisory warning
          A leggy Lily Allen makes rare appearance with husband Sam Cooper for date night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Think pink! Alex Gerrard shows off her toned figure and glowing tan in bubblegum-hued workout gear
          She's well-heeled: BGT star Lettice Rowbotham whips off her shoes as she heads to BBC studios
          Russell Brand DEFENDS Justin Bieber for making vile racial slurs at the age of 14... claiming he should be 'let off' because it was 'ages ago'
          Whatever the leather: New mum Caprice shows off her post-pregnancy figure in skin-tight leather skirt and top
          Welcome to the strip: Danielle Lloyd and husband Jamie O'Hara jet into Vegas for a holiday with friends
          Not a bad consolation prize! Michael Carrick puts World Cup woes behind him as he and wife Lisa strip to their swimwear to top up their tans in Ibiza
          Graham Norton saves Amanda Holden from revealing more than she intended while doing a handstand in LBD
          It's a very Vogue birthday: Model Bambi Norwood-Blyth celebrates by shooting for fashion magazine with designer husband Dan Single
          J-Wow! Jennifer Lopez doesn't leave much to the imagination as she strips down to sexy latex stockings and suspenders to play first-ever hometown gig
          J.Lo revisits the Bronx and THAT Versace dress for homecoming show... after transsexual bikini model linked to Casper Smart speaks out
          Feeling like a million dollars! Matchmaker Patti Stanger, 53, wears plunging swimsuit as she celebrates her birthday with toyboy fiancé
          Do Ya Thang! Rihanna is sexy in a silky black miniskirt and matching tuxedo jacket as she goes for dinner in Paris
          Here comes the bride! Adam Levine to marry model Behati Prinsloo in 'intimate Mexican ceremony' on July 19
          Politics is the new black: AnnaLynne McCord votes for her spiritual guru as congressional candidate... but she comes in fourth
          She can't resist her man in uniform! Suki Waterhouse gets to grips with Bradley Cooper on set of American Sniper
          Million dollar smile! Victoria Justice beams in an unusual wrap dress at the Spent: Looking For Change premiere
          Strong after 22 years! Woody Allen strolls through Central Park with Soon-Yi Previn... as he prepares to shoot Emma Stone movie in Rhode Island
          Mama June doesn't let her 'forklift foot' get in the way of a family pool day as she goes swimming in socks
          Ramona Singer holds hands with husband Mario on romantic movie date... after firing off legal warning to his mistress over 'lewd messages'
          'Millie Mackintosh and Abbey Clancy already have their eyes on a few pieces': Julien Macdonald unveils glamorous beachwear range for Matalan
          She's stopping traffic: Elsa Pataky wears striking lime green reptilian dress to take over the streets of Madrid for fashion shoot
          Ivana Trump sells her Palm Beach mansion for $18 million - more than FOUR TIMES what she paid for it in 1994
          Table for three! Pregnant Julia Carey displays subtle baby bump as she steps out for dinner with James Corden at Chiltern Firehouse
          Beyonce shows off her amazing legs in pink mini dress as she has a date night with Jay Z in New York
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney set to reveal sex secrets in Big Brother house
          Watch your tan-line! Abbey Clancy wows in a daring cut-out panel swimsuit as she holidays in Hawaii with Peter Crouch
          Now that's a game plan! Gisele Bundchen and Tom Brady's sprawling new Boston mansion takes shape
          Your slip is showing! Leggy Chrissy Teigen heats up New York in black lace lingerie and white knit sweater while heading to dinner
          Looking slinky! Casey Batchelor struts in shiny snakeskin leggings and low-cut top as she models her new fashion collection
          She's got it! Eliza Doolittle is a triumph in plunging leather crop-top and sporty silk trousers at The Other Ball
          'There's quite a bit of blood': The 911 call made after The Brady Bunch housekeeper Ann B Davis has fatal fall is released
          Does she EVER stay in? As Princess Beatrice dines at Roka, we bring you the hotspot-hopping royal's guide to London's smartest restaurants
          From Iceland to ice cool: Sexiest Woman of All Time Rachel Stevens swaps supermarket chic for a semi-sheer top and smart tailoring
          Hawaii-five-WHOAH!! Emma Roberts bares her toned tum in daring crop top... while Lupita Nyong'o is a vision in green at the Maui Film Festival opening 
          Is this Jen 2.0? Meet the 2014 Miss Universe Australia finalist who works as Jennifer Hawkins' body double - and she's from her home town!
          'No more marriages': Pregnant Katie Price vows to never wed again after third husband Kieran Hayler cheated on her
          He's leaving Home! Summer Bay's resident  hottie Lincoln Younes swaps surfing for the 1960s as he takes a new role in Love Child
          Supporting her man! Khloe Kardashian opts for cleavage-baring top as she watches French Montana at J-Lo Bronx show
          Kanye West to take 'drastic measures' to beef up daughter North's security as he 'fears for her safety'
          True Blood star Jim Parrack to divorce wife of six years Ciera... as he 'moves on' with Hunger Games actress Leven Rambin
          Hats you win! Racing fan Jodie Kidd smoulders as she strikes a pose in glamorous headgear ahead of the Derby
          He's clearly nutritious! TOWIE's Gemma Collins can barely keep her lips off mystery new boyfriend as she debuts him on health shop trip
          Belle-y of the ball: Miley stands out in crop top and ripped jeans as she leaves hotel after Copenhagen concert
          He still has the big house! OJ Simpson's Florida home sold for $655,000 in foreclosure auction
          'It's given me a chance to give something back': Cambridge medical student wins swimsuit round of the Miss England
          I got fired for being pregnant: Lara Stone says she was axed for modelling job because she was too fat
          Are they dating? Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Meryl Davis reunite for cosy night on the town two weeks after DWTS win
          Mother of three Elsa Pataky, 37, dazzles in black mini skirt as she unveils her new fitness book and her rock hard abs
          Alessandra Ambrosio shows off her toned tum in black crop top and displays perfect pins in thigh-split skirt as she attends event with fiance Jamie Mazur
          Cashmere from Tesco. Undies from Asda. Posh frocks from Sainsbury's: The ultimate guide to summer style at the supermarket!
          Her faiery tale life! Sam Faiers puts her cleavage on display in plunging dress for Alice In Wonderland themed magazine photo shoot
          Cara Santana puts on a brave face as she hits the gym in midriff baring vest after boyfriend Jesse Metcalfe's ex slammed his bedroom prowess
          'She's being tormented and harassed': Kardashians rent store in The Hamptons and landlord gets 'slammed on internet' and 'snide comments' for doing it
          Kendall Jenner continues to take the plunge as she dons low-cut black number while promoting new sci-fi book with Kylie
          Sheer daring! Pregnant Rebecca Ferguson looks radiant in black gown as she shows off her baby bump ahead of performance at Parkinson's event
          Something to get off your chest? Lily Allen's deep pink hair is overshadowed by keyhole black dress featuring centre split at The Other Ball
          It's there in black and white: Jessica Wright wears chic backless jumpsuit... while Diana Vickers thrills in mini at Parkinson's event
          Former Beverly Hills, 90210 star Rebecca Gayheart goes dotty in see- through shirt as she takes adorable daughter Billie Dane out for the day
          That's why the Sexiest Woman Of All Time goes to Iceland! Rachel Stevens is far cry from title as she goes make-up free in frozen food store
          'Some guys prefer blondes, some brunettes - I like old ladies': 'Extreme toyboy', 31, takes 91-year-old girlfriend home to meet his mother
          'I need to step up and own what I did': Bieber apologises after fresh clip of singer 'changing song lyrics to joke about killing a n****** and joining Ku Klux Klan'
          Getting to grips with the wildlife! Ellie Goulding posts cute Instagram snap cuddling a koala while on tour in Australia
          Let the pageant begin! Miss USA 2014 contestants strut their stuff at the preliminary competition in Louisiana
          Demi Lovato steals the spotlight in a statement black and yellow frock as she picks up Fun Fearless Latina Of The Year Award
          Robin Wright and Mel B prove simplicity is best in elegant black ensembles at magazine bash
          Let's bounce! Hugh Jackman is jumping for joy in a mysterious new video that says shows him hopping around the world
          'I invented the international press tour': Tom Cruise makes claim after whirlwind three-country première feat for Edge Of Tomorrow
Is that an Old Master painting - or Beyonce’s Master Cleanse? Photographer recreates celebrity diets as still lifes
       Italian Dan Bannino reproduced the diets of Gwyneth Paltrow, Kate Moss, Beyonce Knowles, Simon Cowell, Bill Clinton, Lord Byron, and even King Henry VIII. 'My aim was to capture the beauty that lies in this terrible constriction of diets and deprivation', explains Mr Bannino. 'To show how this weirdness hasn’t changed even since the 15th century.'
Fizzy drinks 'loaded with harmful sugars could increase the risk of developing diabetes, cardiovascular and liver disease'
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say the drinks contain more fructose, which is converted to fat in the liver, than people realise.
      Crowds screamed out as the boy, thought to be about three years old, appeared to cling to the ledge of an apartment block in Vila Velha, Brazil.
       The rhino was part of a relocation programme in the Zululand region of South Africa, which aims to keep the animals safe. The images of its dramatic airlift, which was carried out by KZN Wildlife Game Capture, were taken by photographer Em Gatland, who described witnessing the transfer as surreal and a mixture of emotion.
China may have banned Tiananmen Square memorial but the rest of Asia remembers: From Hong Kong to Taiwan thousands hold vigil on 25th anniversary of Beijing massacre
Dont come back, next time you wont get out alive: Talibans taunt as they released deserter POW Bowe revealed in propaganda video
Pictured: Grinning father of famous model moments after he executed his neighbour and minutes before he 'swallowed the gun' in dramatic standoff with Chinese SAS
Suicidal Chinese mother leaps from third floor balcony after her daughter refused to break up with 'lazy' boyfriend (but miraculously survives)
Hundreds of pro-Russian rebels killed in fierce attack by Ukrainian forces as Obama tells Nato allies 'you'll never be alone'
Thousands of anti-monarchist protesters take to streets of Spain calling for a republic after King Juan Carlos abdicates after 39 years
Woolly jumpers, wide collared jackets and unflattering skirts ... the medal for worst Commonwealth Games uniforms goes to Australia
King Juan Carlos of Spain in shock abdication after 40 years as his son and glamourous ex-newsreader wife take on challenge of leading Spain out of the doldrums
Spain harbours highest number of expat benefit cheats with more than 700 believed to be scamming the system while soaking up the sun
Mother of British backpacker missing in Malaysian jungle for six days arrives in country 'to be here when they find him'
Come here you big BULLy! Chinese wrestlers get to grips with giant calves in man over beast competition
China disgust at woman who beheads cat and posts image online - and then blames 'alcohol and domestic misfortune'
Bodies of five French soldiers from WWI found alongside their wallets, rifles and a figurine of the Virgin Mary in French wood 100 years after they were killed
My Big Fat Gypsy horse fair: Traditional gathering begins in Appleby - and is already hit by row over...
'The job isn't finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite...
Obama pleads with Scotland to vote 'No' to independence AND for Britain to stay in the European Union
Back to the beaches of death and deliverance: British D-Day veterans revisit the battlegrounds and villages...
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left...
Home of the free! Father paints his house with stars and stripes in protest at local officials who tried to...
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at Seattle Pacific...
Another shabby day for the marshmallow President: As his Taliban hostage swap sours, why Obama is a pygmy...
A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video, that proves boys will be boys no...
Amid urban squalor, Nature's glory takes wing: Just why is this dazzling blue kingfisher slumming it among shopping trolleys in South London?
       These kingfishers, captured by photographer Tomos Brangwyn on the River Wandle, are a tribute to the amazing turn-around in the fortunes of Britain’s urban rivers over the past 50 years.
Amid urban squalor, Nature's glory takes wing: Just why is this dazzling blue kingfisher slumming it among shopping trolleys in South London?
Life on the rubbish dumps of Paranaque: How Filipino children and adults risk their lives to eek out a living recycling waste - but still manage to raise a smile
      These are the men, women and children who spend their days living among rotting garbage, smoke-filled air and polluted water, just so they can survive.
Caught on video: The moment huge Chinese ship ploughed into Vietnamese fishing boat in disputed waters in the South China Sea
      The new footage appears to show the Chinese ship ramming the much smaller vessel last week, in supposedly Vietnamese waters where China has erected a gigantic oil rig.
Female ex-pats in Cambodia warned to be on alert for British ‘conning Casanova’, 19, who befriends women then steals their credits, money and jewellery
      Teenager Liam Strother, from Grantown-on-Spey, Scotland, is said to have won the confidence of British women living in Cambodia before stealing from them.
Female ex-pats in Cambodia warned to be on alert for British ‘conning Casanova’, 19, who befriends women then steals their credits, money and jewellery
Malaysian police refuse to rule out foul play in case of missing backpacker Gareth Huntley as his family await autopsy to determine whether shirtless body found in Malaysian jungle pond is him
      Mr Huntley's mother Janet Southwell, who arrived in Malaysia on Monday was pictured this morning outside Tengku Ampuan Afzan Hospital in Kuantan with his girlfriend Kit Natariga.
Investigation under way after Ryanair plane rolls backwards and crashes into airport building, destroying tail wing
       The force of the impact tore apart the rear stabiliser of the £72m Boeing 737 at Rome Ciampino Airport yesterday. The accident happened shortly after the aircraft, which has been grounded, landed and passengers had disembarked. Witness said the plane suddenly began to roll backwards and smashed into the garage of the fire station at the airport causing external damage there as well.
          Rooney rage: England star raps Scholes for saying he faces axe... and Moyes insists his former player can light up World Cup in Brazil
          Jose Mourinho has admitted Chelsea are interested in signing the former Arsenal captain from Barcelona 
          Jose Mourinho admitted that letting the midfielder go was one of the most difficult acts of his career
          Louis van Gaal has told the former Fulham boss his services will not be required at Old Trafford
          Real Madrid will trigger the latest saga in Luis Suarez's colourful career by bidding around £76m
          Countdown to World Cup hots up as brainbox Riley crunches the numbers to predict winning team
          NICO ROSBERG COLUMN: When there are awkward moments, Lewis and I discuss them and we move on...
          Murray on a mission to dethrone Nadal as he takes on King of Clay in French Open semi-final
=======================================================
Bio.HomeBiographiesHow to watchGamesContactSearch the Bio. channel websiteKatharine Hepburn Biography
                Katherine Hepburn was the daughter of Dr Thomas Norval Hepburn, a successful urologist from Virginia, and Katharine Martha Houghton, a suffragette.From an early age, her parents encouraged Katherine to speak her mind, develop it fully, and exercise her body to its full potential. Tragedy struck in 1921, when Hepburn found her older brother Tom, whom she worshipped, hanging from the rafters of the attic by a rope, dead of an apparent suicide. Her family denied that it was self-inflicted, arguing that he had been a happy boy. They insisted that it must have been an experimentation gone awry. It has also been speculated that the boy was trying to carry out a trick that he learned from his father. Katherine was devastated by his death and sank into a deep depression. She shied away from children her own age and was mostly schooled at home. For many years, she used Tom's birthday (8 November) as her own. Katharine was involved in the theatre before arriving in Hollywood in 1932, when her first film, 'A Bill Of Divorcement', showed her to be an intelligent and compelling screen presence. In 1933, she quickly secured roles in 'Morning Glory' and 'Little Women'. Her portrayal of Jo in the latter won her an Oscar, a taste of things to come. At this point in her career she worked at a great pace. One of the most enduring films of her output at this time was the madcap comedy, 'Bringing Up Baby'. This saw her work extremely successfully in partnership with Cary Grant. In 1939, Katharine returned to Broadway to star in 'The Philadelphia Story'. She secured her role in the onscreen version, which also starred James Stewart. Following swiftly on came another success, 'Woman Of The Year'. Spencer Tracey first shared the screen with Katharine in this picture. Her on-and-off screen relationship with Tracey lasted until his death. The last film they were in together was 'Guess Who's Coming To Dinner', which earned Hepburn another Oscar. She started to make films at a less breakneck speed from the late 1940s, with one of her most memorable films, 'The African Queen', directed by John Huston in 1951. Her performance was complemented by that of unlikely companion, Humphrey Bogart. The Seventies saw Katharine make some notable television appearances. 'Love Among The Ruins' of 1975 saw her act alongside Laurence Olivier; she was also acclaimed in the television version of 'The Glass Menagerie'. 'On Golden Pond', in 1981, saw her twelfth Oscar nomination and fourth Best Actress win. In 1994, she made her last film, 'This Can't Be Love', and in 1999, the American Film Institute ranked her the greatest actress of all time. Katharine Hepburn died aged 96, in the Connecticut home in which she was born, on 29 June 2003.
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
From All Movie Guide: "I'm a personality as well as an actress," Katharine Hepburn once declared. "Show me an actress who isn't a personality, and you'll show me a woman who isn't a star." Hepburn's bold, distinctive personality was apparent almost from birth. She inherited from her doctor father and suffragette mother her three most pronounced traits: an open and ever-expanding mind, a healthy body (maintained through constant rigorous exercise), and an inability to tell anything less than the truth. Hepburn was more a personality than an actress when she took the professional plunge after graduating from Bryn Mawr in 1928; her first stage parts were bits, but she always attracted attention with her distinct New England accent and her bony, sturdy frame. The actress' outspokenness lost her more jobs than she received, but, in 1932, she finally scored on Broadway with the starring role in {+The Warrior's Husband}. She didn't want to sign the film contract offered her by RKO, so she made several "impossible" demands concerning salary and choice of scripts. The studios agreed to her terms, and, in 1932, she made her film debut opposite John Barrymore in A Bill of Divorcement (despite legends to the contrary, the stars got along quite well). Critical reaction to Hepburn's first film set the tone for the next decade: Some thought that she was the freshest and most original actress in Hollywood, while others were irritated by her mannerisms and "artificial" speech patterns. For her third film, Morning Glory (1933), Hepburn won the first of her four Oscars. But despite initial good response to her films, Hepburn lost a lot of popularity during her RKO stay because of her refusal to play the "Hollywood game." She dressed in unfashionable slacks and paraded about without makeup; refused to pose for pinup pictures, give autographs, or grant interviews; and avoided mingling with her co-workers. As stories of her arrogance and self-absorption leaked out, moviegoers responded by staying away from her films. The fact that Hepburn was a thoroughly dedicated professional -- letter-perfect in lines, completely prepared and researched in her roles, the first to arrive to the set each day and the last to leave each evening -- didn't matter in those days, when style superseded substance. Briefly returning to Broadway in 1933's {+The Lake}, Hepburn received devastating reviews from the same critics who found her personality so bracing in The Warrior's Husband. The grosses on her RKO films diminished with each release -- understandably so, since many of them (Break of Hearts [1935], Mary of Scotland [1936]) were not very good. She reclaimed the support of RKO executives after appearing in the moneymaking Alice Adams (1935) -- only to lose it again by insisting upon starring in Sylvia Scarlett (1936), a curious exercise in sexual ambiguity that lost a fortune. Efforts to "humanize" the haughty Hepburn personality in Stage Door (1937) and the delightful Bringing Up Baby (1938) came too late; in 1938, she was deemed "box-office poison" by an influential exhibitor's publication. Hepburn's career might have ended then and there, but she hadn't been raised to be a quitter. She went back to Broadway in 1938 with a part written especially for her in Philip Barry's {+The Philadelphia Story}. Certain of a hit, she bought the film rights to the play; thus, when it ended up a success, she was able to negotiate her way back into Hollywood on her own terms, including her choice of director and co-stars. Produced by MGM in 1940, the film version was a box-office triumph, and Hepburn had beaten the "poison" label. In her next MGM film, Woman of the Year (1942), Hepburn co-starred with Spencer Tracy, a copacetic teaming that endured both professionally and personally until Tracy's death in 1967. After several years of off-and-on films, Hepburn scored another success with 1951's The African Queen, marking her switch from youngish sophisticates to middle-aged character leads. After 1962's Long Day's Journey Into Night, Hepburn withdrew from performing for nearly five years, devoting her attention to her ailing friend and lover Tracy. She made the last of her eight screen appearances with Tracy in Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967), which also featured her niece Katharine Houghton. Hepburn won her second Oscar for this film, and her third the following year for A Lion in Winter; the fourth was bestowed 13 years later for On Golden Pond (1981). When she came back to Broadway for the 1969 musical {+Coco}, Hepburn proved that the years had not mellowed her; she readily agreed to preface her first speech with a then-shocking profanity, and, during one performance, she abruptly dropped character to chew out an audience member for taking flash pictures. Hepburn made the first of her several television movies in 1975, co-starring with Sir Laurence Olivier in Love Among the Ruins -- and winning an Emmy award, as well. Her last Broadway appearance was in 1976's {+A Matter of Gravity}. Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, Hepburn continued to star on TV and in films, announcing on each occasion that it would be her last performance. She also began writing books and magazine articles, each of them an extension of her personality: self-centered, well-organized, succinct, and brutally frank (especially regarding herself). While she remained a staunch advocate of physical fitness, Hepburn suffered from a genetic condition, a persistent tremor that caused her head to shake -- an affliction she blithely incorporated into her screen characters. In 1994, Warren Beatty coaxed Hepburn out of her latest retirement to appear as his aristocratic grand-aunt in Love Affair. Though appearing frailer than usual, Hepburn was in complete control of herself and her craft, totally dominating her brief scenes. And into her nineties and on the threshold of her tenth decade, Katharine Hepburn remained the consummate personality, actress, and star.On June 29, 2003 Katharine Hepburn died of natural causes in Old Saybrook, Connetticut. She was 96. ~ Hal Erickson, Rovi      
Institution - Bryn Mawr College			Location - Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania			Major - drama			Degree - BA			Year range - 1924-1928			
© 2010 All Media Guide, LLC Portions of content provided by All Movie Guide ®, a trademark of All Media Guide, LLC
=======================================================
All print options include free, unlimited access toNYTimes.com, NYTimes apps, NYT Now and NYT Opinion.
campaign: nyt2014_bar1_4panel_opinion_46W4F_46W4J_46W6L -- 247503, creative: nyt2014_bar1_4panel_opinion_46W4F_46W4J_46W6L -- 373366, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/obituaries, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1
Katharine Hepburn, the actress whose independent life and strong-willed movie characters made her a role model for generations of women and a beloved heroine to filmgoers for more than 60 years, died yesterday at her home in the Fenwick section of Old Saybrook, Conn. She was 96 and also had a home in Manhattan.Her physical presence was distinctive, her often-imitated voice filled with the vowels of a well-bred New Englander, and her sharp-planed face defined by remarkably high cheekbones. In her youth she did not have classical leading-lady looks, but a handsome beauty. In old age she was a familiar figure with her hair, gradually changing from auburn to gray, always in a topknot and her boyish figure always in the trousers that she helped to make fashionable.She played sharp-witted, sophisticated women with an ease that suggested that there was a thin line between the movie role and the off-screen personality. The romantic comedy "The Philadelphia Story" and the screwball classic "Bringing Up Baby" were among her best, most typical roles. But through 43 films and dozens of stage and television appearances, she played comic and dramatic parts as varied as Jo in "Little Women," the reborn spinster Rosie in "The African Queen" and Eleanor of Aquitaine in "The Lion in Winter."Her life and career were dominated by her love affair with Spencer Tracy, which created one of the great romantic legends and brilliant movie pairings of their day. Tracy was unhappily married and the father of two when they met, and he remained married until the end of his life. He and Miss Hepburn lived together for 27 years, until his death in 1967, and made nine films together. 
"Woman of the Year," "Adam's Rib" and "Pat and Mike" are typically bright and biting Tracy-Hepburn collaborations. She is wickedly smart, slightly aloof and emotionally vulnerable. He is commonsensical, down-to-earth and deeply decent. He manages to bring her down a peg; she never minds.Hepburn and Tracy, Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times , "so beautifully complemented each other" that their relationship "never seemed to be a matter of capitulation." Rather, he added, it was "a matter of understanding and acknowledging each other's boundaries."The frisson of their off-screen romance, always hinted at but never acknowledged during his lifetime, followed them on screen and became especially poignant when they played a married couple in their last movie together, "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner." Tracy died just 17 days after they had finished filming it.Through most of her career, Miss Hepburn had a reputation for being private and elusive with the press. In fact, she frequently granted interviews, although she was reticent about her personal life. But after the death of Tracy's wife, Louise, in 1983, Miss Hepburn felt free to discuss the love affair.In later years she spoke openly about her life and career, especially in her 1991 autobiography, "Me: Stories of My Life" (Alfred A. Knopf). Although admittedly sketchy rather than a comprehensive memoir, the book captured the qualities that endeared Miss Hepburn to audiences: a conversational tone, a no-nonsense attitude and disarming candor. The autobiography became a best seller, a tribute to her enduring appeal across generational lines.In 1993 she appeared in an autobiographical television documentary, "Katharine Hepburn: All About Me," made for the TNT cable network. She began: "So this is about Katharine Hepburn, public, private. Can you tell which is which?" She added, laughing, "Sometimes I wonder myself."Longing to Be a BoyKatharine Houghton Hepburn was born into a close family whose comfortable social status and unconventional opinions fostered self-confidence and independence. Her father, Dr. Thomas Norval Hepburn, was a Hartford surgeon and a pioneer in fighting venereal disease. Her mother, Katharine Houghton, was a suffragist and a strong advocate of birth control.In "Me," Miss Hepburn finally revealed her age. "I was born May 12, 1907," she wrote, "despite everything I may have said to the contrary." For years she had said she was two years younger and had given her birthday as Nov. 8. That was the birthday of her older brother, Tom, who died at 16. Miss Hepburn, then 14, found his body hanging from the rafters of a house the family was visiting in New York City. The Hepburns said they never knew whether he had committed suicide and left open the possibility that he had been practicing a magic trick.Although the family always called her Kathy or Kath, one summer Miss Hepburn so hated being a little girl that she cut her hair and called herself Jimmy. "I thought being a girl was really the bunk," she said in an interview. "But there's no bunk about Jimmy."After graduating from Bryn Mawr College in 1928, she had small parts in stock theater companies. She was dismissed from more than one play when she was starting out, but she retained supreme self-confidence. Late in life, she laughingly said of her younger self, "I am terribly afraid I just assumed I'd be famous."She was first noticed professionally in her role as Antiope in the play "The Warrior's Husband," a Greek fable in which she entered by descending a narrow staircase, carrying a stag over her shoulder. 
=======================================================
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
   background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/twister/tiny-snake._V192199047_.gif') no-repeat scroll 0px 0px;
  cursor: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-in._V184888790_.bmp'),pointer;
  cursor: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-out._V184888738_.bmp),pointer;
.swSprite { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; margin: 0;padding: 0; position: relative; overflow: hidden; vertical-align: middle; background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler div.disabled-button { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image {  background-position: -60px -80px;background-color: white;}
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image { background-position: -30px -80px; background-color: white;}
.dpSprite { background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-dp-2._V384267953_.png'); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.udpSprite { background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/udp-sprite-dp-2._V358106326_.png') no-repeat; vertical-align: middle; display: inline-block;}
.cmtySprite { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-communities._V136632413_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192250049_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V156431432_.png);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192190832_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite._V192250042_.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192239831_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/customerimage/shuttle-gradient._V192250138_.gif); 
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V192238939_.gif');
    background: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/sprite-carousel-btns-stars2._V376388587_.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_left_17._V248144977_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_right_17._V248144979_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_left._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top._V265110086_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_left._V265110084_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom._V265110084_.png); }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-arrow-v._V219326286_.png);
     #twister .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; } #twister .a-dropdown-container span.a-button-dropdown { display: none !important } 	
     #buybox_feature_div .a-native-dropdown, #buybox .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; font-weight: normal;}
     #buybox_feature_div label.a-native-dropdown, #buybox label.a-native-dropdown {padding-right: 5px;}
     #buybox_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown, #buybox .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown  { display: none !important;} 
     #defaultChildDropdown_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown { display: none !important;}
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York TimesŽ Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
No Kindle device required. Download one of the free Kindle apps to start reading Kindle books on your smartphone, tablet and computer.
FREE Two-Day Shipping is available to Amazon Prime members. To join, select "Yes, I want FREE Two-Day Shipping with Amazon Prime" above the Add to Cart button and confirm your Amazon Prime free trial sign-up during checkout.
Important:  Your credit card will NOT be charged when you start your free trial or if you cancel during the trial period. If you're happy with Amazon Prime, do nothing. At the end of the free trial, your membership will automatically upgrade to an annual membership.
Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) is a service we offer sellers that lets them store their products in Amazon's fulfillment centers, and we directly pack, ship, and provide customer service for these products. Something we hope you'll especially enjoy: FBA items qualify for FREE Shipping and .
    * https://omni-grok.amazon.com/xref/src/appgroup/websiteTemplates/retail/SoftlinesDetailPageAssets/udp-intl-lock/src/legacy.css?indexName=WebsiteTemplates#40
 Admired and beloved by movie audiences for over sixty years, four-time Academy Award-winner Katharine Hepburn is an American classic. Now Miss Hepburn breaks her long-kept silence about her private life in this absorbing and provocative memoir.A NEW YORK TIMES Notable Book of the YearA Book-of-the-Month-Club Main SelectionFrom the Paperback edition.
{"currencyCode":"USD","itemData":[{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":13.54,"ASIN":"0345410092","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":13.52,"ASIN":"0061127914","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":12.78,"ASIN":"0743269160","isPreorder":0}],"shippingId":"0345410092::c0clQcL%2FWeapPu2AJL5l5g9y04jzeq9yDRs5nscORgP4g6l%2Bi3bvIZEYR5561DX%2FdGrLoRuzxSEdEjZy%2F25f1FhTXVvisbXEiFk54vXPnzM%3D,0061127914::DyamNmc3z8JQoza1%2Fh%2BEODViFCczYSvGSFe59Uz68nJXgrYYIxEQrQb0O4zdvPaBTOYhCPx4InZnrrDFo3Pmvb5KMOh%2BiXTAuVMvOap4%2BjpP9tKRVo0dmw%3D%3D,0743269160::thZti4eaSwtKWcR5QYq8syoV6FdxxUeIaQqQr3nFcoArFGrNCVCqIdCJrFwSA26PmBRrE3prRS%2B2I1LR4EoOtEw7ACo2EcP6r%2BTRX15JhT8%3D","sprites":{"addToWishlist":["wl_one","wl_two","wl_three"],"addToCart":["s_addToCart","s_addBothToCart","s_add3ToCart"],"preorder":["s_preorderThis","s_preorderBoth","s_preorderAll3"]},"shippingDetails":{"xz":"same","yz":"same","xy":"same","xyz":"same"},"tags":["x","y","z"],"strings":{"addToWishlist":["add to wishlist","Add both to Wish List","Add all three to Wish List"],"addToCart":["Add to Cart","Add both to Cart","Add all three to Cart"],"showDetailsDefault":"Show availability and shipping details","shippingError":"An error occurred, please try again","hideDetailsDefault":"Hide availability and shipping details","priceLabel":["Price:","Price for both:","Price for all three:"],"preorder":["Pre-order this item","Pre-order both items","Pre-order all three items"]}}
0425177319,0743269160,0061127914,0688153119,1439199582,B004K4FUT8,030746119X,1596913517,1451627696,0847838919,0394562720,0671024795,0399151648,0307279960,0547892624,B000ION7AI,B006H37P2K,0061564702,0307262898,1589793161,B001KXZGNW,0812969723,B0000JBALO,0316777730,0743222253,0805098208,0062228323,B002DYJKHU,B00B558W90,B003GAN3T6,B00004TJOD,B006CDDMQ8,1451613695,1556525893,0425182126,B00004TJOE,0307267105,0399142053,0425207889,B002YX0BXM,0307592243,B003L1ZYY2,1557839239,0883474670,0688075398,0679450556,044640036X,B007BWGK90,158063107X,0786719184,1439149283,0316113328,1451656297,0471783765,0394413083,0812980956,0143039539,B000R7HRRA,B00AEFXD1O,0811869474,0815412509,1611457149,1400068789,0393326020,B001BSBBSK,1586480189,0553071343,0061961418,1592407889,0062020013,0451416376,0307395626,0802132596,0312312105,0553386182,030680476X,0061567566,038533429X,6305094934,1451642601,0307237141,0670722936,0671417010,0609809571,080658002X,0452261457,B000NJXG68,0070055327,B0038M2ANC,B000G0O5EG,0679401954,0316322253,0684852845,068802968X,0380731584
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V397906885_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-right._V192549178_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_br._V192190565_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_03._V192190907_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-topleft._V192549173_.gif');
       Beloved actress Hepburn's episodic autobiography spent 24 weeks on PW 's hardcover bestseller list and was a BOMC main selection in cloth. Copyright 1992 Reed Business Information, Inc.
       YA-- Katherine Hepburn is, at 84, still the positive, feisty, upper-class lady she portrayed in The Philadelphia Story . Her autobiography, clearly not ghostwritten, tells some stories of her life but not all--she comes from a class that didn't let it all hang out. Her 27-year affair with Spencer Tracy is discussed with fond memories (the years together were to her ``absolute bliss'')--the idea that it was scandalous at the time doesn't seem to cross her mind, and she is surprised to find that Tracy's wife thought the affair was only a rumor. She seems to remember almost everyone fondly--her wonderful parents; her loving, supportive husband, whom she admits she treated badly; the numerous beaus, directors, and fellow actors with whom she worked. More than 160 black-and-white photos lend credibility to her enduring beauty, but it's the somewhat breathless, positive prose that makes Hepburn come alive as herself or as she wishes to be seen--an uncomplaining, stalwart, lucky, admired, and ``classy'' lady. --Diana C. Hirsch, Prince George's County Memorial Library System, MDCopyright 1992 Reed Business Information, Inc.
    .quotes-bubble-arrow { height: 0; width: 0; left: 18px; border-color: #EEEEEE rgba(238,238,238,0); border-width: 15px 0 0 19px; border-style: solid; position:relative; content:""; }
  I felt like it was her talking to me.Nicole C. WinborneThe intelligent, meaningful, thought-provoking dialogue in that movie can't be measured up to!Embracing LifeShe was a wonderful person and a great actress.Peace
  I'd had this book sitting on the shelf for several years, and (sadly) had never read it.  Then, Kate the Great died, and I was looking for some means of remembering her fondly.  Me eyes fell on "Me," and the connectio was perfect.Me is clearly not ghostwritten like so many other autobiographies.  Kate is rather jumpy in places and uses a lot of fragments.  Sometimes it's hard to follow, especially at the beginning, but after a few chapters, it's like talking with an old friend--the abrupy subjects changes enhance, not detract, from the book.If you're looking for insight on her movies, this isn't the book for you.  She gives snippets of several of them, but only goes indepth when it really matters to her overall career (such as A Bill of Divorcement and The Philadelphia Story).  She spends a lot of the book on her childhood, college years, and early Broadway stage experiences.  She talks a lot about her leading men: Cary Grant, John Wayne, Henry Fonda.  She mentions Spencer Tracy throughout the book, but only goes in-depth toward the end when she leaves the house they had shared together for years.While this isn't a juicy exposee of her life, it's really more enjoyable because it isn't tabloid fare.  It's high-brow, down-to-earth, and, above all, classy, the exact memoir you would expect from Katharine Hepburn.
  Ms. Hepburn writes in a casual tone that draws the reader into her unique life and presents herself in the most open way possible. Being an actress, she writes surprisingly well. Her recent death has made her life all the more poignant. Her stinging rhetoric that wons the hearts of America shines through her writing and convinces the reader that he or she is merely sitting in Kate's living room, having tea and a nice chat. Of course, there are some sentimental moments that are truly touching. Her last letter to Spencer Tracy moved me to tears.This books provides deep insight into Ms. Hepburn the person, but she only briefly touches on her historical career. If you're looking for a chronology of her work, choose a different biography. "ME" lets the reader get to know Katharine the Human Being.As distant and unapproachable as Katharine Hepburn may seem, her autobiography gives an aura of almost frailty and dependence. Certainly, Hepburn was one of the most independent role models modern women could hope for, but her life through her own eyes was a hard journey, something she couldn't've accomplished very easily.On the whole, an excellent page-turner that kept me up 'till past 3 in the morning. Highly recommended for anyone fascinated with Hepburn's persona.
  "Kit! Kathy is in the top of the hemlock!"Yes, I know. Don't scare her. She doesn't know that it's dangerous."That exchange between a concerned neighbor and a small girl's mother offers a telling glimpse into the childhood Katharine Hepburn's parents gave her. Being adventurous - physically as well as intellectually - was simply expected.No one should pick this book up expecting a conventionally structured, conventionally worded autobiography. Miss Hepburn tells her life's stories as if her readers were sitting down for a visit. She moves through her long life in approximately linear fashion, but she never sticks to a timeline when doing that would keep her thoughts from flowing freely. She's frank without being vulgar, and she describes her own behavior - including those times when it was less than admirable - in forthright, honest terms.An interesting look into the mind and heart of one very interesting person.
  In her own words, in her own style, Katharine proves, with this book, that no matter what she is doing, she always remains true to herself.Sometimes the train of thought gets a bit off-track, but it only adds to the charm of the book, and gives me the same feeling as I had when I was a child listening to my grandparents telling me the stories of their lives.I've always loved Hepburn's characters.  They are so independent, fiesty, and fun.  Now I know why. She makes no excuses, or apologies, for a life that was, at the time, scandalous.It is a must-have for anyone who loves Hepburn, loves old Hollywood, or just appreciates prose with an authentic voice.This book is one of the old friends that I invite to coffee for a leisurely Sunday morning read-a-thon.
  I am an avid fan of Miss Hepburn's work and admire her life. She was a true American original. Therefore, I looked forward with great anticipation to a memoir penned by an intelligent person who experienced a full life and worked along side many notables of the 20th Century. Unfortunately, I am also a writer and an editor by trade so I was extremely dissappointed to find, as many have noted here in these comments, that the narrative is rambling and fragmented ... terribly so. I guess I was expecting a more coherent and well organized set of stories. The only thing I can figure out is that Miss Hepburn's editors were so mesmerized and besotted by her star quality that they completely forgot what they were being paid to do. Simply organizing it into some sort of chronological or subject order would have helped! A really good editor can make the writer's words sing without losing the individuality of the voice. I gave the book 3 stars because of Miss Hepburn's life and some great photos. I give the book a "zero" as a work of non-fiction.
      For anyone that loved Kate..or is the least bit curious about what made her to be the way she was....this is an excellent book to satisfy you.
      Great actress!  Very candid,  Go glad that a star can do a autobiography and be honest,  Wonderful lady, may she rest in peace.
      Her autobiography is exactly Katharine Hepburn.  She shared her soul with us.  I did not know her fully, and now admire her more than ever.  She was one amazing, lovely woman .
      I was reluctant to select a book entitled  ME,  But K. Hepburn had been a living legend all my life.  I was not disappointed , except when ME came to an end  Toby Guynn
      I just love this woman and her sensibility she has common sense . She will forever be in our hearts as long as they keep showing her movies and keeping her life alive in books.
      Katharine is a jewel and a woman thinking and living way before her time!  Enjoyed the book very much, interesting and easy to read.
      The book seems to be more of a conversation then a story written for reading. While the information is good, the story line is confusing to follow.
      This isn’t an easy book to read.  At times it sounds like nonsense rambling.When not rambling you’ll learn of Hepburn’s family, childhood and her rough start in acting.
      Clearly struggling to narrate this, Hepburn forged on anyway despite Parkinsons.  I absolutely love her voice, and while she's older, you still pick up snippets of her distinct...
      This book reads like you are sitting down with Katherine Hepburn, having a long chat during afternoon tea.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMens GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
.ap_classic { border-top:1px solid #ccc;border-left:1px solid #ccc;border-bottom:1px solid #2F2F1D; border-right:1px solid #2F2F1D;background-color:#EFEDD4;padding:3px; }
.ap_classic .ap_content { clear:both;background-color:white;border:1px solid #ACA976;padding:8px;font-size:11px; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png");  
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV  Amazons Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
