=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Charles Robert Darwin, FRS (12 February 1809 – 19 April 1882) was an English naturalist and geologist,[1] best known for his contributions to evolutionary theory.[I] He established that all species of life have descended over time from common ancestors,[2] and in a joint publication with Alfred Russel Wallace introduced his scientific theory that this branching pattern of evolution resulted from a process that he called natural selection, in which the struggle for existence has a similar effect to the artificial selection involved in selective breeding.[3]
Darwin published his theory of evolution with compelling evidence in his 1859 book On the Origin of Species, overcoming scientific rejection of earlier concepts of transmutation of species.[4][5] By the 1870s the scientific community and much of the general public had accepted evolution as a fact. However, many favoured competing explanations and it was not until the emergence of the modern evolutionary synthesis from the 1930s to the 1950s that a broad consensus developed in which natural selection was the basic mechanism of evolution.[6][7] In modified form, Darwin's scientific discovery is the unifying theory of the life sciences, explaining the diversity of life.[8][9]
Darwin's early interest in nature led him to neglect his medical education at the University of Edinburgh; instead, he helped to investigate marine invertebrates. Studies at the University of Cambridge (Christ's College) encouraged his passion for natural science.[10] His five-year voyage on HMS Beagle established him as an eminent geologist whose observations and theories supported Charles Lyell's uniformitarian ideas, and publication of his journal of the voyage made him famous as a popular author.[11]
Puzzled by the geographical distribution of wildlife and fossils he collected on the voyage, Darwin began detailed investigations and in 1838 conceived his theory of natural selection.[12] Although he discussed his ideas with several naturalists, he needed time for extensive research and his geological work had priority.[13] He was writing up his theory in 1858 when Alfred Russel Wallace sent him an essay which described the same idea, prompting immediate joint publication of both of their theories.[14] Darwin's work established evolutionary descent with modification as the dominant scientific explanation of diversification in nature.[6] In 1871 he examined human evolution and sexual selection in The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex, followed by The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals. His research on plants was published in a series of books, and in his final book, he examined earthworms and their effect on soil.[15]
Darwin became internationally famous, and his pre-eminence as a scientist was honoured by burial in Westminster Abbey.[16] Darwin has been described as one of the most influential figures in human history.[17]
Charles Robert Darwin was born in Shrewsbury, Shropshire, England, on 12 February 1809 at his family home, The Mount.[18] He was the fifth of six children of wealthy society doctor and financier Robert Darwin, and Susannah Darwin (née Wedgwood). He was the grandson of two prominent abolitionists: Erasmus Darwin on his father's side, and of Josiah Wedgwood on his mother's side.
Both families were largely Unitarian, though the Wedgwoods were adopting Anglicanism. Robert Darwin, himself quietly a freethinker, had baby Charles baptised in November 1809 in the Anglican St Chad's Church, Shrewsbury, but Charles and his siblings attended the Unitarian chapel with their mother. The eight-year-old Charles already had a taste for natural history and collecting when he joined the day school run by its preacher in 1817. That July, his mother died. From September 1818 he joined his older brother Erasmus attending the nearby Anglican Shrewsbury School as a boarder.[19]
Darwin spent the summer of 1825 as an apprentice doctor, helping his father treat the poor of Shropshire, before going to the University of Edinburgh Medical School, at the time the best medical school in the UK, with his brother Erasmus in October 1825. He found lectures dull and surgery distressing, so neglected his studies. He learned taxidermy from John Edmonstone, a freed black slave who had accompanied Charles Waterton in the South American rainforest, and often sat with this "very pleasant and intelligent man".[20]
In Darwin's second year he joined the Plinian Society, a student natural history group whose debates strayed into radical materialism. He assisted Robert Edmond Grant's investigations of the anatomy and life cycle of marine invertebrates in the Firth of Forth, and on 27 March 1827 presented at the Plinian his own discovery that black spores found in oyster shells were the eggs of a skate leech. One day, Grant praised Lamarck's evolutionary ideas. Darwin was astonished by Grant's audacity, but had recently read similar ideas in his grandfather Erasmus' journals.[21] Darwin was rather bored by Robert Jameson's natural history course which covered geology including the debate between Neptunism and Plutonism. He learned classification of plants, and assisted with work on the collections of the University Museum, one of the largest museums in Europe at the time.[22]
This neglect of medical studies annoyed his father, who shrewdly sent him to Christ's College, Cambridge, for a Bachelor of Arts degree as the first step towards becoming an Anglican parson. As Darwin was unqualified for the Tripos, he joined the ordinary degree course in January 1828.[23] He preferred riding and shooting to studying. His cousin William Darwin Fox introduced him to the popular craze for beetle collecting; Darwin pursued this zealously, getting some of his finds published in Stevens' Illustrations of British entomology. He became a close friend and follower of botany professor John Stevens Henslow and met other leading naturalists who saw scientific work as religious natural theology, becoming known to these dons as "the man who walks with Henslow". When his own exams drew near, Darwin focused on his studies and was delighted by the language and logic of William Paley's Evidences of Christianity.[24] In his final examination in January 1831 Darwin did well, coming tenth out of 178 candidates for the ordinary degree.[25]
Darwin had to stay at Cambridge until June. He studied Paley's Natural Theology or Evidences of the Existence and Attributes of the Deity, which made an argument for divine design in nature, explaining adaptation as God acting through laws of nature.[26] He read John Herschel's new book, which described the highest aim of natural philosophy as understanding such laws through inductive reasoning based on observation, and Alexander von Humboldt's Personal Narrative of scientific travels. Inspired with "a burning zeal" to contribute, Darwin planned to visit Tenerife with some classmates after graduation to study natural history in the tropics. In preparation, he joined Adam Sedgwick's geology course, then travelled with him in the summer for a fortnight, in order to map strata in Wales.[27]
After a week with student friends at Barmouth, Darwin returned home on 29 August to find a letter from Henslow proposing him as a suitable (if unfinished) gentleman naturalist for a self-funded supernumerary place on HMS Beagle with captain Robert FitzRoy, more as a companion than a mere collector. The ship was to leave in four weeks on an expedition to chart the coastline of South America.[28] Robert Darwin objected to his son's planned two-year voyage, regarding it as a waste of time, but was persuaded by his brother-in-law, Josiah Wedgwood, to agree to (and fund) his son's participation.[29]
After delays, the voyage began on 27 December 1831; it lasted almost five years. As FitzRoy had intended, Darwin spent most of that time on land investigating geology and making natural history collections, while the Beagle surveyed and charted coasts.[6][30] He kept careful notes of his observations and theoretical speculations, and at intervals during the voyage his specimens were sent to Cambridge together with letters including a copy of his journal for his family.[31] He had some expertise in geology, beetle collecting and dissecting marine invertebrates, but in all other areas was a novice and ably collected specimens for expert appraisal.[32] Despite suffering badly from seasickness, Darwin wrote copious notes while on board the ship. Most of his zoology notes are about marine invertebrates, starting with plankton collected in a calm spell.[30][33]
On their first stop ashore at St. Jago, Darwin found that a white band high in the volcanic rock cliffs included seashells. FitzRoy had given him the first volume of Charles Lyell's Principles of Geology which set out uniformitarian concepts of land slowly rising or falling over immense periods,[II] and Darwin saw things Lyell's way, theorising and thinking of writing a book on geology.[34]
When they reached Brazil Darwin was delighted by the tropical forest,[35] but detested the sight of slavery.[36] The survey continued to the south in Patagonia. They stopped at Bahía Blanca, and in cliffs near Punta Alta Darwin made a major find of fossil bones of huge extinct mammals beside modern seashells, indicating recent extinction with no signs of change in climate or catastrophe. He identified the little-known Megatherium by a tooth and its association with bony armour which had at first seemed to him like a giant version of the armour on local armadillos. The finds brought great interest when they reached England.[37][38]
On rides with gauchos into the interior to explore geology and collect more fossils, Darwin gained social, political and anthropological insights into both native and colonial people at a time of revolution, and learnt that two types of rhea had separate but overlapping territories.[39][40] Further south he saw stepped plains of shingle and seashells as raised beaches showing a series of elevations. He read Lyell's second volume and accepted its view of "centres of creation" of species, but his discoveries and theorising challenged Lyell's ideas of smooth continuity and of extinction of species.[41][42]
As HMS Beagle surveyed the coasts of South America, Darwin theorised about geology and extinction of giant mammals.
Three Fuegians on board, who had been seized during the first Beagle voyage and had spent a year in England, were taken back to Tierra del Fuego as missionaries. Darwin found them friendly and civilised, yet their relatives seemed "miserable, degraded savages", as different as wild from domesticated animals.[43] To Darwin the difference showed cultural advances, not racial inferiority. Unlike his scientist friends, he now thought there was no unbridgeable gap between humans and animals.[44] A year on, the mission had been abandoned. The Fuegian they had named Jemmy Button lived like the other natives, had a wife, and had no wish to return to England.[45]
Darwin experienced an earthquake in Chile and saw signs that the land had just been raised, including mussel-beds stranded above high tide. High in the Andes he saw seashells, and several fossil trees that had grown on a sand beach. He theorised that as the land rose, oceanic islands sank, and coral reefs round them grew to form atolls.[46][47]
On the geologically new Galápagos Islands Darwin looked for evidence attaching wildlife to an older "centre of creation", and found mockingbirds allied to those in Chile but differing from island to island. He heard that slight variations in the shape of tortoise shells showed which island they came from, but failed to collect them, even after eating tortoises taken on board as food.[48][49] In Australia the marsupial rat-kangaroo and the platypus seemed so unusual that Darwin thought it was almost as though two distinct Creators had been at work.[50] He found the Aborigines "good-humoured & pleasant", and noted their depletion by European settlement.[51]
The Beagle investigated how the atolls of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands had formed, and the survey supported Darwin's theorising.[47] FitzRoy began writing the official Narrative of the Beagle voyages, and after reading Darwin's diary he proposed incorporating it into the account.[52] Darwin's Journal was eventually rewritten as a separate third volume, on natural history.[53]
In Cape Town Darwin and FitzRoy met John Herschel, who had recently written to Lyell praising his uniformitarianism as opening bold speculation on "that mystery of mysteries, the replacement of extinct species by others" as "a natural in contradistinction to a miraculous process".[54] When organising his notes as the ship sailed home, Darwin wrote that if his growing suspicions about the mockingbirds, the tortoises and the Falkland Islands Fox were correct, "such facts undermine the stability of Species", then cautiously added "would" before "undermine".[55] He later wrote that such facts "seemed to me to throw some light on the origin of species".[56]
When the Beagle reached Falmouth, Cornwall, on 2 October 1836, Darwin was already a celebrity in scientific circles as in December 1835 Henslow had fostered his former pupil's reputation by giving selected naturalists a pamphlet of Darwin's geological letters.[57] Darwin visited his home in Shrewsbury and saw relatives, then hurried to Cambridge to see Henslow, who advised on finding naturalists available to catalogue the collections and agreed to take on the botanical specimens. Darwin's father organised investments, enabling his son to be a self-funded gentleman scientist, and an excited Darwin went round the London institutions being fêted and seeking experts to describe the collections. Zoologists had a huge backlog of work, and there was a danger of specimens just being left in storage.[58]
Charles Lyell eagerly met Darwin for the first time on 29 October and soon introduced him to the up-and-coming anatomist Richard Owen, who had the facilities of the Royal College of Surgeons to work on the fossil bones collected by Darwin. Owen's surprising results included other gigantic extinct ground sloths as well as the Megatherium, a near complete skeleton of the unknown Scelidotherium and a hippopotamus-sized rodent-like skull named Toxodon resembling a giant capybara. The armour fragments were actually from Glyptodon, a huge armadillo-like creature as Darwin had initially thought.[59][38] These extinct creatures were related to living species in South America.[60]
In mid-December Darwin took lodgings in Cambridge to organise work on his collections and rewrite his Journal.[61] He wrote his first paper, showing that the South American landmass was slowly rising, and with Lyell's enthusiastic backing read it to the Geological Society of London on 4 January 1837. On the same day, he presented his mammal and bird specimens to the Zoological Society. The ornithologist John Gould soon announced that the Galapagos birds that Darwin had thought a mixture of blackbirds, "gros-beaks" and finches, were, in fact, twelve separate species of finches. On 17 February Darwin was elected to the Council of the Geological Society, and Lyell's presidential address presented Owen's findings on Darwin's fossils, stressing geographical continuity of species as supporting his uniformitarian ideas.[62]
Early in March, Darwin moved to London to be near this work, joining Lyell's social circle of scientists and experts such as Charles Babbage,[63] who described God as a programmer of laws. Darwin stayed with his freethinking brother Erasmus, part of this Whig circle and close friend of writer Harriet Martineau who promoted Malthusianism underlying the controversial Whig Poor Law reforms to stop welfare from causing overpopulation and more poverty. As a Unitarian she welcomed the radical implications of transmutation of species, promoted by Grant and younger surgeons influenced by Geoffroy. Transmutation was anathema to Anglicans defending social order,[64] but reputable scientists openly discussed the subject and there was wide interest in John Herschel's letter praising Lyell's approach as a way to find a natural cause of the origin of new species.[54]
Gould met Darwin and told him that the Galápagos mockingbirds from different islands were separate species, not just varieties, and what Darwin had thought was a "wren" was also in the finch group. Darwin had not labelled the finches by island, but from the notes of others on the Beagle, including FitzRoy, he allocated species to islands.[65] The two rheas were also distinct species, and on 14 March Darwin announced how their distribution changed going southwards.[66]
In mid-July 1837 Darwin started his "B" notebook on Transmutation of Species, and on page 36 wrote "I think" above his first evolutionary tree.
By mid-March, Darwin was speculating in his Red Notebook on the possibility that "one species does change into another" to explain the geographical distribution of living species such as the rheas, and extinct ones such as the strange Macrauchenia which resembled a giant guanaco. His thoughts on lifespan, asexual reproduction and sexual reproduction developed in his "B" notebook around mid-July on to variation in offspring "to adapt & alter the race to changing world" explaining the Galápagos tortoises, mockingbirds and rheas. He sketched branching descent, then a genealogical branching of a single evolutionary tree, in which "It is absurd to talk of one animal being higher than another", discarding Lamarck's independent lineages progressing to higher forms.[67]
While developing this intensive study of transmutation, Darwin became mired in more work. Still rewriting his Journal, he took on editing and publishing the expert reports on his collections, and with Henslow's help obtained a Treasury grant of £1,000 to sponsor this multi-volume Zoology of the Voyage of H.M.S. Beagle, a sum equivalent to about £77,000 in 2012.[68] He stretched the funding to include his planned books on geology, and agreed unrealistic dates with the publisher.[69] As the Victorian era began, Darwin pressed on with writing his Journal, and in August 1837 began correcting printer's proofs.[70]
Darwin's health suffered under the pressure. On 20 September he had "an uncomfortable palpitation of the heart", so his doctors urged him to "knock off all work" and live in the country for a few weeks. After visiting Shrewsbury he joined his Wedgwood relatives at Maer Hall, Staffordshire, but found them too eager for tales of his travels to give him much rest. His charming, intelligent, and cultured cousin Emma Wedgwood, nine months older than Darwin, was nursing his invalid aunt. His uncle Jos pointed out an area of ground where cinders had disappeared under loam and suggested that this might have been the work of earthworms, inspiring "a new & important theory" on their role in soil formation which Darwin presented at the Geological Society on 1 November.[71]
William Whewell pushed Darwin to take on the duties of Secretary of the Geological Society. After initially declining the work, he accepted the post in March 1838.[72] Despite the grind of writing and editing the Beagle reports, Darwin made remarkable progress on transmutation, taking every opportunity to question expert naturalists and, unconventionally, people with practical experience such as farmers and pigeon fanciers.[6][73] Over time his research drew on information from his relatives and children, the family butler, neighbours, colonists and former shipmates.[74] He included mankind in his speculations from the outset, and on seeing an orangutan in the zoo on 28 March 1838 noted its childlike behaviour.[75]
The strain took a toll, and by June he was being laid up for days on end with stomach problems, headaches and heart symptoms. For the rest of his life, he was repeatedly incapacitated with episodes of stomach pains, vomiting, severe boils, palpitations, trembling and other symptoms, particularly during times of stress such as attending meetings or making social visits. The cause of Darwin's illness remained unknown, and attempts at treatment had little success.[76]
On 23 June he took a break and went "geologising" in Scotland. He visited Glen Roy in glorious weather to see the parallel "roads" cut into the hillsides at three heights. He later published his view that these were marine raised beaches, but then had to accept that they were shorelines of a proglacial lake.[77]
Fully recuperated, he returned to Shrewsbury in July. Used to jotting down daily notes on animal breeding, he scrawled rambling thoughts about career and prospects on two scraps of paper, one with columns headed "Marry" and "Not Marry". Advantages included "constant companion and a friend in old age ... better than a dog anyhow", against points such as "less money for books" and "terrible loss of time."[78] Having decided in favour, he discussed it with his father, then went to visit Emma on 29 July. He did not get around to proposing, but against his father's advice he mentioned his ideas on transmutation.[79]
Continuing his research in London, Darwin's wide reading now included the sixth edition of Malthus's An Essay on the Principle of Population, and on 28 September 1838 he noted its assertion that human "population, when unchecked, goes on doubling itself every twenty five years, or increases in a geometrical ratio", a geometric progression so that population soon exceeds food supply in what is known as a Malthusian catastrophe. Darwin was well prepared to compare this to de Candolle's "warring of the species" of plants and the struggle for existence among wildlife, explaining how numbers of a species kept roughly stable. As species always breed beyond available resources, favourable variations would make organisms better at surviving and passing the variations on to their offspring, while unfavourable variations would be lost. He wrote that the "final cause of all this wedging, must be to sort out proper structure, & adapt it to changes", so that "One may say there is a force like a hundred thousand wedges trying force into every kind of adapted structure into the gaps of in the economy of nature, or rather forming gaps by thrusting out weaker ones."[6][80] This would result in the formation of new species.[6][81] As he later wrote in his Autobiography:
In October 1838, that is, fifteen months after I had begun my systematic enquiry, I happened to read for amusement Malthus on Population, and being well prepared to appreciate the struggle for existence which everywhere goes on from long-continued observation of the habits of animals and plants, it at once struck me that under these circumstances favourable variations would tend to be preserved, and unfavourable ones to be destroyed. The result of this would be the formation of new species. Here, then, I had at last got a theory by which to work..."[82]
By mid December Darwin saw a similarity between farmers picking the best stock in selective breeding, and a Malthusian Nature selecting from chance variants so that "every part of newly acquired structure is fully practical and perfected",[83] thinking this comparison "a beautiful part of my theory".[84] He later called his theory natural selection, an analogy with what he termed the artificial selection of selective breeding.[6]
On 11 November, he returned to Maer and proposed to Emma, once more telling her his ideas. She accepted, then in exchanges of loving letters she showed how she valued his openness in sharing their differences, also expressing her strong Unitarian beliefs and concerns that his honest doubts might separate them in the afterlife.[85] While he was house-hunting in London, bouts of illness continued and Emma wrote urging him to get some rest, almost prophetically remarking "So don't be ill any more my dear Charley till I can be with you to nurse you." He found what they called "Macaw Cottage" (because of its gaudy interiors) in Gower Street, then moved his "museum" in over Christmas. On 24 January 1839 Darwin was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society.[86]
On 29 January Darwin and Emma Wedgwood were married at Maer in an Anglican ceremony arranged to suit the Unitarians, then immediately caught the train to London and their new home.[87]
Darwin now had the framework of his theory of natural selection "by which to work",[82] as his "prime hobby".[88] His research included extensive experimental selective breeding of plants and animals, finding evidence that species were not fixed and investigating many detailed ideas to refine and substantiate his theory.[6] For fifteen years this work was in the background to his main occupation of writing on geology and publishing expert reports on the Beagle collections.[89]
When FitzRoy's Narrative was published in May 1839, Darwin's Journal and Remarks was such a success as the third volume that later that year it was published on its own.[90] Early in 1842, Darwin wrote about his ideas to Charles Lyell, who noted that his ally "denies seeing a beginning to each crop of species".[91]
Darwin's book The Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs on his theory of atoll formation was published in May 1842 after more than three years of work, and he then wrote his first "pencil sketch" of his theory of natural selection.[92] To escape the pressures of London, the family moved to rural Down House in September.[93] On 11 January 1844 Darwin mentioned his theorising to the botanist Joseph Dalton Hooker, writing with melodramatic humour "it is like confessing a murder".[94][95] Hooker replied "There may in my opinion have been a series of productions on different spots, & also a gradual change of species. I shall be delighted to hear how you think that this change may have taken place, as no presently conceived opinions satisfy me on the subject."[96]
By July, Darwin had expanded his "sketch" into a 230-page "Essay", to be expanded with his research results if he died prematurely.[98] In November the anonymously published sensational best-seller Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation brought wide interest in transmutation. Darwin scorned its amateurish geology and zoology, but carefully reviewed his own arguments. Controversy erupted, and it continued to sell well despite contemptuous dismissal by scientists.[99][100]
Darwin completed his third geological book in 1846. He now renewed a fascination and expertise in marine invertebrates, dating back to his student days with Grant, by dissecting and classifying the barnacles he had collected on the voyage, enjoying observing beautiful structures and thinking about comparisons with allied structures.[101] In 1847, Hooker read the "Essay" and sent notes that provided Darwin with the calm critical feedback that he needed, but would not commit himself and questioned Darwin's opposition to continuing acts of creation.[102]
In an attempt to improve his chronic ill health, Darwin went in 1849 to Dr. James Gully's Malvern spa and was surprised to find some benefit from hydrotherapy.[103] Then in 1851 his treasured daughter Annie fell ill, reawakening his fears that his illness might be hereditary, and after a long series of crises she died.[104]
In eight years of work on barnacles (Cirripedia), Darwin's theory helped him to find "homologies" showing that slightly changed body parts served different functions to meet new conditions, and in some genera he found minute males parasitic on hermaphrodites, showing an intermediate stage in evolution of distinct sexes.[105] In 1853 it earned him the Royal Society's Royal Medal, and it made his reputation as a biologist.[106] He resumed work on his theory of species in 1854, and in November realised that divergence in the character of descendants could be explained by them becoming adapted to "diversified places in the economy of nature".[107]
Charles Darwin, aged 46 in 1855, by then working towards publication of his theory of natural selection. He wrote to Hooker about this portrait, "if I really have as bad an expression, as my photograph gives me, how I can have one single friend is surprising."[108]
By the start of 1856, Darwin was investigating whether eggs and seeds could survive travel across seawater to spread species across oceans. Hooker increasingly doubted the traditional view that species were fixed, but their young friend Thomas Henry Huxley was firmly against transmutation of species. Lyell was intrigued by Darwin's speculations without realising their extent. When he read a paper by Alfred Russel Wallace, "On the Law which has Regulated the Introduction of New Species", he saw similarities with Darwin's thoughts and urged him to publish to establish precedence. Though Darwin saw no threat, he began work on a short paper. Finding answers to difficult questions held him up repeatedly, and he expanded his plans to a "big book on species" titled Natural Selection. He continued his researches, obtaining information and specimens from naturalists worldwide including Wallace who was working in Borneo. The American botanist Asa Gray showed similar interests, and on 5 September 1857 Darwin sent Gray a detailed outline of his ideas including an abstract of Natural Selection. In December, Darwin received a letter from Wallace asking if the book would examine human origins. He responded that he would avoid that subject, "so surrounded with prejudices", while encouraging Wallace's theorising and adding that "I go much further than you."[109]
Darwin's book was only partly written when, on 18 June 1858, he received a paper from Wallace describing natural selection. Shocked that he had been "forestalled", Darwin sent it on that day to Lyell, as requested by Wallace,[110][111] and although Wallace had not asked for publication, Darwin suggested he would send it to any journal that Wallace chose. His family was in crisis with children in the village dying of scarlet fever, and he put matters in the hands of Lyell and Hooker. After some discussion, they decided on a joint presentation at the Linnean Society on 1 July of On the Tendency of Species to form Varieties; and on the Perpetuation of Varieties and Species by Natural Means of Selection; however, Darwin's baby son died of the scarlet fever and he was too distraught to attend.[112]
There was little immediate attention to this announcement of the theory; the president of the Linnean Society remarked in May 1859 that the year had not been marked by any revolutionary discoveries.[113] Only one review rankled enough for Darwin to recall it later; Professor Samuel Haughton of Dublin claimed that "all that was new in them was false, and what was true was old."[114] Darwin struggled for thirteen months to produce an abstract of his "big book", suffering from ill health but getting constant encouragement from his scientific friends. Lyell arranged to have it published by John Murray.[115]
On the Origin of Species proved unexpectedly popular, with the entire stock of 1,250 copies oversubscribed when it went on sale to booksellers on 22 November 1859.[116] In the book, Darwin set out "one long argument" of detailed observations, inferences and consideration of anticipated objections.[117] His only allusion to human evolution was the understatement that "light will be thrown on the origin of man and his history".[118] His theory is simply stated in the introduction:
As many more individuals of each species are born than can possibly survive; and as, consequently, there is a frequently recurring struggle for existence, it follows that any being, if it vary however slightly in any manner profitable to itself, under the complex and sometimes varying conditions of life, will have a better chance of surviving, and thus be naturally selected. From the strong principle of inheritance, any selected variety will tend to propagate its new and modified form.[119]
There is grandeur in this view of life, with its several powers, having been originally breathed into a few forms or into one; and that, whilst this planet has gone cycling on according to the fixed law of gravity, from so simple a beginning endless forms most beautiful and most wonderful have been, and are being, evolved.[120]
The last word was the only variant of "evolved" in the first five editions of the book. "Evolutionism" at that time was associated with other concepts, most commonly with embryological development, and Darwin first used the word evolution in The Descent of Man in 1871, before adding it in 1872 to the 6th edition of The Origin of Species.[121]
During the Darwin family's 1868 holiday in her Isle of Wight cottage, Julia Margaret Cameron took portraits showing the bushy beard Darwin grew between 1862 and 1866.
An 1871 caricature following publication of The Descent of Man was typical of many showing Darwin with an ape body, identifying him in popular culture as the leading author of evolutionary theory.[122]
The book aroused international interest, with less controversy than had greeted the popular Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation.[123] Though Darwin's illness kept him away from the public debates, he eagerly scrutinised the scientific response, commenting on press cuttings, reviews, articles, satires and caricatures, and corresponded on it with colleagues worldwide.[124] Darwin had only said "Light will be thrown on the origin of man",[125] but the first review claimed it made a creed of the "men from monkeys" idea from Vestiges.[126] Amongst early favourable responses, Huxley's reviews swiped at Richard Owen, leader of the scientific establishment Huxley was trying to overthrow.[127] In April, Owen's review attacked Darwin's friends and condescendingly dismissed his ideas, angering Darwin,[128] but Owen and others began to promote ideas of supernaturally guided evolution.[129]
The Church of England's response was mixed. Darwin's old Cambridge tutors Sedgwick and Henslow dismissed the ideas, but liberal clergymen interpreted natural selection as an instrument of God's design, with the cleric Charles Kingsley seeing it as "just as noble a conception of Deity".[130] In 1860, the publication of Essays and Reviews by seven liberal Anglican theologians diverted clerical attention from Darwin, with its ideas including higher criticism attacked by church authorities as heresy. In it, Baden Powell argued that miracles broke God's laws, so belief in them was atheistic, and praised "Mr Darwin's masterly volume [supporting] the grand principle of the self-evolving powers of nature".[131] Asa Gray discussed teleology with Darwin, who imported and distributed Gray's pamphlet on theistic evolution, Natural Selection is not inconsistent with Natural Theology.[130][132] The most famous confrontation was at the public 1860 Oxford evolution debate during a meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, where the Bishop of Oxford Samuel Wilberforce, though not opposed to transmutation of species, argued against Darwin's explanation and human descent from apes. Joseph Hooker argued strongly for Darwin, and Thomas Huxley's legendary retort, that he would rather be descended from an ape than a man who misused his gifts, came to symbolise a triumph of science over religion.[130][133]
Even Darwin's close friends Gray, Hooker, Huxley and Lyell still expressed various reservations but gave strong support, as did many others, particularly younger naturalists. Gray and Lyell sought reconciliation with faith, while Huxley portrayed a polarisation between religion and science. He campaigned pugnaciously against the authority of the clergy in education,[130] aiming to overturn the dominance of clergymen and aristocratic amateurs under Owen in favour of a new generation of professional scientists. Owen's claim that brain anatomy proved humans to be a separate biological order from apes was shown to be false by Huxley in a long running dispute parodied by Kingsley as the "Great Hippocampus Question", and discredited Owen.[134]
Darwinism became a movement covering a wide range of evolutionary ideas. In 1863 Lyell's Geological Evidences of the Antiquity of Man popularised prehistory, though his caution on evolution disappointed Darwin. Weeks later Huxley's Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature showed that anatomically, humans are apes, then The Naturalist on the River Amazons by Henry Walter Bates provided empirical evidence of natural selection.[135] Lobbying brought Darwin Britain's highest scientific honour, the Royal Society's Copley Medal, awarded on 3 November 1864.[136] That day, Huxley held the first meeting of what became the influential X Club devoted to "science, pure and free, untrammelled by religious dogmas".[137] By the end of the decade most scientists agreed that evolution occurred, but only a minority supported Darwin's view that the chief mechanism was natural selection.[138]
The Origin of Species was translated into many languages, becoming a staple scientific text attracting thoughtful attention from all walks of life, including the "working men" who flocked to Huxley's lectures.[139] Darwin's theory also resonated with various movements at the time[III] and became a key fixture of popular culture.[IV] Cartoonists parodied animal ancestry in an old tradition of showing humans with animal traits, and in Britain these droll images served to popularise Darwin's theory in an unthreatening way. While ill in 1862 Darwin began growing a beard, and when he reappeared in public in 1866 caricatures of him as an ape helped to identify all forms of evolutionism with Darwinism.[122]
More detailed articles cover Darwin's life from Orchids to Variation, from Descent of Man to Emotions and from Insectivorous Plants to Worms
Despite repeated bouts of illness during the last twenty-two years of his life, Darwin's work continued. Having published On the Origin of Species as an abstract of his theory, he pressed on with experiments, research, and writing of his "big book". He covered human descent from earlier animals including evolution of society and of mental abilities, as well as explaining decorative beauty in wildlife and diversifying into innovative plant studies.
Enquiries about insect pollination led in 1861 to novel studies of wild orchids, showing adaptation of their flowers to attract specific moths to each species and ensure cross fertilisation. In 1862 Fertilisation of Orchids gave his first detailed demonstration of the power of natural selection to explain complex ecological relationships, making testable predictions. As his health declined, he lay on his sickbed in a room filled with inventive experiments to trace the movements of climbing plants.[140] Admiring visitors included Ernst Haeckel, a zealous proponent of Darwinismus incorporating Lamarckism and Goethe's idealism.[141] Wallace remained supportive, though he increasingly turned to Spiritualism.[142]
The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication of 1868 was the first part of Darwin's planned "big book", and included his unsuccessful hypothesis of pangenesis attempting to explain heredity. It sold briskly at first, despite its size, and was translated into many languages. He wrote most of a second part, on natural selection, but it remained unpublished in his lifetime.[143]
Punch's almanac for 1882, published shortly before Darwin's death, depicts him amidst evolution from chaos to Victorian gentleman with the title Man Is But A Worm.
Lyell had already popularised human prehistory, and Huxley had shown that anatomically humans are apes.[135] With The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex published in 1871, Darwin set out evidence from numerous sources that humans are animals, showing continuity of physical and mental attributes, and presented sexual selection to explain impractical animal features such as the peacock's plumage as well as human evolution of culture, differences between sexes, and physical and cultural racial characteristics, while emphasising that humans are all one species.[144] His research using images was expanded in his 1872 book The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals, one of the first books to feature printed photographs, which discussed the evolution of human psychology and its continuity with the behaviour of animals. Both books proved very popular, and Darwin was impressed by the general assent with which his views had been received, remarking that "everybody is talking about it without being shocked."[145] His conclusion was "that man with all his noble qualities, with sympathy which feels for the most debased, with benevolence which extends not only to other men but to the humblest living creature, with his god-like intellect which has penetrated into the movements and constitution of the solar system–with all these exalted powers–Man still bears in his bodily frame the indelible stamp of his lowly origin."[146]
His evolution-related experiments and investigations led to books on Insectivorous Plants, The Effects of Cross and Self Fertilisation in the Vegetable Kingdom, different forms of flowers on plants of the same species, and The Power of Movement in Plants. In his last book he returned to The Formation of Vegetable Mould through the Action of Worms.
In 1882 he was diagnosed with what was called "angina pectoris" which then meant coronary thrombosis and disease of the heart. At the time of his death, the physicians diagnosed "anginal attacks", and "heart-failure".[147]
He died at Down House on 19 April 1882. His last words were to his family, telling Emma "I am not the least afraid of death – Remember what a good wife you have been to me – Tell all my children to remember how good they have been to me", then while she rested, he repeatedly told Henrietta and Francis "It's almost worth while to be sick to be nursed by you".[148] He had expected to be buried in St Mary's churchyard at Downe, but at the request of Darwin's colleagues, after public and parliamentary petitioning, William Spottiswoode (President of the Royal Society) arranged for Darwin to be buried in Westminster Abbey, close to John Herschel and Isaac Newton.[16][149]
In 1881 Darwin was an eminent figure, still working on his contributions to evolutionary thought that had an enormous effect on many fields of science.
Darwin had convinced most scientists that evolution as descent with modification was correct, and he was regarded as a great scientist who had revolutionised ideas. Though few agreed with his view that "natural selection has been the main but not the exclusive means of modification", he was honoured in June 1909 by more than 400 officials and scientists from across the world who met in Cambridge to commemorate his centenary and the fiftieth anniversary of On the Origin of Species.[150] During this period, which has been called "the eclipse of Darwinism", scientists proposed various alternative evolutionary mechanisms which eventually proved untenable. The development of the modern evolutionary synthesis from the 1930s to the 1950s, incorporating natural selection with population genetics and Mendelian genetics, brought broad scientific consensus that natural selection was the basic mechanism of evolution. This synthesis set the frame of reference for modern debates and refinements of the theory.[7]
During Darwin's lifetime, many geographical features were given his name. An expanse of water adjoining the Beagle Channel was named Darwin Sound by Robert FitzRoy after Darwin's prompt action, along with two or three of the men, saved them from being marooned on a nearby shore when a collapsing glacier caused a large wave that would have swept away their boats,[151] and the nearby Mount Darwin in the Andes was named in celebration of Darwin's 25th birthday.[152] When the Beagle was surveying Australia in 1839, Darwin's friend John Lort Stokes sighted a natural harbour which the ship's captain Wickham named Port Darwin: a nearby settlement was renamed Darwin in 1911, and it became the capital city of Australia's Northern Territory.[153]
More than 120 species and nine genera have been named after Darwin.[154] In one example, the group of tanagers related to those Darwin found in the Galápagos Islands became popularly known as "Darwin's finches" in 1947, fostering inaccurate legends about their significance to his work.[155]
Darwin's work has continued to be celebrated by numerous publications and events. The Linnean Society of London has commemorated Darwin's achievements by the award of the Darwin–Wallace Medal since 1908. Darwin Day has become an annual celebration, and in 2009 worldwide events were arranged for the bicentenary of Darwin's birth and the 150th anniversary of the publication of On the Origin of Species.[156]
Darwin has been commemorated in the UK, with his portrait printed on the reverse of £10 banknotes printed along with a hummingbird and HMS Beagle, issued by the Bank of England.[157]
A life size seated statue of Darwin can be seen in the main hall of the Natural History Museum in London.[158] A seated statue of Darwin stands in front of Shrewsbury Library, the building that used to house Shrewsbury School, which Darwin attended as a boy.
The Darwins had ten children: two died in infancy, and Annie's death at the age of ten had a devastating effect on her parents. Charles was a devoted father and uncommonly attentive to his children.[10] Whenever they fell ill, he feared that they might have inherited weaknesses from inbreeding due to the close family ties he shared with his wife and cousin, Emma Wedgwood. He examined this topic in his writings, contrasting it with the advantages of crossing amongst many organisms.[159] Despite his fears, most of the surviving children and many of their descendants went on to have distinguished careers (see Darwin-Wedgwood family).[160]
Of his surviving children, George, Francis and Horace became Fellows of the Royal Society,[161] distinguished as astronomer,[162] botanist and civil engineer, respectively. His son Leonard went on to be a soldier, politician, economist, eugenicist and mentor of the statistician and evolutionary biologist Ronald Fisher.[163]
In 1851 Darwin was devastated when his daughter Annie died. By then his faith in Christianity had dwindled, and he had stopped going to church.[164]
Darwin's family tradition was nonconformist Unitarianism, while his father and grandfather were freethinkers, and his baptism and boarding school were Church of England.[19] When going to Cambridge to become an Anglican clergyman, he did not doubt the literal truth of the Bible.[24] He learned John Herschel's science which, like William Paley's natural theology, sought explanations in laws of nature rather than miracles and saw adaptation of species as evidence of design.[26][27] On board the Beagle, Darwin was quite orthodox and would quote the Bible as an authority on morality.[165] He looked for "centres of creation" to explain distribution,[48] and related the antlion found near kangaroos to distinct "periods of Creation".[50]
By his return he was critical of the Bible as history, and wondered why all religions should not be equally valid.[165] In the next few years, while intensively speculating on geology and transmutation of species, he gave much thought to religion and openly discussed this with his wife Emma, whose beliefs also came from intensive study and questioning.[85] The theodicy of Paley and Thomas Malthus vindicated evils such as starvation as a result of a benevolent creator's laws which had an overall good effect. To Darwin, natural selection produced the good of adaptation but removed the need for design,[166] and he could not see the work of an omnipotent deity in all the pain and suffering such as the ichneumon wasp paralysing caterpillars as live food for its eggs.[132] He still viewed organisms as perfectly adapted, and On the Origin of Species reflects theological views. Though he thought of religion as a tribal survival strategy, Darwin was reluctant to give up the idea of God as an ultimate lawgiver. He was increasingly troubled by the problem of evil.[167][168]
Darwin remained close friends with the vicar of Downe, John Innes, and continued to play a leading part in the parish work of the church,[169] but from around 1849 would go for a walk on Sundays while his family attended church.[164] He considered it "absurd to doubt that a man might be an ardent theist and an evolutionist"[170][171] and, though reticent about his religious views, in 1879 he wrote that "I have never been an atheist in the sense of denying the existence of a God. – I think that generally ... an agnostic would be the most correct description of my state of mind."[85][170]
The "Lady Hope Story", published in 1915, claimed that Darwin had reverted to Christianity on his sickbed. The claims were repudiated by Darwin's children and have been dismissed as false by historians.[172]
Darwin's views on social and political issues reflected his time and social position. He thought men's eminence over women was the outcome of sexual selection, a view disputed by Antoinette Brown Blackwell in The Sexes Throughout Nature.[173] He valued European civilisation and saw colonisation as spreading its benefits, with the sad but inevitable effect of extermination of savage peoples who did not become civilised. Darwin's theories presented this as natural, and were cited to promote policies which went against his humanitarian principles.[174] Darwin was strongly against slavery, against "ranking the so-called races of man as distinct species", and against ill-treatment of native people.[175][VI]
Darwin was intrigued by his half-cousin Francis Galton's argument, introduced in 1865, that statistical analysis of heredity showed that moral and mental human traits could be inherited, and principles of animal breeding could apply to humans. In The Descent of Man Darwin noted that aiding the weak to survive and have families could lose the benefits of natural selection, but cautioned that withholding such aid would endanger the instinct of sympathy, "the noblest part of our nature", and factors such as education could be more important. When Galton suggested that publishing research could encourage intermarriage within a "caste" of "those who are naturally gifted", Darwin foresaw practical difficulties, and thought it "the sole feasible, yet I fear utopian, plan of procedure in improving the human race", preferring to simply publicise the importance of inheritance and leave decisions to individuals.[176] Francis Galton named this field of study "eugenics" in 1883.[V]
Darwin's fame and popularity led to his name being associated with ideas and movements which at times had only an indirect relation to his writings, and sometimes went directly against his express comments.
Thomas Malthus had argued that population growth beyond resources was ordained by God to get humans to work productively and show restraint in getting families, this was used in the 1830s to justify workhouses and laissez-faire economics.[177] Evolution was by then seen as having social implications, and Herbert Spencer's 1851 book Social Statics based ideas of human freedom and individual liberties on his Lamarckian evolutionary theory.[178]
Soon after the Origin was published in 1859, critics derided his description of a struggle for existence as a Malthusian justification for the English industrial capitalism of the time. The term Darwinism was used for the evolutionary ideas of others, including Spencer's "survival of the fittest" as free-market progress, and Ernst Haeckel's racist ideas of human development. Writers used natural selection to argue for various, often contradictory, ideologies such as laissez-faire dog-eat dog capitalism, racism, warfare, colonialism and imperialism. However, Darwin's holistic view of nature included "dependence of one being on another"; thus pacifists, socialists, liberal social reformers and anarchists such as Peter Kropotkin stressed the value of co-operation over struggle within a species.[179] Darwin himself insisted that social policy should not simply be guided by concepts of struggle and selection in nature.[180]
After the 1880s a eugenics movement developed on ideas of biological inheritance, and for scientific justification of their ideas appealed to some concepts of Darwinism. In Britain, most shared Darwin's cautious views on voluntary improvement and sought to encourage those with good traits in "positive eugenics". During the "Eclipse of Darwinism" a scientific foundation for eugenics was provided by Mendelian genetics. Negative eugenics to remove the "feebleminded" were popular in America, Canada and Australia, and eugenics in the United States introduced compulsory sterilization laws, followed by several other countries. Subsequently, Nazi eugenics brought the field into disrepute.[V]
The term "Social Darwinism" was used infrequently from around the 1890s, but became popular as a derogatory term in the 1940s when used by Richard Hofstadter to attack the laissez-faire conservatism of those like William Graham Sumner who opposed reform and socialism. Since then it has been used as a term of abuse by those opposed to what they think are the moral consequences of evolution.[181][177]
Darwin was a prolific writer. Even without publication of his works on evolution, he would have had a considerable reputation as the author of The Voyage of the Beagle, as a geologist who had published extensively on South America and had solved the puzzle of the formation of coral atolls, and as a biologist who had published the definitive work on barnacles. While On the Origin of Species dominates perceptions of his work, The Descent of Man and The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals had considerable impact, and his books on plants including The Power of Movement in Plants were innovative studies of great importance, as was his final work on The Formation of Vegetable Mould through the Action of Worms.[182][183]
I. ^ Darwin was eminent as a naturalist, geologist, biologist, and author; after working as a physician's assistant and two years as a medical student was educated as a clergyman; and was trained in taxidermy.[184]
II. ^ Robert FitzRoy was to become known after the voyage for biblical literalism, but at this time he had considerable interest in Lyell's ideas, and they met before the voyage when Lyell asked for observations to be made in South America. FitzRoy's diary during the ascent of the River Santa Cruz in Patagonia recorded his opinion that the plains were raised beaches, but on return, newly married to a very religious lady, he recanted these ideas. (Browne 1995, pp. 186, 414)
III. ^ See, for example, WILLA volume 4, Charlotte Perkins Gilman and the Feminization of Education by Deborah M. De Simone: "Gilman shared many basic educational ideas with the generation of thinkers who matured during the period of "intellectual chaos" caused by Darwin's Origin of the Species. Marked by the belief that individuals can direct human and social evolution, many progressives came to view education as the panacea for advancing social progress and for solving such problems as urbanisation, poverty, or immigration."
IV. ^ See, for example, the song "A lady fair of lineage high" from Gilbert and Sullivan's Princess Ida, which describes the descent of man (but not woman!) from apes.
V. ^ Geneticists studied human heredity as Mendelian inheritance, while eugenics movements sought to manage society, with a focus on social class in the United Kingdom, and on disability and ethnicity in the United States, leading to geneticists seeing this as impractical pseudoscience. A shift from voluntary arrangements to "negative" eugenics included compulsory sterilisation laws in the United States, copied by Nazi Germany as the basis for Nazi eugenics based on virulent racism and "racial hygiene".
(Thurtle, Phillip (17 December 1996). "the creation of genetic identity". SEHR 5 (Supplement: Cultural and Technological Incubations of Fascism). Retrieved 11 November 2008. 
Edwards, A. W. F. (1 April 2000). "The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection". Genetics 154 (April 2000). pp. 1419–1426. PMC 1461012. PMID 10747041. Retrieved 11 November 2008. 
Wilkins, John. "Evolving Thoughts: Darwin and the Holocaust 3: eugenics". Retrieved 11 November 2008. )
VI. ^ Darwin did not share the then common view that other races are inferior, and said of his taxidermy tutor John Edmonstone, a freed black slave, "I used often to sit with him, for he was a very pleasant and intelligent man".[20]
Early in the Beagle voyage he nearly lost his position on the ship when he criticised FitzRoy's defence and praise of slavery. (Darwin 1958, p. 74) He wrote home about "how steadily the general feeling, as shown at elections, has been rising against Slavery. What a proud thing for England if she is the first European nation which utterly abolishes it! I was told before leaving England that after living in slave countries all my opinions would be altered; the only alteration I am aware of is forming a much higher estimate of the negro character." (Darwin 1887, p. 246) Regarding Fuegians, he "could not have believed how wide was the difference between savage and civilized man: it is greater than between a wild and domesticated animal, inasmuch as in man there is a greater power of improvement", but he knew and liked civilised Fuegians like Jemmy Button: "It seems yet wonderful to me, when I think over all his many good qualities, that he should have been of the same race, and doubtless partaken of the same character, with the miserable, degraded savages whom we first met here."(Darwin 1845, pp. 205, 207–208)
In the Descent of Man he mentioned the Fuegians and Edmonstone when arguing against "ranking the so-called races of man as distinct species".[185]
He rejected the ill-treatment of native people, and for example wrote of massacres of Patagonian men, women, and children, "Every one here is fully convinced that this is the most just war, because it is against barbarians. Who would believe in this age that such atrocities could be committed in a Christian civilized country?"(Darwin 1845, p. 102)
Darwin's Journal (Darwin 2006, pp. 12 verso) backdated from August 1838 gives a date of 6 March 1837
"Darwin, C. R. (Read 14 March 1837) Notes on Rhea americana and Rhea darwinii, Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London". Retrieved 17 December 2008. 
"Darwin Correspondence Project – Letter 404 – Buckland, William to Geological Society of London, 9 Mar 1838". Retrieved 23 December 2008. 
Anonymous (1882). "Obituary: Death Of Chas. Darwin". The New York Times (21 April 1882). Retrieved 30 October 2008. 
Balfour, J. H. (11 May 1882). "Obituary Notice of Charles Robert Darwin". Transactions & Proceedings of the Botanical Society of Edinburgh (14): 284–298. 
Bannister, Robert C. (1989). Social Darwinism: Science and Myth in Anglo-American Social Thought. Philadelphia: Temple University Press. ISBN 0-87722-566-4. 
Bowler, Peter J. (2003). Evolution: The History of an Idea (3rd ed.). University of California Press. ISBN 0-520-23693-9. 
Browne, E. Janet (1995). Charles Darwin: vol. 1 Voyaging. London: Jonathan Cape. ISBN 1-84413-314-1. 
Browne, E. Janet (2002). Charles Darwin: vol. 2 The Power of Place. London: Jonathan Cape. ISBN 0-7126-6837-3. 
Darwin, Charles (1835). Extracts from letters to Professor Henslow. Cambridge: [privately printed]. Retrieved 1 November 2008. 
Darwin, Charles (1837). Notebook B: (Transmutation of species). Darwin Online. CUL-DAR121. Retrieved 20 December 2008. 
Darwin, Charles (1839). Narrative of the surveying voyages of His Majesty's Ships Adventure and Beagle between the years 1826 and 1836, describing their examination of the southern shores of South America, and the Beagle's circumnavigation of the globe. Journal and remarks. 1832–1836. III. London: Henry Colburn. Retrieved 24 October 2008. 
Darwin, Charles (1842). "Pencil Sketch of 1842". In Darwin, Francis. The foundations of The origin of species: Two essays written in 1842 and 1844.. Cambridge University Press (published 1909). ISBN 0-548-79998-9. 
Darwin, Charles (1845). Journal of researches into the natural history and geology of the countries visited during the voyage of H.M.S. Beagle round the world, under the Command of Capt. Fitz Roy, R.N. 2d edition. London: John Murray. Retrieved 24 October 2008. 
Darwin, Charles; Wallace, Alfred Russel (1858). "On the Tendency of Species to form Varieties; and on the Perpetuation of Varieties and Species by Natural Means of Selection". Journal of the Proceedings of the Linnean Society of London. Zoology 3 3 (9): 46–50. doi:10.1111/j.1096-3642.1858.tb02500.x. 
Darwin, Charles (1859). On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life (1st ed.). London: John Murray. ISBN 1-4353-9386-4. Retrieved 24 October 2008. 
Darwin, Charles (1868). The variation of animals and plants under domestication. London: John Murray. ISBN 1-4191-8660-4. Retrieved 1 November 2008. 
Darwin, Charles (1871). The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex (1st ed.). London: John Murray. ISBN 0-8014-2085-7. Retrieved 24 October 2008. 
Darwin, Charles (1872). The Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life (6th ed.). London: John Murray. ISBN 1-4353-9386-4. Retrieved 1 November 2009. 
Darwin, Charles (1887). Darwin, Francis, ed. The life and letters of Charles Darwin, including an autobiographical chapter. London: John Murray. ISBN 0-404-08417-6. Retrieved 4 November 2008. 
Darwin, Charles (1958). Barlow, Nora, ed. The Autobiography of Charles Darwin 1809–1882. With the original omissions restored. Edited and with appendix and notes by his granddaughter Nora Barlow. London: Collins. Retrieved 28 September 2013. 
Darwin, Charles (2006). "Journal". In van Wyhe, John. Darwin's personal 'Journal' (1809–1881). Darwin Online. CUL-DAR158.1–76. Retrieved 20 December 2008 
Desmond, Adrian; Moore, James (1991). Darwin. London: Michael Joseph, Penguin Group. ISBN 0-7181-3430-3. 
Desmond, Adrian; Moore, James; Browne, Janet (2004). Oxford Dictionary of National Biography. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/ref:odnb/7176. 
Dobzhansky, Theodosius (March 1973). "Nothing in Biology Makes Sense Except in the Light of Evolution". The American Biology Teacher 35 (3): 125–129. doi:10.2307/4444260. Retrieved 4 November 2008. 
Eldredge, Niles (2006). "Confessions of a Darwinist". The Virginia Quarterly Review (Spring 2006): 32–53. Retrieved 4 November 2008. 
FitzRoy, Robert (1839). Voyages of the Adventure and Beagle, Volume II. London: Henry Colburn. Retrieved 4 November 2008. 
Freeman, R. B. (1977). The Works of Charles Darwin: An Annotated Bibliographical Handlist. Folkestone: Wm Dawson & Sons Ltd. ISBN 0-208-01658-9. Retrieved 4 November 2008. 
Herbert, Sandra (1980). "The red notebook of Charles Darwin". Bulletin of the British Museum (Natural History). Historical Series (7 (24 April)): 1–164. Retrieved 11 January 2009. 
Herbert, Sandra (1991). "Charles Darwin as a prospective geological author". British Journal for the History of Science 24 (24): 159–192. doi:10.1017/S0007087400027060. Retrieved 24 October 2008. 
Keynes, Richard (2000). Charles Darwin's zoology notes & specimen lists from H.M.S. Beagle.. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-46569-9. Retrieved 22 November 2008. 
Keynes, Richard (2001). Charles Darwin's Beagle Diary. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-23503-0. Retrieved 24 October 2008. 
Kotzin, Daniel (2004). "Point-Counterpoint: Social Darwinism". Columbia American History Online. Retrieved 22 November 2008. 
Larson, Edward J. (2004). Evolution: The Remarkable History of a Scientific Theory. Modern Library. ISBN 0-679-64288-9. 
Miles, Sara Joan (2001). "Charles Darwin and Asa Gray Discuss Teleology and Design". Perspectives on Science and Christian Faith 53: 196–201. Retrieved 22 November 2008. 
Moore, James (2005). "Darwin – A 'Devil's Chaplain'?" (PDF). American Public Media. Retrieved 22 November 2008. 
Moore, James (2006). "Evolution and Wonder – Understanding Charles Darwin". Speaking of Faith (Radio Program). American Public Media. Retrieved 22 November 2008. 
Owen, Richard (1840). Darwin, C. R., ed. Fossil Mammalia Part 1. The zoology of the voyage of H.M.S. Beagle. London: Smith Elder and Co. 
Paul, Diane B. (2003). "Darwin, social Darwinism and eugenics". In Hodge, Jonathan; Radick, Gregory. The Cambridge Companion to Darwin. Cambridge University Press. pp. 214–239. ISBN 0-521-77730-5. 
Smith, Charles H. (1999). "Alfred Russel Wallace on Spiritualism, Man, and Evolution: An Analytical Essay". Retrieved 7 December 2008. 
Sulloway, Frank J. (1982). "Darwin and His Finches: The Evolution of a Legend" (PDF). Journal of the History of Biology 15 (1): 1–53. doi:10.1007/BF00132004. Retrieved 9 December 2008. 
Sweet, William (2004). "Herbert Spencer". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 16 December 2008. 
Wilkins, John S. (1997). "Evolution and Philosophy: Does evolution make might right?". TalkOrigins Archive. Retrieved 22 November 2008. 
Wilkins, John S. (2008). "Darwin". In Tucker, Aviezer. A Companion to the Philosophy of History and Historiography. Blackwell Companions to Philosophy. Chichester: Wiley-Blackwell. pp. 405–415. ISBN 1-4051-4908-6. 
van Wyhe, John (27 March 2007). "Mind the gap: Did Darwin avoid publishing his theory for many years?". Notes and Records of the Royal Society 61 (2): 177–205. doi:10.1098/rsnr.2006.0171. Retrieved 7 February 2008. 
van Wyhe, John (2008). "Charles Darwin: gentleman naturalist: A biographical sketch". Darwin Online. Retrieved 17 November 2008. 
van Wyhe, John (2008b). Darwin: The Story of the Man and His Theories of Evolution. London: Andre Deutsch Ltd (published 1 September 2008). ISBN 0-233-00251-0. 
von Sydow, Momme (2005). "Darwin – A Christian Undermining Christianity? On Self-Undermining Dynamics of Ideas Between Belief and Science". In Knight, David M.; Eddy, Matthew D. Science and Beliefs: From Natural Philosophy to Natural Science, 1700–1900. Burlington: Ashgate. pp. 141–156. ISBN 0-7546-3996-7. Retrieved 16 December 2008. 
Yates, Simon (2003). "The Lady Hope Story: A Widespread Falsehood". TalkOrigins Archive. Retrieved 15 December 2006. 
The Complete Works of Charles Darwin Online – Darwin Online; Darwin's publications, private papers and bibliography, supplementary works including biographies, obituaries and reviews
Darwin Correspondence Project Full text and notes for complete correspondence to 1867, with summaries of all the rest
Darwin-Hooker letters, images and text jointly published at Cambridge Digital Library and Darwin Correspondence Project
 Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Darwin, Charles Robert". Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. 
The life and times of Charles Darwin, an audio slideshow, The Guardian, Thursday 12 February 2009, (3 min 20 sec).
Darwin's Brave New World – A 3 part drama-documentary exploring Charles Darwin and the significant contributions of his colleagues Joseph Hooker, Thomas Huxley and Alfred Russel Wallace also featuring interviews with Richard Dawkins, David Suzuki, Jared Diamond
A naturalist's voyage around the world Account of the Beagle voyage using animation, in English from Centre national de la recherche scientifique
Anonymous (1873). Cartoon portraits and biographical sketches of men of the day. Illustrated by Waddy, Frederick. London: Tinsley Brothers. pp. 6–7. Retrieved 28 December 2010. 
On the Tendency of Species to form Varieties; and on the Perpetuation of Varieties and Species by Natural Means of Selection
Categories: Charles Darwin1809 births1882 deaths19th-century English writers19th-century scientistsAlumni of Christ's College, CambridgeAlumni of the University of EdinburghBotanists with author abbreviationsBurials at Westminster AbbeyBritish carcinologistsCircumnavigators of the globeColeopteristsDarwin–Wedgwood familyEnglish agnosticsEnglish AnglicansEnglish geologistsEnglish naturalistsEnglish scepticsEnglish travel writersEthologistsEvolutionary biologistsFellows of the German Academy of Sciences LeopoldinaFellows of the Royal Entomological SocietyFellows of the Royal SocietyFellows of the Zoological Society of LondonGentleman scientistsHuman evolution theoristsMembers of the Royal Swedish Academy of SciencesPeople educated at Shrewsbury SchoolPeople from ShrewsburyRecipients of the Copley MedalRecipients of the Pour le Mérite (civil class)Royal Medal winnersWollaston Medal winnersMembers of the American Philosophical SocietyHidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersUse British English from August 2011Use dmy dates from November 2012Wikipedia semi-protected pagesWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesFeatured articlesArticles with inconsistent citation formatsArticles with DMOZ linksWikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource referenceAC with 15 elementsWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with ULAN identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Administration AboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor Information Arts, Health & Society AboutProgramsProspective StudentsSummer ResidenciesResearch Database Media & Communication AboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & Scholarships Admission Online ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer Students Students OverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest Documents Faculty Faculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and Positions 
Admission» Application & Deadlines» Tuition & Scholarships» Questions & Answers» Financial Aid» AccreditationStudents» Overview» Student Email» Student News» Event Calendar» Student Directory» Students Gateway» Request DocumentsAlumni» Overview» Alumni Association» Alumni Directory» Alumni News» Event Calendar» Request Transcripts» Giving to EGSFaculty» Faculty Overview» Faculty News» Event Calendar» Video Lectures» Jobs and PositionsMedia» EGS Publications» EGS on Facebook» EGS on YouTube» EGS on Google+» EGS on Flickr» EGS on Twitter» Conferences & Festivals» Library / Encyclopedia» Research DatabaseResources» News» Event Calendar» Information Technology» Health Services» A-Z Index» Sitemap» Contacts
Charles Darwin (February 12, 1809  April 19, 1882) was an English naturalist who gained great fame within his lifetime as well as long after his death for the development of evolutionary theory. Most of Charles Darwin's evolutionary theory is contained in the book Origin of Species (1859).
Charles Darwin was born in Shrewsbury, Shropshire England in 1809. He was the fifth of six children of a wealthy doctor and financier and although his family was Unitarian he attended the Anglican Shrewsbury School as a boarder in 1818. By 1825 he was an apprentice doctor at the University of Edinburgh Medical school but he did not like the work involved. In his second year he joined the Plinian Society, a student natural history group that engaged in discussions of radical materialism. He assisted Robert Edmund Grant in the research of marine invertebrates' anatomy and life cycle and in 1827 presented one of his own findings of black spores to the Plinian Society. Darwin also assisted collections at the University Museum. Darwin's voracious interest in natural history angered his father and he was sent to Christ's College at Cambridge in 1828 to study to become a parson but was unqualified to take anything but the ordinary degree course. At this time he took up beetle collecting under the influence of his cousin William Duncan Fox and again was noted for his discoveries and was published in Steven's Illustrations of British Entomology. He ended up doing rather well in the ordinary courses and graduated tenth in his class in 1831.  				
As well as an unhindered appetite for natural history, Darwin was also a rampant reader and works that he devoured at this time were Paley's Natural Theology, Alexander von Humboldt's Personal Narrative and work by John Herschel. He was fresh from studying geology with Adam Sedgewick when his mentor John Stevens Henslow recommended him to accompany Robert FitzRoy on the HMS Beagle. On the Beagle, Darwin also read Charles Lyell's Principles of Geology and was impressed with his findings of geological formations over time. On the voyage, Darwin took many notes and gathered specimens, sending letters of report back to England. By the time he returned his fame was already underway and he began to work on the variety of specimens he brought back of which there were so many that there was cause for concern for how well they would keep before they were able to be studied. In 1837 he was elected to the Council of the Geological Society and all this time we was feverishly working on writing and rewriting his journal taken during his voyage and the specimens he procured were being studied at the Royal College of Surgeons under the supervision of Richard Owen who Darwin had met through his enthusiastic new friend Lyell.					
Darwin's findings at this time began to reveal what would come to be his major contribution to evolutionary science. Not only did Owen find extinct creatures such as gigantic ground sloths, a hippopotamus-sized skull resembling a rodent and armor fragments from a creature not unlike the armadillo, but there was some consternation over a mixture of bird specimens that Darwin had brought back and were being studied by ornithologist, John Gould. Not only did Gould find that Darwin's initial impression that he collected a mixture of finches and blackbirds prove to be false, but that the birds were in fact twelve completely separate species of finches. Darwin went back over his notes and realized in conjunction with Gould that the twelve species could be allocated to different islands and that there was a geographical influence on perhaps just one species that augured the separation of development into twelve different species. It was at this point that Darwin began to develop his ideas on the transmutation of species that was not hierarchical in nature, but was reliant on species "to adapt and alter the race to changing world." This went against Lamarck's claim that lineages would progress to higher forms and of this Darwin said that "it is absurd to talk of one animal being higher than another."				
It was also in 1838 that he decided after deliberation (which is found in his notebooks in a pro/con type list) to marry his cousin Emma Wedgewood. She was strong in her Unitarian beliefs and was concerned that Darwin's developing doubts about spirituality and religion would separate them in the afterlife, however, on the whole, she accepted their differences. For the next fifteen years into their married life, Darwin would continue to work on his large theory, but in the meantime was taken up with writing about geology. He even enjoyed a return to marine invertebrates in 1846 after his third geological book was published, going over the barnacles that he had collected while on the Beagle. He continued to have issues with his health and in 1849 found that hydrotherapy was somewhat successful in easing his pains, but in 1851 he was much distressed to lose his daughter Annie.
The work on barnacles earned Darwin the Royal Society's Royal medal in 1853 as he was able to find "homologies" that extrapolated on some of his view that began to be stirred with the finches. Here he saw that body parts of the barnacles varied depending on the environment that surrounded them and that by evolution the creatures were able to adapt to their environment. He also located an intermediate stage in the evolution of sexes when he found in genera, tiny male specimens parasitic on hermaphrodites. this work cemented his stature as eminent biologist and he resumed his work on a theory of species in 1854. Darwin had yet to feel the pressure to publish the extent of his thoughts on evolutionary science within species, however. Lyell pointed out to him the similarities of what he was proposing in 1856 in Alfred Russel Wallace's paper on species and Darwin began a short paper to explicate his own ideas. It wasn't until 1858, however when it appeared that Wallace was very close to publishing a treatise on natural selection that Darwin struggled through his own illnesses and the death of a baby son to scarlet fever to get On the Origin of Species out by the end of 1859. All through this time it is important to note that Wallace and himself were friends with Wallace looking up to Darwin. They were to present jointly at the Linnean Society On the Tendency of Species to form Varieties; and on the Perpetuation of Varieties and Species by Natural Means of Selection, but this occurred at the time that Darwin experienced the loss of his son.			
On the Origin of Species was wildly popular and heavily debated from the moment of its release in 1859. Darwin was careful to speak of common descent and not evolution, but controversy ensued all the same. Darwin continued to work and published even more after the success of his great tome broaching heredity, the animality of humans as well as psychology. He died in 1882 at Down House his last words being to his dear wife Emma, "I am not the least afraid of death - Remember what a good wife you have been to me - Tell all my children to remember how good they have been to me." Darwin had expected to be buried in the nearby st Mary's churchyard at Downe, but his colleagues had something rather different in mind. the president of the Royal Society, William Spottiswoode, arranged a state funeral for Darwin and he is buried in Westminster Abbey, perceived a national hero.				
» Giorgio Agamben» Pierre Alferi» Hubertus von Amelunxen» Alisa Andrasek» Alain Badiou» Judith Balso» Jason Barker» Jean Baudrillard» Philippe Beck» Geoffrey Bennington» Robert Bramkamp» Benjamin Bratton» Catherine Breillat» Judith Butler» Eduardo Cadava» Hélène Cixous» Simon Critchley» Diane Davis» Claire Denis» Manthia Diawara» Suzanne Doppelt» Anne Dufourmantelle» Elie During» Atom Egoyan» Bracha Ettinger» Mike Figgis» Alessandro De Francesco» John Frazer» Christopher Fynsk» Heiner Goebbels» Antony Gormley» Peter Greenaway» Boris Groys» Werner Hamacher» Barbara Hammer» Graham Harman» Michael Hardt» Martin Hielscher» Brian Holmes» Mitchell Joachim» Tom Kalin» Friedrich Kittler» Chris Kraus» Manuel De Landa» Katarzyna Lazari-Radek» Neil Leach» Sylvère Lotringer» Geert Lovink» Catherine Malabou» Lev Manovich» Elissa Marder» Clem Marshall » Colum McCann» Achim Menges» Jean-Luc Nancy» François Noudelmann» Mathieu Potte-Bonneville» Peter Price» Stephen & Timothy Quay» Jacques Rancière» Laurence Arthur Rickels» Denise Riley» Avital Ronell» Wolfgang Schirmacher» Volker Schlöndorff» Michael Schmidt» Patrik Schumacher» Peter Singer» DJ Spooky - Paul Miller» Bruce Sterling» Caspar Stracke» Elia Suleiman» Leslie Thornton» Ilija Trojanow» Margarethe von Trotta» Agnès Varda» Paul Virilio» Victor Vitanza» Samuel Weber» Klaus Wyborny» Caveh Zahedi» Siegfried Zielinski» Slavoj Zizek» Thomas Zummer» Alenka Zupancic
AdministrationAboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor InformationMedia & CommunicationAboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & ScholarshipsAdmissionOnline ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer StudentsStudentsOverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest DocumentsAlumniOverviewAlumni AssociationAlumni DirectoryAlumni NewsEvent CalendarRequest TranscriptsGiving to EGSFacultyFaculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and PositionsResourcesNewsEvent CalendarInformation TechnologyHealth ServicesA-Z IndexSitemapContactsMediaEGS PublicationsEGS on FacebookEGS on YouTubeEGS on Google+EGS on FlickrEGS on TwitterConferences & FestivalsLibrary / EncyclopediaResearch Database
=======================================================
PERHAPS no one has influenced our knowledge of life on Earth as much as the English naturalist Charles  Darwin (1809-1882). His theory of evolution by natural selection, now the unifying theory of the life sciences, explained where all of the astonishingly diverse kinds of living things came from and how they became exquisitely adapted to their particular environments. His theory reconciled a host of diverse kinds of evidence such as the progressive  fossil  record,  geographical distribution of species, recapitulative appearances in embryology, homologous structures, vestigial organs and nesting taxonomic relationships. No other  explanation before or since has made sense of these facts. 
In further works Darwin demonstrated that the difference between humans and other animals is one of degree not kind. In geology, zoology, taxonomy, botany, palaeontology, philosophy, anthropology, psychology, literature and theology Darwin's writings produced profound reactions, many of which are still ongoing. Yet even without his evolutionary works, Darwin's accomplishments would be difficult to match. His brilliantly original work in geology, botany, biogeography, invertebrate zoology, psychology and scientific travel writing would still make him one of the most original and influential workers in the history of science. Darwin's writings are consequently of interest to an extremely large number and wide variety of readers. This site contains the largest collection of his writings ever published.
Citation: John van Wyhe, ed. 2002-. The Complete Work of Charles Darwin Online (http://darwin-online.org.uk/) 
=======================================================
        British Broadcasting CorporationHome   Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help   
Darwin was a British scientist who laid the foundations of the theory of evolution and transformed the way we think about the natural world.
Charles Robert Darwin was born on 12 February 1809 in Shrewsbury, Shropshire into a wealthy and well-connected family. His maternal grandfather was china manufacturer Josiah Wedgwood, while his paternal grandfather was Erasmus Darwin, one of the leading intellectuals of 18th century England.
Darwin himself initially planned to follow a medical career, and studied at Edinburgh University but later switched to divinity at Cambridge. In 1831, he joined a five year scientific expedition on the survey ship HMS Beagle. 
At this time, most Europeans believed that the world was created by God in seven days as described in the bible. On the voyage, Darwin read Lyell's 'Principles of Geology' which suggested that the fossils found in rocks were actually evidence of animals that had lived many thousands or millions of years ago. Lyell's argument was reinforced in Darwin's own mind by the rich variety of animal life and the geological features he saw during his voyage. The breakthrough in his ideas came in the Galapagos Islands, 500 miles west of South America. Darwin noticed that each island supported its own form of finch which were closely related but differed in important ways. 
On his return to England in 1836, Darwin tried to solve the riddles of these observations and the puzzle of how species evolve. Influenced by the ideas of Malthus, he proposed a theory of evolution occurring by the process of natural selection. The animals (or plants) best suited to their environment are more likely to survive and reproduce, passing on the characteristics which helped them survive to their offspring. Gradually, the species changes over time. 
Darwin worked on his theory for 20 years. After learning that another naturalist, Alfred Russel Wallace, had developed similar ideas, the two made a joint announcement of their discovery in 1858. In 1859 Darwin published 'On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection'.
The book was extremely controversial, because the logical extension of Darwin's theory was that homo sapiens was simply another form of animal. It made it seem possible that even people might just have evolved - quite possibly from apes - and destroyed the prevailing orthodoxy on how the world was created. Darwin was vehemently attacked, particularly by the Church. However, his ideas soon gained currency and have become the new orthodoxy.
        Search term:     BBC navigation  News Sport Weather  Capital  TV Radio More…       CBBC CBeebies Comedy Food History   Learning Music Science Nature Local   Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Full A-Z of BBC sites        BBC links    Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC     Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help     Ad Choices Cookies Contact the BBC     Parental Guidance      BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  
=======================================================
Charles Robert Darwin was born in the town of Shrewsbury, England on February 12th 1809 and this picturesque, well-maintained medieval town is much the same today as it would have been in Darwin’s time. The portion of Shrewsbury known as “Old Town” is almost completely surrounded by a horseshoe-shaped bend in the River Severn, as shown in this aerial view of the town below, (Figure1). The English Bridge is to the lower right and the Kingsland Bridge is to the left while the Welsh Bridge is at the center-top of this photograph. In addition there are foot bridges across the river at several points.
The only home that Charles Darwin knew from the time he was born until he returned from his five-year trip around the world on the Beagle at the age of 29, was his family home right here in Shrewsbury. In chronological order, here are the places in Shrewsbury that were important in Darwin’s life. We will visit each of these buildings in greater detail below. Darwin was born in the family home, known as The Mount or Mount House, on February 12 th, 1809. The home was built by his father, on a bluff overlooking the River Severn, and is located at the top, center-left (A) in Figure 1. On November the 15th, 1809, in the same year as he was born, Charles was baptized in Saint Chad’s Anglican Church (B). However his mother, the former Susannah Wedgwood, who was a Unitarian, took him as a young child with her to the Unitarian Church on High Street, near the center of town (C). Reverend Case was the minister of the church and also ran an elementary School at 13 Claremont Hill (D), which is close to St. Chad’s Church. At the age of eight, Charles was enrolled in Rev. Case’s school by his mother but attended this school for only one year. Unfortunately during this year his mother died and he was enrolled at Doctor Samuel Butler’s school (E) also known as the Shrewsbury School.
At age 16 his father Robert enrolled him at Edinburgh University and, while Charles would return to the family home as a college student and also returned there after his five-year voyage around the world, he never lived at The Mount permanently again after leaving for Edinburgh.
Other familiar places in Shrewsbury that would have been familiar to Darwin are the Train Station (F), the Shrewsbury Castle (G), and Shrewsbury Abby just over the English Bridge to the right, beyond the edge of the photo. Two additional places that deserved to be mentioned, even though they had not been built in Darwin’s time, are the new Shrewsbury School across the Kingsland Bridge (H), and up the hill overlooking the River Severn from the South, and the “Darwin” Shopping Center (I) in the middle of town on Castle Street. The campus at the new secondary school is attractive, consisting of a number of handsome redbrick buildings. The reason for mentioning it however is that there is a large statue of Darwin on campus in front of the Administration building. He is depicted as an energetic and active young man on the Galapagos Islands, with iguanas and other creatures around his feet. The Shopping Center is large and modern – an asset to the town that recognizes their most famous son with a month-long “Darwin Festival” which takes place throughout February each year!
The hill, overlooking the River Severn that Robert Darwin purchased to build his home on was referred to as The Mount and once the house was finished in 1800 it became known as The Mount House. Figure 2, is a plot map of the Darwin property, looking north as it appeared when the family lived there from 1800 to 1866 when it was put up for auction soon after his sister Susan, who lived there all of her life, died.
 The numbered buildings on the property map are as follows (1) Farm Buildings; (2) Laundry; (3) Dairy; (4) Poultry; (5) Coal Bin; (6) Piggery; (7) Conservatory; (8) Plant Store; (9) Green House; (10) Tool Shed. The other buildings on the property are labeled.
 Currently access to the Darwin Family home in Shrewsbury is restricted however, an effort by the newly formed Darwin Birthbplace Society is being made to acquire it, in order to preserve Charles Darwin’s heritage for the future. To learn more about this project and to participate go to their homepage.
To visit the home, one crosses the Welsh Bridge and proceeds up the hill on Frankwell St. towards The Mount House, you cannot see the house from the street because there is a high retaining wall that fronts the property. However, as you turn to the right into the driveway near the top of the hill, there is a plaque (Figure 3) attached to the stone wall in commemoration of Charles Darwin. 
Continuing around to the right the wall changes from stone to red brick and the large, red brick home comes into view on your left (Figure 4). An expansive lawn, with large trees is on your right as you approach the front of the home. It is an imposing three-story building, with single story extensions on each end.
Beyond the extension of the house, to the West, is a rather large “Stable-Yard” (see Figure 2) that was part of the original building built in 1800. This yard was used to ready the horses and/or carriage for use by the family and for other farm related activities. It was enclosed by farm buildings at the West end, farthest from the main house and the farm itself stretched out to the West beyond the buildings. Along the North side of the enclosure there is a laundry, and a dairy where the milk, cream and cheese were kept cool with ice from the ice-house. Ice was harvested from the river during the winter and stored in the ice-house below the home on the riverbank, for use of the household during the rest of the year. Along the front side of the yard there were structures for poultry, coal and a piggery where pigs were slaughtered and made ready for the family table. A door from the stable-yard opens into the kitchens and the servants quarters, all of which were located in the one-story portion of the house at the West end of the three story portion of the home. 
Charles Darwin’s father, Robert Waring Darwin was a physician and built the home in 1800 just after his marriage to Susannah Wedgwood, daughter of the famous porcelain manufacture Josiah Wedgwood. Doctor Darwin ran his medical practice from his home and the patients came to the front door of the house and waited to see the doctor in the room immediately to the left of the entryway. Doctor Darwin’s office and surgery were to the left of the waiting room and the surgery was across the hall to the back of the house.
The second floor of the main house was a series of bedrooms and one of them served as the nursery where all the children were born, including Charles. The window to this room can be seen in Figure 5, off to the upper left corner of the front entry way. Figure 6 is of the fireplace in this room. 
On November the 15th, 1809, when Charles was only nine months old, he was baptized in Saint Chad’s Anglican Church (Figure 7), where his father was a member. The church is situated on one of the highest points in Old Town Shrewsbury and overlooks the wide Water Gardens to the west of the building which now contains the beautiful Dingle Gardens (Figure9). Only a few churches in England were ever built with round auditoriums and Saint Chad’s is one of them. This feature can be seen in Figure 8, where the view is from the South across the cemetery at the side of the church. The round sanctuary is to the far right in the photograph. Even though Dr. Robert Darwin was a long-time member of this church he and his wife Susannah are buried at Montford Parish Church, a few miles north west of the Shrewsbury. 
When Charles was a boy the place on the water gardens where the Dingle Gardens are now located was a quarry and he recalls going there to collect things from the water (see The Unitarian Church and Reverend Case’s School). 
Today the quarry has been transformed into the Dingle Gardens, a sight to behold with brilliant flowerbeds,(Figure 10), walkways, (Figure 11) and fountains in the center of flowing water, all surrounded by beautiful trees. A truly enchanted and romantic place!
As a young child, his mother, the former Susannah Wedgwood, took Charles to the Unitarian Church (Figures.12 and 13) on High Street near the center of town, where she was a member.
This attractive building has a plaque commemorating Charles as a member who attended regularly as a youth (Figure 14).
During this period, Reverend Case was the pastor at the Unitarian Church and he also ran a school at 13 Claremont Hill St. (Figure 16) next-door to St. Chad’s Church, where Charles was enrolled by his mother in 1816. The view down the hill on Claremont St. across town to the St. Alkmund Church (Figure 15) would have been a familiar sight to Charles as he came and went from the school. The rear windows of the school looked out onto the cemetery at St. Chad’s church (Figure 17). In his autobiography Charles recalls a number of events during this school year including the dogs in Barker St., newts in the quarry, fruit in the garden, monstrous fables, and the burial of a “dragoon-soldier.”
The following quotes are taken from Darwin’s autobiography and they recall the incidents  mentioned above in his own words.
“In 1817, when I was 8½ years old, I attended Mr. Case’s School. I remember how very much I was afraid of meeting the dogs in Baker St. and how at school I could not get up my courage to fight. I was very timid by nature. I remember I took great delight at school in fishing for newts in the quarry pool. I had thus young formed a strong taste for collecting, chiefly seals, franks and also pebbles and minerals.
 About this time, I sometimes stored fruit for the sake of eating it; and one of my schemes was ingenious. The kitchen garden was kept locked in the evening, and was surrounded by a high wall, but by the aid of neighboring trees I could easily get on the coping. I then fixed a long stick into the hole at the bottom of a rather larger flower-pot, and by dragging this upwards pulled off peaches and plums, which fell into the pot and the prizes were thus secured.
 One little event during this year has fixed itself very firmly in my mind, and I hope that it has done so from my conscience having been afterwards sorely troubled by it; it is curious as showing that apparently I was interested at this early age in the variability of plants! I told another little boy (I believe it was Leighton, who afterwards became a well-known botanist) that I could produce variously coloured Polyanthus and Primroses by watering them with certain coloured fluids, which was of course a monstrous fable, and had never been tried by me. I may here also confess that as a little boy I was much given to inventing deliberate falsehoods, and this was always done for the sake of causing excitement.
I remember clearly only one other incident during the year whilst at Mr. Case’s daily school-namely, the burial of a dragoon-soldier; and it is surprising how clearly I can still see the horse with the man’s empty boot and carbine suspended to the saddle, and the firing over the grave. (Figure17) This scene deeply stirred whatever poetic fancy there was in me.”
 After his mother’s death in July 1817, his older sisters, particularly Caroline continued to take him to the Unitarian Church and to see to his continuing education. However, later that year  his father  enrolled him in Doctor Butler’s Shrewsbury school. 
“My mother died in July 1817, when I was a little over eight years old, and it is odd that I can remember hardly anything about her except her death-bed, her black velvet gown, her curiously constructed work-table and one or two walks with her. I have no distinct remembrances of any conversations, and those only of very trivial nature. I do remember her saying that if she did ask me to do something, which I said she had, it was solely for my good.”
 Doctor Butler’s Shrewsbury school (Figure18) was considered a very fine institution at that time. However Charles was not very complementary about what the curriculum there had done for his mind.
“In the summer of 1818 I went to Dr. Butler’s great school in Shrewsbury, and remained there for seven years till mid-summer 1825, when I was sixteen years old. Nothing could have been worse for the development of my mind than Dr. Butler’s school, as it was strictly classical, nothing else being taught except a little ancient geography and history. The school as a means of education to me was simply a blank.”
Robert Darwin was not pleased with Charles’ lack of application to his school work and when Charles exchanged his passion for chemistry for that of game shooting at age 15, his father finally exploded saying, “You care for nothing but shooting, dogs and rat-catching, and you will be a disgrace to yourself and all the family.”
This handsome building (Figure 18) is now the city library and is very modern inside. Some of the heavy timber, used in the original construction has been left exposed so that visitors can see its interesting configuration (Figures 19 & 20).
Not withstanding Charles’s misgivings about his education at his former school, there is now a statue of him promiment placed at the entry to the building (Figure 21). He is sitting in a likeness of the chair he used for so many years in his study at Down House where it can still be seen. Charles attended Dr. Butler’s school until he was 16, when his father enrolled him in Edinburgh University to study to become a physician.
A large number of the buildings still standing in Shrewsbury would have been there in Darwin’s day and, for the most part, they have been kept in excellent repair. Some of the more prominent structures would have been the train station and Shrewsbury Castle (Figure 22) both of which are at the Northern end of the Old City not far from Dr. Butler’s school and the castle can also be seen in Figure 21 across from the school.
Shrewsbury Abbey, (Figure 23) is an imposing structure a short way beyond the English Bridge to the east of the town. This structure dates to before King Henry VII and it was severely damaged as a result of his decree that all Catholic Abbeys were to be destroyed. Evidence of the destruction can be seen in Figure 24.  Note the ragged bricks where a large portion of the Abby has been removed as a result of King Henry’s decree.
Although the New Shrewsbury School was not in existence until more recently one should take the time to visit this campus across the Kingston Bridge and up the winding street to the top of the hill on the South side of town. There are several attractive red brick buildings on campus and in front of the administrative building to your right as you enter the well-manicured grounds there is a very attractive statue of a younger Charles Darwin depicted in action on the Galapagos Islands with iguanas and other familiar creatures that he studied there (Figure 25). 
The most recent addition to the Darwin Legacy in Shrewsbury is the naming of a modern shopping center for him on Pride Hill, near the center of Old Town (Figure 26). 
In conclusion it should be said that visitors to Shrewsbury will find that one can easily walk to all the sites important to Darwin’s life here and each is no more than a fifteen minute walk from the center of this charming town where the man who influenced modern thought so profoundly, was born. 
At the tender age of sixteen, Charles was enrolled at Edinburgh University by his father to study medicine and follow in the footsteps of both his grandfather Erasmus Darwin and his father Robert as a physician. To prepare Charles for Edinburgh, Dr. Robert Darwin had spent considerable time with Charles the previous summer, taking him on visits to his patients at the hospital and teaching him the skills he used as a physician. Charles was enthusiastic about what he was learning and Dr. Darwin concluded that Charles would make a very fine physician. At that time, Edinburgh had gained an equal footing with Leiden in Holland (the medical school where Robert received most of his training) and Padua in Italy as an eminent medical school. In addition, during the mid-1700s Edinburgh was the center of the Scottish enlightenment with David Hume as a resident philosopher. But Charles could stand neither the sight of blood nor the practice of performing amputations without an anesthetic and refused to complete his studies. In general, he found the classes required for medical practice uninteresting, although he did enjoy a return to his early interest in chemistry, which was taught by Professor Thomas Hope. Charles and his older brother Erasmus had shared in a ‘lab’ they had put together in the family garden tool shed at The Mount. 
While at Edinburgh in 1826 and early 1827, Charles forged an important friendship with Professor Robert Grant who taught zoology, and they would take walks along the Firth of Forth collecting specimens. Grant taught him to do dissections and to make detailed observations under a microscope. It was also from Grant that he learned about the French naturalist Lamarck and his ideas about transmutation. Interestingly, Erasmus Darwin, Charles’s grandfather, and Jean Baptiste Lamarck were contemporaries, and whereas Erasmus was referred to as “the English Lamarck”, Lamarck was referred to as“the Parisian Darwin”. Both men were avid proponents of the principle of transmutation, a term later replaced by evolution. Grant’s interest in both Lamarck and particularly in the work of Erasmus Darwin spurred Charles’ interest in the writings of both men. And it was at this time that Darwin read Lamarck’s Systeme des Animaux sans Vertebras and studied his grandfather’s extensive work entitled Zoonomia. He thoroughly acquainted himself with their views on the principles of transmutation, or evolution, the subject that would eventually consume his interest for most of his life.
While at Edinburgh Charles appeared to learn more from his informal activities than he learned in the classroom. He pursued his interest in natural history by frequent visits to the museum where Mr. William MacGillivary was the curator. They also became friends, and MacGillivary taught Darwin about the anatomy of animals, and some botany, and how to take notes on the observations he made. It was through another friend, John Edmonstone, that Darwin learned the art of taxidermy. Edmonstone was a freed slave from Guyana, and while they worked they talked about the rain forests of South America that inspired Darwin and influenced his decision to go around the world on the Beagle. 
On trips home to Shrewsbury while he was a student at Edinburgh, Darwin made extended forays into northern Wales where he used a book by Gilbert White, entitled The Natural History of Selborne as a guide to developing an interest in the beauty of birds and insects. It was at this point in his life that Darwin began to keep his own field notebook and to record detailed observations on the subjects of his studies.
 Charles Darwin was becoming a self-trained naturalist with a keen interest in basic science even though he was only seventeen or eighteen years of age. It was no surprise when he started to attend the Plinian Society, a science club that emphasized studies of the natural world instead of the idea of supernaturalism. Darwin’s very first talk, on the marine biology of the Firth of Forth, was given to this group on March 27, 1827 
Even though his father did not appreciate it, his son was developing the skills he would need for his lifelong work, largely on his own, outside the confinement of the classrooms at Edinburgh. Darwin was destined to become the most respected and remembered naturalist of the 19th Century.
 href="http://darwin.baruch.cuny.edu/biography/erasmus_darwin/zoonomia.html">Zoonomia, or the Laws of Organic Life
At age 19 Charles enrolled at Christ’s College, Cambridge, intending to become a clergyman in the Anglican Church (fig.). His disappointed father saw this as a necessity because Charles had been unwilling to complete his studies at Edinburgh and enter the traditional family profession as a physician. Darwin arrived at Cambridge in January 1828. To go to either Cambridge or Oxford was to enter the world of the Victorian gentlemen and to hobnob with the elite and ruling classes of England. Both the Darwins and the Wedgwoods were prominent country gentlemen, and Charles found Cambridge rather suited his taste. His father provided him with a very adequate allowance of 200 pounds a year. Charles soon felt at home at Cambridge where he became reacquainted with past friends from both Reverend Case’s school as well as from Dr. Butler’s school in Shrewsbury. Of even more significance, however, he found a cousin there by the name of William Darwin Fox who would become a close, life-long friend. As young men they were much the same in temperament and enjoyed each other’s company. Later in life they would comfort each other in times of severe tragedy, particularly when they had members of their immediate family die. Hensleigh Wedgewood, another cousin from the Wedgwood side of the family and a good friend of his brother Erasmus (Ras) was also at Christ’s College when Charles arrived, and they too would maintain a lifelong friendship. 
 Fox introduced Charles to beetles, and the two of them spent many hours in pursuit of rare specimens — entomology united them! In Charles’s own words “ no pursuit was followed with nearly so much eagerness or gave me more pleasure as collecting beetles.” At this time he also subscribed to a natural history periodical on entomology published by James Stephens. Darwin established contact with Stephens and sent him a number of beetles and a moth; as a result, his name appeared in the publication. He took pleasure in telling Fox that “you will see my name in Stephen’s last number.” The challenge of catching rare beetles was particularly rewarding and Darwin recalls this interesting experience: “one day on tearing off some old bark, I saw two rare beetles and seized one in each hand; then I saw a third and new kind, which I could not bear to lose, so that I popped the one I held in my right hand into my mouth. Alas it ejected some acrid fluid, which burnt my tongue so that I was forced to spit the beetle out, which was lost as well as the third one.” There is no doubt that he was a natural born entomologist as he quipped “it is quite absurd how interested I am getting to be about the science.” 
Unlike the more secular universities of Edinburgh or University College London (known as the Godless College), Oxford and Cambridge were mainly theological training schools for the Anglican Church and had been an integral part of the church since Henry VIII. Darwin accepted the idea of becoming a member of the clergy, and he envisioned himself in a parish church with plenty of time to participate in activities involving his interest in natural history. It is clear that Charles’s enthusiasm for the natural sciences, first exhibited while he was in Edinburgh, became even more central to his interests at Cambridge. He and his close friend Fox read William Paley’s book on Natural Theology which suggested that the way of understanding the natural world was to see it as evidence of God’s creative powers. However, in 1830, Charles read John Hershel’s Preliminary Discourse on the Study of Natural Philosophy that gave an expansive view of the future of scientific understanding, and as a result he developed a burning desire to add his own contribution to the “noble structure of natural sciences.”
Professor John Stevens Henslow, from whom Charles took a course in botany, befriended him, as Henslow recognized Darwin’s promise as a naturalist. He also encouraged Charles to take a course in geology as he thought it would be valuable to his future studies. Charles had already developed an interest in geology, but Professor Adam Sedgwick’s lectures on the subject gave him a greatly expanded appreciation for the time-line that was available for the development of biological systems.
After Charles completed his degree at Cambridge in 1831, he and Adam Sedgwick spent some time working on a geological map and studying rock formations in northern Wales. When they returned to Shrewsbury two letters were waiting for Charles, one was from Professor Henslow and the other from George Peacock who was responsible for nominating naturalists for navy ships making surveys. Henslow had recommended Darwin to Peacock and so Darwin was offered the post of unpaid naturalist to go on a trip around the world on the HMS Beagle. All this was a complete surprise to Charles who did not consider himself qualified as a naturalist but was eager to accept. Robert Darwin thought it was a wild scheme, and although not absolutely forbidding Charles from going said “if you can find any man of common sense who advises you to go, I will give my consent.” Reluctantly Charles wrote to Henslow saying that he could not go. 
Charles immediately left to go on a hunting trip with his uncle Josiah Wedgwood who did not agree with Charles’s father and thought that the offer to go on the Beagle was too important to turn down. Josiah returned with Charles to Shrewsbury and convinced Robert, who had always regarded Josiah as a man of common sense, that it would be a great experience for Charles. After a discussion among the three of them Robert gave his consent for Charles to go on the voyage that would eventually change his life. Charles, in a great state of excitement, wrote a letter to Henslow canceling his earlier letter of refusal. 
The following morning Charles took a coach to Cambridge to see Henslow where bad news awaited. Darwin was told that an offer for the position on the Beagle had been made to a Mr. Chester. But all was not lost as the captain of the Beagle, Robert Fitzroy, had made it clear that he would only take someone whom he liked personally, as they would be sharing a cabin that was very small. As it turned out, after two meetings Fitzroy chose Charles. On learning that he had been selected Charles wrote a very prescient letter to Fitzroy saying that the day of the Beagle’s departure would be glorious."My second life will begin and it shall be as a birthday for the rest of my life.”
It has often been repeated that, as a young boy, Charles Darwin was not a good student or that he was lazy. However, it is apparent that he had a natural inclination towards science and showed an enthusiastic willingness to devote time and effort to it at an early age. In his autobiography he recalls a situation when he was only eight years old and a student at Rev. Case’s School that suggests this orientation.
“At 8 1/2 years old I went to Mr. Case’s School. I remember I took great delight at school in fishing for newts in the quarry pool. I had thus young formed a strong taste for collecting, chiefly seals, franks, etc., but also pebbles and minerals …”. More Letters of Charles Darwin, Volume 1
“The passion for collecting which leads a man to be a systematic naturalist, a virtuoso, or a miser, was very strong in me, and was clearly innate, as none of my sisters or brother ever had this taste.”[Autobiography of Charles Darwin, p.1]
When he was nine years old Darwin was enrolled in Dr. Butler’s Shrewsbury school where he was required to take ‘the classics’ — ancient history and Greek, which he found rather uninteresting and consequently received poor grades. On the other hand, he enjoyed reading Shakespeare’s historical plays and poems by Byron, Scott, Thomson, and the Odes of Horace. Nevertheless, his main interest was in the natural sciences, which was encouraged only informally outside the classroom. Evidence of this was seen while on vacations with his family in North Wales, when he would collect insects, sea shells, minerals, and geological specimens with enthusiasm.
When Charles was just 13 years old his brother Erasmus had set up a small chemistry lab in the garden shed which was in the kitchen garden some distance from the main house in the side yard (see fig. 2, in the section on The Mount). Charles recalled this experience with his brother in the following quote in his autobiography.
“Towards the close of my school life, my brother worked hard at chemistry, and made a fair laboratory with proper apparatus in the tool-house in the garden, and I was allowed to aid him as a servant in most of his experiments. He made all the gases and many compounds, and I read with great care several books on chemistry, such as Henry and Parkes’ ‘Chemical Catechism.’ The subject interested me greatly, and we often used to go on working till rather late at night. This was the best part of my education at school, for it showed me practically the meaning of experimental science. The fact that we worked at chemistry somehow got known at school, and as it was an unprecedented fact, I was nicknamed "Gas." I was also once publicly rebuked by the head-master, Dr. Butler, for thus wasting my time on such useless subjects; and he called me very unjustly a "poco curante," and as I did not understand what he meant, it seemed to me a fearful reproach.” Autobiography of Charles Darwin, p. 4.
[A “poco curante” is one who cares about small things, while being indifferent to important things]
While it is true that Charles did not perform well at Reverend Butler’s school and his grades were not remarkable, perhaps we should realize from his own words about his experience at the school that "nothing could have been worse for my mind," that he understood his own mind when it came to determining what he was best suited to do with his life, and was rather mature for his age. In fact, throughout his life he seemed to have an uncanny idea about what his contribution would be, in spite of what others said about his academic performance. A particularly prescient statement in this regard was in a letter of acceptance to FitzRoy just before they left England on the Beagle, "the day of the Beagle’s departure would be glorious. My second life will begin and it shall be as a birthday for the rest of my life."
In addition, consider how Darwin took advantage of the many opportunities to advance his interest in science throughout his college years when he had an opportunity to learn informally from others. For instance, Charles made a number of friends among the faculty, staff, and students at both Edinburgh and Cambridge, from whom he learned a great deal. Perhaps the most important friendship that he developed at Edinburgh was with a young professor of comparative anatomy and zoology, Robert Grant. The two of them would walk down to Leith Harbour or along the Firth of Forth to collect marine animals such as oysters and sponges, and Grant taught him how to dissect these difficult specimens under seawater using a single-lens microscope, a technique he would use for the rest of his life. Grant also informally taught him about the development of invertebrates that eventually became important to Darwins theory of evolution. One of the reasons the friendship became so rewarding was that Grant was interested in the topic of transmutation and was familiar with the work of Charles’ grandfather Erasmus Darwin published in Zoonomia, as well as the views of Lamarck and Cuvier on the topic. Grant discussed his views with Charles, and while Charles was astonished by them he did not recall that they made an impression on his mind. Nevertheless it would seem that this informal education became very important to Darwin’s approach to his research on evolution. It is fair to say that Grant’s influence led to Darwin’s first presentation of a scientific paper before the Plinian Society at Edinburgh on March 27, 1827. There were also several other scientific communications and papers that resulted from this special yet informal relationship between these two men. 
 Darwin’s interest in entomology was first stimulated by his cousin William Darwin Fox, a fellow student at Cambridge who was interested in beetles. The two of them would go for walks in the countryside and collect beetles with great seriousness and enthusiasm. Although Charles was at Cambridge to study to become a member of the clergy, he did not show great intest in it and often missed classes. From this informal activity with Fox, collecting beetles and naming them, by going to reference books by Lamarck, Curtis, and Samouelle that Darwin would eventually note, "it is quite absurd how interested I am getting about the science." It was this close friendship with Fox that brought out the best in Charles while they both were at Cambridge, and it contributed much to his future. Collecting beetles became a passion for both of them and Darwin subscribed to an entomological journal, published by James Stephens in London. At one point Charles sent thirty-four beetles and a moth he had captured to Stephens, and Stephens rewarded him by mentioning his name in his publication. One can appreciate Darwin’s enthusiasm from the following quote, "No pursuit at Cambridge was followed with nearly so much eagerness or gave me so much pleasure as collecting beetles. It was the mere passion for collecting, for I did not dissect them and rarely compared the external characteristics with published descriptions, but I got them named anyhow …. No poet ever felt more delighted at seeing his first poem published than I did at seeing in Stephens’ Illustrations of British Insects the magic words, ‘Captured by C. Darwin, Esq.’  In a letter to Fox, he bragged, " you will see my name in Stephens’ last number." 
Two professors at Cambridge also became particularly important to his informal educationand to his future career. Of these, certainly John Stevens Henslow was the most important. Henslow was professor of botany but had also been professor of mineralology. Charles’ brother Erasmus had attended Henslow’s mineralology lectures and described him as "the man who knows every branch of science”. Charles established an informal friendship with Henslow, one that would prove to be excedingly important, he would eventually say of Henslow that he "influenced my career more than any other."
The most important aspects of this relationship came during Darwin’s last terms at Cambridge when he came to know Henslow very well and often joined the family for dinner. They would take long walks together and became close friends while retaining a relationship of student and teacher. It is reasonable to suggest that it was this informal knowledge of Darwin’s abilities that lead Henslow to recommend him to FizRoy for the position of naturalist aboard the Beagle, a recommendation that would open the door to Darwin’s future.
The other Cambridge professor who contributed substantially to Darwin’s informal education was Adam Sedgwick, professor of geology. Henslow had suggested to Darwin that he take Sedgwick’s course in geology but more importantly, he also asked Sedgwick to consider taking Charles on part of his field excursion to north Wales during the summer vacation of 1831.. During this informal trip Darwin learned a great deal about geology at the practical level and how to record the data they were gathering. This information came none to soo, for it was at the end ot this field trip that Charles recieved that all-important-letter from Henslow informing him of the possibility that he could be chosen as the unpaid naturalist to sail on the Beagle!
 Before the voyage on the Beagle, Charles Darwin was living an unfocussed life made possible by his family’s wealth. However, his life was dramatically changed during the five-year voyage, where he saw vast numbers of animals and geological formations containing fossils in strata on the sides of mountains that varied in modest ways. These experiences encouraged him to think in new ways about how species came into existence. 
 He was offered the opportunity to sail on the Beagle by his friend Professor Henslow, who sent him a letter from a Cambridge scholar nominating Charles to the position of unpaid naturalist on board the ship. At first Charles’ father discouraged the idea, but his uncle-in-law Josiah Wedgwood supplied arguments that persuaded Charles’ father to support his participation in the voyage. 
 Charles Darwin, whose personal charm drew support from many people during his life, made a good impression on Robert FitzRoy, the Beagle’s captain. FitzRoy, who had a more conservative character than Darwin, chose him in the hope that Darwin’s observations would uphold the biblical view of creation by God, as described in Genesis. Darwin, who had studied to be a clergyman, did not expect any problem with this mandate from FitzRoy. 
 The Beagle was one of six brig sloop ships that the British navy had built to do surveying, using the recently developed accurate clocks that made it possible to measure longitude. Only 90 feet long, this sailing ship carried 74 people in very close quarters, and 22 clocks for accuracy in surveying. The voyage was planned to be two years in length, but ultimately lasted five years. Darwin shared quarters with Captain FitzRoy and had a small room near the stern for his samples and workspace. 
 On December 10, 1831, the Beagle sailed out of Devonport, a district of Plymouth, England, but was driven back by strong gale winds. A second attempt on December 21 had the same result. Finally on December 27, the ship successfully left Plymouth, heading for South American. A planned stop at Teneriffe never occurred, because the island was quarantined in hope of preventing the spread of cholera from arriving ships. 
At the Cape Verde islands Darwin saw a geological band of seashell sediments far above the current sea level, yet covered by a layer of lava from volcanoes that had been inactive for all of known history. Darwin may have interpreted this as evidence of the Earth’s history being far longer than estimates based on the Bible. 
 During an extended time on shore near Rio de Janeiro, Darwin was horrified by the human brutality exhibited in the treatment of Negro slaves. The Wedgwood family had been early opponents of slavery, and Darwin’s reports supported their view. Captain FitzRoy and Darwin disagreed violently over the issue of slavery, but eventually managed to work together again. 
At Punta Alta, near Bahia Blanca, Darwin unearthed fossils of huge animals that no longer lived. He and Captain FitzRoy struggled to figure out how these creatures failed to be saved by Noah’s Ark during the biblical flood. Darwin also noticed that they resembled in some ways the current animals of this area, but clearly were also different from the current animals. 
 At Tierra del Fuego, the southernmost tip of South America, Captain FitzRoy delivered three natives of the region back to their homelands, from which they had been taken to England a year before. They were also supplied with implements of civilization and a missionary, so that they could spread Christianity to their people. The two cultures were radically different, and neither really understood the other. After a year the Beagle returned, to find that the Fuegians had decided to live their lives without the benefits of English civilization. 
 For roughly a year the Beagle sailed up and down the coast and nearby regions of the southern end of South America. Darwin spent much time ashore, finding, describing, collecting, and packaging the dried bodies of various unidentified living things. 
Finally, in the middle of 1834, the Beagle sailed through the straights of Terra del Fuego, taking nearly a month to pass through the icy passages near Cape Horn during winter in the Southern Hemisphere. From Valparaiso Darwin took a six week trip up into the Andes Mountains, where he observed a bed of seashells at 12,000 feet, above fossilized pine trees with marine rocks. He made the reasonable deduction that the trees had been carried under the ocean and later been raised high on the mountains. This incredible motion, if it occurred at the rate of modern geological changes, suggested that the Earth was older than he, or Captain FitzRoy, had originally believed. 
At Concepcion (and its port city Talcahuano) there had been a very severe earthquake, which Darwin and FitzRoy describe in detail. Darwin noted that the land had been raised several feet, and suggested that repetitions of that raising could account for the seashells in the Andes. FitzRoy and many Christians believed that the earthquake was due to God; some natives believed it was the work of an Indian woman who was a witch! 
 Again Darwin was able to make many exploratory journeys on land, meeting the Beagle at prearranged locations. During this part of his life Darwin showed great physical vigor, in contrast to later years when he often complained of illness. Perhaps his later symptoms were from Chagas’ disease, which he might have contracted from a Benchuga bug that he caught alive and allowed repeated bites on his fingers. Sometimes curiosity can be dangerous. 
Charles Darwin’s discoveries of unique flora and fauna in the Galapagos Islands are widely mentioned as being the source of his inspiration about evolution: descent with modification. It would be more accurate to say that what he found in the Galapagos only confirmed the explanation he had been formulating for the previous three years of the Beagle’s voyage, during which he had the opportunity to view a multitude of amazing animals, plants, and land formations. It is also commonly believed that he spent a long time in the Galapagos collecting samples. In fact, his time sailing in and around the islands was a mere five weeks, from September 17 to Oct. 20, 1835. Whenever the Beagle reached an interesting point that was navigable, the ship dropped off a boatload of men to explore. Darwin spent only 17 days onshore gathering specimens of birds, animals, insects, plants, rocks, and fish.
To provide a bit of background to Darwin’s arrival, the Galapagos are a group of twelve small volcanic islands located on the equator 500 miles off the coast of Equador. They were discovered by a Panamanian Bishop in 1535. In Spanish, the word for giant tortoise is Galapago. They are also referred to as “Las Encantadas” meaning the enchanted islands, in acknowledgement of the amazing creatures that reside there. In the 1800s they were, as now, owned by Equador. In Darwin’s time, the Galapagos were a refueling and refreshment stop for a fleet of 60-70 American whaling vessels. The endemic giant tortoises provided ships with an easy-to-catch source of fresh meat that stayed alive onboard ship for months while requiring very little maintenance. 
Darwin spent much of his time in South America on land excursions. He would disembark at one port of call and rejoin the Beagle at its next landing. On these treks he viewed incredible things that could not be explained by the scientific and religious belief systems of his time. The discoveries he made not only challenged current dogma in biology, botany, zoology, and theology, they also held a huge impact to the emerging discipline of geology. In his book The Voyage of the Beagle Darwin writes of his delight and amazement at discovering such oddities as fossils of sea shells and fish on exposed cliffs 12,000 feet up in the Andes. He found living animals and fossil remains where the structure of a species remained constant (e.g., armadillos with their curved, segmented shells) but in sizes ranging from a under a foot long to over 20 feet long depending on the habitat. Darwin wrote of seeing living rheas and guanacos as well as their fossilized remains, noting that they represented a variety of sizes and colors. While similar enough to be classified as rheas and guanacos, each new group he encountered had something unique that made them just a bit different. He began to note the usefulness of these differences to the animals in terms of their success at defending their territory and obtaining food or mates.
With these discoveries in mind, and having spent many months striving to formulate a mechanism that might explain them, Darwin and the Beagle landed in the Galapagos, after being at sea for over three and a half years. In the Galapagos Darwin discovered barren, inhospitable, hot, dry volcanic islands that were, quite to his amazement, sustaining a multitude of creatures and plants. Although the islands are separated by only a few miles of ocean and are within easy sight and sailing of each other, the variety among similar species was stunningly apparent to Darwin. 
Each island had iguanas in large numbers, yet they were different on each island. Some were black, some were red, one island had iguanas with both red and green markings, a few were brownish-orange; some ate cactus, others consumed algae off submerged tidal rocks. The islands’ namesake tortoises varied in shape from island to island. At one landing Darwin noted their long necks and sharply-arched shells, and on a nearby island the tortoises had short necks and nearly flat shells. On James Island (also called San Salvador) Darwin counted 26 species of land birds, all unique, and all incredibly tame. 
Darwin is perhaps most famous for collecting the Galapagos finches from several of the islands he visited. While all similar in body size and color, their beaks varied in size and shape. To Darwin, it was clear: different foods were available on different islands and through successive generations the birds with the most-useful shaped beak flourished and those with less-useful beak shapes died out. There had to have been a great principle or mechanism involved. While the finches were noted in his journals without much more emphasis than other plant and animal species he collected, many years later they would become one of the biggest arguments in his theory of natural selection.
The Galapagos Islands are spectacular in their topography and contain a stunning variety of rare, unique, approachable, and vanishing species. They are a sparkling jewel to be visited, admired, revered, and protected. 
From the Galapagos Islands, the Beagle sailed 3200 miles to Tahiti, where Darwin was very impressed with the manners and skills of the natives. The next major stop was at New Zealand, where Darwin judged the natives as far inferior to the Tahitians. His observation of the missionaries in these areas lead to one of his earliest signed publications: a 1936 pamphlet arguing for more government support for Christian missionaries in the Pacific! 
 In Australia Darwin was again struck with sympathy for people in servitude — in this case the prisoners who had been sent to Australia. Darwin also remarked upon the state of the native peoples of the Pacific, who were dying out as the Europeans spread. 
 In the Cocos islands, Darwin made observations on how deep the coral polyps, a kind of small creature, could live. Using that data, he worked out how these creatures could build up reefs and atolls out in the midst of oceans: as they died, new layers of polyps could grow on top and build up new mass as the ocean floor subsided. 
 Toward the end of the voyage, Darwin, FitzRoy, and most of the crew were very eager to return to England. But the British Navy’s need for surveying accuracy required that the Beagle go first to South America again. This requirement probably came from a need to re-determine the position using the clocks at a previously surveyed location to find the amount of longitudinal error on the whole trip and then distribute that error through calculations, as if the error occurred at a steady rate, which would probably be true for clocks. Retracing their route north, the Beagle arrived back in England on October 2, 1836. 
Charles and Emma were married in early 1839 and had lived on Gower Street in London until July 1842 when they found a house about 16 miles south, in County Kent, near the village of Down. Within the next few years the English postal authorities changed the village’s name to “Downe”, but Darwin, and those who wrote about him, retained the original spelling of “Down” when referring to the House.
Both Emma and Charles had grown up in more rural areas in Shropshire where the air was clean and healthy in comparison to that in London where smoke and soot hung heavy in the air. In addition they were expecting their third child and they wanted to have a proper home in the country where they both wished to raise their family. At first they were going to rent the Down House but in the end Dr. Robert Darwin purchased the home and about 18 acres of land for 2,200 pounds and they moved in on September the 14th, 1842.
The numbers on the property represent the following: The main house (Down House) and front entrance is on north east corner of the property (1); Emma’s flower gardens (2); Orchard (3); Kitchen Garden (4); Great Meadow (5); Sand Walk (6); Great Pucklands Meadow (7); and the Service Yards (8). 
At first both of them recognized that the home was not what they needed; it was square and rather small but over the years they made several additions to the home and they grew very fond of it. Emma had their third baby on the 23rd of December and named her Mary Eleanor unfortunately their new baby lived for only three weeks and was buried in the Churchyard in the nearby village of Downe. It must be said, that Charles was a very sensitive person and took each family tragedy very personally and severely, often becoming ill himself, from the emotional strain.
The Darwins both loved children and would eventually have 10 in all; William, Anne, Mary, Henrietta, George, Elizabeth, Francis, Leonard, Horace and Charles Waring. Seven of their children lived to become adults and lead very productive lives. More information about the family can be found in the section in this website on ‘The Children of Charles and Emma Darwin.’ Emma and Charles would spend the rest of their lives at their beloved ‘Down House’ and while Emma and the members of the family that were living there moved to Cambridge after his death, Emma returned nearly every summer until she died. Charles was 73 when he died in 1882 and Emma died in 1896 at the age of 88. They were married for 43 years and were a loving and compatible couple – each supported the other’s views of life and enjoyed each other’s company. Emma loved the gardens and trees and created six gardens to the rear of the house so that they could be seen from the drawing room. Charles became very content with their home and surroundings at Downe and it was here that he accomplished his prodigious scientific achievements. 
The family retained the house until 1900 when it was rented to a succession of tenants. One, Olive Willis founded a successful Girls school there in 1907 and stayed until 1922 when it was necessary for her to move to larger facilities. The house was eventually purchased by Sir George Buckston Browne, in 1927 and renovated as a National Memorial to Darwin. Browne entrusted Down House to the British Association for the Advancement of Science (BAAS) and they opened it to the public on June 7 th,1929. After World War II the care of the National Memorial was transferred to the Royal College of Surgeons. This arrangement lasted until the late 1980’s when the College negotiated a deal with English Heritage.
English Heritage purchased the property in 1996 and restored Down House, making it into a museum in honor to the life and work of Charles and Emma Darwin.
When one visits Down House today, as it has been restored by British Heritage, it is much the same as when the Darwins made their last addition to it in 1876. The front entry way is reminiscent of the one at Darwin’s boyhood home, at the Mount House in Shrewsbury. The two windows to the left of the entryway in figure 2, are located in Darwin’s old study while the two to the right look into what was his new study and is now the ticket office and gift shop for the estate. The new studie and the story above it were the last addition made by the Darwins, in 1876. 
The rear-view of the house (fig. 3) is very distinctive and is readily recognizable because it has been used in many publications. The drawing room is to the left on the ground floor and opens onto a covered verandah. Perhaps the most distinctive feature is the large bay with a flat roof that reaches up three stories, and was the first addition made on the house, by the Darwins. The dinning room is on the ground floor of this structure while the kitchens are to the right. Entrance to the main house from the back is through the garden door, located between the drawing room, and the dining room.
Looking out from the drawing room across the verandah, one can sees the flower gardens that were first created by Emma (fig. 4) Farther along the pathway to the right are Darwin’s greenhouses (fig. 5) where he did research on many species of vines and exotic plants.
Additional redbrick buildings were built adjacent to the green houses to the north, and the largest one was known as Darwin’s laboratory (fig. 6). While it is uncertain what the buildings were used for, it seems likely that the largest building was used for detailed experiments 
In reality the famous Sand Walk (see fig. 1) that is known to have been so important to Darwin’s work started at the back of the house and continued along in front of the green houses and kitchen gardens to the west end of the great meadow where it turned left and disappeared into a small woods that Darwin himself had created. Darwin has described how he would take a ‘daily constitutional walk’ along this path while he thought about the meaning of the observations he was making and about the ideas they generated. We can only speculate on how important the sand walk was to the development of the Theory of Evolution as it took shape in the consciousness of his mind over more than 20 years. 
The floor plan above (fig. 7) shows the comparative size and relationship of the rooms on the ground floor as they appear today. Note that the building faces northeast and after the restoration by British Heritage the function of some of the rooms have been changed to accommodate visitors, namely the Ticket Office and Tea Room. Darwin had built himself a ‘new study’ a few years before he died and the Ticket Office now occupies that room which is to the right of the main entrance when you are facing the house from the front. Today the Tea Room is a pleasant place where visitors can have lunch, however it was the Kitchen when the Darwins lived there. The drawing room (fig.  looks out to the gardens and would have been a quiet place to read, as Charles and Emma often did, sitting in comfortable chairs in front of the fireplace. One of their favorite authors was Charles Dickens, a contemporary of theirs who was very popular at the time.
The piano in figure 9 belonged to Emma, who was a gifted pianist and often played for the family and guests. The bassoon apparently belonged to Francis, and Charles made use of it in attempts to determine if plants could ‘hear’ the instrument.
Charles’s old study (fig. 10), to the left of the front entry way, is filled with examples of the objects and specimens that he used during the 40 plus years that he and Emma lived and raised their family here. Darwin’s favorite high-back chair can be seen in the corner under the lamp and it is known that he wrote ‘On The Origins of Species’ along with his other major publications, sitting in this chair. A board, covered with cloth across the arms served for a desk. Charles is depicted sitting in this chair in the statue of him in front of Dr. Butlers school which he attended as a child in Shrewsbury.
Other items in the room include pictures of his good friends Charles Lyell and Joseph Hooker hanging over the fireplace, along with one of his father-in-law Josiah Wedgwood and a Pembroke table in the foreground. The Dining room (fig. 11) is a large light-filled room in the center of the back of the house also looking out to the garden through the large windows in the bay.
The Darwins were financially very comfortable and often employed 6-8 staff members to assist with the chores around the property. Both Emma and Charles treated their staff in a kindly manner, which the staff appreciated. Consequently they stayed for many years. For instance, Parslow the butler who ran the house-hold was with them from 1839 when they were first married until he retired in 1875.
The second floor (fig. 12) of the museum  (in England, called the “first floor”) is filled with items and displays from various periods throughout Darwin’s life including his Childhood, Voyage on the Beagle, and the reaction to the publication of On the Origin of Species. The third floor is not open to the public.
It is interesting to ponder the nature of Darwin’s true legacy as we see his star rising ever higher at the beginning of the 21 st century, as we move slowly towards his 200 th birthday on February 12 th, 2009. It would seem that his true legacy lies in the fact that his well-defined theory of evolution presented humanity with an intellectually acceptable alternative to supernaturalism on the question of ‘why biological systems in general and humans in particular exist.’ There is no doubt that this was the reason why he was denounced by Cardinal Manning for “relieving God of the labor of creation” and why his friend William Whewell would not permit his book to be included in the library at Trinity College. Notwithstanding modern-day detractors, science has continued to move forward in the ‘almost’ 150 years since the publication of ‘On The Origin Of Species’ and today the validity of Darwin’s theory of evolution by Natural Selection rests firmly in our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of genetics.
 Wedgwood Pottery Company. Josiah’s wealth passed to his descendants and some of it eventually became part of the inheritance of Charles Darwin’s wife Emma. This wealth contributed to the estate that made it possible for Charles to pursue his ideas concerning evolution, without concern for money.
Josiah was born the second son of Thomas Wedgwood, a pottery business owner. When Josiah was nine, his father died and Josiah’s older brother Thomas inherited the business. Although Josiah had limited formal education, he became very skilled at "throwing on the wheel" during the five years he was apprenticed to his brother. Three years later, in his early twenties, Josiah left the family business and apprenticed himself to the most renowned English pottery-maker of his day, Thomas Whieldon. From Whieldon he gained technical skill and acquired management skills that were to become the foundation of Josiah’s success. 
Josiah went into business for himself and gradually earned a reputation as a master potter. But his life did not progress smoothly. Smallpox, and a riding accident on the way to Liverpool, left him with a permanently weakened knee, which made him unable to work the foot pedal of a potter’s wheel. During his convalescence he read widely, not only technical books on pottery, but also literature, poetry, and philosophy. 
At this time he met Thomas Bentley, a Liverpool businessman with nonconformist and rationalist views, who became his close friend. Bentley introduced Josiah to some of the most creative minds of the century, men whose ideas gave rise to the Industrial Revolution. These friends of Thomas Bentley had formed a group they called the Lunar Society, and Josiah occasionally met with them. Here Josiah met Benjamin Franklin amd Dr. Erasmus Darwin, who became Josiah’s lifelong friend. 
When he was fully recovered, Josiah returned to his pottery in Burslem, and concentrated on designing pottery rather than making it with his own labor. Wedgwood began experimenting with a wide variety of pottery techniques and over the course of the next decade, his experimentation lead to creation of the first true pottery factory. This endeavor was made possible by capital from his marriage to a richly endowed distant cousin, Sarah Wedgwood. 
 Sarah Wedgwood (1734-1815) was the daughter of Richard Wedgwood, cheese factor of Spen Green, Cheshire. The couple married in January 1764 at Astbury Church ( Cheshire).
Josiah cherished his well educated and capable wife, whom he called ‘Sally’, and told his friend Thomas Bentley that she was his ‘chief help-mate’. He said that he never finished any of his pots without first asking Sally what she thought of them. Apparently her advice was insightful, because the Wedgwood pottery factory had an uncanny sense of how to market their pottery to their wealthy customers. For instance, the line of pottery first made for Queen Charlotte was named ‘Queen’s Ware’, and was immensely popular and profitable when sold on the mass market.
Josiah and Sarah had a family of seven children: Susannah (Charles Darwin’s mother), John, Josiah II (father to Emma Wedgwood, Charles Darwin’s wife), Thomas, Kitty (Catherine), Sarah, and Mary Anne. Unfortunately a fourth son, named Richard, died when he was very young. The Wedgwood family lived mostly at Maer, about 20 miles North-East of Shrewsbury. Josiah brought not only financial stability to his family, but endowed them with his humanitarian beliefs, especially his abolitionist position on slavery, as well as his Unitarian religious beliefs and traditions that had great influence on his children and grandchildren. 
In 1780, Josiah’s long-time business partner Thomas Bentley died, and Wedgwood turned to his friend Erasmus Darwin for help in running the business. As a result of the close association that grew up between the Wedgwood and Darwin families, one of Josiah’s daughters, Susannah, later married Erasmus’ son Robert, and they subsequently became the parents of Charles Robert Darwin. Charles Robert would continue the connection between the two families by marrying Emma Wedgwood (daughter of Josiah Wedgwood II), who was a first cousin to Charles. At that time cousin marriage was not prohibited, but Charles Darwin was aware that inbreeding could increase the expression of unhealthy traits, and he sometimes blamed his marital choice for the illnesses among his children.
  Robert Waring Darwin: 1766 – 1848. Robert Darwin studied medicine at the University of Leyden in Holland and completed his medical studies at Edinburgh, England, in 1786. That autumas he set up as a doctor in Shrewsbury, though he was only 20. His father, Erasmus Darwin, had taken Robert to Shrewsbury and given him 20 pounds to start a medical practice. Erasmus also wrote to friends in Birmingham asking them to recommend Robert to their friends in the Shrewsbury area.
Robert was very successful: He was sympathetic and observant and had more than fifty patients within six months. He remained financially successful during sixty years of practice in Shrewsbury. He also served patients over a large area, sometimes traveling by carriage across the border into Wales. He increased his wealth further through real estate speculation, stock and bond investments, and through lending money to the landed gentry.
Standing 6 foot 2 inches tall, and being very portly, “He was an enormous man both physically and in personality. Charles described him as the largest man he had ever seen and compared his return to the family home at the end of the day to the coming in of the tide.”
  Susannah Wedgwood: 1765 – 1817. Susannah was the first child of Josiah Wedgwoood I, who had started the highly successful Wedgwood pottery company. Susannah married Robert Darwin in 1796, increasing his wealth by bringing a large dowry. She attended the Unitarian Chapel in Shrewsbury, and due to her influence Charles attended the Unitarian school, operated by Reverend Case, for two years.
From about 1800, Robert and Susannah lived at The Mount, built by Robert Darwin in an elevated position overlooking the town of Shrewsbury:
This picture probably represents the Mount much as Charles Darwin knew it. Later photographs show a portico at the front door and, at different periods, different types of greenhouse or conservatory. Robert Darwin was said to enjoy the greenhouse which opened off the morning room. See also the layout diagrams at 
Charles Darwin’s mother Susannah died in 1817, when Charles was only 8 years old. He was subsequently raised by his three older sisters. 
King-Hele, Desmond. Doctor of Revolution: The Life and Genius of Erasmus Darwin. London, Faber & Faber, 1977. 
Marianne – b. 1798 d. 1858. Married Henry Parker, M.D., in 1824. They had 5 children: Robert, Henry, Francis, Charles and Mary Susan.
Caroline Sarah – b.1800 d. 1888. When her mother died in 1817, Caroline raised Charles Darwin. Caroline married Josia Wedgewood III. They had 4 children: Sophie Marianne, Sophy, Margaret, and Lucy. “Two days after Charles and Emma’s wedding, Caroline lost her six-week-old baby.”
Susan Elizabeth – b.1803 d. 1866. Susan never married and lived at the family home in Shrewsbury her whole life . She was the last member of the Darwin Family to live at The Mount.
Erasmus Alvey – b. 1804 d. 1881. Attended Shrewsbury School, 1815–22. In October, 1822, Erasmus left home to study medicine at Christ’s College, Cambridge University. Later was sent to the  University of Edinburgh in Scotland, known as having one of the best medical schools in all of Europe. “ Erasmus came to Edinburgh in 1825 for a hospital residency after completing his course work at Christ’s College in Cambridge. Charles and Erasmus stayed in a hotel at first, but quickly found a boarding house at eleven Lothian Street. At first they were both enthusiastic about learning if not about lectures, checking out more books from the library than all the other students combined. But Erasmus stayed in Edinburgh for only four months, after which he returned to Shrewsbury to assist his father, leaving Charles to face the trials of medical training alone.”
Erasmus later completed a medical degree but never practiced, instead choosing to live most of his adult life in London, from 1829 on, where he had a rich social and intellectual life. This was possible because his father gave Erasmus a generous pension. 
Erasmus and Charles had a very good relationship. They shared quarters in Edinburgh while both of them were in medical school there. When Charles returned from the voyage on the Beagle, Erasmus assisted him to settle in London. Charles often visited and seems to have derived a great deal of valuable information about a wide range of topics, including philosophy and economics, from Erasmus and his friends. 
Charles Robert – b. 1809 d. 1882. Darwin was called “Bobby” during his childhood, and nicknamed “Gas” during an adolescent period of chemistry experiments.
Charles became the most prominent naturalist in England and the world. His scientific theory of evolution by natural selection is now supported by our knowledge of molecular genetics. The full description of his life is given in many other places.
He married Emma Wedgwood in January, 1839, and they had 10 children: William, Anne, Mary, Henrietta, George, Elizabeth, Francis, Leonard, Horace and Charles.
 Emily “Catty” Catherine – b. 1810 d. 1866. Resided at The Mount (the family home), Shrewsbury, until she married her cousin Charles Langton in 1863. They had no children.
When Emma Wedgwood married Charles Darwin she brought to the marriage an intellectual inheritance very complimentary to his own, for she was brought up in a family that valued the importance of a good education. Both Darwin and Emma had many talented ancestors, and it is not surprising that their own children were very gifted. In addition, their families were part of a rising middle class of professionals, inventors, merchants, and scholars that grew in the wake of the burgeoning industrial revolution that had its roots in the Midlands of England. 
 Darwin’s father, Robert Darwin, and his grandfather, Erasmus Darwin, were successful physicians. Robert Darwin was sent to study medicine at Edinburgh when he was seventeen, then to Leyden in Holland, where he received his doctor’s degree. He also went to Paris where he met Benjamin Franklin, who had been an old friend of his father, Erasmus. At age twenty, he began his medical practice in the town of Shrewsbury. The practice grew rapidly and in April, 1796 he married Susannah Wedgwood, the eldest daughter of Josiah I. In he purchased the property known as The Mount and built a comfortable home for his family. It was there that Charles Darwin was born.
Emma’s grandfather, Josiah Wedgwood I was the creator of the highly successful Wedgwood Pottery. Her father, Josiah (Jos) Wedgwood II, was educated at Edinburgh University. He then became his father’s assistant at the pottery. Following sales trips to Holland, Berlin and Frankfurt he was recognized as a distinguished “man of business.” Jos inherited the pottery on his father’s death and continued its expansion. 
Her mother’s family were the Allens of Cressely in Pembrokeshire. Her grandfather, John Bartlett Allen, was educated at Westminster School in London, then joined the army, served in Germany and fought in the Seven Years War. Following his retirement as a Captain, he married an heiress, Elizabeth Hensleigh, and became established as a country gentleman. The Allen house at Cressely was solid and plain on the outside, but quite elegant inside, with a well stocked library. Emma’s mother, Elizabeth (Bessy) Allen, grew up here. She and her sisters received a good education, probably taught at home; they wrote fluently and were well read. The brothers were sent to Westminster and were later trained as lawyers. In this atmosphere, Bessy grew up and developed into a young woman of exceptional grace and charm.
Emma was born on May 2, 1808 at Maer Hall. She was youngest of the eight children of Josiah (Jos) Wedgwood II and Elizabeth (Bessy) Allen. The Wedgwood home was a happy place, set in the countryside of Staffordshire. Her three older sisters, Elizabeth, Charlotte and Fanny, and her four brothers, Joe (Josiah III), Harry, Frank and Hensleigh, treated her with special kindness, and the Wedgwood and Allen aunts adored her. In this affectionate atmosphere she acquired a stability and tranquility that followed her throughout her life. As were her older sisters, she was educated at home for her father believed in the importance of women’s education. She and her sister Fanny, who was two years older, were close companions and were nicknamed “The Dovelies” or “Miss Pepper and Salt.” Fanny was plain and orderly, Emma, pretty and lively.
When she was five years old, the family moved to the old home and pottery at Etruria Hall, due to financial circumstances. When she was ten, the family was able to move back into Maer Hall, but before the move Jos took Bessy and the four girls on a seven month “educational” trip to Paris and Geneva, where Emma learned to speak fluent idiomatic French. It was an exciting time for a ten year old, for they attended operas, balls and and receptions and met many famous people. 
In January 1822, Emma and Fanny were sent to Grenville House, a boarding school outside London, where Emma’s talent for music was recognized and she was presented as a star piano student to perform for Mrs. Fitzherbert, George IV’s wife. However, one year was enough; the girls became homesick, and Emma claimed in later life that she had learned very little there. At the end of the year they returned to Maer, and were taught by Elizabeth, and visiting tutors. The library at Maer was well stocked with books covering all subjects—art, science, politics, literature and history, and Emma was claimed by the family to have read all of Paradise Lost as a little girl. Years later she wrote to Charles, “I remember being more interested in it when I was a child than in almost any book”
As a young woman Emma again traveled to the continent. In February, 1818, the year before the family moved back to Maer Hall, Jos took Bessy and the four girls on the “Grand Tour” — Paris, Geneva, Florence, Rome, Naples and Milan. The trip was filled with tours of museums and churches, with concerts and operas, and long walks in the countryside. Throughout the trip the young women were inspired by their inner desires to seek out educational opportunities, and it is believed to have been during this tour that Emma took some piano lessons with Chopin. In 1826 Emma and Fanny traveled to Geneva to spend six months with Aunt Jessie Allen, whose husband was the noted Italian historian, Sismondi. Through her friendship with him she gained a deep understanding of the continent’s intellectual and political affairs, which lasted all her life. Again, there were balls and other entertainments, and Emma became fond of dancing, especially the waltz, which was all the rage. When Jos went to Geneva to bring Fanny and Emma home, he invited their cousins, Charles and Caroline Darwin, to go with him. Charles traveled with his uncle to Paris, but then returned to England, as he did not want to miss the opening of hunting season at Maer Hall. This was the only time in his life that Charles traveled to Europe.
On returning to Maer Hall Emma continued to live in an atmosphere of intellectual stimulation for the Wedgwoods were involved in many social and political causes, especially the abolition of slavery. And there were visits from the aunts, uncles and cousins of the three related families, the Wedgwoods, the Allens and the Darwins. One of the uncles, Sir James Mackintosh, husband of Emma’s Aunt Kitty Allen, came to Maer for six months to work on his History of the World and Emma enjoyed all the ongoing conversations. Charles Darwin usually visited Maer Hall for the opening of the hunting season, for he enjoyed the shooting and the free country life of walking and riding, as well as the intellectual conversations and the music. On one occasion he was very impressed with Mackintosh, and was later to learn that the feeling was mutual, as Sir James had commented “There is something in that man that interests me.”
During the years 1830 to 1832 many changes were taking place in the lives of both Emma Wedgwood and Charles Darwin. In December,1831, Darwin left for his famous voyage on the Beagle, and Emma’s family became involved in the battle for the reform of Parliament. Her father Jos, her uncles John Allen and Sir James Mackintosh all stood as Whig candidates in the elections of 1831 and 1832. Emma and her sisters were in London for a good part of this time, and her sister Fanny became quite involved in the anti-slavery campaign. But Emma, although showing much interest in the causes, was not one for sitting through long political speeches. The political debate in London over the Reform bill was intense and Jos Wedgwood and John Allen were staunch supporters of Mackintosh in his efforts to get it passed. On June 4, 1832, the bill was finally passed and the king gave his assent on June 8. Unfortunately, Sir James had died a few day before on May 30, so never saw the success of his tireless campaigning. In the election of 1832, Jos stood successfully for the new seat of Stoke-on Trent and Uncle John became MP for Pembroke.
That same year brought tragedy to the family. Emma’s beloved sister, Fanny, became ill on August 13, 1832, and though lovingly cared for by Elizabeth and Emma, died the following Sunday of what is believed to have been cholera. As result of Fanny’s untimely death, Emma became more serious. Although at the urging of her mother she had been confirmed in the Anglican Church when sixteen years old, she turned to the Unitarian faith with its humanitarian principles which she had learned during her childhood through her father’s example. At this time of intense grief she developed an unshakable faith that brought her comfort throughout her life. During the following years Emma’s time was spent helping her sister, Elizabeth, care for their ailing mother, and in other domestic pursuits. She spent more time with her Allen aunts, Fanny and Emma, and she wrote long letters to Aunt Jessie in Geneva.
In October of 1836 Emma’s father, Jos, received a letter from Charles Darwin. The Beagle had just returned and Charles wrote that he wished to visit Maer as soon as his responsibilities on the Beagle were taken care of. This was a letter that changed Emma’s life.
Charles and Emma Darwin were both fond of children and would eventually have a total of ten with the first one born towards the end of 1839 and the last one in 1856 when Emma was 48 yeas old. Many stories are told about how Charles liked to play with the children and while doing so made many observations about their behavior. Below is a list of the children in chronological order and a few facts about their lives including their date of birth and death.
William Erasmus – b.1839 d.1914. Also called “Doddy” and “Willy” by his parents, who were apparently fond of using nicknames. William was a graduate of Christ’s College at Cambridge University, and became a banker, after Charles Darwin guaranteed the sum of 5,000 pounds enabling William to become a partner in a bank.
Anne “Annie” Elizabeth – b. 1841 d. 1851. Anne died of tuberculosis. This deeply challenged Darwin’s belief in Christianity.
Henrietta Emma (Etty) – b. 1843 d. 1930. Henrietta read proofs for Darwin when she was 18, and edited his manuscript for the Descent of Man. She also edited her mother Emma’s personal letters and had them published in 1904 as Emma Darwin: wife of Charles Darwin. A Century of Family Letters.
George Howard – b.1845 d. 1912. Studied at Trinity College. George was an astronomer and mathematician. He made statistical studies of cousin marriages and studied the evolution and origins of the solar system. George wrote a paper on the age of the earth that lead to his nomination to the Royal Society in 1877 and his becoming a Fellow in 1879. In 1883 he became the Plumian Professor of Astronomy and Experimental Philosophy at Cambridge University, and was a Barrister-at-Law.
Elizabeth (Lizzie, Betty, Bessy) – b. 1847 d. 1926 [1928 according to Keynes]. Apparently had communication difficulties with words and pronunciation. After living awhile in London near Erasmus Darwin, Elizabeth bought Tromer Lodge, a house in Downe near Henrietta’s residence, in 1868. Elizabeth never married and had no children.
Francis (Frank) – b. 1848 d. 1925. Studied at Trinity College, Cambridge, first studying mathematics, then studying and graduating in natural sciences in 1870. Studied medicine at St. Georges Medical School, London, earning M.B. in 1875, but did not practice medicine.
Darwin nominated Francis to the Linnean Society in 1875 and promoted a paper Francis sent to the Royal Society. He became a botanist specializing in plant physiology. He helped his father with his experiments on plants and was of great influence in Darwin’s writing of “The Power of Movement in Plants” (1880). He was made a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1879, and taught at Cambridge University from 1884, as a Professor of Botany, until 1904. 
He married Amy Ruck but she died when their first child, Bernard, was born in September of 1876. Bernard was raised by Emma and Charles Darwin, his grandparents. Francis married Ellen Crofts in September of 1883, and they had one daughter, Frances in 1886. 
Leonard – b.1850 d. 1943. Leonard considered himself the stupidest of the children. He was sent to Clapham School in 1862 and joined the army after school. Attended Woolwich Military Academy and trained as military engineer.
He became a soldier in the Royal Engineers in 1871, and was a Major from 1890 onwards. He taught at the School of Military Engineering at Chatham from 1877 to 1882, and served in the Ministry of War, Intelligence Division, from 1885-90. 
Leonard married Elizabeth Fraser in July of 1882. Later he married Charlotte Mildred Massingberd (1868–1940), but had no children with either wife.
He was interested in photography and surveying. [Browne, Power, p.333] He was an officer of the Royal Geographical Society from 1908 to 1911 and then its President.
He was Chairman of the British Eugenics Society between 1911 and 1928. Served as President of the First International Congress of Eugenics in 1912.
Horace – b. 1851 d. 1928. His schooling was interrupted by illness. Around 1860 the apparent illness may have been motivated by feelings for Camilla Ludwig, the Darwin’s young German governess. He had a tutor before entering Trinity College in 1868. He graduated in 1874, later than normally expected. Horace suffered from self-doubts about his abilities.
Horace was also a designer of scientific instruments. In 1885 he founded the leading instrument maker Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company.
He was the Mayor of Cambridge from 1896-97, and was made a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1903. Horace married Emma Farrer in January of 1880 and they had three children. 
and what he was doing there! Oh well…What university did he go to. Uh I will have to find that out too! I wish that we knew almost everything so that we wont have to look up on the internet!
im doing a research project on him and omfg so much info. im using this site for 99% of my report, thank youu  D
Why is it that yet is says 29 in the second paragraph, which is wrong, but he returned in 1836? 1836-1809=27. He was 22 when he left on the voyage, he returned when he was 27. Simple. The voyage began in 1831.
recently i have discovered the theory of rebirth of animals with great accuracy and evidence . i challange the world scientist to speak to me on the subject. this discovery is so perfect that scientists can not reject it .according to my this discovery animals such as cow,  camel  ,crocodils,  birds ,, snakes, lion.and fish when dies rebirth in shape of human. when human  dies rebirth in shape of animals .it is 100% proved with evidence.if you wants to know about it contact me through you embassy in Islamabad pakistan. In this respect i am lucky and the only one in the world for this great performance.
this. is. boring. ok, i fell asleep after some paragraphs and i am doing a report on him. my teacher picked people for us and i got stuck with charles darwin. although this passage does give u info, its kinda boring. no offense ok? k. bye
San Diego joins a growing list of  cities that have officially recognized the birthday of the father of evolutionary biology, Charles Darwin. Mayor Bob Filner issued the proclamation. 
Regina joins a growing list of municipalities, including cities, states, and Canadian Provinces that have officially recognized the birthday of the father of evolutionary biology, Charles Darwin.
Vancouver joins a growing list of municipalities, including cities, states, and Canadian Provinces that have officially recognized the birthday of the father of evolutionary biology, Charles Darwin.
© 2014 IDDF. The International Darwin Day Foundation promotes public education about science and encourages the celebration of Science and Humanity throughout the global community. IDDF is administered by the American Humanist Association (AHA).
=======================================================
IntroductionEarly life and educationThe Beagle voyageEvolution by natural selection: the London years, 1836–42The squire naturalist in DowneOn the Origin of SpeciesThe patriarch in his home laboratoryThe private man and the public debateMajor Works
Charles Darwin, in full Charles Robert Darwin   (born February 12, 1809, Shrewsbury, Shropshire, England—died April 19, 1882, Downe, Kent), English naturalist whose theory of evolution by natural selection became the foundation of modern evolutionary studies. An affable country gentleman, Darwin at first shocked religious Victorian society by suggesting that animals and humans shared a common ancestry. However, his nonreligious biology appealed to the rising class of professional scientists, and by the time of his death evolutionary imagery had spread through all of science, literature, and politics. Darwin, himself an agnostic, was accorded the ultimate British accolade of burial in Westminster Abbey, London.
Darwin formulated his bold theory in private in 1837–39, after returning from a voyage around the world aboard HMS Beagle, but it was not until two decades later that he finally gave it full public expression in On the Origin of Species (1859), a book that has deeply influenced modern Western society and thought.
Darwin was the second son of society doctor Robert Waring Darwin and of Susannah Wedgwood, daughter of the Unitarian pottery industrialist Josiah Wedgwood. Darwin’s other grandfather, Erasmus Darwin, a freethinking physician and poet fashionable before the French Revolution, was author of Zoonomia or the Laws of Organic Life (1794–96). Darwin’s mother died when he was eight, and he was cared for by his three elder sisters. The boy stood in awe of his overbearing father, whose astute medical observations taught him much about human psychology. But he hated the rote learning of Classics at the traditional Anglican Shrewsbury School, where he studied between 1818 and 1825. Science was then considered dehumanizing in English public schools, and for dabbling in chemistry Darwin was condemned by his headmaster (and nicknamed “Gas” by his schoolmates).
His father, considering the 16-year-old a wastrel interested only in game shooting, sent him to study medicine at Edinburgh University in 1825. Later in life, Darwin gave the impression that he had learned little during his two years at Edinburgh. In fact, it was a formative experience. There was no better science education in a British university. He was taught to understand the chemistry of cooling rocks on the primitive Earth and how to classify plants by the modern “natural system.” In Edinburgh Museum he was taught to stuff birds by a freed South American slave and to identify the rock strata and colonial flora and fauna.
More crucially, the university’s radical students exposed the teenager to the latest Continental sciences. Edinburgh attracted English Dissenters who were barred from graduating at the Anglican universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and at student societies Darwin heard freethinkers deny the Divine design of human facial anatomy and argue that animals shared all the human mental faculties. One talk, on the mind as the product of a material brain, was officially censored, for such materialism was considered subversive in the conservative decades after the French Revolution. Darwin was witnessing the social penalties of holding deviant views. As he collected sea slugs and sea pens on nearby shores, he was accompanied by Robert Edmond Grant, a radical evolutionist and disciple of the French biologist Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. An expert on sponges, Grant became Darwin’s mentor, teaching him about the growth and relationships of primitive marine invertebrates, which Grant believed held the key to unlocking the mysteries surrounding the origin of more complex creatures. Darwin, encouraged to tackle the larger questions of life through a study of invertebrate zoology, made his own observations on the larval sea mat (Flustra) and announced his findings at the student societies.
The young Darwin learned much in Edinburgh’s rich intellectual environment, but not medicine: he loathed anatomy, and (pre-chloroform) surgery sickened him. His freethinking father, shrewdly realizing that the church was a better calling for an aimless naturalist, switched him to Christ’s College, Cambridge, in 1828. In a complete change of environment, Darwin was now educated as an Anglican gentleman. He took his horse, indulged his drinking, shooting, and beetle-collecting passions with other squires’ sons, and managed 10th place in the Bachelor of Arts degree in 1831. Here he was shown the conservative side of botany by a young professor, the Reverend John Stevens Henslow, while that doyen of Providential design in the animal world, the Reverend Adam Sedgwick, took Darwin to Wales in 1831 on a geologic field trip.
Fired by Alexander von Humboldt’s account of the South American jungles in his Personal Narrative of Travels, Darwin jumped at Henslow’s suggestion of a voyage to Tierra del Fuego, at the southern tip of South America, aboard a rebuilt brig, HMS Beagle. Darwin would not sail as a lowly surgeon-naturalist but as a self-financed gentleman companion to the 26-year-old captain, Robert Fitzroy, an aristocrat who feared the loneliness of command. Fitzroy’s was to be an imperial-evangelical voyage: he planned to survey coastal Patagonia to facilitate British trade and return three “savages” previously brought to England from Tierra del Fuego and Christianized. Darwin equipped himself with weapons, books (Fitzroy gave him the first volume of Principles of Geology, by Charles Lyell), and advice on preserving carcasses from London Zoo’s experts. The Beagle sailed from England on December 27, 1831.
"Charles Darwin". Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online.Encyclopædia Britannica Inc., 2014. Web. 06 Jun. 2014<http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/151902/Charles-Darwin>.
Charles Darwin. (2014). In Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved from http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/151902/Charles-Darwin
Charles Darwin. 2014. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Retrieved 06 June, 2014, from http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/151902/Charles-Darwin
Encyclopædia Britannica Online, s. v. "Charles Darwin", accessed June 06, 2014, http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/151902/Charles-Darwin.
        While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies.
            Click anywhere inside the article to add text or insert superscripts, subscripts, and special characters.
            You can also highlight a section and use the tools in this bar to modify existing content:
                    You can double-click any word or highlight a word or phrase in the text below and then select an article from the search box.
                    Or, simply highlight a word or phrase in the article, then enter the article name or term you'd like to link to in the search box below, and select from the list of results.
    You can make it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by keeping a few points in mind:
You may find it helpful to search within the site to see how similar or related subjects are covered.
At the bottom of the article, feel free to list any sources that support your changes, so that we can fully understand their context. (Internet URLs are best.)
    Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions.
=======================================================
This section is for kids. Charles Darwin was a brilliant naturalist who changed the way people think about life on earth. One reason why he was able to do this was because he was always passionate about science and nature!From a young age Darwin collected lots of different things like stones and beetles and performed experiments with his brother in the garden shed. It was this early interest that helped him become a great man!Here you can read about who he was and what he did, hopefully it will inspire you to get out and explore nature too! 
© 2009 Christ's College, Cambridge. Primate 6 Faces by Stephen D. Nash/Conservation International. © 1997. Used with permission.
=======================================================
Charles Robert Darwin (1809-1882), by unknown engraver, 1882National Library of Australia, nla.pic-an9542964 [detail]
Charles Robert Darwin (1809-1882), naturalist, was born on 12 February 1809, the son of Robert Darwin and his wife Susannah, daughter of Josiah Wedgwood, and the grandson of Erasmus Darwin. He was educated at Shrewsbury, Edinburgh University, and Christ's College, Cambridge. At Cambridge he came under the influence of J. S. Henslow, professor of botany, and on graduation in 1831 was recommended by him for the post of naturalist in H.M.S. Beagle, on a five-year survey voyage, chiefly along the coast of South America. Although Darwin was passionately interested in natural history, he was at this time primarily a geologist by inclination, and his predilections are reflected in his records of the voyage. Nevertheless, his observations during this period formed the nucleus from which he developed his theory of evolution by natural selection, set out in On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection (London, 1859) and The Descent of Man (London, 1871).The Beagle was anchored at Sydney from 12 to 30 January 1836. During this time Darwin journeyed to Bathurst, making superficial observations on the geology of the Blue Mountains and collecting some native fauna and flora. He was 'rather disappointed in the state of society', and made the misjudgment that 'agriculture can never succeed on an extended scale'. His interest in Van Diemen's Land, where the Beagle stayed for ten days in February, was mostly geological and sociological: he gave a graphic account of the subjugation of the Aboriginals. On 6 March the Beagle arrived at King George Sound; Darwin was noticeably unimpressed: 'we did not during our voyage pass a more dull and uninteresting time'; though he did see a 'corrobery'. The Beagle left Australia on 14 March. He published an account of the voyage, Journal of Researches into the Geology and Natural History of the Various Countries Visited by H.M.S. Beagle (London, 1839) which ran to several editions.The geographical isolation of Australian fauna and flora gave Darwin some very valuable evidence on evolution; and Australian Aboriginals provided support for his theory of natural selection. Darwin maintained a continuing interest in Australia through correspondence with a number of her scientists, including Gerard Krefft, R. D. Fitzgerald, Thomas Mitchell and Rev. W. B. Clarke. He also corresponded with Conrad Martens and his letters addressed to a former shipmate named Covington, who settled in New South Wales, were published in the Sydney Mail in 1884. When (Sir) Joseph Hooker published the Flora Tasmaniae (London, 1860), Darwin expressed to his friend his pride in his 'adopted country' and confided that emigration to Tasmania was his castle in the air. He never returned to Australia; nor after the Beagle voyage did he leave England again. In January 1839 Darwin married his cousin Emma Wedgwood, by whom he had six sons and four daughters. He died on 19 April 1882.Darwin was one of the last, and probably the greatest, of the eclectic scientists who preceded the age of professional specialization. His genius lay in his ability to select, from the facts which he so diligently collected, every relevant point and fit it into his bold and far-reaching theories. He was not the first to advance a theory of evolution; but his massive weight of evidence carried conviction where earlier theorists had failed. He was shy and modest and shrank from controversy, an unfortunate trait in the author of the most controversial book of the century. Luckily he had devoted friends, including Thomas Huxley, Hooker, Lubbock, John Gray and Haeckel, who were happy and eager to maintain the sometimes acrimonious discussions which were so distasteful to him.
F. Darwin, Life and Letters of Charles Darwin, vols 1-3 (Lond, 1887)N. Barlow (ed), Charles Darwin's Diary of the Voyage of H.M.S. Beagle (Cambridge, 1933)N. Barlow (ed), Autobiography of Charles Darwin (Lond, 1958)W. Irvine, Apes, Angels and Victorians (Lond, 1955)G. de Beer, ‘Darwin and Australia’, in G. W. Leeper (ed), The Evolution of Living Organisms (Melb, 1962), pp 15-22.
K. A. Townley, 'Darwin, Charles Robert (1809–1882)', Australian Dictionary of Biography, National Centre of Biography, Australian National University, http://adb.anu.edu.au/biography/darwin-charles-robert-1957/text2355, published in hardcopy 1966, accessed online 6 June 2014.
This article was first published in hardcopy in Australian Dictionary of Biography, Volume 1, (MUP), 1966
Charles Robert Darwin (1809-1882), by unknown engraver, 1882National Library of Australia, nla.pic-an9542964 [detail]
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesCash for College! 54 Scholarships Worth $10&#044;000 or MoreErikson's Psychosocial Stages Summary ChartHow to Control Carpenter BeesQuiz - What's Your Leadership Style? [About Psychology]College Interview Questions
Top Related Searchescharles robert darwinhms beaglefather darwinshrewsbury englandbotany professoramateur naturalist
The year 2014 marks the 155th anniversary of the publication of On the Origin of Species as well as the 205th anniversary of the birth of its author, Charles Robert Darwin.
Charles Darwin was born in Shrewsbury, England on February 12, 1809. He was the fourth child born to Robert Waring Darwin and Susannah Wedgwood. The Darwin family was wealthy and Charles grew up in comfort.
He attended Shrewsbury School from 1818-1825 before leaving for Edinburgh University at the age of 16. There he was to study medicine with the intention of becoming a physician like his father. But Darwin displayed little interest in the field and could hardly bear the sight of blood, so it soon became clear his life’s work would be in some other profession.
During his time at Edinburgh University, Darwin studied marine invertebrates under the supervision of Robert Grant. Grant, an evolutionist, questioned the idea that species were immutable and his ideas became an influence on the young Darwin.
Grant lead the Edinburgh Plinian Society for student naturalists, a group to which Darwin became a member in 1826. It was in one of Grant’s articles that Darwin’s name first appeared in print.
In 1827, Darwin abandoned his pursuit of medicine. Following a suggestion by his father, Darwin decided to study to become a clergyman. The choice took him to Christ’s College, Cambridge. While at Cambridge, Darwin blossomed as an amateur naturalist. He spent much of his free time collecting beetles and developing his knowledge of natural history. Darwin had an extraordinary desire to observe the natural world and ask questions about how it works.
During his Cambridge years, Darwin formed a close friendship with botany Professor, John Stevens Henslow. This friendship lead to the opportunity that would shape the rest of Darwin’s life, and would forever change our understanding of the natural world. It was Henslow who helped Darwin gain passage aboard the HMS Beagle, a survey ship that was to undertake a five-year journey around the world.
The commander of the HMS Beagle was Robert FitzRoy. Darwin would be FitzRoy’s companion and would also serve as the ship’s naturalist. In December of 1831, the HMS Beagle left Plymouth, England. It set a course southward, which took it around Cape Horn at South America’s southernmost tip. The HMS Beagle then turned northward following the west coast of South America to the Galapagos Islands. It crossed the Pacific Ocean via Tahiti before going on to New Zealand and Australia. After tracing a course along Australia’s south coast, the Beagle continued across the Indian Ocean to Mauritius, around Cape Agulhas at the southern tip of Africa. From there it again crossed the Atlantic to South America’s east coast before heading northward back to England.
During his years aboard the HMS Beagle, Darwin collected specimens and took detailed zoological notes. He also continued to read the works of other scientists of the time, including Charles Lyell’s Principles of Geology. It is this book that impressed upon Darwin the concept of a slowly changing earth and the immensity of geological time.
In September 1835, the HMS Beagle arrived at the Galapagos Islands. It is there that Darwin encountered a remarkable array of species. He collected specimens of plants and birds. He observed subtle variations in mockingbirds and finches. He noted the variations in shell shape among tortoises that inhabit different habitats.
Darwin’s observations lead him to ask many questions. Why were there so many different organisms on Earth? Where do new species come from? Why do some species look very similar and others so different?
Upon his return to England, Darwin described his many findings from his years aboard the HMS Beagle in the five-volume work, The Zoology of the Voyage of the HMS Beagle. In the years that followed, Darwin published numerous papers on a variety of natural history topics. Meanwhile, he continues developing his understanding of evolution. He reads Thomas Malthus’s Essay on the Principle of Population.
In 1838, Darwin married Emma Wedgewood, his first cousin, with whom he later has 10 children. In 1842, the Darwin family moved into Down House, Kent. It is at Down House that Darwin takes on the task of writing his theory of evolution through natural selection. It takes 15 years to finalize the manuscript.
In 1858, Darwin receives a letter from fellow naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace. In that letter, Wallace reveals that he has developed a theory of evolution by natural selection. This forces Darwin to present his theory alongside that of Wallace. Although the two naturalists reached similar conclusions about their theories, it was Darwin who had gathered and compiled the vast body of evidence to back his theory.
In November of 1859, a 447-page first edition of On the Origin of Species was published. The book has become the cornerstone of our understanding of the natural world and has influenced virtually every corner of the scientific world.
Related ArticlesProfile of Charles Darwin VideoCharles Darwin | Author of On the Origin of SpeciesCharles Darwin Biography5 Common Misconceptions About DarwinBooks About "Origin of Species" 
The Big 6: Fundamental Facts About the Basic...The 10 Largest Living MammalsGive A Hoot: Learn 10 Fantastic Facts About OwlsTop 10 Wildlife Conservation OrganizationsAnimal Profiles: An A to Z List By Common Name
AmphibiansArthropodsBirdsCnidariansEchinodermsFishesInvertebratesMammalsMolluscsReptilesSegmented WormsSpongesMore Animal Facts »Blog
Animals / WildlifeAbout.comEducationAnimals / WildlifeMore Animal Facts »Zoology BasicsNatural HistoryA Biography of Charles DarwinAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
