=======================================================
Administration AboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor Information Arts, Health & Society AboutProgramsProspective StudentsSummer ResidenciesResearch Database Media & Communication AboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & Scholarships Admission Online ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer Students Students OverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest Documents Faculty Faculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and Positions 
Admission» Application & Deadlines» Tuition & Scholarships» Questions & Answers» Financial Aid» AccreditationStudents» Overview» Student Email» Student News» Event Calendar» Student Directory» Students Gateway» Request DocumentsAlumni» Overview» Alumni Association» Alumni Directory» Alumni News» Event Calendar» Request Transcripts» Giving to EGSFaculty» Faculty Overview» Faculty News» Event Calendar» Video Lectures» Jobs and PositionsMedia» EGS Publications» EGS on Facebook» EGS on YouTube» EGS on Google+» EGS on Flickr» EGS on Twitter» Conferences & Festivals» Library / Encyclopedia» Research DatabaseResources» News» Event Calendar» Information Technology» Health Services» A-Z Index» Sitemap» Contacts
Immanuel Kant was born in Königsberg, East Prussia in 1724. He attended the Collegium Fridiricianum at the age of eight, a Latin school that taught primarily classicism. After over eight years of study there, he went into the University Of Königsberg, where he spent his academic career focusing on philosophy, mathematics and physics. The death of his father had a strong effect on Kant, he left the university and earned a living as a private tutor. However, in 1755 he accepted the help of a friend and resumed study, receiving his doctorate in 1756.
He taught at the university and remained there for 15 years, beginning his lectures on the sciences and mathematics, though over time he covered most branches of philosophy. In spite of his growing reputation as an original thinker, he did not gain tenure at the university until 1770, receiving his professorship of logic and metaphysics. He continued writing and lecturing at Königsberg for the next 27 years, drawing many students there due to his rationalist and hence, unorthodox approach to religious texts. This led to political pressure from the government of Prussia, and in 1792, he was barred from teaching or writing on religious subjects by the king, Fredrich William II. Kant dutifully obeyed the injunction until the death of the king five years later, returning to the writing and lecturing of his ideas. The year following his retirement, he published a summary of his views on religion. He died in 1804.
Kant devised a model, an individual epistemology, by examining the basis of human knowledge and its limits. He brought together the ideas of rationalism, influential thinkers such as Leibniz and Wolff, with empiricism as proposed by David Hume. Kant's critical philosophy is presented in the Critique of Pure Reason (1781); the idea of critique is to establish and investigate the legitimate limits of human knowledge. Knowledge of sensible objects must form itself in advance to the structures of the human mind's ability to reason, and therefore all objects conform themselves a priori in such a relation -legitimate knowledge of objects is limited to how they appear for us.
Kant's logic creates a division and complex interplay of judgments- a priori and a posteriori judgments and analytic or synthetic judgments. A judgment is analytic if the subject of its proposition is contained within its predicate, i.e. "Sound theories are theories". To state the reverse would be a logical absurdity. The judgment is considered analytic because the truth of the proposition lies in the validity of the concept itself. All analytic judgments are a priori and thus, as is the case for all a priori judgments, they are independent of experience. However, judgments about empirical knowledge can only be made upon experience, are synthetic, a posteriori, and can be reversed without such a contradiction, i.e. "The theory is sound".
Here unfolds three classes of judgments: a) analytic a priori, b) synthetic a posteriori, and c) synthetic a priori. The particular concern for Kant is the synthetic a priori, for the sciences and mathematics are as such, existing independent of experience and yet as syntheses of previous judgments (knowledge). The question as to the origins of judgments becomes necessary. Metaphysics describes a science concerned with this inquiry, a solution to unsolvable problems set by pure reason itself, namely the concepts of God, freedom and immortality.
Kant developed a system of ethics in Metaphysics of Ethics (1797), in which he places reason as the fundamental authority for morality. Any action born of a mere expediency or servitude to law, politic or custom could be considered as moral, a sense of duty must arise solely as prescribed by reason. Reason dictates two imperatives: the hypothetical and the categorical. In the case of the former, a course of action to accomplish a specific task is presented, and in the latter a course of action that presents itself as appropriate, and necessary. The categorical is the basis for the ethical. This structure defends a fundamental freedom of the individual; that each one be responsible for their own ability, through reason, to obey consciously the laws of the universe.
Kantian philosophy was to have an enormous impact on modern philosophy as well as the fine arts and literature. Hegel was to develop the dialectical method based on elements within the Critique of Pure Reason, which in turn functioned as an underlying structure in Marx's philosophy.
» Giorgio Agamben» Pierre Alferi» Hubertus von Amelunxen» Alisa Andrasek» Alain Badiou» Judith Balso» Jason Barker» Jean Baudrillard» Philippe Beck» Geoffrey Bennington» Robert Bramkamp» Benjamin Bratton» Catherine Breillat» Judith Butler» Eduardo Cadava» Hélène Cixous» Simon Critchley» Diane Davis» Claire Denis» Manthia Diawara» Suzanne Doppelt» Anne Dufourmantelle» Elie During» Atom Egoyan» Bracha Ettinger» Mike Figgis» Alessandro De Francesco» John Frazer» Christopher Fynsk» Heiner Goebbels» Antony Gormley» Peter Greenaway» Boris Groys» Werner Hamacher» Barbara Hammer» Graham Harman» Michael Hardt» Martin Hielscher» Brian Holmes» Mitchell Joachim» Tom Kalin» Friedrich Kittler» Chris Kraus» Manuel De Landa» Katarzyna Lazari-Radek» Neil Leach» Sylvère Lotringer» Geert Lovink» Catherine Malabou» Lev Manovich» Elissa Marder» Clem Marshall » Colum McCann» Achim Menges» Jean-Luc Nancy» François Noudelmann» Mathieu Potte-Bonneville» Peter Price» Stephen & Timothy Quay» Jacques Rancière» Laurence Arthur Rickels» Denise Riley» Avital Ronell» Wolfgang Schirmacher» Volker Schlöndorff» Michael Schmidt» Patrik Schumacher» Peter Singer» DJ Spooky - Paul Miller» Bruce Sterling» Caspar Stracke» Elia Suleiman» Leslie Thornton» Ilija Trojanow» Margarethe von Trotta» Agnès Varda» Paul Virilio» Victor Vitanza» Samuel Weber» Klaus Wyborny» Caveh Zahedi» Siegfried Zielinski» Slavoj Zizek» Thomas Zummer» Alenka Zupancic
AdministrationAboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor InformationMedia & CommunicationAboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & ScholarshipsAdmissionOnline ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer StudentsStudentsOverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest DocumentsAlumniOverviewAlumni AssociationAlumni DirectoryAlumni NewsEvent CalendarRequest TranscriptsGiving to EGSFacultyFaculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and PositionsResourcesNewsEvent CalendarInformation TechnologyHealth ServicesA-Z IndexSitemapContactsMediaEGS PublicationsEGS on FacebookEGS on YouTubeEGS on Google+EGS on FlickrEGS on TwitterConferences & FestivalsLibrary / EncyclopediaResearch Database
=======================================================
Immanuel Kant (German: [ɪˈmaːnu̯eːl kant]; 22 April 1724 – 12 February 1804) was a German philosopher who is widely considered to be a central figure of modern philosophy. He argued that fundamental concepts structure human experience, and that reason is the source of morality. His thought continues to have a major influence in contemporary thought, especially the fields of metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, political philosophy, and aesthetics.[1]
Kant's major work, the Critique of Pure Reason (Kritik der reinen Vernunft, 1781),[2] aimed to explain the relationship between reason and human experience. With this project, he hoped to move beyond what he took to be failures of traditional philosophy and metaphysics. He hoped to put an end to what he considered an era of futile and speculative theories of human experience, while resisting the sceptical arguments developed by David Hume and René Descartes.
Kant proposed a "Copernican Revolution" in philosophy. Kant argued that our experiences are structured by necessary features of our minds. In his view, the mind shapes and structures experience so that, on an abstract level, all human experience shares certain essential structural features. Among other things, Kant believed that the concepts of space and time are integral to all human experience, as are our concepts of cause and effect.[3] One important consequence of this view is that one never has direct experience of things, the so-called noumenal world, and that what we do experience is the phenomenal world as conveyed by our senses. These claims summarize Kant's views upon the subject–object problem.
Kant published other important works on ethics, religion, law, aesthetics, astronomy, and history. These included the Critique of Practical Reason (Kritik der praktischen Vernunft, 1788), the Metaphysics of Morals (Die Metaphysik der Sitten, 1797), which dealt with ethics, and the Critique of Judgment (Kritik der Urteilskraft, 1790), which looks at aesthetics and teleology. He aimed to resolve disputes between empirical and rationalist approaches. The former asserted that all knowledge comes through experience; the latter maintained that reason and innate ideas were prior. Kant argued that experience is purely subjective without first being processed by pure reason. He also said that using reason without applying it to experience only leads to theoretical illusions. The free and proper exercise of reason by the individual was a theme both of the Age of Enlightenment, and of Kant's approaches to the various problems of philosophy.
His ideas influenced many thinkers in Germany during his lifetime, and he moved philosophy beyond the debate between the rationalists and empiricists. The philosophers Johann Gottlieb Fichte, Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel and Arthur Schopenhauer amended and developed the Kantian system, bringing about German idealism.
Kant is seen as a major figure in the history and development of philosophy. German and European thinking progressed after his time, and his influence still inspires philosophical work today.[1] Twentieth-century thinkers who have been influenced by Kant include Max Weber, Friedrich Meinecke, and Peter Strawson.[4]
Immanuel Kant was born in 1724 in Königsberg, Prussia (since 1946 the city of Kaliningrad, Russia), as the fourth of nine children (four of them reached adulthood). Baptized 'Emanuel', he changed his name to 'Immanuel'[5] after learning Hebrew. In his entire life, he never traveled more than ten miles from Königsberg.[6] His father, Johann Georg Kant (1682–1746), was a German harnessmaker from Memel, at the time Prussia's most northeastern city (now Klaipėda, Lithuania). His mother, Anna Regina Reuter (1697–1737), was born in Nuremberg.[7] Kant's paternal grandfather, Hans Kant,[8] had emigrated from Scotland to East Prussia, and his father still spelled their family name "Cant".[9] In his youth, Kant was a solid, albeit unspectacular, student. He was brought up in a Pietist household that stressed intense religious devotion, personal humility, and a literal interpretation of the Bible. Kant received a stern education – strict, punitive, and disciplinary – that preferred Latin and religious instruction over mathematics and science.[10] Despite his upbringing in a religious household and still maintaining a belief in God, he was skeptical of religion in later life; various commentators have labelled him agnostic.[11][12][13][14][15][16] The common myths concerning Kant's personal mannerisms are enumerated, explained, and refuted in Goldthwait's introduction to his translation of Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime.[17] It is often held that Kant lived a very strict and predictable life, leading to the oft-repeated story that neighbors would set their clocks by his daily walks. He never married, but did not seem to lack a rewarding social life — he was a popular teacher and a modestly successful author even before starting on his major philosophical works.
Kant showed a great aptitude for study at an early age. He first attended the Collegium Fredericianum and then enrolled at the University of Königsberg (where he would spend his entire career) in 1740, at the age of 16.[18] He studied the philosophy of Gottfried Leibniz and Christian Wolff under Martin Knutzen, a rationalist who was also familiar with developments in British philosophy and science and who introduced Kant to the new mathematical physics of Isaac Newton. Knutzen dissuaded Kant from the theory of pre-established harmony, which he regarded as "the pillow for the lazy mind". He also dissuaded the young scholar from idealism, which most philosophers in the 18th century regarded in a negative light. (The theory of transcendental idealism that Kant developed in the Critique of Pure Reason is not traditional idealism, i.e. the idea that reality is purely mental. In fact, Kant produced arguments against traditional idealism in the second part of the Critique of Pure Reason.) His father's stroke and subsequent death in 1746 interrupted his studies. Kant became a private tutor in the smaller towns surrounding Königsberg, but continued his scholarly research. In 1747, he published his first philosophical work, Thoughts on the True Estimation of Living Forces.
Kant is best known for his work in the philosophy of ethics and metaphysics, but he made significant contributions to other disciplines. He made an important astronomical discovery, namely a discovery about the nature of the Earth's rotation, for which he won the Berlin Academy Prize in 1754.[citation needed]
"Kant pointed out in the middle of last century, what had not previously been discovered by mathematicians or physical astronomers, that the frictional resistance against tidal currents on the earth's surface must cause a diminution of the earth's rotational speed. This immense discovery in Natural Philosophy seems to have attracted little attention,—indeed to have passed quite unnoticed,—among mathematicians, and astronomers, and naturalists, until about 1840, when the doctrine of energy began to be taken to heart."
"The sort of geological speculation to which I am now referring (geological aetiology, in short) was created as a science by that famous philosopher, Immanuel Kant, when, in 1775 [1755], he wrote his General Natural History and Theory of the Celestial Bodies; or, an Attempt to Account for the Constitutional and Mechanical Origin of the Universe, upon Newtonian Principles."
In the General History of Nature and Theory of the Heavens (Allgemeine Naturgeschichte und Theorie des Himmels) (1755), Kant laid out the Nebular hypothesis, in which he deduced that the Solar System formed from a large cloud of gas, a nebula. He thus attempted to explain the order of the solar system, seen previously by Newton as being imposed from the beginning by God. Kant also correctly deduced that the Milky Way was a large disk of stars, which he theorized also formed from a (much larger) spinning cloud of gas. He further suggested the possibility that other nebulae might also be similarly large and distant disks of stars. These postulations opened new horizons for astronomy: for the first time extending astronomy beyond the solar system to galactic and extragalactic realms.[19]
From this point on, Kant turned increasingly to philosophical issues, although he continued to write on the sciences throughout his life. In the early 1760s, Kant produced a series of important works in philosophy. The False Subtlety of the Four Syllogistic Figures, a work in logic, was published in 1762. Two more works appeared the following year: Attempt to Introduce the Concept of Negative Magnitudes into Philosophy and The Only Possible Argument in Support of a Demonstration of the Existence of God. In 1764, Kant wrote Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime and then was second to Moses Mendelssohn in a Berlin Academy prize competition with his Inquiry Concerning the Distinctness of the Principles of Natural Theology and Morality (often referred to as "The Prize Essay"). In 1770, at the age of 45, Kant was finally appointed Professor of Logic and Metaphysics at the University of Königsberg. Kant wrote his inaugural dissertation in defense of this appointment. This work saw the emergence of several central themes of his mature work, including the distinction between the faculties of intellectual thought and sensible receptivity. Not to observe this distinction would mean to commit the error of subreption, and, as he says in the last chapter of the dissertation, only in avoidance of this error does metaphysics flourish.
The issue that vexed Kant was central to what twentieth century scholars termed "the philosophy of mind". The flowering of the natural sciences had led to an understanding of how data reaches the brain. Sunlight may fall upon a distant object, whereupon light is reflected from various parts of the object in a way that maps the surface features (color, texture, etc.) of the object. The light reaches the eye of a human observer, passes through the cornea, is focused by the lens upon the retina where it forms an image similar to that formed by light passing through a pinhole into a camera obscura. The retinal cells next send impulses through the optic nerve and thereafter they form a mapping in the brain of the visual features of the distant object. The interior mapping is not the exterior thing being mapped, and our belief that there is a meaningful relationship between the exterior object and the mapping in the brain depends on a chain of reasoning that is not fully grounded. But the uncertainty aroused by these considerations, the uncertainties raised by optical illusions, misperceptions, delusions, etc., are not the end of the problems.
Kant saw that the mind could not function as an empty container that simply receives data from the outside. Something must be giving order to the incoming data. Images of external objects must be kept in the same sequence in which they were received. This ordering occurs through the mind's intuition of time. The same considerations apply to the mind's function of constituting space for ordering mappings of visual and tactile signals arriving via the already described chains of physical causation.
It is often held that Kant was a late developer, that he only became an important philosopher in his mid-50s after rejecting his earlier views. While it is true that Kant wrote his greatest works relatively late in life, there is a tendency to underestimate the value of his earlier works. Recent Kant scholarship has devoted more attention to these "pre-critical" writings and has recognized a degree of continuity with his mature work.[20]
At the age of 46, Kant was an established scholar and an increasingly influential philosopher. Much was expected of him. In correspondence with his ex-student and friend Markus Herz, Kant admitted that, in the Inaugural Dissertation, he had failed to account for the relation and connection between our sensible and intellectual faculties—he needed to explain how we combine sensory knowledge with reasoned knowledge, these being related but very different processes. He also credited David Hume with awakening him from "dogmatic slumber" (circa 1771).[21] Hume had stated that experience consists only of sequences of feelings, images or sounds. Ideas such as "cause", goodness, or objects were not evident in experience, so why do we believe in the reality of these? Kant felt that reason could remove this skepticism, and he set himself to solving these problems. He did not publish any work in philosophy for the next eleven years.
Although fond of company and conversation with others, Kant isolated himself. He resisted friends' attempts to bring him out of his isolation. In 1778, in response to one of these offers by a former pupil, Kant wrote:
"Any change makes me apprehensive, even if it offers the greatest promise of improving my condition, and I am persuaded by this natural instinct of mine that I must take heed if I wish that the threads which the Fates spin so thin and weak in my case to be spun to any length. My great thanks, to my well-wishers and friends, who think so kindly of me as to undertake my welfare, but at the same time a most humble request to protect me in my current condition from any disturbance."[22]
When Kant emerged from his silence in 1781, the result was the Critique of Pure Reason. Although now uniformly recognized as one of the greatest works in the history of philosophy, this Critique was largely ignored upon its initial publication. The book was long, over 800 pages in the original German edition, and written in a convoluted style. It received few reviews, and these granted no significance to the work. Its density made it, as Johann Gottfried Herder put it in a letter to Johann Georg Hamann, a "tough nut to crack", obscured by "all this heavy gossamer".[23] Its reception stood in stark contrast to the praise Kant had received for earlier works, such as his Prize Essay and shorter works that preceded the first Critique. These well-received and readable tracts include one on the earthquake in Lisbon that was so popular that it was sold by the page.[24] Prior to the change in course documented in the first Critique, his books sold well, and by the time he published Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime in 1764 he had become a popular author of some note.[25] Kant was disappointed with the first Critique's reception. Recognizing the need to clarify the original treatise, Kant wrote the Prolegomena to any Future Metaphysics in 1783 as a summary of its main views. Shortly thereafter, Kant's friend Johann Friedrich Schultz (1739–1805) (professor of mathematics) published Erläuterungen ūber des Herrn Professor Kant Critik der reinen Vernunft (Kōnigsberg, 1784), which was a brief but very accurate commentary on Kant's Critique of Pure Reason.
Kant's reputation gradually rose through the 1780s, sparked by a series of important works: the 1784 essay, "Answer to the Question: What is Enlightenment?"; 1785's Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals (his first work on moral philosophy); and, from 1786, Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science. But Kant's fame ultimately arrived from an unexpected source. In 1786, Karl Reinhold began to publish a series of public letters on the Kantian philosophy. In these letters, Reinhold framed Kant's philosophy as a response to the central intellectual controversy of the era: the Pantheism Dispute. Friedrich Jacobi had accused the recently deceased G. E. Lessing (a distinguished dramatist and philosophical essayist) of Spinozism. Such a charge, tantamount to atheism, was vigorously denied by Lessing's friend Moses Mendelssohn, and a bitter public dispute arose among partisans. The controversy gradually escalated into a general debate over the values of the Enlightenment and the value of reason itself. Reinhold maintained in his letters that Kant's Critique of Pure Reason could settle this dispute by defending the authority and bounds of reason. Reinhold's letters were widely read and made Kant the most famous philosopher of his era.
Kant published a second edition of the Critique of Pure Reason (Kritik der reinen Vernunft) in 1787, heavily revising the first parts of the book. Most of his subsequent work focused on other areas of philosophy. He continued to develop his moral philosophy, notably in 1788's Critique of Practical Reason (known as the second Critique) and 1797's Metaphysics of Morals. The 1790 Critique of Judgment (the third Critique) applied the Kantian system to aesthetics and teleology.
In 1792, Kant's attempt to publish the Second of the four Pieces of Religion within the Bounds of Bare Reason, in the journal Berlinische Monatsschrift, met with opposition from the King's censorship commission, which had been established that same year in the context of 1789 French Revolution.[26] Kant then arranged to have all four pieces published as a book, routing it through the philosophy department at the University of Jena to avoid the need for theological censorship.[citation needed] Kant got a now famous reprimand from the King,[26] for this action of insubordination. When he nevertheless published a second edition in 1794, the censor was so irate that he arranged for a royal order that required Kant never to publish or even speak publicly about religion.[citation needed] Kant then published his response to the King's reprimand and explained himself, in the preface of The Conflict of the Faculties.[26]
He also wrote a number of semi-popular essays on history, religion, politics and other topics. These works were well received by Kant's contemporaries and confirmed his preeminent status in eighteenth century philosophy. There were several journals devoted solely to defending and criticizing the Kantian philosophy. But despite his success, philosophical trends were moving in another direction. Many of Kant's most important disciples (including Reinhold, Beck and Fichte) transformed the Kantian position into increasingly radical forms of idealism. The progressive stages of revision of Kant's teachings marked the emergence of German Idealism. Kant opposed these developments and publicly denounced Fichte in an open letter in 1799.[27] It was one of his final acts expounding a stance on philosophical questions. In 1800 a student of Kant named Gottlob Benjamin Jäsche (1762–1842) published a manual of logic for teachers called Logik, which he had prepared at Kant's request. Jäsche prepared the Logik using a copy of a textbook in logic by Georg Freidrich Meier entitled Auszug aus der Vernunftlehre, in which Kant had written copious notes and annotations. The Logik has been considered of fundamental importance to Kant's philosophy, and the understanding of it. The great nineteenth century logician Charles Sanders Peirce remarked, in an incomplete review of Thomas Kingsmill Abbott's English translation of the introduction to the Logik, that "Kant's whole philosophy turns upon his logic."[28] Also, Robert Schirokauer Hartman and Wolfgang Schwarz, wrote in the translators' introduction to their English translation of the Logik, "Its importance lies not only in its significance for the Critique of Pure Reason, the second part of which is a restatement of fundamental tenets of the Logic, but in its position within the whole of Kant's work."[29]
Kant's health, long poor, took a turn for the worse and he died at Königsberg on 12 February 1804, uttering "Es ist gut" ("It is good") before expiring.[30] His unfinished final work was published as Opus Postumum.
In Kant's essay "Answering the Question: What is Enlightenment?", Kant defined the Enlightenment as an age shaped by the Latin motto Sapere aude ("Dare to be wise"). Kant maintained that one ought to think autonomously, free of the dictates of external authority. His work reconciled many of the differences between the rationalist and empiricist traditions of the 18th century. He had a decisive impact on the Romantic and German Idealist philosophies of the 19th century. His work has also been a starting point for many 20th century philosophers.
Kant asserted that, because of the limitations of argumentation in the absence of irrefutable evidence, no one could really know whether there is a God and an afterlife or not. For the sake of morality and as a ground for reason, Kant asserted, people are justified in believing in God, even though they could never know God's presence empirically. He explained:
All the preparations of reason, therefore, in what may be called pure philosophy, are in reality directed to those three problems only [God, the soul, and freedom]. However, these three elements in themselves still hold independent, proportional, objective weight individually. Moreover, in a collective relational context; namely, to know what ought to be done: if the will is free, if there is a God, and if there is a future world. As this concerns our actions with reference to the highest aims of life, we see that the ultimate intention of nature in her wise provision was really, in the constitution of our reason, directed to moral interests only.[31]
The sense of an enlightened approach and the critical method required that "If one cannot prove that a thing is, he may try to prove that it is not. And if he succeeds in doing neither (as often occurs), he may still ask whether it is in his interest to accept one or the other of the alternatives hypothetically, from the theoretical or the practical point of view. Hence the question no longer is as to whether perpetual peace is a real thing or not a real thing, or as to whether we may not be deceiving ourselves when we adopt the former alternative, but we must act on the supposition of its being real."[32] The presupposition of God, soul, and freedom was then a practical concern, for "Morality, by itself, constitutes a system, but happiness does not, unless it is distributed in exact proportion to morality. This, however, is possible in an intelligible world only under a wise author and ruler. Reason compels us to admit such a ruler, together with life in such a world, which we must consider as future life, or else all moral laws are to be considered as idle dreams... ."[33]
Kant claimed to have created a "Copernican revolution" in philosophy. This involved two interconnected foundations of his "critical philosophy":
These teachings placed the active, rational human subject at the center of the cognitive and moral worlds. Kant argued that the rational order of the world as known by science was not just the fortuitous accumulation of sense perceptions.
Conceptual unification and integration is carried out by the mind through concepts or the "categories of the understanding" operating on the perceptual manifold within space and time. The latter are not concepts,[34] but are forms of sensibility that are a priori necessary conditions for any possible experience. Thus the objective order of nature and the causal necessity that operates within it are dependent upon the mind's processes, the product of the rule-based activity that Kant called, "synthesis. There is much discussion among Kant scholars on the correct interpretation of this train of thought.
The 'two-world' interpretation regards Kant's position as a statement of epistemological limitation, that we are not able to transcend the bounds of our own mind, meaning that we cannot access the "thing-in-itself". Kant, however, also speaks of the thing in itself or transcendental object as a product of the (human) understanding as it attempts to conceive of objects in abstraction from the conditions of sensibility. Following this line of thought, some interpreters have argued that the thing in itself does not represent a separate ontological domain but simply a way of considering objects by means of the understanding alone – this is known as the two-aspect view.
The notion of the "thing in itself" was much discussed by those who came after Kant. It was argued that since the "thing in itself" was unknowable its existence could not simply be assumed. Rather than arbitrarily switching to an account that was ungrounded in anything supposed to be the "real," as did the German Idealists, another group arose to ask how our (presumably reliable) accounts of a coherent and rule-abiding universe were actually grounded. This new kind of philosophy became known as Phenomenology, and its founder was Edmund Husserl.
With regard to morality, Kant argued that the source of the good lies not in anything outside the human subject, either in nature or given by God, but rather is only the good will itself. A good will is one that acts from duty in accordance with the universal moral law that the autonomous human being freely gives itself. This law obliges one to treat humanity – understood as rational agency, and represented through oneself as well as others – as an end in itself rather than (merely) as means to other ends the individual might hold. This necessitates practical self-reflection in which we universalize our reasons.
These ideas have largely framed or influenced all subsequent philosophical discussion and analysis. The specifics of Kant's account generated immediate and lasting controversy. Nevertheless, his theses – that the mind itself necessarily makes a constitutive contribution to its knowledge, that this contribution is transcendental rather than psychological, that philosophy involves self-critical activity, that morality is rooted in human freedom, and that to act autonomously is to act according to rational moral principles – have all had a lasting effect on subsequent philosophy.
Kant defines his theory of perception in his influential 1781 work The Critique of Pure Reason, which has often been cited as the most significant volume of metaphysics and epistemology in modern philosophy. Kant maintains that our understanding of the external world had its foundations not merely in experience, but in both experience and a priori concepts, thus offering a non-empiricist critique of rationalist philosophy, which is what he and others referred to as his "Copernican revolution".[35][36][37][38]
Analytic proposition: a proposition whose predicate concept is contained in its subject concept; e.g., "All bachelors are unmarried," or, "All bodies take up space."
Synthetic proposition: a proposition whose predicate concept is not contained in its subject concept; e.g., "All bachelors are happy," or, "All bodies have weight."
Analytic propositions are true by nature of the meaning of the words involved in the sentence — we require no further knowledge than a grasp of the language to understand this proposition. On the other hand, synthetic statements are those that tell us something about the world. The truth or falsehood of synthetic statements derives from something outside of their linguistic content. In this instance, weight is not a necessary predicate of the body; until we are told the heaviness of the body we do not know that it has weight. In this case, experience of the body is required before its heaviness becomes clear. Before Kant's first Critique, empiricists (cf. Hume) and rationalists (cf. Leibniz) assumed that all synthetic statements required experience to be known.
Kant, however, contests this: he claims that elementary mathematics, like arithmetic, is synthetic a priori, in that its statements provide new knowledge, but knowledge that is not derived from experience. This becomes part of his over-all argument for transcendental idealism. That is, he argues that the possibility of experience depends on certain necessary conditions — which he calls a priori forms — and that these conditions structure and hold true of the world of experience. In so doing, his main claims in the "Transcendental Aesthetic" are that mathematic judgments are synthetic a priori and in addition, that Space and Time are not derived from experience but rather are its preconditions.
Once we have grasped the concepts of addition, subtraction or the functions of basic arithmetic, we do not need any empirical experience to know that 100 + 100 = 200, and in this way it would appear that arithmetic is in fact analytic. However, that it is analytic can be disproved thus: if the numbers five and seven in the calculation 5 + 7 = 12 are examined, there is nothing to be found in them by which the number 12 can be inferred. Such it is that "5 + 7" and "the cube root of 1,728" or "12" are not analytic because their reference is the same but their sense is not — that the mathematic judgment "5 + 7 = 12" tells us something new about the world. It is self-evident, and undeniably a priori, but at the same time it is synthetic. And so Kant proves a proposition can be synthetic and known a priori.
Kant asserts that experience is based both upon the perception of external objects and a priori knowledge.[39] The external world, he writes, provides those things that we sense. It is our mind, though, that processes this information about the world and gives it order, allowing us to comprehend it. Our mind supplies the conditions of space and time to experience objects. According to the "transcendental unity of apperception", the concepts of the mind (Understanding) and the perceptions or intuitions that garner information from phenomena (Sensibility) are synthesized by comprehension. Without the concepts, intuitions are nondescript; without the intuitions, concepts are meaningless — thus the famous statement, "Thoughts without content are empty, intuitions without concepts are blind."[40]
Kant also makes the claim that an external environment is necessary for the establishment of the self. Although Kant would want to argue that there is no empirical way of observing the self, we can see the logical necessity of the self when we observe that we can have different perceptions of the external environment over time. By uniting all of these general representations into one global representation, we can see how a transcendental self emerges. "I am therefore conscious of the identical self in regard to the manifold of the representations that are given to me in an intuition because I call them all together my representations."[41]
In studying the work of Kant one must realize that there is a distinction between "understanding" as the general concept (in German, das Verstehen) and the "understanding" as a faculty of the human mind (in German, der Verstand, "the intellect"). In much English language scholarship, the word "understanding" is used in both senses.
Kant deemed it obvious that we have some objective knowledge of the world, such as, say, Newtonian physics. But this knowledge relies on synthetic, a priori laws of nature, like causality and substance. The problem, then, is how this is possible. Kant's solution was to reason that the subject must supply laws that make experience of objects possible, and that these laws are the synthetic, a priori laws of nature that we know apply to all objects before we experience them. So, to deduce all these laws, Kant examined experience in general, dissecting in it what is supplied by the mind from what is supplied by the given intuitions. What has just been explicated is commonly called a transcendental reduction.[42]
To begin with, Kant's distinction between the a posteriori being contingent and particular knowledge, and the a priori being universal and necessary knowledge, must be kept in mind. For if we merely connect two intuitions together in a perceiving subject, the knowledge is always subjective because it is derived a posteriori, when what is desired is for the knowledge to be objective, that is, for the two intuitions to refer to the object and hold good of it necessarily universally for anyone at anytime, not just the perceiving subject in its current condition. What else is equivalent to objective knowledge besides the a priori, that is to say, universal and necessary knowledge? Nothing else, and hence before knowledge can be objective, it must be incorporated under an a priori category of the understanding.[42][43]
For example, say a subject says, "The sun shines on the stone; the stone grows warm," which is all he perceives in perception. His judgment is contingent and holds no necessity. But if he says, "The sunshine causes the stone to warm," he subsumes the perception under the category of causality, which is not found in the perception, and necessarily synthesizes the concept sunshine with the concept heat, producing a necessarily universally true judgment.[42]
To explain the categories in more detail, they are the preconditions of the construction of objects in the mind. Indeed, to even think of the sun and stone presupposes the category of subsistence, that is, substance. For the categories synthesize the random data of the sensory manifold into intelligible objects. This means that the categories are also the most abstract things one can say of any object whatsoever, and hence one can have an a priori cognition of the totality of all objects of experience if one can list all of them. To do so, Kant formulates another transcendental deduction.[42]
Judgments are, for Kant, the preconditions of any thought. Man thinks via judgments, so all possible judgments must be listed and the perceptions connected within them put aside, so as to make it possible to examine the moments when the understanding is engaged in constructing judgments. For the categories are equivalent to these moments, in that they are concepts of intuitions in general, so far as they are determined by these moments universally and necessarily. Thus by listing all the moments, one can deduce from them all of the categories.[42]
One may now ask: How many possible judgments are there? Kant believed that all the possible propositions within Aristotle's syllogistic logic are equivalent to all possible judgments, and that all the logical operators within the propositions are equivalent to the moments of the understanding within judgments. Thus he listed Aristotle's system in four groups of three: quantity (universal, particular, singular), quality (affirmative, negative, infinite), relation (categorical, hypothetical, disjunctive) and modality (problematic, assertoric, apodeictic). The parallelism with Kant's categories is obvious: quantity (unity, plurality, totality), quality (reality, negation, limitation), relation (substance, cause, community) and modality (possibility, existence, necessity).[42]
The fundamental building blocks of experience, i.e. objective knowledge, are now in place. First there is the sensibility, which supplies the mind with intuitions, and then there is the understanding, which produces judgments of these intuitions and can subsume them under categories. These categories lift the intuitions up out of the subject's current state of consciousness and place them within consciousness in general, producing universally necessary knowledge. For the categories are innate in any rational being, so any intuition thought within a category in one mind is necessarily subsumed and understood identically in any mind. In other words we filter what we see and hear.[42]
Kant ran into a problem with his theory that the mind plays a part in producing objective knowledge. Intuitions and categories are entirely disparate, so how can they interact? Kant's solution is the schema: a priori principles by which the transcendental imagination connects concepts with intuitions through time. All the principles are temporally bound, for if a concept is purely a priori, as the categories are, then they must apply for all times. Hence there are principles such as substance is that which endures through time, and the cause must always be prior to the effect.[44][45]
Kant developed his moral philosophy in three works: Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals (1785),[46] Critique of Practical Reason (1788), and Metaphysics of Morals (1797).
In the Groundwork, Kant's method involves trying to convert our everyday, obvious, rational[47] knowledge of morality into philosophical knowledge. The latter two works followed a method of using "practical reason", which is based only upon things about which reason can tell us, and not deriving any principles from experience, to reach conclusions which are able to be applied to the world of experience (in the second part of The Metaphysic of Morals).
Kant is known for his theory that there is a single moral obligation, which he called the "Categorical Imperative", and is derived from the concept of duty. Kant defines the demands of the moral law as "categorical imperatives". Categorical imperatives are principles that are intrinsically valid; they are good in and of themselves; they must be obeyed by all, in all situations and circumstances, if our behavior is to observe the moral law. It is from the Categorical Imperative that all other moral obligations are generated, and by which all moral obligations can be tested. Kant also stated that the moral means and ends can be applied to the categorical imperative, that rational beings can pursue certain "ends" using the appropriate "means". Ends that are based on physical needs or wants always give merely hypothetical imperatives. The categorical imperative, however, may be based only on something that is an "end in itself". That is, an end that is a means only to itself and not to some other need, desire, or purpose.[48] He believed that the moral law is a principle of reason itself, and is not based on contingent facts about the world, such as what would make us happy, but to act upon the moral law which has no other motive than "worthiness of being happy".[49] Accordingly, he believed that moral obligation applies only to rational agents.[50]
A categorical imperative is an unconditional obligation; that is, it has the force of an obligation regardless of our will or desires (Contrast this with hypothetical imperative)[51] In Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals (1785) Kant enumerated three formulations of the categorical imperative that he believed to be roughly equivalent.[52]
Kant believed that if an action is not done with the motive of duty, then it is without moral value. He thought that every action should have pure intention behind it; otherwise it was meaningless. He did not necessarily believe that the final result was the most important aspect of an action, but that how the person felt while carrying out the action was the time at which value was set to the result.
In Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals, Kant also posited the "counter-utilitarian idea that there is a difference between preferences and values and that considerations of individual rights temper calculations of aggregate utility", a concept that is an axiom in economics:[53]
Everything has either a price or a dignity. Whatever has a price can be replaced by something else as its equivalent; on the other hand, whatever is above all price, and therefore admits of no equivalent, has a dignity. But that which constitutes the condition under which alone something can be an end in itself does not have mere relative worth, i.e., price, but an intrinsic worth, i.e., a dignity. (p. 53, italics in original).
A phrase quoted by Kant, which is used to summarize the counter-utilitarian nature of his moral philosophy, is Fiat justitia, pereat mundus, ("Let justice be done, though the world perish"), which he translates loosely as "Let justice reign even if all the rascals in the world should perish from it". This appears in his 1795 Perpetual Peace (Zum ewigen Frieden. Ein philosophischer Entwurf.), Appendix 1.[54][55][56]
The first formulation (Formula of Universal Law) of the moral imperative "requires that the maxims be chosen as though they should hold as universal laws of nature" .[52] This formulation in principle has as its supreme law the creed "Always act according to that maxim whose universality as a law you can at the same time will" and is the "only condition under which a will can never come into conflict with itself [....]"[57]
One interpretation of the first formulation is called the "universalizability test".[58] An agent's maxim, according to Kant, is his "subjective principle of human actions": that is, what the agent believes is his reason to act.[59] The universalisability test has five steps:
Find the agent's maxim (i.e., an action paired with its motivation). Take for example the declaration "I will lie for personal benefit". Lying is the action; the motivation is to fulfill some sort of desire. Paired together, they form the maxim.
Imagine a possible world in which everyone in a similar position to the real-world agent followed that maxim. With no exception of one's self. This is in order for you to hold people to the same principle required of yourself.
Decide whether any contradictions or irrationalities arise in the possible world as a result of following the maxim.
The second formulation (or Formula of the End in Itself) holds that "the rational being, as by its nature an end and thus as an end in itself, must serve in every maxim as the condition restricting all merely relative and arbitrary ends".[52] The principle dictates that you "[a]ct with reference to every rational being (whether yourself or another) so that it is an end in itself in your maxim", meaning that the rational being is "the basis of all maxims of action" and "must be treated never as a mere means but as the supreme limiting condition in the use of all means, i.e., as an end at the same time".[60]
The third formulation (Formula of Autonomy) is a synthesis of the first two and is the basis for the "complete determination of all maxims". It says "that all maxims which stem from autonomous legislation ought to harmonize with a possible realm of ends as with a realm of nature".[52] In principle, "So act as if your maxims should serve at the same time as the universal law (of all rational beings)", meaning that we should so act that we may think of ourselves as "a member in the universal realm of ends", legislating universal laws through our maxims (that is, a code of conduct), in a "possible realm of ends".[61] None may elevate themselves above the universal law, therefore it is one's duty to follow the maxim(s).
This section possibly contains previously unpublished synthesis of published material that conveys ideas not attributable to the original sources. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. (December 2013)
Kant stated the practical necessity for a belief in God in his Critique of Practical Reason. As an idea of pure reason, "we do not have the slightest ground to assume in an absolute manner ... the object of this idea",[62] but adds that the idea of God cannot be separated from the relation of happiness with morality as the "ideal of the supreme good". The foundation of this connection is an intelligible moral world, and "is necessary from the practical point of view";[63] compare Voltaire: "If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent him."[64] In the Jäsche Logic (1800) he wrote "One cannot provide objective reality for any theoretical idea, or prove it, except for the idea of freedom, because this is the condition of the moral law, whose reality is an axiom. The reality of the idea of God can only be proved by means of this idea, and hence only with a practical purpose, i.e., to act as though (als ob) there is a God, and hence only for this purpose" (9:93, trans. J. Michael Young, Lectures on Logic, p. 590–91).
Along with this 'idea' on reason and God, Kant places thought over religion and nature[citation needed], i.e. the idea of religion being natural or naturalistic. Kant saw reason as natural, and as some part of Christianity is based on reason and morality, as Kant points out this is major in the scriptures, it is inevitable that Christianity is 'natural'. However, it is not 'naturalistic' in the sense that the religion does include supernatural or transcendent belief. Aside from this, a key point is that Kant saw that the Bible should be seen as a source of natural morality no matter whether there is/was any truth behind the supernatural factor, meaning that it is not necessary to know whether the supernatural part of Christianity has any truth to abide by and use the core Christian moral code.
Kant articulates in Book Four some of his strongest criticisms of the organization and practices of religious organizations that encourage what he sees as a religion of counterfeit service to God. Among the major targets of his criticism are external ritual, superstition and a hierarchical church order. He sees all of these as efforts to make oneself pleasing to God in ways other than conscientious adherence to the principle of moral rightness in the choice of one's actions. The severity of Kant's criticisms on these matters, along with his rejection of the possibility of theoretical proofs for the existence of God and his philosophical re-interpretation of some basic Christian doctrines, have provided the basis for interpretations that see Kant as thoroughly hostile to religion in general and Christianity in particular (e.g., Walsh 1967). Nevertheless, other interpreters consider that Kant was trying to mark off a defensible rational core of Christian belief.[65] Kant sees in Jesus Christ the affirmation of a "pure moral disposition of the heart" that "can make man well-pleasing to God".[66]
In the Critique of Pure Reason,[67] Kant distinguishes between the transcendental idea of freedom, which as a psychological concept is "mainly empirical" and refers to "the question whether we must admit a power of spontaneously beginning a series of successive things or states" as a real ground of necessity in regard to causality,[68] and the practical concept of freedom as the independence of our will from the "coercion" or "necessitation through sensuous impulses". Kant finds it a source of difficulty that the practical concept of freedom is founded on the transcendental idea of freedom,[69] but for the sake of practical interests uses the practical meaning, taking "no account of... its transcendental meaning," which he feels was properly "disposed of" in the Third Antinomy, and as an element in the question of the freedom of the will is for philosophy "a real stumbling-block" that has "embarrassed speculative reason".[68]
Kant calls practical "everything that is possible through freedom", and the pure practical laws that are never given through sensuous conditions but are held analogously with the universal law of causality are moral laws. Reason can give us only the "pragmatic laws of free action through the senses", but pure practical laws given by reason a priori[70] dictate "what ought to be done".[71][72]
In the Critique of Practical Reason, at the end of the second Main Part of the Analytics,[73] Kant introduces, in analogy with the categories of understanding their practical counterparts, the categories of freedom. Kant's categories of freedom appear to have primarily three functions: as conditions of the possibility for actions (i) to be free, (ii) to be comprehensible as free and (iii) to be morally evaluated. For Kant actions, although qua theoretical objects they are always already constituted by means of the theoretical categories, qua practical objects (objects of reason in its practical use, i.e. objects qua possibly good or bad) they are constituted by means of the categories of freedom; and it is only in this way that actions, qua phenomena, can be a consequence of freedom, and can be understood and evaluated as such.[74]
Kant discusses the subjective nature of aesthetic qualities and experiences in Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime, (1764). Kant's contribution to aesthetic theory is developed in the Critique of Judgment (1790) where he investigates the possibility and logical status of "judgments of taste." In the "Critique of Aesthetic Judgment," the first major division of the Critique of Judgment, Kant used the term "aesthetic" in a manner that, according to Kant scholar W.H. Walsh, differs from its modern sense.[75] Prior to this, in the Critique of Pure Reason, to note essential differences between judgments of taste, moral judgments, and scientific judgments, Kant abandoned the term "aesthetic" as "designating the critique of taste," noting that judgments of taste could never be "directed" by "laws a priori".[76] After A. G. Baumgarten, who wrote Aesthetica (1750–58),[77] Kant was one of the first philosophers to develop and integrate aesthetic theory into a unified and comprehensive philosophical system, utilizing ideas that played an integral role throughout his philosophy.[78]
In the chapter "Analytic of the Beautiful" of the Critique of Judgment, Kant states that beauty is not a property of an artwork or natural phenomenon, but is instead a consciousness of the pleasure that attends the 'free play' of the imagination and the understanding. Even though it appears that we are using reason to decide what is beautiful, the judgment is not a cognitive judgment,[79] "and is consequently not logical, but aesthetical" (§ 1). A pure judgement of taste is in fact subjective insofar as it refers to the emotional response of the subject and is based upon nothing but esteem for an object itself: it is a disinterested pleasure, and we feel that pure judgements of taste, i.e. judgements of beauty, lay claim to universal validity (§§20–22). It is important to note that this universal validity is not derived from a determinate concept of beauty but from common sense [source?]. Kant also believed that a judgement of taste shares characteristics engaged in a moral judgement: both are disinterested, and we hold them to be universal. In the chapter "Analytic of the Sublime" Kant identifies the sublime as an aesthetic quality that, like beauty, is subjective, but unlike beauty refers to an indeterminate relationship between the faculties of the imagination and of reason, and shares the character of moral judgments in the use of reason. The feeling of the sublime, itself officially divided into two distinct modes (the mathematical and the dynamical sublime), describes two subjective moments, both of which concern the relationship of the faculty of the imagination to reason. Some commentators,[80] however, argue that Kant's critical philosophy contains a third kind of the sublime, the moral sublime, which is the aesthetic response to the moral law or a representation thereof, and a development of the "noble" sublime in Kant's theory of 1764. The mathematical sublime is situated in the failure of the imagination to comprehend natural objects that appear boundless and formless, or appear "absolutely great" (§ 23–25). This imaginative failure is then recuperated through the pleasure taken in reason's assertion of the concept of infinity. In this move the faculty of reason proves itself superior to our fallible sensible self (§§ 25–26). In the dynamical sublime there is the sense of annihilation of the sensible self as the imagination tries to comprehend a vast might. This power of nature threatens us but through the resistance of reason to such sensible annihilation, the subject feels a pleasure and a sense of the human moral vocation. This appreciation of moral feeling through exposure to the sublime helps to develop moral character.
Kant had developed the distinction between an object of art as a material value subject to the conventions of society and the transcendental condition of the judgment of taste as a "refined" value in the propositions of his Idea of A Universal History (1784). In the Fourth and Fifth Theses of that work he identified all art as the "fruits of unsociableness" due to men's "antagonism in society",[81] and in the Seventh Thesis asserted that while such material property is indicative of a civilized state, only the ideal of morality and the universalization of refined value through the improvement of the mind of man "belongs to culture".[82]
In Perpetual Peace: A Philosophical Sketch[83] Kant listed several conditions that he thought necessary for ending wars and creating a lasting peace. They included a world of constitutional republics.[84] His classical republican theory was extended in the Science of Right, the first part of the Metaphysics of Morals (1797).[85]
"Kant's political teaching may be summarized in a phrase: republican government and international organization. In more characteristically Kantian terms, it is doctrine of the state based upon the law (Rechtsstaat) and of eternal peace. Indeed, in each of these formulations, both terms express the same idea: that of legal constitution or of "peace through law." Taken simply by itself, Kant's political philosophy, being essentially a legal doctrine, rejects by definition the opposition between moral education and the play of passions as alternate foundations for social life. The state is defined as the union of men under law. The state rightly so called is constituted by laws which are necessary a priori because they flow from the very concept of law. A regime can be judged by no other criteria nor be assigned any other functions, than those proper to the lawful order as such." [86]
He opposed "democracy," which at his time meant direct democracy, believing that majority rule posed a threat to individual liberty. He stated, "...democracy is, properly speaking, necessarily a despotism, because it establishes an executive power in which 'all' decide for or even against one who does not agree; that is, 'all,' who are not quite all, decide, and this is a contradiction of the general will with itself and with freedom."[87] As with most writers at the time, he distinguished three forms of government i.e. democracy, aristocracy, and monarchy with mixed government as the most ideal form of it.
Kant lectured on anthropology for over 25 years. His Anthropology from a Pragmatic Point of View was published in 1798. (This was the subject of Michel Foucault's doctoral dissertation.) Kant's Lectures on Anthropology were published for the first time in 1997 in German.[88] The former was translated into English and published by the Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy series in 2006.[89]
Kant's influence on Western thought has been profound.[90] Over and above his influence on specific thinkers, Kant changed the framework within which philosophical inquiry has been carried out. He accomplished a paradigm shift: very little philosophy is now carried out in the style of pre-Kantian philosophy. This shift consists in several closely related innovations that have become axiomatic, in philosophy itself and in the social sciences and humanities generally:
Kant's "Copernican revolution", that placed the role of the human subject or knower at the center of inquiry into our knowledge, such that it is impossible to philosophize about things as they are independently of us or of how they are for us;[91]
His invention of critical philosophy, that is of the notion of being able to discover and systematically explore possible inherent limits to our ability to know through philosophical reasoning
His creation of the concept of "conditions of possibility", as in his notion of "the conditions of possible experience" – that is that things, knowledge, and forms of consciousness rest on prior conditions that make them possible, so that, to understand or to know them, we must first understand these conditions
His theory that objective experience is actively constituted or constructed by the functioning of the human mind
Some or all of these Kantian ideas can be seen in schools of thought as different from one another as German Idealism, Marxism, positivism, phenomenology, existentialism, critical theory, linguistic philosophy, structuralism, post-structuralism, and deconstructionism.[92][dubious – discuss]
Statue of Immanuel Kant in Kaliningrad (Königsberg), Russia. Replica by Harald Haacke (de) of the original by Christian Daniel Rauch lost in 1945.
During his own life, there was much critical attention paid to his thought. He had an influence on Reinhold, Fichte, Schelling, Hegel, and Novalis during the 1780s and 1790s. The school of thinking known as German Idealism developed from his writings. The German Idealists Fichte and Schelling, for example, tried to bring traditional "metaphysically" laden notions like "the Absolute", "God", and "Being" into the scope of Kant's critical thought.[93] In so doing, the German Idealists tried to reverse Kant's view that we cannot know what we cannot observe.
Hegel was one of Kant's first major critics. In response to what he saw as Kant's abstract and formal account, Hegel brought about an ethic focused on the "ethical life" of the community.[94] But Hegel's notion of "ethical life" is meant to subsume, rather than replace, Kantian ethics. And Hegel can be seen as trying to defend Kant's idea of freedom as going beyond finite "desires", by means of reason. Thus, in contrast to later critics like Nietzsche or Russell, Hegel shares some of Kant's most basic concerns.[95]
Kant's thinking on religion was used in Britain to challenge the decline in religious faith in the nineteenth century. British Catholic writers, notably G. K. Chesterton and Hilaire Belloc, followed this approach. Ronald Englefield debated this movement, and Kant's use of language. See Englefield's article,[96] reprinted in Englefield.[97] Criticisms of Kant were common in the realist views of the new positivism at that time.
Arthur Schopenhauer was strongly influenced by Kant's transcendental idealism. He, like G. E. Schulze, Jacobi, and Fichte before him, was critical of Kant's theory of the thing in itself. Things in themselves, they argued, are neither the cause of what we observe nor are they completely beyond our access. Ever since the first Critique of Pure Reason philosophers have been critical of Kant's theory of the thing in itself. Many have argued, if such a thing exists beyond experience then one cannot posit that it affects us causally, since that would entail stretching the category 'causality' beyond the realm of experience. For a review of this problem and the relevant literature see The Thing in Itself and the Problem of Affection in the revised edition of Henry Allison's Kant's Transcendental Idealism. For Schopenhauer things in themselves do not exist outside the non-rational will. The world, as Schopenhauer would have it, is the striving and largely unconscious will.
With the success and wide influence of Hegel's writings, Kant's influence began to wane, though there was in Germany a movement that hailed a return to Kant in the 1860s, beginning with the publication of Kant und die Epigonen in 1865 by Otto Liebmann. His motto was "Back to Kant", and a re-examination of his ideas began (See Neo-Kantianism). During the turn of the 20th century there was an important revival of Kant's theoretical philosophy, known as the Marburg School, represented in the work of Hermann Cohen, Paul Natorp, Ernst Cassirer,[98] and anti-Neo-Kantian Nicolai Hartmann.[99]
Kant's notion of "Critique" or criticism has been quite influential. The Early German Romantics, especially Friedrich Schlegel in his "Athenaeum Fragments", used Kant's self-reflexive conception of criticism in their Romantic theory of poetry.[100] Also in Aesthetics, Clement Greenberg, in his classic essay "Modernist Painting", uses Kantian criticism, what Greenberg refers to as "immanent criticism", to justify the aims of Abstract painting, a movement Greenberg saw as aware of the key limitiaton—flatness—that makes up the medium of painting.[101] French philosopher Michel Foucault was also greatly influenced by Kant's notion of "Critique" and wrote several pieces on Kant for a re-thinking of the Enlightenment as a form of "critical thought". He went so far as to classify his own philosophy as a "critical history of modernity, rooted in Kant".[102]
Kant believed that mathematical truths were forms of synthetic a priori knowledge, which means they are necessary and universal, yet known through intuition.[103] Kant's often brief remarks about mathematics influenced the mathematical school known as intuitionism, a movement in philosophy of mathematics opposed to Hilbert's formalism, and the logicism of Frege and Bertrand Russell.[104]
With his Perpetual Peace, Kant is considered to have foreshadowed many of the ideas that have come to form the democratic peace theory, one of the main controversies in political science.[105]
Prominent recent Kantians include the British philosopher P. F. Strawson,[106] the American philosophers Wilfrid Sellars[107] and Christine Korsgaard.[108] Due to the influence of Strawson and Sellars, among others, there has been a renewed interest in Kant's view of the mind. Central to many debates in philosophy of psychology and cognitive science is Kant's conception of the unity of consciousness.[109]
Jürgen Habermas and John Rawls are two significant political and moral philosophers whose work is strongly influenced by Kant's moral philosophy.[110] They have each argued against relativism,[111] supporting the Kantian view that universality is essential to any viable moral philosophy. Rawls's intellectual relationship with Kant is explored in A Theory of Justice: The Musical!, which premièred in Oxford in 2013 and which portrays Kant as Rawls's "utilitarian fairy Gottmutter".[112]
Kant's influence also has extended to the social, behavioral, and physical sciences, as in the sociology of Max Weber, the psychology of Jean Piaget, and the linguistics of Noam Chomsky. Kant's work on mathematics and synthetic a priori knowledge is also cited by theoretical physicist Albert Einstein as an early influence on his intellectual development.[113] Because of the thoroughness of the Kantian paradigm shift, his influence extends to thinkers who neither specifically refer to his work nor use his terminology.
Scholars have shown that Kant's critical ethos has also inspired nonwestern political thinkers, including the Muslim political reformer Tariq Ramadan.[114]
Kant's tomb is today in a mausoleum adjoining the northeast corner of Königsberg Cathedral in what is now known as Kaliningrad, Russia. The mausoleum was constructed by the architect Friedrich Lahrs and was finished in 1924 in time for the bicentenary of Kant's birth. Originally, Kant was buried inside the cathedral, but in 1880 his remains were moved outside and placed in a neo-Gothic chapel adjoining the northeast corner of the cathedral. Over the years, the chapel became dilapidated before it was demolished to make way for the mausoleum, which was built on the same spot, where it is today.
The tomb and its mausoleum are among the few artifacts of German times preserved by the Soviets after they conquered and annexed the city. Today, many newlyweds bring flowers to the mausoleum.
Artifacts previously owned by Kant, known as Kantiana, were included in the Königsberg City Museum. However, the museum was destroyed during World War II.
A replica of the statue of Kant that stood in German times in front of the main University of Königsberg building was donated by a German entity in the early 1990s and placed in the same grounds.
After the expulsion of Königsberg's German population at the end of World War II, the University of Königsberg where Kant taught was replaced by the Russian-language Kaliningrad State University, which took up the campus and surviving buildings of the historic German university. In 2005, the university was renamed Immanuel Kant State University of Russia. The change of name was announced at a ceremony attended by President Vladimir Putin of Russia and Chancellor Gerhard Schröder of Germany, and the university formed a Kant Society, dedicated to the study of Kantianism.
(1746, but published in 1749) Thoughts on the True Estimation of Vital Forces (Gedanken von der wahren Schätzung der lebendigen Kräfte)
(1755) A New Elucidation of the First Principles of Metaphysical Cognition (Neue Erhellung der ersten Grundsätze metaphysischer Erkenntnisse; Doctoral Thesis: Principiorum primorum cognitionis metaphysicae nova dilucidatio)
(1755) Universal Natural History and Theory of Heaven (Allgemeine Naturgeschichte und Theorie des Himmels)
(1762) The False Subtlety of the Four Syllogistic Figures (Die falsche Spitzfindigkeit der vier syllogistischen Figuren)
(1763) The Only Possible Argument in Support of a Demonstration of the Existence of God (Der einzig mögliche Beweisgrund zu einer Demonstration des Daseins Gottes)
(1763) Attempt to Introduce the Concept of Negative Magnitudes into Philosophy (Versuch den Begriff der negativen Größen in die Weltweisheit einzuführen)
(1764) Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime (Beobachtungen über das Gefühl des Schönen und Erhabenen)
(1764) Inquiry Concerning the Distinctness of the Principles of Natural Theology and Morality (the Prize Essay) (Untersuchungen über die Deutlichkeit der Grundsätze der natürlichen Theologie und der Moral)
(1783) "Prolegomena to any Future Metaphysics"[117] (Prolegomena zu einer jeden künftigen Metaphysik)
(1784) "An Answer to the Question: What Is Enlightenment?" (Beantwortung der Frage: Was ist Aufklärung?)[118]
(1784) "Idea for a Universal History with a Cosmopolitan Purpose" (Idee zu einer allgemeinen Geschichte in weltbürgerlicher Absicht)
(1786) Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science (Metaphysische Anfangsgründe der Naturwissenschaft)
(1793) Religion within the Limits of Reason Alone (Die Religion innerhalb der Grenzen der bloßen Vernunft)[124]
(1793) On the Old Saw: That may be right in theory, but it won't work in practice (Über den Gemeinspruch: Das mag in der Theorie richtig sein, taugt aber nicht für die Praxis)
(1797) Metaphysics of Morals (Metaphysik der Sitten). First part is The Doctrine of Right, which has often been published separately as The Science of Right.
(1817) Lectures on Philosophical Theology (Immanuel Kants Vorlesungen über die philosophische Religionslehre edited by K. H. L. Pölitz). [The English edition of A. W. Wood & G. M. Clark (Cornell, 1978) is based on Pölitz' second edition, 1830, of these lectures.][130]
Any suggestion of further reading on Kant has to take cognizance of the fact that his work has dominated philosophy like no other figure after him. Nevertheless, several guideposts can be made out. In Germany, one important contemporary interpreter of Kant and the movement of German Idealism he began is Dieter Henrich, who has some work available in English. P.F. Strawson's "The Bounds of Sense" (1969) played a significant role in determining the contemporary reception of Kant in England and America. More recent interpreters of note in the English-speaking world include Lewis White Beck, Jonathan Bennett, Henry Allison, Paul Guyer, Christine Korsgaard, Stephen Palmquist, Robert B. Pippin, Roger Scruton, Rudolf Makkreel, and Béatrice Longuenesse.
Broad, C. D. Kant: an Introduction. Cambridge University Press, 1978. ISBN 0-521-21755-5, ISBN 0-521-29265-4
Martin, Gottfried. Kant's Metaphysics and Theory of Science. Greenwood Press, 1955 ISBN 978-0-8371-7154-8 (elucidates Kant's most fundamental concepts in their historical context)
Perez, Daniel Omar. Kant e o problema da significação. Curitiba: Editora Champagnat, 2008. ISBN 978-85-7292-187-9 (Portuguese)
Palmquist, Stephen. Kant's System of Perspectives: an architectonic interpretation of the Critical philosophy. Lanham, MD: University Press of America, 1993. ISBN 0-8191-8927-8 (for availability see link)
Scruton, Roger. Kant: a Very Short Introduction. Oxford University Press, 2001. ISBN 0-19-280199-6 (provides a brief account of his life, and a lucid introduction to the three major critiques)
Uleman, Jennifer. An Introduction to Kant's Moral Philosophy. Cambridge University Press, 2010. ISBN 978-0-521-13644-0
Bader, Ralph (2008). "Kant, Immanuel (1724–1804)". In Hamowy, Ronald. The Encyclopedia of Libertarianism. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE; Cato Institute. pp. 269–71. ISBN 978-1-4129-6580-4. LCCN 2008009151. OCLC 750831024. 
Beck, Lewis White. Early German Philosophy: Kant and his Predecessors. Harvard University Press, 1969. (a survey of Kant's intellectual background)
Beiser, Frederick C. The Fate of Reason: German Philosophy from Kant to Fichte. Harvard University Press, 1987.
Beiser, Frederick C. German Idealism: the Struggle against Subjectivism, 1781–1801. Harvard University Press, 2002
Cassirer, Ernst. Kant's Life and Thought. Translation of Kants Leben und Lehre. Trans., Jame S. Haden, intr. Stephan Körner. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 1981.
Chamberlain, Houston Stewart. Immanuel Kant – a study and a comparison with Goethe, Leonardo da Vinci, Bruno, Plato and Descartes, the authorised translation from the German by Lord Redesdale, with his 'Introduction', The Bodley Head, London, 1914, (2 volumes).
Gulyga, Arsenij. Immanuel Kant: His Life and Thought. Trans., Marijan Despaltović. Boston: Birkhäuser, 1987.
Johnson, G.R. (ed.). Kant on Swedenborg. Dreams of a Spirit-Seer and Other Writings. Swedenborg Foundation, 2002. (new translation and analysis, many supplementary texts)
Kuehn, Manfred. Kant: a Biography. Cambridge University Press, 2001. ISBN 0-521-49704-3. (now the standard biography of Kant in English)
Lehner, Ulrich L., Kants Vorsehungskonzept auf dem Hintergrund der deutschen Schulphilosophie und -theologie (Leiden: 2007) (Kant's concept of Providence and its background in German school philosophy and theology)
Sassen, Brigitte (ed.). Kant's Early Critics: the Empiricist Critique of the Theoretical Philosophy, Cambridge, 2000.
Schabert, Joseph A. "Kant's Influence on his Successors", The American Catholic Quarterly Review, Vol. XLVII, January 1922.
Firestone, Chris L. and Palmquist, Stephen (eds.). Kant and the New Philosophy of Religion. Notre Dame: Indiana University Press, 2006. ISBN 0-253-21800-4
Förster, Eckart (ed.). Kant's Transcendental Deductions:. The Three 'Critiques' and the 'Opus Postumum' Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1989. Includes an important essay by Dieter Henrich.
Guyer, Paul & Cohen, Ted (eds). Essays in Kant's Aesthetics, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1985.
Guyer, Paul (ed.). Kant's Critique of the Power of Judgement. Critical Essays, Lanham: Rowman & Littlefield, 2003.
Guyer, Paul (ed.). The Cambridge Companion to Kant, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1992. ISBN 0-521-36587-2, ISBN 0-521-36768-9. Excellent collection of papers that covers most areas of Kant's thought.
Mohanty, J.N. and Shahan, Robert W. (eds.). Essays on Kant's Critique of Pure Reason. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1982. ISBN 0-8061-1782-6
Phillips, Dewi et al. (eds.). Kant and Kierkegaard on Religion. New York: Palgrave Macmillian, 2000, ISBN 0-312-23234-9 Collection of essays about Kantian religion and its influence on Kierkegaardian and contemporary philosophy of religion.
Proceedings of the International Kant Congresses. Several Congresses (numbered) edited by various publishers.
Allison, Henry. Kant's Transcendental Idealism. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1983, 2004. ISBN 0-300-03629-9, ISBN 0-300-03002-9 (a very influential defense of Kant's idealism, recently revised).
Ameriks, Karl. Kant's Theory of Mind: An Analysis of the Paralogisms of Pure Reason. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1982 (one of the first detailed studies of the Dialectic in English).
Deleuze, Gilles. Kant's Critical Philosophy. Trans., Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam. University of Minnesota Press, 1984. ISBN 0-8166-1341-9, ISBN 0-8166-1436-9
Farias, Vanderlei de Oliveira. Kants Realismus und der Aussenweltskeptizismus. OLMS. Hildesheim, Zürich, New York. 2006. (German)
Gram, Moltke S. The Transcendental Turn: The Foundation of Kant's Idealism. Gainesville: University Presses of Florida, 1984. ISBN 0-8130-0787-9
Guyer, Paul. Kant and the Claims of Knowledge. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1987 (modern defense of the view that Kant's theoretical philosophy is a "patchwork" of ill-fitting arguments).
Guyer, Paul. Knowledge, Reason, and Taste: Kant's Response to Hume. Princeton University Press, 2008.
Heidegger, Martin. Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics. Trans., Richard Taft. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1997. ISBN 0-253-21067-4
Henrich, Dieter. The Unity of Reason: Essays on Kant's Philosophy. Ed. with introduction by Richard L. Velkley; trans. Jeffrey Edwards et al. Harvard University Press, 1994. ISBN 0-674-92905-5
Kemp Smith, Norman. A Commentary to Kant's 'Critique of Pure Reason. London: Macmillan, 1930 (influential commentary on the first Critique, recently reprinted).
Longuenesse, Béatrice. Kant and the Capacity to Judge. Princeton University Press, 1998. ISBN 0-691-04348-5. (argues that the notion of judgment provides the key to understanding the overall argument of the first Critique)
Melnick, Arthur. Kant's Analogies of Experience. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1973. (important study of Kant's Analogies, including his defense of the principle of causality)
Paton, H. J. Kant's Metaphysic of Experience: a Commentary on the First Half of the Kritik der reinen Vernunft. Two volumes. London: Macmillan, 1936. (extensive study of Kant's theoretical philosophy)
Pippin, Robert B.. Kant's Theory of Form: an Essay on the Critique of Pure Reason. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1982. (influential examination of the formal character of Kant's work)
Sala, Giovanni. Kant, Lonergan und der christliche Glaube (Nordhausen: Bautz, 2005), ed. by Ulrich L. Lehner and Ronald K. Tacelli
Schopenhauer, Arthur. Die Welt als Wille und Vorstellung. Erster Band. Anhang. Kritik der Kantischen Philosophie. F. A. Brockhaus, Leipzig 1859 (In English: Arthur Schopenhauer, New York: Dover Press, Volume I, Appendix, "Criticism of the Kantian Philosophy", ISBN 0-486-21761-2)
Sgarbi, Marco. La Kritik der reinen Vernunft nel contesto della tradizione logica aristotelica. Hildesheim, Olms 2010
Strawson, P. F. The Bounds of Sense: an essay on Kant's Critique of Pure Reason. Routledge, 1989 (the work that revitalized the interest of contemporary analytic philosophers in Kant).
Sturm,Thomas. Kant und die Wissenschaften vom Menschen. Paderborn: Mentis Verlag, 2009. ISBN 3897856085; ISBN 978-3897856080. review (Treats Kant's anthropology and his views on psychology and history in relation to his philosophy of science.)
Tonelli, Giorgio. Kant's Critique of Pure Reason within the Tradition of Modern Logic. A Commentary on its History. Hildesheim, Olms 1994
Werkmeister, W.H., Kant: The Architectonic and Development of His Philosophy, Open Court Publishing Co., La Salle, Ill.; 1980 ISBN 0-87548-354-3 (it treats, as a whole, the architectonic and development of Kant's philosophy from 1755 through the Opus postumum.)
Wolff, Robert Paul. Kant's Theory of Mental Activity: a Commentary on the Transcendental Analytic of the Critique of Pure Reason. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1963. (detailed and influential commentary on the first part of the Critique of Pure Reason)
Yovel, Yirmiahu. Kant and the Philosophy of History. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1980. (review)
Assiter, Alison (July 2013). "Kant and Kierkegaard on freedom and evil". Royal Institute of Philosophy Supplement (Cambridge Journals Online) 72: 275–296. doi:10.1017/S1358246113000155. 
Dorschel, Andreas. Die idealistische Kritik des Willens: Versuch über die Theorie der praktischen Subjektivität bei Kant und Hegel. Hamburg: Felix Meiner, 1992 (Schriften zur Transzendentalphilosophie 10) ISBN 3-7873-1046-0.
Michalson, Gordon E. Fallen Freedom: Kant on Radical Evil and Moral Regeneration. Cambridge University Press, 1990.
Paton, H. J. The Categorical Imperative: A Study in Kant's Moral Philosophy. University of Pennsylvania Press 1971.
Wolff, Robert Paul. The Autonomy of Reason: A Commentary on Kant's Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals. New York: HarperCollins, 1974. ISBN 0-06-131792-6.
Allison, Henry. Kant's Theory of Taste: A Reading of the Critique of Aesthetic Judgment. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2001.
Clewis, Robert. The Kantian Sublime and the Revelation of Freedom. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2009.
Immanuel Kant entry in Kelly, Michael (Editor in Chief) (1998) Encyclopedia of Aesthetics. New York, Oxford, Oxford University Press.
Zammito, John H. The Genesis of Kant's Critique of Judgment. Chicago and London: Chicago University Press, 1992.
Palmquist, Stephen. Kant's Critical Religion: Volume Two of Kant's System of Perspectives. Ashgate, 2000. ISBN 0-7546-1333-X
Perez, Daniel Omar. "Religión, Política y Medicina en Kant: El Conflicto de las Proposiciones". Cinta de Moebio. Revista de Epistemologia de Ciencias Sociales, v. 28, p. 91–103, 2007. Uchile.cl (Spanish)
Caygill, Howard. A Kant Dictionary. Oxford, UK; Cambridge, Mass., US: Blackwell Reference, 1995. ISBN 0-631-17534-2, ISBN 0-631-17535-0
Mosser, Kurt. Necessity and Possibility; The Logical Strategy of Kant's Critique of Pure Reason. Catholic University of America Press, 2008. ISBN 978-0-8132-1532-7
Perez, D. O. . Os significados dos conceitos de hospitalidade em Kant e a problemática do estrangeiro. Revista Philosophica (Chile), v. 31, p. 43–53, 2007. Também em Konvergencias, 2007, nro. 15. UCV.cl, Konvergencias.net
Perez, D. O. A loucura como questão semântica:uma interpretação kantiana. Trans/Form/Ação, São Paulo, 32(1): 95–117, 2009. Scielo.br
White, Mark D. Kantian Ethics and Economics: Autonomy, Dignity, and Character. Stanford University Press, 2011. ISBN 978-0-8047-6894-8. (Reviewed in The Montreal Review)
Guyer, Paul. Kant and The Claims of Taste. Harvard University Press, 1979. 2nd Edition, Cambridge University Press, 1997.
Guyer, Paul. Knowledge, Reason, and Taste: Kant's Response to Hume. Princeton University Press, 2008.
Korsgaard, Christine. Creating the Kingdom of Ends. Cambridge; New York, NY, US: Cambridge University Press, 1996. ISBN 0-521-49644-6, ISBN 0-521-49962-3 (pbk.) (not a commentary, but a defense of a broadly Kantian approach to ethics)
McDowell, John. Mind and World. Harvard University Press, 1994. ISBN 0-674-57609-8. (offers a Kantian solution to a dilemma in contemporary epistemology regarding the relation between mind and world)
Parfit, Derek. On What Matters (2 vols). New York: Oxford University Press, 2011. ISBN 978-0-19-926592-3
Pinker, Steven. The Stuff of Thought. Viking Press, 2007. ISBN 978-0-670-06327-7. (Chapter 4 "Cleaving the Air" discusses Kant's anticipation of modern cognitive science)
Wood, Allen. Kant's Ethical Thought. Cambridge; New York, NY, US: Cambridge University Press, 1999. ISBN 0-521-64836-X. (comprehensive, in-depth study of Kant's ethics, with emphasis on formula of humanity as most accurate formulation of the categorical imperative)
KantPapers, authors and papers database powered by PhilPapers, focused on Kant, and located at Cornell University
Readable versions of Prolegomena, Groundwork for the Metaphysic of Morals, Critique of Pure Reason, Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science, The Form and Principles of the Sensible and Intelligible World, Perpetual Peace, and Religion within the Bounds of Bare Reason. (J. Bennett translations)
Categories: Immanuel Kant1724 births1804 deaths18th-century German writers18th-century philosophers18th-century Prussian peopleContinental philosophersEnlightenment philosophersEpistemologistsGerman idealismGerman agnosticsGerman philosophersGerman anthropologistsGerman logiciansGerman nationalistsGerman people of Scottish descentIdealistsKantianismKantian philosophersMembers of the Prussian Academy of SciencesMoral philosophersNatural philosophersOntologistsPeople from KönigsbergPeople of Baltic German descentPhilosophers of artPhilosophers of lawPhilosophers of sciencePhilosophers of sexualityPolitical liberals (international relations)Political theoristsUniversity of Königsberg facultyUniversity of Königsberg alumniHidden categories: Pages using citations with accessdate and no URLAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from October 2011All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from July 2009Use dmy dates from January 2013Infobox philosopher maintenanceArticles with unsourced statements from February 2013Articles with unsourced statements from November 2010Articles that may contain original research from December 2013Articles with unsourced statements from January 2013All accuracy disputesArticles with disputed statements from July 2010AC with 15 elementsWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with ULAN identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
German philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) is considered the most influential thinker of the Enlightenment era and one of the greatest Western philosophers of all times. His works, especially those on epistemology (theory of knowledge), aesthetics and ethics had a profound influence on later philosophers, including contemporary ones. 
Besides establishing himself as one of the foremost Western philosophers, Kant also made an important contribution to science and is considered one of the most important figures in the development of modern science despite the fact that he was most interested in philosophy of science and knowledge that science produces. His main contribution to the rise modern science was its liberation from theology. 
Immanuel Kant was born to Johann Georg Cant and his wife Anna Regina Cant as fourth of nine children. His (paternal) grandfather was from Scotland where the surname Cant is still relatively common in the north. Immanuel decided to change his surname from Cant into Kant in order for it to meet the German spelling and pronunciation practices. 
Kant grew up under the influence of Pietism, a Protestant sect that was very popular in north Germany during the early 18th century. At the age of 8, he enrolled into a Latin Pietist school with an aim to study theology when older. However, he soon developed interest in Latin and the classics. At the age of 16, he entered the University of Königsberg and mainly dedicated himself to study of mathematics but he also began to develop interest in philosophy. In 1746, he was forced to leave the university due to his father’s death. For nearly a decade, he worked as a private tutor for three influential families in order to help his younger siblings. 
In 1755, Kant returned to the University of Königsberg to continue his education. Within the same year, he received a doctorate from philosophy. He spent the next 15 years working as a lecturer and made a living from fees that were paid by the students attending his classes. But he also devoted a lot of his time to writing on various topics although his greatest masterpiece – the Critique of Pure Reason was published only in 1781. A decade earlier, he finally became a professor at the University of Königsberg and taught metaphysics and logic until 1797. During the last years of his life, he became embittered due to loss of memory which severely affected his ability to work but he continued to write nearly until the very end of his life. He died in 1804, aged 80. 
Kant was only 5 feet tall, thin and of fragile health. Nevertheless, he reached at the time extremely old age which he attributed to his strict daily routine. He got up at 5 o’clock every day and spent the next hour drinking tea, smoking his pipe and meditating. From 6 to 7 o’clock, he prepared for lectures he gave at home until 9 o’clock. He then worked in his study room until 1 o’clock and spent the next three hours dining, usually with his friends. After his only meal, he took a one hour walk and spent the afternoon and evening for reading and writing. The renowned German philosopher was completely dedicated to his work and never married. 
Kant’s philosophy is often described as the golden middle between rationalism and empiricism. He didn’t accept either of both views but he gave credit to both. While rationalists argue that knowledge is a product of reason, empiricists claim that all knowledge comes from experience. Kant rejected yet adopted both, arguing that experience is purely subjective if not first processed by pure reason. Using reason while excluding experience would according to Kant produce theoretical illusion. 
German philosopher published his first work – Thoughts on the True Estimation of Living Forces in 1747. Explaining the nature of space, Kant rejected post-Leibniz rationalists, arguing that metaphysic methods can prove the existence of essential force. Afterwards, Kant mainly focused on philosophical issues although he continued to write on science and similarly as Leibnizian also criticised Newton’s views. 
Inquiry Concerning the Distinctness of the Principles of Natural Theology and Morality, also known “the Prize Essay” (1764)
After taking the office of a professor at the University of Königsberg, Kant wrote inaugural dissertation – On the Form and Principles of the Sensible and Intelligible Work (1770), after which he didn’t publish anything for more than one decade. But his next work, Critique of Pure Reason (1781) was followed by nearly a decade of original and influential works which turned the philosophical thought in a whole new direction. Kant’s most influential mature works include:
After the so-called critical period (named after his three Critiques, published between 1781 and 1790), Kant’s health began to deteriorate rapidly but he continued to write. The most important works of the post-critical period include Religion within the Limits of Reason Alone (1793) and Metaphysics of Morals (1797).
﻿Cicero﻿﻿David Hume﻿﻿Rene Descartes﻿﻿﻿Thales of Miletus﻿﻿﻿Thomas AquinasSocratesSaint BonaventureBaruch Spinoza﻿Friedrich NitzscheSlavoj ŽižekAristotleConfuciusAvicennaFrancis BaconClaude Levi-StraussPlatoJohn RawlsImmanuel KantBoethiusSeneca the YoungerJohn Stuart Mill
=======================================================
Kant's Philosophical DevelopmentFirst published Mon Nov 3, 2003; substantive revision Thu Jan 18, 2007
The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy is copyright © 2014 by The Metaphysics Research Lab, Center for the Study of Language and Information (CSLI), Stanford University
=======================================================
In Fremont, Michigan, USA, today is Tuesday, August 21st, the 233rd day of 2007; there are 132 days left this year.  
=======================================================
Immanuel Kant was one of the most famous philosophers of his era. He wrote the famous, Critique of Pure Reason. Read more about his life and works in the following article.
place of death: Königsberg father: Johann Georg Kant mother: Anna Regina Porter education: University of Königsberg
Works & Achievements: Wrote famous works like Critique of Pure Reason, The False Subtlety of the Four Syllogistic Figures, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science, Critique of Practical Reason and Critique of Judgment.
Immanuel Kant was a famous Prussian philosopher. He was a professor of philosophy at Königsberg, in Prussia and spent his life in researching, lecturing and writing on philosophy. His most famous work was the "Critique of Pure Reason", which he wrote to combine reason with experience to move beyond the failures of traditional philosophy and metaphysics. With his philosophical views, he gave reasoned arguments against the scepticism and idealism of thinkers like Descartes, Berkeley and Hume. He also wrote important works in other areas such as religion, law, aesthetics, astronomy and history. His ideas and works influenced many German thinkers of his times. Kant had settled, and taken philosophy beyond, the argument between the rationalists and empiricists. His philosophy was amended and developed by future philosophers like Fichte, Schelling, Hegel and Schopenhauer. Kant had made for himself an important place in the history of philosophy. His important works include "The False Subtlety of the Four Syllogistic Figures", "Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals", "Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science", "Critique of Practical Reason" and "Critique of Judgment".
Immanuel Kant was born on April 22, 1724 in Konigsberg, the capital of Prussia, today it is the city of Kaliningrad in the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad Oblast. His father, Johann Georg Kant (1682–1746), was a German harnessmaker from Memel whereas his mother, Regina Dorothea Reuter was born in Nuremberg. He was the fourth child of the couple. Only three siblings of Kant could reach into adulthood. He was baptized with the name ‘Emanuel’ but after learning Hebrew, he changed his name to “Immanuel”. Kant spent his whole life in the city of Konigsberg. He received strict, punitive, and disciplinary education. He showed a great ability for studies at an early age. Kant first attended the Collegium Fredericianum and later, in 1740, joined the University of Königsberg. Kant learned the philosophy of Leibniz and Wolff under Martin Knutzen. Knutzen was a rationalist, familiar with the developments in British philosophy and science. He introduced Kant with the new mathematical physics of Newton. He deterred Kant from idealism, which was negatively regarded by most philosophers in the 18th century. His father suffered a stroke and subsequently died in 1746. This interrupted his studies and Kant had to become a private tutor in the smaller towns surrounding Königsberg. In 1749, he published his first philosophical work, “Thoughts on the True Estimation of Living Forces”.
Kant is prominently known for his transcendental idealist philosophy, which stated that time and space are not materially real but merely the ideal a priori condition of our internal intuition. He made a significant astronomical discovery when he discovered the retardation of the rotation of the Earth. For this discovery, he won the Berlin Academy Prize in 1754. Referring to this discovery, he said that time is not a thing in itself determined from experience, objects, motion, and change, but it is an unavoidable framework of the human mind that preconditions possible experience. In 1755, Kant became a university lecturer on “Metaphysics”. In his work, “General History of Nature and Theory of the Heavens” (1755), Kant proposed the Nebular hypothesis, which states that the solar system formed from a large cloud of gas, a nebula. He also said that the Milky Way was a large disk of stars, formed from a larger spinning cloud of gas. His predications opened new horizons in the field of astronomy and made the earliest step in extending astronomy beyond the solar system to galactic and extragalactic realms.
From this point, Karl gradually turned towards philosophical issues but he continued to write on science throughout his life. In early 1760s, he produced a number of important philosophical works, starting with “The False Subtlety of the Four Syllogistic Figures”, published in 1762. In the following year, he published two more philosophical works; “Attempt to Introduce the Concept of Negative Magnitudes into Philosophy” and “The Only Possible Argument in Support of a Demonstration of the Existence of God”. Later, in 1764, he wrote “Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime”. At the age of 45, in 1770, Kant was appointed Professor of Logic and Metaphysics at the University of Königsberg. By the age of 46, he had become an established scholar and an increasingly influential philosopher. A cordial and social person, Kant took an unexpected step and isolated himself. Despite the frequent attempts of his friends to bring him out of isolation, he remained aloof.
 In 1781, Kant finally broke his silence and came out with his publication, “Critique of Pure Reason”. This massive 800 page book was originally published in German. Its initial publication was largely ignored and received very few reviews. Disappointed with the Critique's reception, Kant wrote “the Prolegomena to any Future Metaphysics” in 1783 to clarify the original treatise by presenting the summary of his main views. His reputation grew substantially in 1780s with the publication of his other important works such as, the 1784 essay, “Answer to the Question: What is Enlightenment?” his first moral philosophical work, “Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals” (1785) and 1786s “Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science”. In 1787, Kant published the second edition of the “Critique of Pure Reason” (Kritik der reinen Vernunft). The next year in 1788, he wrote another moral philosophical book, “Critique of Practical Reason”. In his book “Critique of Judgment” published in 1790, he applied the Kantian system to aesthetics and teleology.
In the year 1792, Kant made an attempt to publish the second of the four “Pieces of Religion within the Bounds of Bare Reason”, in the journal Berlinische Monatsschrift, but he was opposed by the king's censorship commission. Kant, then, arranged the four pieces into a book and published it through the philosophy department at University of Jena. Kant was openly reprimanded by the king for this action; however he published the second edition of the book in 1794. It fumed censor and brought a royal order for Kant to never publish or even speak publicly about religion. Apart from writing about philosophy, Kant also wrote on a number of topics such as semi-popular essays on history, religion, and politics. These works were well received by his contemporaries and helped in establishing his preeminent status in eighteenth century philosophy. 
 1749:  Published his first philosophical work, “Thoughts on the True Estimation of Living Forces”.
 1763:  Published philosophical works, “Attempt to Introduce the Concept of Negative Magnitudes into Philosophy” and “The Only Possible Argument in Support of a Demonstration of the Existence of God”.
 1787:  Published the second edition of the “Critique of Pure Reason” (Kritik der reinen Vernunft).
Three Minute Philosophy - Immanuel KantViews: 855703 | Likes: 5744 | Dislikes: 129Immanuel Kant: The Great SynthesizerViews: 49098 | Likes: 226 | Dislikes: 6Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) MetaphysicsViews: 27765 | Likes: 159 | Dislikes: 6 
Kant: Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics: With Selections from the Critique of Pure Reason (Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy)
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/loading-indicator._V192185253_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif');
        background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/buttons._V243643239_.gif')
    background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/traffic/s9m/alert-small._V195630253_.gif");
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/donsbeak-sm-up._V197474569_.png) no-repeat 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite-mini.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) was one of the most influential philosophers of all time. His comprehensive and profound thinking on aesthetics, ethics, and knowledge has had an immense impact on all subsequent philosophy.
Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) was one of the most influential philosophers of all time. His comprehensive and profound thinking on aesthetics, ethics, and knowledge has had an immense impact on all subsequent philosophy.
Grounding for the Metaphysics of Morals: With on a Supposed Right to Lie Because of Philanthropic Concerns by Immanuel Kant
Kant: Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals (Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy) by Mary Gregor, Jens Timmermann and Christine M. Korsgaard
Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics: and the Letter to Marcus Herz, February 1772 by Immanuel Kant and James W. Ellington
Kant: Political Writings (Cambridge Texts in the History of Political Thought) by Immanuel Kant, H. S. Reiss and H. B. Nisbet
Critique of the Power of Judgment (The Cambridge Edition of the Works of Immanuel Kant) by Immanuel Kant, Professor Paul Guyer and Eric Matthews
Practical Philosophy (The Cambridge Edition of the Works of Immanuel Kant) by Immanuel Kant, Mary J. Gregor and Allen W. Wood
Critique of Pure Reason, Second Edition by Immanuel Kant, Gary Banham, Norman Kemp Smith and Howard Caygill
Kant: Religion within the Boundaries of Mere Reason: And Other Writings (Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy... by Immanuel Kant, Allen Wood, George Di Giovanni and Robert Merrihew Adams
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/tile-blue-bg._V46870869_.gif)
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tl._V192184760_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tm._V192184721_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tr._V192184429_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bl._V192184824_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bm._V192184603_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-br._V192545463_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tl2._V192545542_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tr2._V192545537_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-bl._V192545543_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-br._V192545543_.gif);
Help us improve our Author Pages by updating your bibliography and submitting a new or current image and biography.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
ul.multicol2,ul.multicol3 {float:left;width:100%;margin:0;padding:0;list-style:none;text-align:center}
Immanuel KantPhilosopherBorn: 22 April 1724Died: 12 February 1804Birthplace: Konigsberg, Prussia (now Kaliningrad, Russia)Best known as: German philosopher who wrote Critique of Pure ReasonGerman philosopher Immanuel Kant's position as one of the greats in Western metaphysics comes from works he published late in life, including Critique of Pure Reason (1781) and The Fundamental Principles of the Metaphysics of Ethics (1785).  He grew up in Königsberg and never really left home, spending most of his professional life attached to the university there as a lecturer on philosophy.  His lectures made him internationally famous, and he followed an outstanding academic career with published works that became standards in Western philosophy.  Kant, influenced by the works of David Hume, held that we could only know what we experience, what he called the phenomenal, and that we could never know that which is beyond experience, what he called the noumenal.  In doing so, Kant ruled out the possibility of our demonstrable knowledge of God, without ruling out the existence of God.  But he also argued for an absolute morality based on free will and rationality, referred to as the categorical imperative:  "Act as if the maxim from which you act were to become through your will a universal law."  His brilliant, sometimes impenetrable arguments about the limits of human understanding are part of the canon of Western thought.  His works include Prolegomena (his 1783 attempt to better explain Critique of Pure Reason), Critique of Practical Reason (1788) and Critique of Judgment (1790).Extra credit: Kant's belief that our understanding of objects would always be skewed by our limited capacity to understand can be seen in his famous quote:  "Out of the crooked timber of humanity no straight thing can ever be made."Copyright © 1998-2014			by Who2?, LLC. All rights reserved.More on Immanuel Kant from Infoplease:
Kant: meaning and definitions - Kant: Definition and PronunciationImmanuel Kant - Kant, Immanuel Kant, Immanuel , 1724–1804, German metaphysician, one of the greatest figures ...Immanuel Kant - Biography of Immanuel Kant, German philosopher who wrote Critique of Pure ReasonImmanuel Kant: Philosophy - Philosophy According to Kant, his reading of David Hume awakened him from his dogmatic slumber and ...Immanuel Kant: Bibliography - Bibliography See H. W. Cassirer, A Commentary on Kant's Critique of Judgment (1938, repr. 1970) ...
Warning: fsockopen(): php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
Warning: fsockopen(): unable to connect to :3128 (php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known) in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
=======================================================
Immanuel Kant Biography - life, family, childhood, children, death, history, school, information, born, tall, time
.Comments_messagebox {text-align:center;color:#C52525;background-color:#FFEAEA;border:1px dotted #DB8686;width:100%;padding:10px;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;margin-bottom:15px;}#Comments_form input { margin-left:10px;margin-right:10px;margin-top:5px;display:block;width:150px;}#Comments_form textarea { margin-left:10px;display:block;width:95%;height:140px;}#Comments_form div.Comments_name {float:left;}#Comments_form div.Comments_mail {float:left;position:relative;}#Comments_form div.Comments_showmail {margin-left:8px;color:gray;font-size:8pt;}#Comments_form div.Comments_text {clear:left;}#Comments_form div.Comments_captcha { float:left;}#Comments_form img.Comments_captcha { margin-left:10px;margin-top:15px;border:1px solid #BCC6D6;padding:2px;}#Comments_form .Comments_showmail label {display:inline;margin:2px;width:auto;}#Comments_form .Comments_showmail input {display:inline;margin:0px;width:auto;border:none;background-color:transparent;}div.Comments_form {width:96%; padding:10px 20px; margin: auto;}div.Comments_commentsbox {width:100%;margin:auto;padding:8px;margin-bottom:8px;line-height:normal;}#Comments_section h4 {margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px;}div.Comments_comment {width:96%; border-top: 4px solid #C4DAE5; border-right: 1px solid #E8F1F7; border-left: 1px solid #E8F1F7; padding:2px; padding-top:8px;  margin: auto; background-repeat:repeat-x;background-position:top;margin-bottom:12px; background-color:#FBFBFB;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_info {height:28px;overflow:hidden;position:relative;top:-17px;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_link  { z-index:2;text-align:center;width:13px;position:relative;left:5px;top:-17px;}div.Comments_comment a.Comments_link   { font-family:Tahoma,Arial;font-weight:bold;text-decoration:none;color:#CC0000;font-size:7pt;border:none;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_balloon { z-index:1;width:23px;height:21px;position:relative;top:0px;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_date {float:right;font-family:Tahoma,Arial;font-size:7pt;color:gray;display:inline;position:relative;top:-20px;left:-7px;opacity:0.5;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_moderate {float:right;display:inline;position:relative;top:-19px;left:-2px;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_user { font-family:Tahoma,Arial;font-size:8pt;display:inline;position:relative;top:-19px;left:29px;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_user a { font-weight:bold;text-decoration:none;color:#006699; }div.Comments_comment div.Comments_text { margin-left:30px;color:#666666;position:relative;top:-10px;font-size:96%;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_clear {clear:both;line-height:1px;height:1px;display:inline;}div.Comments_comment {background-image:url('/images/comments.back.1.png')}div.Comments_comment_alt {background-image:url('/images/comments.back.2.png')}#qaComments {text-align:left;}
 Comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about this topic:Name:E-mail:Show my email publiclyType the code shown:Public Comment:&nbsp (50-4000 characters)  
=======================================================
A spellbinding true story — Raised on Fear by Lee Cox  http://wp.temphost.us/book/purchase/Igniting hope and purpose in peoples lives. The EVE Foundation is impacting teens and adults who have been abused. Our programs open up conversations about hardship and abuse and inspire a positive view of the future, empowering people to go beyond the hurt and pain and to live life with an inspired purpose. http://wp.temphost.us/programs/Who We Are We are committed to a future where children are born into a world of love and acceptance.  
"I grew up in a world of unpredictability and violence. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence." Raised on Fear is a true story by Lee Cox. A self healing, must-read. Buy today and get free shipping.
From Chapter One – “I grew up in a world of violence and unpredictability. I learned to protect myself the best I could. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal, and to cover my fear with anger and violence.
No one knew the abuse that went on in our home, as we all learned to keep it hidden. No one knew my wish to make it stop. And later, no one knew the fear that overwhelmed me and drove me to hit and hurt the ones I loved most.”
This book exposes the thinking, beliefs and actions of a child who grows up to find himself being the abuser in his family. We follow his story from before childhood to the beginning of his journey to stop his violent and abusive behaviors.
Lee Cox offers powerful insights into his journey of healing himself. When he shares his story, his courage, candor and honesty inspire his audience to help stop domestic abuse. Lee speaks to: Students, Teachers, Law Enforcement, Domestic Violence Professionals, Civic organizations, Self Help groups and Community Leaders. Contact the EVE Foundation to have Lee speak at your next event.
“I grew up in a world of unpredictability and violence. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence.” Raised on Fear is a true story by Lee Cox. A self healing, must-read. Buy today and get free shipping.
“I grew up in a world of violence and unpredictability. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence.”
The EVE Foundation is impacting teens and adults who have been abused. Our programs open up conversations about hardship and abuse and inspire a positive view of the future, empowering people to go beyond the hurt and pain and to live life with an inspired purpose. It is our mission to make a real difference with humans by educating and continually re-igniting their flame of hope, inspiration, and purpose, so they can heal themselves.
The EVE Foundation is committed to a future where children are born into a world of love and acceptance. We contribute to that future through programs designed to inspire healing, responsibility, empowerment and hope. Our target audience is at risk teens, abusers and the abused.
Committed to raising money to fund local organizations who focus on child abuse prevention. We achieve this by collecting, repairing, cleaning and selling donated items.
Group of men and women working to make our communities better places to live though programs of service in Americanism, Community  Service, Youth Activities, and it’s national project, the Prevention of Child Abuse.
=======================================================
Sponsors | Privacy Policy | Technical Questions | Editorial Questions | Usage Policy | Directors & Staff | Site Map  | RSS Feeds 
=======================================================
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #0E658E), color-stop(.5, #0C577A), color-stop(.5, #014D71), to(#003E5C)); 
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #b28b06), color-stop(.5, #9c7705), color-stop(.5, #9c7705), to(#5c4100)); 
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #edbf21), color-stop(.5, #c89b0f), color-stop(.5, #c89b0f), to(#906706)); 
.stab{font-family: 'Days One', sans-serif; text-shadow: 1px 1px 2px #ffffff; filter: dropshadow(color=#ffffff, offx=1, offy=1);  width:500px; line-height:36px; padding-bottom:5px; color:#4c4136; font-size:36px;font-weight:bold; text-transform:uppercase;}
                            Memoro is an international non-profit project, an open archive of audio or video interviews of people born before 1950.
                    You can easily contribute: a camera, a smartphone, a webcam or an audio-recorder is enough. 
                            If you are an Association, a Museum or an Archive, share your contents with more 
                            We need your help to improve the project, to collect more memories and preserve them for the future, to develop Memoro projects in new Countries, to keep the site free from advertising.
