=======================================================
Dame Elizabeth Rosemond "Liz" Taylor, DBE (February 27, 1932 – March 23, 2011) was a British-American[2] actress. From her early years as a child star with MGM, she became one of the great screen actresses of Hollywood's Golden Age. As one of the world's most famous film stars, Taylor was recognized for her acting ability and for her glamorous lifestyle, beauty, and distinctive violet eyes.
National Velvet (1944) was Taylor's first success, and she starred in Father of the Bride (1950), A Place in the Sun (1951), Giant (1956), Cat on a Hot Tin Roof (1958), and Suddenly, Last Summer (1959). She won the Academy Award for Best Actress for BUtterfield 8 (1960), played the title role in Cleopatra (1963), and married her costar Richard Burton. They appeared together in 11 films, including Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? (1966), for which Taylor won a second Academy Award. From the mid-1970s, she appeared less frequently in film, and made occasional appearances in television and theatre.
Her much-publicized personal life included eight marriages and several life-threatening illnesses. From the mid-1980s, Taylor championed HIV and AIDS programs; she co-founded the American Foundation for AIDS Research in 1985, and the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation in 1993. She received the Presidential Citizens Medal, the Legion of Honour, the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award and a Life Achievement Award from the American Film Institute, who named her seventh on their list of the "Greatest American Screen Legends". Taylor died of congestive heart failure in March 2011 at the age of 79, having suffered many years of ill health.
Elizabeth Rosemond Taylor was born at Heathwood, her parents' home at 8 Wildwood Road in Hampstead Garden Suburb,[3][4][5] a northwestern suburb of London; the younger of two children of Francis Lenn Taylor (1897–1968) and Sara Sothern (née Sara Viola Warmbrodt;[6] 1895–1994), who were Americans residing in England. Taylor's older brother, Howard Taylor, was born in 1929.[7] Her parents were originally from Arkansas City, Kansas. Francis Taylor was an art dealer, and Sara was a former actress whose stage name was "Sara Sothern". Sothern retired from the stage in 1926 when she married Francis in New York City. Taylor's two first names are in honor of her paternal grandmother, Elizabeth Mary (Rosemond) Taylor. One of her maternal great-grandfathers was Swiss.[8]
Colonel Victor Cazalet, one of their closest friends, had an important influence on the family. He was a rich, well-connected bachelor, a Member of Parliament and close friend of Winston Churchill. Cazalet loved both art and theatre and was passionate when encouraging the Taylor family to think of England as their permanent home. Additionally, as a Christian Scientist and lay preacher, his links with the family were spiritual. He also became Elizabeth's godfather. In one instance, when she was suffering with a severe infection as a child, she was kept in her bed for weeks. She "begged" for his company: "Mother, please call Victor and ask him to come and sit with me."[9]:14
Biographer Alexander Walker suggests that Elizabeth's conversion to Judaism at the age of 27 and her lifelong support for Israel, may have been influenced by views she heard at home. Walker notes that Cazalet actively campaigned for a Jewish homeland, and her mother also worked in various charities, which included sponsoring fundraisers for Zionism. Her mother recalls the influence that Cazalet had on Elizabeth:
Victor sat on the bed and held Elizabeth in his arms and talked to her about God. Her great dark eyes searched his face, drinking in every word, believing and understanding.[9]:14
A dual citizen of the United Kingdom and the United States, she was born British through her birth on British soil and an American citizen through her parents. In October 1965, as her then-husband was British, she signed an oath of renunciation at the U.S. Embassy in Paris, but with the phrase "abjure all allegiance and fidelity to the United States" struck out. U.S. State Department officials declared that her renunciation was invalid due to the alteration and Taylor signed another oath, this time without alteration, in October 1966.[10] She applied for restoration of U.S. citizenship in 1977, during then-husband John Warner's Senate campaign, stating she planned to remain in America for the rest of her life.[11][12]
At the age of three, Taylor began taking ballet lessons. Shortly before the beginning of World War II, her parents decided to return to the United States to avoid hostilities. Her mother took the children first, arriving in New York in April 1939,[13] while her father remained in London to wrap up matters in his art business, arriving in November.[14] They settled in Los Angeles, California, where her father established a new art gallery, which included many paintings he shipped from England. The gallery soon attracted numerous Hollywood celebrities who appreciated its modern European paintings. According to Walker, the gallery "opened many doors for the Taylors, leading them directly into the society of money and prestige" within Hollywood's movie colony.[9]:27
Soon after settling in Los Angeles, Taylor's mother discovered that Hollywood people "habitually saw a movie future for every pretty face". Some of her mother's friends, and even total strangers, urged her to have Taylor screen-tested for the role of Bonnie Blue, Scarlett's child in Gone with the Wind, then being filmed. Her mother refused the idea, as a child actress in film was alien to her, and in any case they would return to England after the war.[9]:28
Hollywood columnist Hedda Hopper introduced the Taylors to Andrea Berens, the fiancée of John Cheever Cowdin, chairman and major stockholder of Universal Pictures. Berens insisted that Sara take Taylor to see Cowdin who, she assured, would be dazzled by her breathtaking beauty.[15] Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer also became interested in Taylor, and MGM head Louis B. Mayer reportedly told his producer, "Sign her up, sign her up! What are you waiting for?" As a result, she soon had both Universal and MGM willing to place her under contract. When Universal learned that MGM was equally interested, however, Cowdin telephoned Universal from New York: "Sign her up, he ordered, don't even wait for the screen test." Universal then gave her a seven-year contract.[9]:31
Taylor appeared in her first motion picture at the age of nine in There's One Born Every Minute (1942), her only film for Universal.[16]
After less than a year, however, the studio fired Taylor for unknown reasons. Some speculate that she did not live up to Cowdin's promise. Walker believes that Taylor's intuition told her "she wasn't really welcome at Universal." She learned, for instance, that her casting director complained, "The kid has nothing", after a test. Even her beautiful eyes did not impress him. Taylor's eyes were a deep blue that appeared violet[17][18] and stunned those who met her in person,[19] with a mutation that gave Taylor double eyelashes[7][18] "Her eyes are too old, she doesn't have the face of a child," he said.[9]:32 But Walker admits that "this was not so far off the mark as it may appear now". He explains:
There was something slightly odd about Elizabeth's looks, even at this age – an expression that sometimes made people think she was older than she was. She already had her mother's air of concentration. Later on, it would prove an invaluable asset. At the time, it disconcerted people who compared her unfavorably with Shirley Temple's cute bubbling innocence or Judy Garland's plainer and more vulnerable juvenile appeal.[9]:32
Taylor herself remembers that when she was a child in England, adults used to describe her as having an "old soul," because, as she says, "I was totally direct."[20] She also recognized similar traits in her baby daughter:
I saw my daughter as a baby, before she was a year old, look at people, steadily, with those eyes of hers, and see people start to fidget, and drop things out of their pockets and finally, unable to stand the heat, get out of the room.[20]
Taylor's father served as an air raid warden with MGM producer Sam Marx, and learned that the studio was searching for an English actress for a Lassie film. Taylor received the role and was offered a long-term contract at the beginning of 1943.[21] She chose MGM because "the people there had been nicer to her when she went to audition", Taylor recalled.[9]:32 MGM's production chief, Benny Thau, was to remain the "only MGM executive" she fully trusted during subsequent years, because, writes Walker, "he had, out of kindly habit, made the gesture that showed her she was loved".[9]:32 Thau remembered her as a "little dark-haired beauty ... [with] those strange and lovely eyes that gave the face its central focus, oddly powerful in someone so young."[9]:34 MGM, in addition, was considered a "glamorous studio", boasting that it had "more stars than there are in heaven." Before Taylor's mother would sign the contract, however, she sought certainty that Taylor had a "God-given talent" to become an actress. Walker describes how they came to a decision:
[Mrs. Taylor] wanted a final sign of revelation ... Was there a divine plan for her? Mrs. Taylor took her old script for The Fool, in which she had played the scene of the girl whose faith is answered by a miracle cure. Now she asked Elizabeth to read her own part, while she read the lines of the leading man. She confessed to weeping openly. She said, 'There sat my daughter playing perfectly the part of the child as I, a grown woman, had tried to do it. It seemed that she must have been in my head all those years I was acting'.[9]:38–39
MGM cast Taylor in Lassie Come Home (1943) with child-star Roddy McDowall, with whom she would share a lifelong friendship. He later recalled regarding her beauty, "who has double eyelashes except a girl who was absolutely born to be on the big screen?"[7] The film received favorable attention for both actors, and MGM signed Taylor to a conventional seven-year contract, starting at $100 a week with regular raises. Her first assignment under her new contract was a loan-out to 20th Century Fox for the character of Helen Burns in a film version of the Charlotte Brontë novel Jane Eyre (1943). Taylor returned to England to appear in another McDowall picture for MGM, The White Cliffs of Dover (1944).
Taylor's persistence in seeking the role of Velvet Brown in MGM's National Velvet made her a star at the age of 12. Her character was a young girl, training her beloved horse to win the Grand National. Velvet, which costarred fellow young actor Mickey Rooney and English newcomer Angela Lansbury, became a great success upon its release in December 1944. Many years later Taylor called it "the most exciting film" she had ever made,[6] although the film caused many of her later back problems due to her falling off a horse during filming.[21]
Viewers and critics "fell in love with Elizabeth Taylor when they saw her in it." Walker explains why the film was popular:
Its enormous popularity rubs off on to its heroine because she expresses, with the strength of an obsession, the aspirations of people—people who have never seen a girl on horseback, or maybe even a horse race for that matter—who believe that anything is possible ... A philosophy of life, in other words ... a film which ... has acquired the status of a generational classic ...[9]:41
National Velvet grossed over US$4 million and MGM signed Taylor to a new long-term contract. Because of the movie's success she was cast in another animal film, Courage of Lassie (1946), in which Bill the dog outsmarts the Nazis. The film's success led to another contract for Taylor paying her $750 per week. Her roles as the neurotic Mary Skinner in a loan-out to Warner Brothers' Life With Father (1947), Cynthia Bishop in Cynthia (1947), Carol Pringle in A Date with Judy (1948), and Susan Prackett in Julia Misbehaves (1948) were all successful. Taylor earned a reputation as a consistently successful adolescent actress, with a nickname of "One-Shot Liz" (referring to her ability to shoot a scene in one take) and a promising career. Taylor's portrayal of Amy in the American classic Little Women (1949) was her last adolescent role.
MGM studios provided schooling for its child stars with classrooms within the studio grounds. Taylor, however, came to dislike being cut off from typical schools with average students who were not treated like stars. She recalls her life before studio acting as a happier period in her childhood:
One of the few times I've ever really been happy in my life was when I was a kid before I started acting. With the other kids I'd make up games, play with dolls, pretend games ... As I got more famous—after National Velvet, when I was 12—I still wanted to be part of their lives, but I think in a way they began to regard me as a sort of an oddity, a freak.
I hated school—because it wasn't school. I wanted terribly to be with kids. On the set the teacher would take me by my ear and lead me into the schoolhouse. I would be infuriated; I was 16 and they weren't taking me seriously. Then after about 15 minutes I'd leave class to play a passionate love scene as Robert Taylor's wife.[22]
The teenage Taylor was reluctant to continue making films. Her stage mother forced Taylor to relentlessly practice until she could cry on cue and watched her during filming, signaling to change her delivery or a mistake. Taylor met few others her age on movie sets, and was so poorly educated that she needed to use her fingers to do basic arithmetic. When, at age 16, Taylor told her parents that she wanted to quit acting for a normal childhood, Sara Taylor told her that she was ungrateful: "You have a responsibility, Elizabeth. Not just to this family, but to the country now, the whole world".[23]
In October 1948, Taylor sailed aboard the RMS Queen Mary to England to begin filming Conspirator. Unlike some other child actors, Taylor made an easy transition to adult roles.[6] Before Conspirator's 1949 release, a TIME cover article called her "a jewel of great price, a true star sapphire", and the leader among Hollywood's next generation of stars such as Montgomery Clift, Kirk Douglas, and Ava Gardner.[24] The petite Taylor had the figure of a mature woman, with a 19" waist.[23] Conspirator failed at the box office, but 16-year-old Taylor's portrayal of a 21-year-old debutante who unknowingly marries a communist spy played by 38-year old Robert Taylor, was praised by critics for her first adult lead in a film. Taylor's first picture under her new salary of $2,000 per week was The Big Hangover(1950), both a critical and box office failure, that paired her with screen idol Van Johnson. The picture also failed to present Taylor with an opportunity to exhibit her newly realized sensuality.[25]
Her first box office success in an adult role came as Kay Banks in the comedy Father of the Bride (1950), alongside Spencer Tracy and Joan Bennett.[26] The film spawned a sequel, Father's Little Dividend (1951), which Taylor's co-star Spencer Tracy summarized with "boring... boring... boring".[27] The film did well at the box office, but it would be Taylor's next picture that would set the course for her career as a dramatic actress.[26]
In late 1949, Taylor had begun filming George Stevens' A Place in the Sun. Upon its release in 1951, Taylor was hailed for her performance as Angela Vickers, a spoiled socialite who comes between George Eastman (Montgomery Clift) and his poor, pregnant factory-working girlfriend Alice Tripp (Shelley Winters).[6] The film, based on Theodore Dreiser's novel, An American Tragedy, was an indictment of "the American dream" and its corrupting influences, notes biographer Kitty Kelley.[28]
Although Taylor, then only 17, was unaware of the psychological implications of the story and its powerful nuances, it became the pivotal performance of Taylor's career. Kelley explains that Stevens, its director, knew that with Elizabeth Taylor as the young and beautiful star, the "audience would understand why George Eastman (Clift) would kill for a place in the sun with her."[28] Hollywood columnist Hedda Hopper, allowed on the set to watch the filming, became "wide-eyed watching the little girl from National Velvet seduce Montgomery Clift in front of the camera," writes Kelley. When the scene was over, Hopper went to her, "Elizabeth, where on earth did you ever learn how to make love like that?"[28]
Critics acclaimed the film as a classic, a reputation it sustained throughout the next 50 years of cinema history. The New York Times' A.H. Weiler wrote, "Elizabeth's delineation of the rich and beauteous Angela is the top effort of her career", and the Boxoffice reviewer unequivocally stated "Miss Taylor deserves an Academy Award".
Taylor became increasingly unsatisfied with the roles being offered to her at the time. While she wanted to play the lead roles in The Barefoot Contessa and I'll Cry Tomorrow, MGM continued to restrict her to mindless and somewhat forgettable films such as: a cameo as herself in Callaway Went Thataway (1951), Love Is Better Than Ever (1952), Ivanhoe (1952),[26] and The Girl Who Had Everything[29] (1953).
Taylor's next screen endeavor, Rhapsody (1954), another tedious romantic drama, proved equally frustrating. Taylor portrayed Louise Durant, a beautiful rich girl in love with a temperamental violinist (Vittorio Gassman) and an earnest young pianist (John Ericson). A film critic for the New York Herald Tribune wrote: "There is beauty in the picture all right, with Miss Taylor glowing into the camera from every angle... but the dramatic pretenses are weak, despite the lofty sentences and handsome manikin poses."[30]
Taylor's fourth period picture, Beau Brummell, made just after Elephant Walk and Rhapsody, cast her as the elaborately costumed Lady Patricia, which many felt was only a screen prop—a ravishing beauty whose sole purpose was to lend romantic support to the film's title star, Stewart Granger.The Last Time I Saw Paris (1954) fared only slightly better than her previous pictures, with Taylor being reunited with The Big Hangover costar Van Johnson. The role of Helen Ellsworth Willis was based on that of Zelda Fitzgerald and, although pregnant with her second child, Taylor went ahead with the film, her fourth in 12 months. Although proving somewhat successful at the box office, she still yearned for more substantial roles.[26]
Following a more substantial role opposite Rock Hudson and James Dean in George Stevens' epic Giant (1956), Taylor was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actress four years in a row for Raintree County (1957)[31] opposite Montgomery Clift; Cat on a Hot Tin Roof (1958)[32] opposite Paul Newman; Suddenly, Last Summer (1959)[33] with Montgomery Clift, Katharine Hepburn and Mercedes McCambridge; and finally winning for BUtterfield 8 (1960).[34] The film co-starred then-husband Eddie Fisher[6] and ended her contract, which Taylor said had made her an "MGM chattel" for 18 years.[35]
Suddenly, Last Summer's success placed Taylor among the top-ten most successful actors at the box office, and she remained in the top-ten almost every year for the next decade.[35] In 1960, Taylor became the highest-paid actress up to that time when she signed a $1 million dollar contract to play the title role in 20th Century Fox's lavish production of Cleopatra,[33] which was released in 1963. During the filming, she began a romance with her future husband Richard Burton, who played Mark Antony in the film. The romance received much attention from the tabloid press, as both were married to other spouses at the time.[36] Taylor ultimately received $7 million for her role.[35]
Her second Academy Award, also for Best Actress in a Leading Role, was for her performance as Martha in Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? (1966),[37] playing opposite then-husband Richard Burton. The film was a turning point for both Taylor and Burton, as it was the "most exciting and daunting project either of them had ever contemplated," writes Walker. Taylor saw the film as her chance to act, "to really act," and a chance to emulate one of her favorite dramatic actresses, Vivien Leigh, who played roles as a "tragic heroine." For this part, however, Taylor worried that she did not look old enough, as her character was to be twenty years older. To compensate, she added gray hairs and transformed herself both physically and vocally: she intentionally gained weight, minimized makeup, and added excessive mascara to her eyes along with smudgy bags beneath them.[9]:281–282
Taylor and Burton appeared together in six other films during the decade, among them The V.I.P.s (1963), The Sandpiper (1965), and The Taming of the Shrew (1967). By 1967 their films had earned $200 million at the box office. When Taylor and Burton considered not working for three months, the possibility caused alarm in Hollywood as "nearly half of the U.S. film industry's income" came from movies starring one or both of them. Their next films Doctor Faustus (1967), The Comedians (1967) and Boom!(1968), however, all failed at the box office.[38]
Taylor appeared in John Huston's Reflections in a Golden Eye (1967) opposite Marlon Brando (replacing Clift,[39] who died before production began) and Secret Ceremony (1968) opposite Mia Farrow. By the end of the decade her box-office drawing power had considerably diminished, as evidenced by the failure of The Only Game in Town (1970), with Warren Beatty.[40]
Although limited by a "thin and inflexible voice",[35] Taylor continued to star in numerous theatrical films throughout the 1970s, such as Zee and Co. (1972) with Michael Caine, Ash Wednesday (1973), The Blue Bird (1976) with Jane Fonda and Ava Gardner, and A Little Night Music (1977). With then-husband Richard Burton, she co-starred in the 1972 filmsUnder Milk Wood and Hammersmith Is Out, and the 1973 made-for-TV movie Divorce His, Divorce Hers.
Taylor starred in the 1980 mystery film The Mirror Crack'd, based on an Agatha Christie novel. In 1985, she played movie gossip columnist Louella Parsons in the TV film Malice in Wonderland[41] opposite Jane Alexander, who played Hedda Hopper. Taylor appeared in the miniseries North and South[41] as well as playing the titular role in a 1987 Western TV-movie entitled Poker Alice with Tom Skerritt and George Hamilton. Her last theatrical film was 1994's The Flintstones.[42]
In February 1996, she appeared on the TV program, The Nanny as herself, and the star of the show, Fran, identified her to a friend by using all of her husbands' names, stating that she would be meeting "Elizabeth Taylor-Hilton-Wilding-Todd-Fisher-Burton-Burton-Warner-Fortensky". In 2001 she played an agent in the TV film These Old Broads. She appeared on a number of television series, including the soap operas General Hospital and All My Children,[43] as well as the animated series The Simpsons—once as herself, and once as the voice of Maggie Simpson, uttering one word, "Daddy".[44]
Taylor also acted on the stage, making her Broadway and West End debuts in 1982 with a revival of Lillian Hellman's The Little Foxes. She was then in a production of Noël Coward's Private Lives (1983), in which she starred with her former husband, Richard Burton.[45] The student-run Burton Taylor Studio in Oxford was named for the famous couple after Burton appeared as Doctor Faustus in the Oxford University Dramatic Society (OUDS) production of the Marlowe play.[46] Taylor played the ghostly, wordless Helen of Troy, who is entreated by Faustus to "make [him] immortal with a kiss".[47]
In the early 1980s, Taylor moved to Bel Air, Los Angeles, which was her residence until her death. She also owned homes in Palm Springs, London and Hawaii.
In March 2003, Taylor declined to attend the 75th Annual Academy Awards, due to her opposition to the Iraq War.[48] She publicly condemned then President George W. Bush for calling on Saddam Hussein to leave Iraq, and said she feared the conflict would lead to "World War III".[49]
The February 2007 issue of Interview magazine was devoted entirely to Taylor. It celebrated her life, career and her upcoming 75th birthday.
On December 1, 2007, Taylor acted onstage again, appearing opposite James Earl Jones in a benefit performance of the A. R. Gurney play Love Letters. The event's goal was to raise $1 million for Taylor's AIDS foundation. Tickets for the show were priced at $2,500, and more than 500 people attended. The event happened to coincide with the 2007 Writers Guild of America strike and, rather than cross the picket line, Taylor requested a "one night dispensation". The Writers Guild agreed not to picket the Paramount Pictures lot that night to allow for the performance.[50]
Taylor was married eight times to seven husbands. When asked why she married so often, she replied, "I don't know, honey. It sure beats the hell out of me,"[6] but also said that, "I was taught by my parents that if you fall in love, if you want to have a love affair, you get married. I guess I'm very old-fashioned."[21] Taylor's husbands were:
Conrad "Nicky" Hilton (May 6, 1950 – January 29, 1951): Taylor believed that she was in love with the young hotel heir, but also wanted to escape her mother. Hilton's "gambling, drinking, and abusive behavior",[35] however, horrified her and her parents, caused a miscarriage, and ended the marriage in divorce after nine months.[6][23]
Michael Wilding (February 21, 1952 – January 26, 1957): The "gentle" Wilding, 20 years older than Taylor, comforted her after leaving Hilton.[35][6] After their divorce Taylor admitted that "I gave him rather a rough time, sort of henpecked him and probably wasn't mature enough for him."[23]
Mike Todd (February 2, 1957 – March 22, 1958): Todd's death ended Taylor's only marriage not to result in divorce. Although their relationship was tumultuous, she later called him one of the three loves of her life, along with Burton and jewelry.[51][6]
Eddie Fisher (May 12, 1959 – March 6, 1964): Fisher, Todd's best friend, consoled Taylor after Todd's death. They began an affair while Fisher was still married to Debbie Reynolds, causing a scandal;[6][52]:226 Reynolds eventually forgave Taylor; she voted for her when Taylor was nominated for an Oscar for BUtterfield 8, and starred with her in These Old Broads.[21]
Richard Burton (March 15, 1964 – June 26, 1974; October 10, 1975 – July 29, 1976): The Vatican condemned Burton and Taylor's affair, which began when both were married to others, as "erotic vagrancy".[35] The press closely followed their relationship before, during, and after their ten years of marriage, due to great public interest in "the most famous film star in the world and the man many believed to be the finest classical actor of his generation." Taylor wanted to focus on her marriage rather than her career, and gained weight in an unsuccessful attempt to not receive film roles.[6] Sixteen months after divorcing—Burton said, "You can't keep clapping a couple of sticks [of dynamite] together without expecting them to blow up"[35]—they remarried in a private ceremony in Kasane, Botswana, but soon separated and redivorced in 1976.
John Warner (December 4, 1976 – November 7, 1982): As with Burton, Taylor sought to be known as the wife of her husband, a Republican[53][54][55] United States Senator from Virginia. Unhappy with her life in Washington,[56] however, Taylor became depressed and entered the Betty Ford Center.[6]
Larry Fortensky (October 6, 1991 – October 31, 1996): Taylor and Fortensky met during another stay at the Betty Ford Center and were married at the Neverland Ranch.[6]
Taylor had many romances outside her marriages. Before marrying Hilton, she was engaged to Heisman Trophy winner Glenn Davis—who did not know until the relationship ended that Taylor's mother had encouraged it to build publicity for her daughter[23]—and also to the son of William D. Pawley, the United States Ambassador to Brazil.[24] Howard Hughes promised Taylor's parents that if they would encourage her to marry him, the enormously wealthy industrialist and film producer would finance a movie studio for her; Sara Taylor agreed, but Taylor refused.[23] After she left Hilton, Hughes returned, proposing to Taylor by suddenly landing a helicopter nearby and sprinkling diamonds on her.[57] Other dates included Frank Sinatra, Henry Kissinger, and Malcolm Forbes.[35] In 2007 Taylor denied rumors of a ninth marriage to her partner Jason Winters,[58] but referred to him as "one of the most wonderful men I've ever known."[59]
Taylor had two sons, Michael Howard (born January 6, 1953) and Christopher Edward (born February 27, 1955; her own 23rd birthday), with Michael Wilding. She had a daughter, Elizabeth Frances "Liza" (born August 6, 1957), with Michael Todd. During her marriage to Eddie Fisher, Taylor started proceedings to adopt a two-year-old girl from Germany, Maria (born August 1, 1961); the adoption process was finalized in 1964 following their divorce.[60] Richard Burton later adopted Taylor's daughters Liza and Maria.[61]
In 1971, Taylor became a grandmother at the age of 39. At the time of her death, she was survived by her four children, ten grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.[62]
In 1959, at age 27, after nine months of study, Taylor converted from Christian Science to Judaism,[63] taking the Hebrew name Elisheba Rachel. She stated that her conversion was something she had long considered and was not related to her marriages. After Mike Todd's death, Taylor said that she "felt a desperate need for a formalized religion", and explained that neither Catholicism nor Christian Science were able to address many of the "questions she had about life and death".[7]:175
Biographer Randy Taraborrelli notes that after studying the philosophy of Judaism for nine months, "she felt an immediate connection to the faith."[7]:176 Although Taylor rarely attended synagogue, she stated, "I'm one of those people who think you can be close to God anywhere, not just in a place designed for worship ..."[7]:176 At the conversion ceremony, with her parents present as witnesses and in full support of her decision, Taylor repeated the words of Ruth:
... for whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge; thy people shall be my people and thy God my God.[7]:176
During an interview when she was 55, Taylor described how her inner sense of identity, when a child actress, kept her from giving in to many of the studio's demands, especially with regard to altering her appearance to fit in:
God forbid you do anything individual or go against the fad. But I did. I figured this looks absurd. And I agreed with my dad: God must have had some reason for giving me bushy eyebrows and black hair. I guess I must have been pretty sure of my sense of identity. It was me. I accepted it all my life and I can't explain it. Because I've always been very aware of the inner me that has nothing to do with the physical me.[20]
Eventually the inner you shapes the outer you, especially when you reach a certain age, and you have been given the same features as everybody else, God has arranged them in a certain way. But around 40 the inner you actually chisels your features ... Life is to be embraced and enveloped. Surgeons and knives have nothing to do with it. It has to do with a connection with nature, God, your inner being—whatever you want to call it—it's being in contact with yourself and allowing yourself, allowing God, to mold you.[20]
In 1964, at the age of 32, Taylor described herself as an actress: "The Elizabeth Taylor who's famous, the one on film, really has no depth or meaning to me. She's a totally superficial working thing, a commodity." She was also able to explain her acting skills as "minuscule—it's not technique. It's instinct and a certain ability to concentrate." Although most of her film roles during the previous decade portrayed her beauty and sexuality, Taylor claimed they merely exaggerated or contradicted who she was in real life, stating, "I am not a 'sex queen' or a 'sex symbol.' I don't think I want to be one ... If my husband thinks I'm sexy, that's good enough for me." She also implied that the reverse is also true:[22]
I can tell you what I think is sexy in a man. It has to do with warmth, a personal givingness, not self-awareness. Richard [Burton] is a very sexy man. He's got that sort of jungle essence that one can sense. It's not the way he combs his hair, not the things he wears; he doesn't think about having muscles. It's what he says and thinks.[22]
By this point Taylor was married for the fifth time, to Richard Burton. Except for her third husband, Mike Todd, who died in a plane accident, she partly blamed her young romances and divorces on her "puritanical upbringing and beliefs":
At first, I guess I didn't know what was love and what was not. I always chose to think I was in love and that love was synonymous with marriage. I couldn't just have a romance; it had to be a marriage ... When I was first divorced, I was 18 and I had only been married nine months. I was very naive and really totally crushed. It was the first divorce in my family.[22]
Taylor credited Burton's strong relationship with their children as a factor in expecting their marriage to last, stating that he was the "absolute boss of the household and they respect him for that." She was surprised in hindsight by how they became romantically involved, recalling one of their first meetings:
The first day I saw Richard on the Cleopatra set, there was a lot of hemming and hawing, and he said hello to Joe Mankiewicz and everyone. And then he sort of sidled over to me and said, "Has anybody ever told you that you're a very pretty girl?" I said to myself, oy gevaldt, here's the great lover, the great wit, the great intellectual of Wales, and he comes out with a line like that. I couldn't believe it. I couldn't wait to go back to the dressing room where all the girls were and tell them.[22]
Taylor had a passion for jewelry. At her death, Taylor's jewelry collection was reportedly worth $150 million.[51][64]
Over the years she owned a number of well-known pieces, two of the most famous being the 33.19-carat (6.638 g) Krupp Diamond, which she wore daily,[35] and the 69.42-carat (13.884 g) pear-shaped Taylor-Burton Diamond; both were among many gifts from husband Richard Burton. Taylor also owned the 50-carat (10 g) La Peregrina Pearl, purchased by Burton at a Sotheby's auction for $37,000; as a Valentine's Day present in 1969, and formerly owned by Mary I of England.[65][66] La Peregrina is one of the most famous pearls in the world and remains one of the largest perfectly symmetrical pear-shaped pearls in the world.
Taylor was a fashion icon during her years as an active film star. In addition to her own purchases, MGM costumers Edith Head and Helen Rose helped Taylor choose clothes that emphasized her face, chest, and waist. Taylor helped popularize Valentino and Halston's designs,[67] and in the 1980s Schering-Plough developed violet contact lenses, citing Taylor's eyes as inspiration.[68]
Taylor devoted consistent and generous humanitarian time, advocacy efforts, and funding to HIV and AIDS-related projects and charities, helping to raise more than $270 million for the cause. She was one of the first celebrities and public personalities to do so at a time when few acknowledged the disease, organizing and hosting the first AIDS fundraiser in 1984, to benefit AIDS Project Los Angeles.[35][69]
Taylor was cofounder of the American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR) with Dr. Michael Gottlieb and Dr. Mathilde Krim in 1985.[69] Her longtime friend and former co-star Rock Hudson had disclosed having AIDS and died of it that year. She also founded the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation (ETAF) in 1993, created to provide critically needed support services for people with HIV/AIDS.[69] For example, in 2006 Taylor commissioned a 37-foot (11 m) "Care Van" equipped with examination tables and xray equipment, the New Orleans donation made by her Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation and Macy's.[70][71] That year, in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, Taylor donated $500,000 to the NO/AIDS Task Force, a non-profit organization serving the community of those affected by HIV/AIDS in and around New Orleans. The donation was shared by Taylor in celebration of her 74th birthday and to help NO/AIDS Task Force continue their work fighting AIDS.[71][72]
Taylor was honored with a special Academy Award, the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award, in 1992 for her HIV/AIDS humanitarian work. Speaking of that work, former President Bill Clinton said at her death, "Elizabeth's legacy will live on in many people around the world whose lives will be longer and better because of her work and the ongoing efforts of those she inspired."[73]
After her conversion to Judaism, Taylor worked for Jewish causes throughout her life.[74] In 1959, her large-scale purchase of Israeli Bonds caused Arab boycotts of her films.[75] In 1962, she was barred from entering Egypt to complete Cleopatra; its government announcing that she would not be allowed to come to Egypt because she had adopted the Jewish faith and "supports Israeli causes". However the ban was lifted in 1964 after it was considered that the film had brought favourable publicity to Egypt.[76]
In 1974 Taylor and Richard Burton considered marrying in Israel, but were unable to do so because Burton was not Jewish.[76] Taylor helped to raise money for organizations such as the Jewish National Fund; advocated for the right of Soviet Jews to emigrate to Israel and canceled a visit to the USSR because of its condemnation of Israel due to the Six-Day War, along with signing a letter protesting the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3379 of 1975.
She offered herself as a replacement hostage after more than 100 Israeli civilians were taken hostage in the Entebbe skyjacking in 1976.[75] After the success of the operation in which the hostages were freed, she acted with Kirk Douglas in a TV special, Victory at Entebbe, broadcast in January 1977. Of her role, she stated, "I couldn't pass up this opportunity. I have strong ties to Israel and I firmly believe in the courage and dedication of the Entebbe mission."[77]
Taylor struggled with health problems much of her life;[78] starting with her divorce from Hilton, Taylor experienced serious medical issues whenever she faced problems in her personal life.[23] Taylor was hospitalized more than 70 times[35] and had at least 20 major operations.[21] Many times newspaper headlines erroneously announced that Taylor was close to death;[6] she herself only claimed to have almost died on four occasions.[35]
At 5'4", Taylor constantly gained and lost significant amounts of weight (known as yo-yo dieting), reaching both 119 pounds and 180 pounds in the 1980s.[79][56] She smoked cigarettes into her mid-fifties,[79] and feared she had lung cancer in October 1975 after an X-ray showed spots on her lungs, but was later found not to have the disease.[80] Taylor broke her back five times, had both her hips replaced, had a hysterectomy, suffered from dysentery and phlebitis, punctured her esophagus, survived a benign brain tumor operation in 1997[35][21] and skin cancer, and faced life-threatening bouts with pneumonia twice, one in 1961 requiring an emergency tracheotomy. In 1983 she admitted to having been addicted to sleeping pills and painkillers for 35 years.[21] Taylor was treated for alcoholism and prescription drug addiction at the Betty Ford Center for seven weeks from December 1983 to January 1984,[81] and again from the autumn of 1988 until early 1989.[82]
On May 30, 2006, Taylor appeared on Larry King Live to refute the claims that she had been ill, and denied the allegations that she was suffering from Alzheimer's disease and was close to death.[83] Near the end of her life, however, she was reclusive and sometimes failed to make scheduled appearances due to illness or other personal reasons. She used a wheelchair and, when asked about it, stated that she had osteoporosis and was born with scoliosis.[84]
The mutation that gave Taylor her striking double eyelashes may also have contributed to her history of heart trouble.[18] In November 2004, Taylor announced a diagnosis of congestive heart failure, a progressive condition in which the heart is too weak to pump sufficient blood throughout the body, particularly to the lower extremities such as the ankles and feet. In 2009 she underwent cardiac surgery to replace a leaky valve.[85] In February 2011, new symptoms related to heart failure caused her to be admitted to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles for treatment,[86] where she remained until her death at age 79 on March 23, 2011, surrounded by her four children.[62][85]
She was buried in a private Jewish ceremony, presided over by Rabbi Jerry Cutler, the day after she died, at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale, California. Taylor is entombed in the Great Mausoleum, where public access to her tomb is restricted.[87] At her request, the funeral began 15 minutes after it was scheduled to begin; as her representative told the media "She even wanted to be late for her own funeral."[88]
Taylor has been called the "greatest movie star of all."[52]:2 A child-star at the age of 12, she was soon after launched into public awareness by MGM and a string of successful films, many of which are today considered "classics". Her resulting celebrity made her into a Hollywood icon, as she set the "gold standard" for Hollywood fame, and "created the model for stardom," adds Mann.[52]:3
Other observers, such as social critic Camille Paglia, similarly describe Taylor as "the greatest actress in film history," partly as a result of the "liquid realm of emotion" she expressed on screen. Paglia describes the effect Taylor had in some of her films:
An electric, erotic charge vibrates the space between her face and the lens. It is an extrasensory, pagan phenomenon.[52]:4
Taylor had a major role in sparking the sexual revolution of the 1960s, as she pushed the envelope on sexuality: she was one of the first major stars to pose (mostly) nude in Playboy, and among the first to remove her clothes onscreen.[52]:5 In A Place in the Sun, filmed when she was 17, her surprising maturity shocked Hollywood columnist Hedda Hopper, who wrote of her precocious sexuality. Film historian Andrew Sarris describes her love scenes in the film with Montgomery Clift as "unnerving—sybaritic—like gorging on chocolate sundaes."[52]:6
In real life, she was considered "a star without airs," notes Mann. Writer Gloria Steinem likewise described her as a "movie queen with no ego ... expert at what she does, uncatty in her work relationships with other actresses".[52]:7 Mike Nichols, who directed her in Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? (1966), said that of all the actors he's worked with, Taylor had the "most democratic soul." Mann adds that she treated electricians and studio crew the "same way she would a Rothschild at a charity gala."[52]:6 Director George Cukor told Taylor that she possessed "that rarest of virtues—simple kindness."[52]:7
Taylor's ex‑husband, actor Richard Burton, who co‑starred with her in eleven films, expressed great admiration for her talent as an actress. Burton said, "I think she's one of the most underrated screen actresses that ever lived, and I think she's one of the best ones who ever lived. At her finest she's incomparable."[89]
Taylor won two Academy Awards for Best Actress, for her performance in Butterfield 8 in 1960, and for Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? in 1966. Additionally, she received the Jean Herscholt Humanitarian Academy Award in 1992 for her work fighting AIDS. In 1997 Taylor was honored by the Screen Actors Guild (SAG) with the Life Achievement Award.[90] As Taylor could not be in attendance, Gregory Peck read a statement from her in which she explained that the eradication of the AIDS epidemic had become a key part of her life, and she thanked SAG for their contributions to the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation.[90]
Taylor received the French Legion of Honour in 1987,[21] and in 2000 was appointed Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE).[91] In 2001, she received a Presidential Citizens Medal for her humanitarian work, most notably for helping to raise more than $200 million for AIDS research and bringing international attention and resources to addressing the epidemic.[90] Taylor was inducted into the California Hall of Fame in 2007.[92]
Taylor was the subject of at least 53 books as of 2006;[15] Kitty Kelley wrote an unauthorized biography of the actress in 1981, which Taylor denounced. She never wrote a comprehensive autobiography due to her desire for privacy, but did publish several books besides My Love Affair with Jewelry. Taylor's first, Nibbles and Me (1946), discussed the child star's "adventures with her pet chipmunk". Reviewers criticized another, Elizabeth Taylor (1964), for being uninteresting and lacking in new information. She received a $750,000 advance payment for Elizabeth Takes Off: On Weight Gain, Weight Loss, Self-Image and Self-Esteem (1988).[94]
Parish, James Robert; Mank, Gregory W.; Stanke, Don E. (1978). The Hollywood beauties. England: Arlington House Publishers. p. 329. ISBN 0-87000-412-3. 
Heyman, David (2011). Liz: An Intimate Biography of Elizabeth Taylor (updated with a new chapter). Atria Books. ISBN 1-4391-9188-3. 
Spoto, Donald (1995). A passion for life: the biography of Elizabeth Taylor. London: HarperCollins. ISBN 0-06-017657-1. 
Bozzacchi, Gianni (2002). Elizabeth Taylor: the queen and I. University of Wisconsin Press. ISBN 978-0-299-17930-4. 
Canby, Vincent (May 4, 1986). "Film View; Elizabeth Taylor – Her Life Is The Stuff Of Movies". The New York Times. p. 1. 
Chrissochoidis, Ilias (2013). The Cleopatra Files: Selected Documents from the Spyros P. Skouras Archive. Stanford: Brave World. ISBN 978-0-615-82919-7.
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Elizabeth_Taylor&oldid=610199058"					
Categories: Elizabeth Taylor1932 births2011 deaths20th-century American actresses20th-century English actresses21st-century American actresses21st-century English actressesAcademy Honorary Award recipientsActivists from CaliforniaActresses awarded British damehoodsActresses from CaliforniaActresses from LondonHIV/AIDS activistsAmerican child actressesAmerican film actressesAmerican former ChristiansAmerican stage actressesAmerican television actressesBAFTA fellowsBest Actress Academy Award winnersBest British Actress BAFTA Award winnersBest Drama Actress Golden Globe (film) winnersBritish child actressesBritish emigrants to the United StatesBritish former ChristiansBritish film actressesBritish JewsBritish stage actressesBritish television actressesBurials at Forest Lawn Memorial Park (Glendale)California RepublicansCardiovascular disease deaths in CaliforniaCecil B. DeMille Award Golden Globe winnersConverts to JudaismDames Commander of the Order of the British EmpireDeaths from congestive heart failureFormer Christian ScientistsJean Hersholt Humanitarian Award winnersJewish activistsJewish American actressesKennedy Center honoreesLGBT rights activists from EnglandLGBT rights activists from the United StatesMetro-Goldwyn-Mayer contract playersPeople from the Greater Los Angeles AreaPresidential Citizens Medal recipientsRichard BurtonScreen Actors Guild Life Achievement AwardSilver Bear for Best Actress winnersSkin cancer survivorsSpouses of United States SenatorsSpouses of Virginia politiciansUniversity High School (Los Angeles, California) alumniVirginia RepublicansHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from March 2011Wikipedia semi-protected pagesUse mdy dates from June 2011Articles with hCardsWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Elizabeth Rosemond Taylor was born in London, England, on February 27, 1932. Although she was born an English subject, her parents were Americans, art dealers from St. Louis, Missouri (her father had gone to London to set up a gallery). Her mother had been an actress on the stage, but gave up that vocation when she married. Elizabeth lived in London until the age of seven, when the family left for the US when the clouds of war began brewing in Europe in 1939. They sailed without her father, who stayed behind to wrap up the loose ends of the art business.The family relocated to Los Angeles, where Mrs. Taylor's own family had moved. Mr. Taylor followed not long afterward. A family friend noticed the strikingly beautiful little Elizabeth and suggested that she be taken for a screen test. Her test impressed executives at Universal Pictures enough to sign her to a contract. Her first foray onto the screen was in There's One Born Every Minute (1942), released when she was ten. Universal dropped her contract after that one film, but Elizabeth was soon picked up by MGM.The first production she made with that studio was Lassie Come Home (1943), and on the strength of that one film, MGM signed her for a full year. She had minuscule parts in her next two films, The White Cliffs of Dover (1944) and Jane Eyre (1943) (the former made while she was on loan to 20th Century-Fox). Then came the picture that made Elizabeth a star: MGM's National Velvet (1944). She played Velvet Brown opposite Mickey Rooney. The film was a smash hit, grossing over $4 million. Elizabeth now had a long-term contract with MGM and was its top child star. She made no films in 1945, but returned in 1946 in Courage of Lassie (1946). In 1947, when she was 15, she starred in Life with Father (1947) with such heavyweights as William Powell, Irene Dunne and Zasu Pitts.Throughout the rest of the 1940s and into the early 1950s Elizabeth appeared in film after film with mostly good results. Her busiest year was 1954, with roles in Rhapsody (1954), Beau Brummell (1954), The Last Time I Saw Paris (1954) and Elephant Walk (1954). She was 22 now, and even at that young age was considered one of the world's great beauties. In 1955 she appeared in the hit Giant (1956) with James Dean.Sadly, Dean never saw the release of the film, as he died in a car accident in 1955. The next year saw Elizabeth star in Raintree County (1957), an overblown epic made, partially, in Kentucky. Critics called it dry as dust. Despite the film's shortcomings, Elizabeth was nominated for an Academy Award for her portrayal of Southern belle Susanna Drake. However, on Oscar night the honor went to Joanne Woodward for The Three Faces of Eve (1957). In 1958 Elizabeth starred as Maggie Pollitt in Cat on a Hot Tin Roof (1958).The film received rave reviews from the critics and Elizabeth was nominated again for an Academy Award for best actress, but this time she lost to Susan Hayward in I Want to Live! (1958). She was still a hot commodity in the film world, though. In 1959 she appeared in another mega-hit and received yet another Oscar nomination for Suddenly, Last Summer (1959). Once again, however, she lost out, this time to Simone Signoret for Room at the Top (1959). Her Oscar drought ended in 1960 when she brought home the coveted statue for her flawless performance in BUtterfield 8 (1960) as Gloria Wandrous, a call girl who is involved with a married man. Some critics blasted the movie but they couldn't ignore her performance. There were no more films for Elizabeth for three years. She left MGM after her contract ran out, but would do projects for the studio later down the road. In 1963 she starred in Cleopatra (1963), which was one of the most expensive productions up to that time--as was her salary, a whopping $1,000,000.This was the film where she met her future and fifth husband, Richard Burton (the previous four were Conrad Hilton, Michael Wilding, Michael Todd--who died in a plane crash--and Eddie Fisher). Her next handful of films were lackluster at best, especially 1963's The V.I.P.s (1963), which was shredded by most critics. Elizabeth was to return to fine form, however, with the role of Martha in Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? (1966). Her performance as the loudmouthed, shrewish, unkempt Martha was easily her finest to date.For this she would win her second Oscar and one that was more than well-deserved, but her films afterward didn't approach the intensity of that one. Since then she has appeared in several movies, both theatrical and made-for-television, and a number of TV programs. In February 1997 Elizabeth entered the hospital for the removal of a brain tumor. The operation was successful. As for her private life, she divorced Burton in 1974, only to remarry him in 1975 and divorce him, permanently, in 1976. She has had two husbands since, Senator John Warner and Larry Fortensky.
          Liz was a leading child star by the age of 12 after her performance in MGM's National Velvet (1944). She grew up quickly, and it wasn't long before she was knocking critics dead as a serious adult actress with films like Giant (1956), Raintree County (1957), Cat on a Hot Tin Roof (1958), and Suddenly, Last Summer (1959). She reigned the box office as the quintessential movie star taking the breath away from viewers with her glamorous looks and those velvet eyes. Although she would remain the most talked-about actress of the 1960s and 1970s, her film career floundered with a number of unusual and unsuccessful films (with the triumphant Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? (1966) being an exception). Her personal life has been a tempest of love affairs, unsuccessful marriages and multiple medical problems. Upon the death of her friend, Rock Hudson in 1985, she began her crusade on the behalf of AIDS sufferers. In the 1990s, she has also developed a successful series of scents. Her acting career has been relegated to the occasional tv-movie or TV guest appearance.
          Elizabeth Taylor is considered one of the last, if not the last major star, to have come out of the old Hollywood studio system. And not just any studio, the top of the heap: MGM. Her early movies, as a child in the early 1940s, starred such Hollywood luminaries as Orson Welles and Spencer Tracy. She quickly grew up, however, and by 1950 was, if not starring in, assuming major responsibilities for the success of motion pictures she appeared in. Then with major roles onscreen, came worldwide attention off-screen, most notably due to a succession of famous and/or rich husbands and a series of health crises throughout her life. To put it simply, Elizabeth Taylor has lived a life far more exciting and dramatic than any movie she's ever appeared in and probably most any other movie you could name. She's known internationally for her beauty, especially for those violet eyes, with which she captured audiences early on in her youth and has kept the world hooked on ever since. She's won the Oscar twice and she's earned her place in and out of the sun.
      She was bridesmaid for Jane Powell for her first marriage. Powell was bridesmaid for Taylor at her first marriage.
      Ranked #72 in Empire (UK) magazine's "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time" list. [October 1997]
      Discharged from hospital, but later rushed back in after a suffering a brain seizure. Said to be comfortable. [February 1997]
      Her daughter, Liza Todd Burton, with Michael Todd, is a sculptor, who has two sons, Quinn and Rhys, with her husband artist Hap Tivey.
      Has appeared solo on the cover of PEOPLE magazine 14 times, second only to Princess Diana (as of 1996).
      Her episode of Biography (1987) was the highest-rated episode of that series on Arts & Entertainment (thru the end of 1995).
      Liz was a close friend of Montgomery Clift until his death in 1966. They met for the first time when Paramount decided that she had to accompany him to the premiere of The Heiress (1949) because they were both to star in the upcoming A Place in the Sun (1951). They liked each other right away. Clift used to call her "Bessie Mae". When he had a car accident a few years later that disfigured him, he had just left a party at Liz's house. It was she who found him first, got into the wreck and removed some teeth from his throat that threatened to choke him.
      Her perfumes have been Passion (1987), White Diamonds (1991), Diamonds and Rubies, Diamonds and Emeralds, Diamonds and Sapphires and Black Pearls (1995).
      At one point during her life-threatening illness while filming BUtterfield 8 (1960), she was actually pronounced dead.
      Has owned some of the world's most magnificent jewelry, including the 33-carat "Krupp Diamond", the Duchess of Windsor diamond brooch, the Grand Duchess of Russia emeralds, the "LaPeregina Pearl" (which was a Valentine present to her from Richard Burton), and the famous pear-shaped 69-carat "Burton-Cartier Diamond" Burton gave her in 1969 (subsequently renamed the "Burton-Taylor Diamond.").
      In the early 1970s, she planned to star in the movie version of the hit 1971 Broadway play "Twigs" by George Furth, in which she would have played four characters -- three sisters and their aged, cranky Bronx-Irish mother -- but the project never materialized.
      Admitted in an interview with Barbara Walters in the late 1990s that she would still like to act but, because of her medical problems, no movie company will insure her. In addition to many other medical problems, including a benign brain tumor she had removed, she has broken her back four times. This causes her severe pain when walking or standing for long amounts of time.
      The stories of her Oscar win for BUtterfield 8 (1960) have grown legendary. It is generally accepted as truth that she won Oscar voters by a vote of sympathy, because of the recent death of her husband, Michael Todd, and her near-fatal illness and emergency tracheotomy to save her life (her scar was very visible on Oscar night). Wisecracker and Rat Pack member Shirley MacLaine, who was favored to win for her role in The Apartment (1960), said afterwards that "I lost out to a tracheotomy."
      The premiere of her film Father of the Bride (1950) took place two days after her real-life marriage to Conrad Hilton Jr.. The publicity surrounding the event is credited with helping to make the film so successful. The marriage lasted as long as the 3 month European honeymoon. Irreconcilable differences were cited in the divorce court.
      Has four children. Two sons with Michael Wilding: Michael Howard (born January 6, 1953) and Christopher Edward (born February 28, 1955). Her daughter with Michael Todd, Elizabeth Frances Todd, called "Liza", was born August 6, 1957. Her daughter, Maria Burton, (adopted 1964 with Richard Burton) was born August 1, 1961.
      Ranked #7 in the American Film Insitutes list of the 50 'Greatest American Screen Legends', the top 25 male and top 25 female.
      Although born in England, her parents were actually Americans, who were just working in England. Her ancestry included English (with many colonial American roots going back to the 1600s), as well as Swiss-German (from an immigrant maternal great-grandfather), Northern Irish (Scots-Irish), French, and more distant Dutch, Welsh, and Danish.
      Premiere Magazine ranked her as #40 on a list of the Greatest Movie Stars of All Time in their Stars in Our Constellation feature (2005).
      Announced in November 2004 she has been diagnosed with congestive heart failure, but vowed to continue raising funds for AIDS charities and to build a Richard Burton Memorial Theatre in Cardiff, Wales.
      She was (along with Marisa Berenson) co-matron of honor at Liza Minnelli's and David Gest's wedding.
      Along with Mark Hamill and Joe Mantegna, she was one of only three actors to play both themselves and a fictional character in The Simpsons (1989). She supplied the voice of Maggie Simpson in the Season Four episode "Lisa's First Word" and portrayed herself in the Season Four episode "Krusty Gets Kancelled".
      She and Richard Burton starred together in 11 movies: Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? (1966), The V.I.P.s (1963), Under Milk Wood (1972), The Taming of the Shrew (1967), The Sandpiper (1965), Hammersmith Is Out (1972), Doctor Faustus (1967), Divorce His - Divorce Hers (1973), The Comedians (1967), Cleopatra (1963) and Boom (1968). She had an uncredited cameo in Burton's film Anne of the Thousand Days (1969).
      In 1969, Richard Burton bought her one of the world's largest and most beautiful diamonds from the jeweler Cartier after losing an auction for the 69-carat, pear-shaped stone to the jeweler, who won with a $1-million bid. The rough diamond that would yield the prized stone weighed 244 carats and was found in 1966 at South Africa's Premier mine. Harry Winston cut and polished the diamond, which was put up for auction in 1969. Burton purchased the diamond from Cartier the next day for $1,069,000 to give to Taylor. The small premium was the result of the publicity Cartier garnered from selling the stone, then called the "Burton-Cartier Diamond," to the then "world's most famous couple." Ten years later, the twice-divorced-from-Burton Taylor herself auctioned off the "Burton-Taylor Diamond" to fund a hospital in Botswana. The last recorded sale of the Taylor-Burton was in 1979 for nearly $3,000,000 to an anonymous buyer in Saudi Arabia. The ring was the center of the classic Here's Lucy (1968) episode "Lucy Meets the Burtons," in which Lucy Carter, played by Lucille Ball, gets the famous ring stuck on her finger. The actual ring was used and the episode was the highest rated episode of the very popular series.
      Auctioned off her diamond-and-emerald engagement ring from Richard Burton to raise money for an AIDS charity.
      Her third husband Michael Todd gave her a 29-carat diamond ring during their marriage, a feat topped by fifth husband Richard Burton when he gave her the 69-carat "Burton-Cartier" (later renamed "Burton-Taylor") diamond. Fourth-husband Eddie Fisher said that a $50,000 diamond could keep Taylor happy for approximately four days.
      She was awarded Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth II at the 2000 New Year's Honours List for her services to drama.
      Writer Charles Bukowski, in his newspaper column (and later book) "Notes of a Dirty Old Man", revealed that he loathed Taylor as an absurd icon of the celebrity-mad, media-besotted American culture that he despised.
      1976: Won the title of "Most Memorable Eyebrows" in a magazine poll. The first runner up was Lassie.
      Was unable to attend the civil partnership ceremony of her friend Sir Elton John in England due to her illness. (December 2005)
      Became friends with Marlon Brando while shooting Reflections in a Golden Eye (1967). Brando agreed to pick up her Best Actress Award for Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? (1966) from the New York Film Critics Circle. When Brando made his appearance at the NYFCC Award ceremony at Sardi's on January 29, 1967, he berated the critics, querying them as to why they hadn't recognized Liz before. He then flew to Dahomey, Africa, where she was shooting The Comedians (1967) with Richard Burton to personally deliver the award, a development Burton thought odd. Several years later Brando socialized with the Burtons, visiting them on their famous yacht the Kalizma, while they plied the Mediterreanean. Brando's ex-wife Anna Kashfi, in her book "Brando for Breakfast" (1979), claimed that Brando and Burton got into a fist fight aboard the yacht, probably over Liz, but nothing of the incident appears in Burton's voluminous diaries. In his diaries, Burton found Brando to be quite intelligent but believed he suffered, like Liz did, from becoming too famous too early in his life and believed their affinity for one another was based on this (both Liz and Marlon would later befriend Michael Jackson, another superstar-cum-legend who had become too famous too soon). Burton recognized Brando as a great actor, but felt he would have been more suited to silent films due to the deficiency in his voice (the famous "mumble"). As a silent film star, Burton believed Brando would have been the greatest motion picture actor ever.
      In 2006, she introduced a line of diamond and precious stone jewelry called "House of Taylor". The designs are said to be inspired by certain favorite pieces in her own collection. She actually wrote a book on jewelry and is considered to be an authority on the subject.
      Cancelled her appearance at the Cannes Film Festival, prompting renewed fears about her health. The acting legend usually attends an annual charity dinner organized by the American Foundation For AIDS Research (AMFAR), which always coincides with the South of France festival. However, Taylor - who also pulled out in 2004 due to health problems - was replaced by Sharon Stone and Liza Minnelli at the gala. (May 2005)
      After her son Michael had renounced his American citizenship for possession of marijuana, the U.S. Congress passed a bill to block his deportation (1988).
      Her beloved dog, a Maltese named Sugar, died in 2005. Some months later, she purchased Daisy, one of Sugar's descendants.
      Appeared on Larry King Live (1985) to refute claims that she had been diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease and was close to death. (30 May 2006)
      In Italy, she was exclusively dubbed until the mid-1950s by Germana Calderini. As she matured, she was dubbed by Fiorella Betti. For two of her most celebrated roles--Leslie Lynnton Benedict in Giant (1956) and Catherine Holly in Suddenly, Last Summer (1959)--Taylor was dubbed respectively by Micaela Giustiniani and Lidia Simoneschi, the only time either actress lent their voice to her.
      Organized "A Commitment to Life", a celebrity event to benefit AIDS research after her Giant (1956) co-star Rock Hudson became ill in 1985. The event featured former First Lady Betty Ford, Burt Lancaster, Shirley MacLaine, Sammy Davis Jr., and Burt Reynolds. More than $1.3 million was raised.
      Her AIDS organization AMFAR raised $83 million in the twelve years following its creation in 1985.
      In 1963, while the highest paid American business executive earned $650,000 and President John F. Kennedy's salary was $150,000, she received at least $2.4 million.
      In a 2007 interview with Entertainment Tonight (1981)'s Mary Hart, Taylor said she had recently telephoned ex-husband Eddie Fisher and spoke to him for the first time in nearly 40 years.
      The 1963 Andy Warhol portrait of hers was sold for $ 23,7 million to an anonymous bidder at a Christie's auction in New York (14 November 2007).
      After the death of husband Mike Todd, she and Todd's son sued the company Ayer Lease Plan, Inc. for $5,000,000 charging negligence. They were awarded only $40,000, of which $13,000 went to attorney's fees. The remaining $27,000 went to their daughter, Frances.
      In 2006, she donated $500,000 to the New Orleans AIDS Task Force to purchase mobile medical unit for AIDS sufferers in New Orleans.
      Taylor and Shirley Jones are the only actresses to win Oscars for playing prostitutes in the same year: Taylor for BUtterfield 8 (1960) (Best Actress) and Jones for Elmer Gantry (1960) (Best Supporting Actress).
      She was made a Fellow of the British Film Institute in recognition of her outstanding contribution to film culture.
      Her first Oscar nomination for Raintree County (1957) marks her first of 4 consecutive nominations, a feat she shares with Jennifer Jones (1943-1946), Thelma Ritter (1950-1953), Marlon Brando (1951-1954) and Al Pacino (1972-1975).
      Hospitalized with congestive heart failure and pneumonia in July 2008 and was briefly on a life support machine.
      Actively sought the role of Eliza Dolittle in My Fair Lady (1964), but Audrey Hepburn was cast instead.
      Nominated for the 1981 Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play for "The Little Foxes" as well as winning a Special Theatre World Award for the same.
      Returned to work seven months after giving birth to her daughter Liza Todd Burton in order to begin filming Cat on a Hot Tin Roof (1958).
      First husband Conrad Hilton Jr. was physically abusive, which was partly caused by a drug problem.
      Fourth husband Eddie Fisher was a close friend of her late husband Michael Todd. Fisher left his wife Debbie Reynolds to be with Taylor.
      Paid for ex-husband Larry Fortensky's hospital bills when he was in a coma after falling off a balcony in 1999.
      Met future husband Larry Fortensky while in rehab in 1988. They were later married for five years in the 1990s.
      Was at one point going to star in Follow Me! (1972) with Richard Burton. See the trivia page for the film for more information.
      On Monday evening, November 8, 2010, Andy Warhol's "Men in Her Life", a 1962 painting based on an image of Elizabeth Taylor between husbands, was auctioned at Phillips de Pury & Company's new salesroom on Park Avenue in New York City. An unidentified bidder bought it for $63.3 million.
      Although Taylor was raised as a Christian Scientist, in 1959, at the age of 27, she converted to Judaism. She denied that her conversion was motivated by her marriages to Mike Todd or Eddie Fisher (both of whom were Jewish), saying that she had always been drawn to Judaism. Her conversion took place at Temple Israel of Hollywood, where she had studied Torah and Jewish history and traditions under Rabbi Max Nussbaum. It is traditional for converts to receive a Hebrew equivalent to their names upon conversion (since they wouldn't have received one shortly after birth, as those born into Judaism would have); Taylor's was Elisheba Rachel, Elisheba being the Hebrew for "Elizabeth," and Rachel being the name of Jacob's second wife in the Torah.
      Her obituary published in The New York Times was written by theater critic and cultural reporter Mel Gussow, who had died in 2005. The newspaper's obituary editor said the piece was "too good to throw away".
      Had fallen pregnant by her first husband Conrad Hilton Jr. six months into their marriage, but suffered a miscarriage due to one of his drug-induced violent outbursts towards her. Following this Taylor walked out on their marriage.
      Her biological grandchildren are Leyla (b. 1971), Naomi (b. 1976) and Tarquin (b. 1990), via her son Michael Wilding Jr., Caleb (b. 1983), Andrew (b. 1985) and Lowell (b. 1991), via her son Christopher Edward Wilding, and Quinn (b. 1986) and Rhys (b. 1991), via her daughter Liza Todd Burton. Her adoptive grandchildren are Eliza (b. 1984) and Richard (b. 2001), via her adoptive daughter Maria Burton.
      Launched 12 perfumes and colognes - Passion 1988, Passion for Men 1989, White Diamonds 1991, Diamonds and Emeralds 1993, Diamonds and Rubies 1993, Diamonds and Sapphires 1993, Black Pearls 1996, Sparkling White Diamonds 1999, Brilliant White Diamonds 2001, Forever Elizabeth 2002, Gardenia 2003 and Violet Eyes 2010.
      On March 1, 2013, her fifth (and sixth) husband, Richard Burton, received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. It was placed next to Elizabeth's star at 6336 Hollywood Boulevard.
      Despite playing their mother on Giant (1956), Taylor was just 2 years older than Fran Bennett, 4 years older than Dennis Hopper and 9 months younger than Carroll Baker.
      Is one of 14 Best Actress Oscar winners to have not accepted their Academy Award in person, Taylor's being for Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? (1966). The others are Katharine Hepburn, Claudette Colbert, Joan Crawford, Judy Holliday, Vivien Leigh, Anna Magnani, Ingrid Bergman, Sophia Loren, Anne Bancroft, Patricia Neal, Maggie Smith, Glenda Jackson and Ellen Burstyn.
      Was the 53rd actress to receive an Academy Award; she won the Best Actress Oscar for BUtterfield 8 (1960) at The 33rd Annual Academy Awards (1961) on April 17, 1961.
      I had a hollow leg. I could drink everyone under the table and not get drunk. My capacity was terrifying.
      My mother says I didn't open my eyes for eight days after I was born, but when I did, the first thing I saw was an engagement ring. I was hooked.
      [on her weight fluctuations] When you're fat, the world is divided into two groups - people who bug you and people who leave you alone. The funny thing is, supporters and saboteurs exist in either camp.
      One problem with people who have no vices is that they're pretty sure to have some annoying virtues.
      [About Montgomery Clift] The most gorgeous thing in the world and easily one of the best actors.
      [on Eddie Fisher] I'm not taking anything away from Debbie [Debbie Reynolds] because she never really had it.
      [2005] Acting is, to me now, artificial. Seeing people suffer is real. It couldn't be more real. Some people don't like to look at it in the face because it's painful. But if nobody does, then nothing gets done.
      [2005] There's still so much more to do. I can't sit back and be complacent, and none of us should be. I get around now in a wheelchair, but I get around.
      [on Michael Jackson] What is a genius? What is a living legend? What is a mega star? Michael Jackson - that's all. And when you think you know him, he gives you more . . . I think he is one of the finest people to hit this planet, and, in my estimation, he is the true King of Pop, Rock and Soul.
      [on John Wayne] His image had as much impact in the world as many of our presidents have had, but Duke was a great actor, a great humanitarian, but always himself. To be a friend was a lifetime thing.
      If someone's dumb enough to offer me a million dollars to make a picture, I'm certainly not dumb enough to turn it down.
      [on Michael Wilding] I'm afraid in those last few years I gave him a rather rough time. Sort of henpecked him and probably wasn't mature enough for him. It wasn't that we had anything to fight over. We just weren't happy.
      [on Clark Gable] He was the epitome of the movie star -- so romantic, such bearing, such friendliness.
      [on Montgomery Clift] Monty was the most emotional actor I have ever worked with. And it is contagious.
      [on Marilyn Monroe] She seemed to have a kind of unconscious glow about her physical self that was innocent, like a child. When she posed nude, it was 'Gee, I am kind of, you know, sort of dishy,' like she enjoyed it without being egotistical.
      [on the death of Michael Jackson] I just don't believe that Michael would want me to share my grief with millions of others. How I feel is between us. Not a public event.
      Richard came on the set and sort of sidled over to me and said: "Has anybody ever told you that you're a very pretty girl?" 'I thought, Oy gevalt, the great lover, the great wit, the great Welsh intellectual, and he comes out with a corny line like that! But then I noticed his hands were shaking as if he had Saturday night palsy. He had the worst hangover I'd ever seen. And he was obviously terrified of me. I just took pity on him. I realized he really was human. That was the beginning of our affair.
      [on her conversion to Judaism] had absolutely nothing to do with my past marriage to Mike [Todd] or my upcoming marriage to Eddie Fisher, both of whom were Jewish. It was something I had wanted to do for a long time.
      I don't entirely approve of some of the things I have done, or am, or have been. But I'm me. God knows, I'm me.
      I have the emotions of a child in the body of a woman. I was rushed into womanhood for the movies. It caused me long moments of unhappiness and doubt.
      The ups and downs, the problems and stress, along with all the happiness, have given me optimism and hope because I am living proof of survival.
      I've come through things that would have felled an ox. That fills me with optimism, not just for myself but for our particular species.
=======================================================
                WatchElizabeth Taylor Special on Friday 25 March at 8am and 4pmRenowned for her legendary beauty and startling violet eyes, Oscar-winning actress Elizabeth Taylor has mesmerized audiences as much with her private life as with her dramatic performances on the silver screen.Elizabeth Taylor was the Queen of Hollywood, with a career spanning six decades. She was as famous for her colourful personal life, which included eight marriages and seven husbands, as she was for her acting career. Although Taylor was born in England, her parents were American art dealers. Her mother had been an actress on the stage until she married, and the family relocated to Los Angeles when she was seven. A family friend suggested Taylor be taken for a screen test, and she signed a contract with Universal Studios. Her first foray onto the silver screen was in the short, ‘There’s One Born Every Minute’, when she was ten. Taylor was then signed by MGM to make ‘Lassie Come Home’. Her next two films were minuscule parts, but then came the film that made Taylor a star, ‘National Velvet’, in 1944. The film was a smash hit, grossing over $4 million. Throughout the 1940s and into the early 1950s, Taylor appeared in film after film, with mostly good results. 1954 proved her busiest year to date, with roles in ‘Rhapsody’, ‘Beau Brummell’, ‘The Last Time I Saw Paris’ and ‘Elephant Walk’. 1957 saw Taylor star in ‘Raintree County’, for which she was nominated for an Academy Award. In 1958, she starred in ‘Cat On a Hot Tin Roof’. The film received rave reviews from the critics and Taylor was nominated again for another Academy Award. She finally won an Oscar in 1960 for ‘Butterfield 8’. In 1963, she starred in ‘Cleopatra’, which was the most expensive production up to that time, and her enormous salary of $1,000,000 made her the highest paid woman in Hollywood and the first ever million dollar actress. After her second Oscar win for ‘Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf’, her films never again reached the same heights. However, she maintained her place in the limelight by the sheer quantity of her work, appearing in ‘The Taming of the Shrew’, ‘Reflections in a Golden Eye’, ‘The Only Game in Town’ and ‘Hammersmith is Out’ between 1967 and 1972. In 1974, Taylor starred in ‘Victory at Entebbe’, a made-for-television movie based on an actual event, which involved Israeli hostages being freed from Entebbe Airport in Uganda. Over the next decade, she went on to have roles in productions including ‘A Little Night Music’, ‘The Mirror Crack’d’, ‘All My Children’, ‘Malice in Wonderland’ and the miniseries ‘North and South’. With her appearances largely restricted to television and voice roles, Taylor continued entertaining fans in the late 80s through to the 90s with roles in ‘Young Toscanini’, ‘Sweet Bird of Youth’, ‘The Simpsons’ and ‘The Flintstones’. Her most recent work includes 2001’s ‘These Old Broads’ and 2003’s ‘God, the Devil and Bob’, an animated sitcom. Taylor’s personal life has been as colourful as her acting career, having gone through seven husbands and eight marriages over the years. Her most famous union was with seven-time Academy Award nominee Richard Burton, whom she married and divorced twice. Her first marriage was to Conrad 'Nicky' Hilton, the young hotel chain heir. They wed on 6 May 1950. Taylor believed she was in love and also wanted to escape her mother who was quite controlling over the young actress. Hilton's drinking and abusive behaviour led to Taylor having a miscarriage and they divorced after nine months. She then wed Michael Wilding who was 20 years older in 1952 and they divorced in 1957, with Taylor stating she wasn't mature enough for him. She had two sons with Wilding. In February 1957, she married Michael Todd, with whom she had daughter Liza. On 22 March 1958, Michael died, meaning this was her only marriage not to end in divorce. Taylor claimed he was one of the three loves of her life, along with Burton and jewellery. She married Eddie Fisher in 1959. He was Todd's best friend and was already married to Debbie Reynolds when the pair started an affair, which was condemned. This partnership ended in 1964. Taylor then married Burton in 1964, which the Vatican condemned as they were both married when they started seeing each other. The marriage lasted ten years before they divorced. After being apart for 16 months, they married again but redivorced in 1975. She married Republican senator John Warner in 1976 and they divorced in 1982. This was followed by a five year marriage to Larry Fortensky. In February 1997, she was hospitalised for the removal of a brain tumour and, although the operation was successful, her health remained an ongoing concern. Taylor had a wide range of other medical issues over the years and in February 2011, at the age of 78, she was admitted into Cedars-Sinai Medical Center for treatment related to congestive heart failure, which she disclosed in 2004. She passed away on 23 March 2011 at the age of 79 from congestive heart failure. A statement announcing Taylor's death said that "she was surrounded by her children - Michael Wilding, Christopher Wilding, Liza Todd and Maria Burton" and left behind ten grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Paying tribute to his mother, son Michael said in a statement: "We will always be inspired by her enduring contribution to our world. My Mother was an extraordinary woman who lived life to the fullest, with great passion, humour, and love." On her death, her jewellery collection was worth a reported $150 million as she loved collecting pieces and was seen as a fashion icon throughout her career. Christie's auction house will be selling some of this collection on 13 and 14 December in New York following a three-month worldwide tour. She earned £12 million in the year after her death.   Revisit a classic - Cleopatra  Still the most expensive movie ever made, Cleopatra nearly bankrupted 20th Century Fox. It also scandalised the world with the very public affair of its two major stars, Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton. But Joseph L Mankiewicz's 1963 awe-inspiring epic deserves to be remembered for more than just its off-screen troubles.  Hollywood's first couple - Furious Love: Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton  A tough Welshman, he was softened by the affections of a breathtakingly beautiful woman: she was a modern-day Cleopatra madly in love with her own Mark Antony. For quarter of a century, Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton were the king and queen of Hollywood. This ultimate celebrity biography is the gripping real-life story of a fairy-tale couple whose lives were even grander and more outrageous than the epic films they made.
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Birth Name: Elizabeth Rosemond TaylorBirth Place: Hampstead, London, EnglandDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 02/27/1932, PiscesDate of Death: 03/23/2011Profession: Actor
VIDEO: Lucy Meets the BurtonsMar 6, 2014 03:16 PMLucy Meets the BurtonsFree | HuluLength: 25:50Aired: 9/14/1970Lucy mistakes actor Richard Burton for a plumber when he dons overalls to evade a throng of women while on his way to have Elizabeth Taylor's 69 carat ring re-sized. Lucy finds the ring in Burton's discarded overalls, tries it on and can't get it off! watchVIDEO: Lucy Meets the BurtonsJun 5, 2014 03:48 AMLucy Meets the BurtonsFree | XfinityLength: 25:50Aired: 9/14/1970Lucy mistakes actor Richard Burton for a plumber when he dons overalls to evade a throng of women while on his way to have Elizabeth Taylor's 69 carat ring re-sized. Lucy finds the ring in Burton's discarded overalls, tries it on and can't get it off! watchAllan McKeown, Tracey Ullman's Husband and Producer, Dies at 67Dec 26, 2013 07:07 PM ETby Liz RafteryAllan McKeown, the husband of Tracey Ullman who also served as a producer and co-creator of her comedy shows, died at his Los Angeles home on Tuesday after a battle with prostate cancer, Variety reports. He was 67.read more
Genocide movie trailer -  starring Elizabeth Taylor, Orson Welles.  Directed by Arnold Schwartzman. Genre: Documentary
Designer Kenneth Cole talks about the 30th anniversary of his global fashion brand, his work with Elizabeth Taylor and the Foundation for AIDS Research and the new documentary, "The Battle of amfAR"
All but abandoned by her family in a London retirement hotel, an elderly woman strikes up a curious friendship with a young writer.
Filmmaker Bruce Weber is a professed animal lover, and his newest film centers on his own dogs, a family of gorgeous golden retrievers, including "True." A Letter to True is a stunning look at the affection, loyalty, and unconditional love displayed by these animals - which the filmmaker sees as a metaphor for peace and hope in the world. In a highly personal commentary, Weber interweaves his personal obsessions: music of the '50s and '60s, home movies of Dirk Bogarde in Provence; conversations with Elizabeth Taylor (another great dog lover), recollections of friendships past, and speculation about how our lives have been changed by the events of 9/11. Tying these various strands together with a poet's logic, A Letter to True is a little like staying up late with Bruce Weber, listening to great music and peeking into the mind of a world-class connoisseur.
Filmmaker Bruce Weber is a professed animal lover, and his newest film centers on his own dogs, a family of gorgeous golden retrievers, including "True."
Filmmaker Bruce Weber is a professed animal lover, and his newest film centers on his own dogs, a family of gorgeous golden retrievers, including "True."
Bob goes to see his dying father in the hospital with the hopes of making amends, but he ends up telling the angry and abusive old man to go to Hell.
Upset that Bob seems to have no fear or respect for him, the Devil decides to make Bob sit up and take notice of his powers by going out with his daughter, Megan.
And runs away to Canada in embarrassment after he tells his friends that his father has asked God to stop by the house after work and then God's a no show.
Detroit autoworker Bob Alman is dazed and confused when God and the Devil approach him with a bet on whether he can prove the world is worth saving.
                                                                                                 TV Listings
If you thought Colin Farrell and Britney Spears made a strange couple, wait until you hear this.
The actor opened up to Ellen DeGeneres on her show Monday about his "romantic relationship" with none other than Elizabeth Taylor.
Farrell met the legendary actress at Cedars Sinai Hospital in 2009, when he was there for the birth of his son Henry and she for getting a stent put in her heart.
"I said, 'Will you tell her I said hello? She probably won't know who I am,'" he said of running into her manager Tim Mendelsohn. "And they go, 'No, she knows who you are.' And I went, 'Wow, cool. Well, tell her I said hello and I wish her the best,' and they said, 'Will do.'"
 Unable to shake Taylor from his mind, Farrell had his publicist send her flowers only to find out that Taylor shared a similar idea and sent him an orchid with a handwritten note.
People who actually knew Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton never called them Liz and Dick. The late actors abhorred the tabloid shorthand. They nicknamed each other Lumpy (referring to her body) and Pockmark (referring to his face). Acquaintances addressed them as Richard and Elizabeth. Otherwise, it was Mr. Burton and Ms. Taylor, thank you.
Last fall, Lifetimes premiered Lindsay Lohan's "comeback" film Liz & Dick, chronicling Elizabeth Taylor's romance with Richard Burton. Now BBC has responded with its own version of the couple's tumultuous relationship, Burton and Taylor. So is the latest take on the infamous couple actually any better than the Lifetime bomb? Let's take a look:
With Lindsay Lohan starting a 90-day stint in rehab on Thursday, we're hoping that once she gets out in August, she can keep herself busy and gainfully employed with a return to TV.
Lohan's last TV appearance on pal Charlie Sheen's Anger Management in April was a modest success. She played a caricature of her public persona -- named Lindsay, of course -- who consults Charlie (Sheen) for anger counseling, complete with shtick references to her notorious personal life, including drugs (donut powder mistaken for cocaine) and court dates. Despite receiving a mixed chorus of jeers, the Anger Management gig got this endorsement from Newsday: "There was an ember of something that seemed totally lost in all the coverage, headlines and nonsense of the last few years: Lohan actually has some talent."
The biggest news from the Paley Center for Media panel "General Hospital: Celebrating 50 Years and Looking Forward," which I moderated on April 12: Anthony Geary (Luke Spencer) will be writing a...
Buy Lassie Come Home Movie (1943) Elizabeth Taylor, Roddy McDowell - Son of Lassie / Courage of Lassie -3 Classic Film Triple Feature from Amazon.com (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $12.13 (as of 8:20 AM EST - more info)Buy TCM Greatest Classic Legends Film Collection: Elizabeth Taylor (Cat on a Hot Tin Roof / Butterfield 8 / Father of the Bride / The Sandpiper) from Amazon.comFrom Turner Classic Movie (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $9.91 (as of 8:20 AM EST - more info)
=======================================================
From All Movie Guide: Elizabeth Taylor was the ultimate movie star: violet-eyed, luminously beautiful, and bigger than life; although never the most gifted actress, she was the most magnetic, commanding the spotlight with unparalleled power. Whether good (two Oscars, one of the first million-dollar paychecks, and charity work), bad (health and weight problems, drug battles, and other tragedies), or ugly (eight failed marriages, movie disasters, and countless scandals), no triumph or setback was too personal for media consumption. Born February 27, 1932, in London, Taylor literally grew up in public. At the beginning of World War II, her family relocated to Hollywood, and by the age of ten she was already under contract at Universal. She made her screen debut in 1942's There's One Born Every Minute, followed a year later by a prominent role in Lassie Come Home. For MGM, she co-starred in the 1944 adaptation of {-Jane Eyre}, then appeared in The White Cliffs of Dover. With her first lead role as a teen equestrian in the 1944 family classic National Velvet, Taylor became a star. To their credit, MGM did not exploit her, despite her incredible beauty; she did not even reappear onscreen for two more years, returning with Courage of Lassie. Taylor next starred as Cynthia in 1947, followed by Life With Father. In Julia Misbehaves, she enjoyed her first grown-up role, and then portrayed Amy in the 1947 adaptation of {-Little Women}.
Taylor's first romantic lead came opposite Robert Taylor in 1949's Conspirator. Her love life was already blossoming offscreen as well; that same year she began dating millionaire Howard Hughes, but broke off the relationship to marry hotel heir Nicky Hilton when she was just 17 years old. The marriage made international headlines, and in 1950 Taylor scored a major hit as Spencer Tracy's daughter in Vincente Minnelli's Father of the Bride; a sequel, Father's Little Dividend, premiered a year later. Renowned as one of the world's most beautiful women, Taylor was nevertheless largely dismissed as an actress prior to an excellent performance in the George Stevens drama A Place in the Sun.In 1956, however, the actress reunited with Stevens to star in his epic adaptation of the Edna Ferber novel {-Giant}. It was a blockbuster, as was her 1957 follow-up Raintree County, for which she earned a Best Actress Oscar nomination. Taylor's sexy image was further elevated by an impossibly sensual performance in 1958's Cat on a Hot Tin Roof; another Tennessee Williams adaptation, Suddenly Last Summer, followed a year later, and both were highly successful. To complete the terms of her MGM contract, she grudgingly agreed to star in 1960's Butterfield 8; upon completing the film Taylor traveled to Britain to begin work on the much-heralded Cleopatra, for which she received an unprecedented one-million-dollar fee. In London she became dangerously ill, and underwent a life-saving emergency tracheotomy. Hollywood sympathy proved sufficient for her to win a Best Actress Oscar for Butterfield 8, although much of the good will extended toward her again dissipated in the wake of the mounting difficulties facing Cleopatra. With five million dollars already spent, producers pulled the plug and relocated the shoot to Italy, replacing co-star Stephen Boyd with Richard Burton. The final tally placed the film at a cost of 37 million dollars, making it the most costly project in film history; scheduled for a 16-week shoot, the production actually took years, and despite mountains of pre-publicity, it was a huge disaster at the box office upon its 1963 premiere.
Still, the notice paid to Cleopatra paled in comparison to the scrutiny which greeted Taylor's latest romance, with Burton, and perhaps no Hollywood relationship was ever the subject of such intense media coverage. Theirs was a passionate, stormy relationship, played out in the press and onscreen in films including 1963's The V.I.P.'s and 1965's The Sandpiper. In 1966, the couple starred in Mike Nichols' controversial directorial debut Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, arguably Taylor's best performance; overweight, verbally cutting, and defiantly unglamorous, she won a second Oscar for her work as the embittered wife of Burton's alcoholic professor. Their real-life marriage managed to survive, however, and after Taylor appeared opposite Marlon Brando in 1967's Reflections in a Golden Eye, she and Burton reunited for The Comedians. She also starred in Franco Zeffirelli's The Taming of the Shrew, but none were successful at the box office; 1968's Doctor Faustus was a disaster, and later that year Boom! failed to gross even one-quarter of its costs. After 1969's Secret Ceremony, Taylor starred in The Only Game in Town, a year later; when they too failed, her days of million-dollar salaries were over, and she began working on percentage.With Burton, Taylor next appeared in a small role in 1971's Under Milk Wood; next was X, Y and Zee, followed by another spousal collaboration, Hammersmith Is Out. In 1972 the Burtons also co-starred in a television feature, Divorce His, Divorce Hers; the title proved prescient, as two years later, the couple did indeed divorce after a decade together. With no film offers forthcoming, Taylor turned to the stage, and in 1981 she starred in a production of {+The Little Foxes}. In 1983, she and Burton also reunited to co-star on Broadway in {+Private Lives}. Television also remained an option, and in 1983 she and Carol Burnett co-starred in Between Friends. However, Taylor's primary focus during the decades to follow was charity work; following the death of her close friend, Rock Hudson, she became a leader in the battle against AIDS, and for her efforts won the 1993 Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award. In 1997, the actress once again became a featured tabloid topic when she underwent brain surgery to remove a benign tumor. The same year, she received attention of a more favorable variety with Happy Birthday Elizabeth: A Celebration of Life, a TV special in which she was paid tribute by a number of stars including Madonna, Shirley MacLaine, John Travolta, Dennis Hopper, and Cher. Taylor would continue to make her voice heard when it came to issues that she felt strongly about. In 2003, Taylor refused to attend the Academy Awards out of protest against the Iraq War. Taylor also worked tirelessly in the name of AIDS research, advocacy, and awareness, even appearing in a 2007 staging of the A.R. Gurney play {+Love Letters} opposite James Earl Jones to benefit Taylor's own AIDS foundation -- a performance that earned over a million dollars for the cause. Sadly, Taylor was increasingly plagued by health problems, undergoing cardiac surgery in 2009 to replace a leaky heart valve. On March 23, 2011, she passed away from congestive heart failure. She was 79. ~ Jason Ankeny, Rovi      
Institution - University High School			Location - Los Angeles , California									Year range - 1950			
© 2010 All Media Guide, LLC Portions of content provided by All Movie Guide ®, a trademark of All Media Guide, LLC
=======================================================
'I look at that beach and I can tell you where each one was lying...   I can still see their faces': Tears of D-Day veterans as they make emotional return to Normandy to honour their fallen comrades
A royal salute for the fallen heroes of D-Day: Prince Charles and an elegant Duchess of Cornwall join the Queen to pay their respects
        70 years after they stormed Normandy's beaches as young soldiers amid the hell of battle, veterans willing to die for freedom in 1944 have made an emotional return to France. Harold Baumgarten, 89, has described how he could still look out at the beaches of northern France and point to where the bodies lay. Other men like Peter Smooth, 89, left, went to the British War Cemetery in Bayeux to salute fallen comrades. Other told their stories to dignitaries like Prime Minister David Cameron, top right. Across the Channel Douglas Turtle, 91, bottom right, sobbed on the seafront in Portsmouth as he remembered June 6 1944 at dawn.
Still sulking, Mr Putin? Just weeks after Charles accused him of acting like Hitler, the Russian president stands by as Obama plays the gentleman for the Queen
       World leaders gathered in Normandy to mark the 70th anniversary of D-Day amid growing tensions over Russian aggression towards Ukraine. Mr Putin is due to come face-to-face with the Prince of Wales later. As heads of state gathered for a group photo to mark  D-Day at Benouville Castle, Mr Putin cut a solitary figure while Barack Obama and New Zealand's Governor-General Jerry Mateparae fussed around the Queen.
      Surrounded by thousands of war graves Her Majesty bowed as she laid a wreath during a poignant service of remembrance in Bayeux, the first town in Normandy to be freed from Hitler's grip on June 6 1944.
                  Australian war vets return to Normandy to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the D-Day...
                  When the warship HMS Belfast fired the shot that launched the D-Day landings, it was...
                  World War Two veteran Jim Martin parachutes into the fields of Normandy on the eve of the...
                  The Queen paid her respects to the 4,500 men who died fighting the Nazis on D-Day, as she...
                  United States President Barack Obama and French President Francois Hollande gather on the...
                  The Queen laid a wreath during a ceremony at the Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery in...
                  France's Hollande hosts world leaders for a commemorative D-Day group photo and lunch,...
                  Prime Minister David Cameron and his wife Samantha attended a British D-Day commemoration...
                  Imperial War Museum archive footage of British troops landing on the Normandy beaches
                  Normandy veterans are returning to the shores of France to pay their respects to lost...
                  As the sun rose over a gusty Omaha Beach in France on D-Day veterans from the United...
                  On June 6, 1944, the world's largest seaborne invasion was launched against the occupying...
                  Queen Elizabeth II lays a wreath at the tomb on the unknown soldier at the Arc de...
                  As the sun rose on the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings, people gathered on...
                  Britain's Prince Charles, accompanied by his wife the Duchess of Cornwall, meets glider...
                  Australian war vets return to Normandy to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the D-Day...
                  When the warship HMS Belfast fired the shot that launched the D-Day landings, it was...
Flood warnings issued as Britain faces a weekend soaking with a fortnight's rain forecast to fall in just an hour (so enjoy today's sunshine while you can)
      The Met Office said thundery rain is expected to start falling across Britain early tomorrow morning, with showers unlikely to ease off until the evening. Some places could see between 20mm and 30mm of rain fall in an hour - almost half of the UK monthly average for the whole of June. It comes as people across the country enjoy temperatures of up to 25C today. Families and teenagers celebrating the end of their exams took to South Shields beach today (right) to soak up the sunshine, while horses enjoyed grazing in buttercup fields in the warm weather in Biggin Hill, Kent (left).
Eight suspects including three drug dealers to be quizzed by British police in hunt for Madeleine McCann as officers are granted permission to question them
      Portuguese officials are reported to have finally given the go-ahead for British officers to quiz eight local men who they believe could be crucial to solving the mystery
Mother left in tears after two customers called her a 'slut' for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
      Rhea Holley, of Faversham in Kent, was at Costa Coffee in Purley, south London, when two customers in their 60s started verbally abusing her for breast-feeding.
Mother in tears after being called a 'slut' by two customers for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
Parents held after son, 11, reaches 15 STONE: Couple arrested on suspicion of child cruelty after 'doctors became concerned about boy's wellbeing
      The parents, from King’s Lynn, Norfolk, claim their son's weight gain is genetic and they have tried to keep his size under control.
      Studies show the optimum amount is 3-4mg of caffeine per kilogram of bodyweight one hour prior to exercise.
Destitute slum mother, 25, sells newborn boy to childless couple for £130 after husband abandoned her while pregnant
      Gauri Shah, 32, who lives in a slum near railway tracks in in Jalpaiguri, West Bengal was abandoned by her husband eight months ago expecting her fourth child.
'The job isn't finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite triumph over Farage in Newark by-election
      The Prime Minister warned the Conservatives had to keep hammering home key messages on the economy, tax cuts and jobs, after Robert Jenrick beat UKIP's Roger Helmer by 7,000 votes.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
Mexican Kim Kardashian lookalike 'takes over as boss of drug cartel hit squad' and uses a personalised pink AK47
       Claudia Ochoa Felix, 27, is thought to be the new head of an elite kill squad used by one of Mexico's most powerful drug cartels, the Sinaloas, to carry out executions. She regularly posts pictures on social media posing like her idol Kim Kardashian while holding her signature pink AK (right). She has also uploaded images of her bodyguards (inset) and her three children surrounded by piles of cash.
Forget the helmets - you'll only need a flat cap: Hilarious video warns Tour de France riders what to expect in Yorkshire (and says avoid bright clothing... it scares the sheep)
      Ditch helmets for flat caps and switch bright jackets for grey cardigans so you don't scare the sheep - a Yorkshire man's advice ahead of the Tour de France.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
      Researchers from London's University of Westminster asked 124 men - half of whom were hungry and half well-fed - to rate different women by attractiveness.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
'Fraudsters hijacked our phone line and then stole tens of thousands when we called the bank': Customers scammed and then left stranded by their banks
      In two separate cases that we investigated customers with Lloyds Bank and Nationwide Building Society lost a total of almost £60,000 to the scam.
Most rapists don't lurk down dark alleys wearing balaclavas, say prosecutors in move to boost conviction rates
      The country’s top prosecutor warned that ‘out-of-date myths’ had to be tackled to persuade victims to have confidence in the criminal justice system.
Dying for a tan: Man, 32, diagnosed with terminal skin cancer after spending £7,000 on sunbed sessions over eight years
       Damien Platt, from Greater Manchester, was diagnosed with melanoma after using a sunbed up to four times a week for nine minutes at a time 'to make hi self feel good'. He said: 'To find out I had melanoma was the worst feeling in the world. I felt completely numb and found it very hard to function properly for days, people would try talking to me but nothing would register. Now I'm just trying to be as happy as possible with the time I've got left.' Image ( bottom right) shows the scar on his leg where the mole was removed and (top right) shows him with a tan.
Fears government agencies can listen in to private mobile phone calls at the ‘flick of a switch’ after Vodafone reveals authorities use secret wires across its entire network which stretches to 29 countries
      Vodafone said direct-access wires were connected to its network, allowing authorities in 29 countries - including Italy, Malta and Spain - to monitor conversations.
‘Rape? Sometimes it's RIGHT': Indian state minister says offence is only a crime if the woman reports it to police - days after murderous gang-rape of two sisters
      'This is a social crime which depends on men and women. Sometimes it's right, sometimes it's wrong,' said Babulal Gaur, minister for Madhya Pradesh.
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left three Canadian Mounties dead and put city on day-long lock-down
      Justin Bourque, 24, was taken into custody early Friday morning after a deadly shootout in Moncton, New Brunswick, that left three police officers dead.
Suffocated baby's twin returned to parents after judge clears father of accidentally killing her as they slept on sofa, saying the couple 'deserve to be believed'
      The middle class father came under suspicion from Lancashire County Council following the death of his daughter, but judge Mr Justice Peter Jackson (pictured) cleared him of blame.
And they're off! Fillies in fascinators and fancy frocks descend on a sunny Epsom Downs for Ladies Day at the Derby
       Colourfully dressed racegoers basked in the sunshine as they arrived at the Epsom Downs racecourse in Surrey for the first day of the Derby Festival. Highlights on Ladies Day include the Oaks and the Princess Elizabeth Stakes but the big hitters, including the hot favourite Australia, will arrive tomorrow ahead of the Derby.
Use leftover Melba toast... and other money-saving tips by aristocratic politician who lives in a 13-bed manor
      Tory peer Baroness Rawlings, who is married to a multi-millionaire, suggested people reuse their linen and use a bath to warm the room.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
      Julie Matthias, 49, of Chatham, Kent, has been diagnosed with Foreign Accent Syndrome - which affects just 60 people worldwide.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
      As 94-year old grandmother Bertha Guymer, pictured, lay dying on a hospital bed in Essex, a thief stole her wedding rings, her family has claimed.
'Can't catch me': Fugitive, 20, who taunted police on Facebook weeps in the dock as he is jailed for stealing thousands from his grandparents and assaulting his mother
      Joe Barlow, from Laindon, Essex, was jailed for five separate offences at Basildon Crown Court, including stealing £8,500 from his grandparents’ savings to pay for drugs.
'I wasn't even hungry': Russian cannibal is FREED from court despite admitting he ate his fisherman friend - as victim's distraught wife says all she is left with is his foot
       Her husband, Andrei Kurochkin was eaten by his close friends who were fishermen after they were lost for months during an expedition in frozen Siberia. Olga Korochkin, 38, spoke out after hearing confirmation that cannibalised human remains found were those of her husband.
'Everything is proceeding according to plan. And what a plan!' How Churchill told MPs of the most ambitious operation ever launched as the D-Day landings were still underway
      MPs applauded after the wartime Prime Minister described the start of the 'most complicated and difficult' operation ever launched.
Putin shakes hands with Ukraine's new president for tense 15 minutes (with German Chancellor Angela Merkel acting as referee)
      With Merkel in close attendance the two men spoke after a photocall of leaders attending the Normandy commemoration.
'I was a product of rape': Miss USA 2014 hopeful reveals she was conceived when her mother was attacked at knifepoint
      Valerie Gatto's mother was attacked when she was 19. Rather than let the tragic story define her, Valerie uses it to help educate young women about sexual assault.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
      Vincent Walsh, professor of human brain research at University College London, also proposed they should be allowed to set their own work times, arriving whenever they want.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
       The 'barbaric' act of cruelty in Pendle, Lancashire was filmed by one of the men, while the other two tried to clamber up towards the terrified animal. Joshua Varey, 24, filmed the act while Shaun Mullens, 22, and Paul Ashworth, 49, shook branches trying to dislodge the animal. All three defendants, from Colne, have pleaded guilty to what Burnley magistrates described as 'deliberate and serious' acts of cruelty that the defendants 'appear to derive pleasure from'.
One Direction's Louis Tomlinson to become co-chairman of Doncaster Rovers Football Club after 'finalising multi-million pound takeover deal'
      The One Direction singer is believed to have finalised a deal to takeover the football club, who he has supported his whole life.
Why Tetris is so addictive: Playing the game is like 'scratching an itch' and appeals to our brain's desire to tidy up
      A psychologist from the University of Sheffield has revealed that Tetris appeals to our brain's desire to solve mini tasks, while being tantalised by more problems.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
      Scientists secretly gave 2,051 babies and children in homes thought to include Sean Ross Abbey, Co. Tipperary, pictured, a diphtheria vaccine without their consent.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
Advertising executive 'was sacked from her £160,000-a-year job when she returned from maternity leave because firm's sexist Mad Men culture'
      Mrs A, a single mother in her late 30s, was originally employed by Ogilvy before the company was taken over by Hogarth World Wide Ltd, in central London.
Four generations of depravity: Court orders 'incest family' who lived in remote Australian bush to provide DNA samples to help police unravel decades of sexual abuse
       Two members of a NSW family accused of mass incest have been DNA swabbed following a court order. 'Raylene Colt' and 'Betty Colt' (the legal pseudonyms given to them) were ordered to report to a Sydney police station on Friday to provide samples. The family was discovered in regional NSW in 2012 living in squalid conditions and have been the subject of a child abuse investigation since.
      Researchers at the University of Rochester, in the U.S., say male brains are affected more significantly than female brains.
Give me my pocket money or I'll jump: Chinese boy, 10, holds parents to ransom over late payment of his 50p
      When ten-year-old Xiao Wei's father was late in paying him his weekly 50p stipend in Shangsi, China, the stubborn youngster took matters into his own hands.
Father jailed for stabbing his partner six times during vicious attack in front of their children after she called police to report him
      Nicholas Robinson, pictured, broke down in tears at Leeds Crown Court after he received the 11-year sentence for the attempted murder of Claire Chambers.
Jurassic Park actor arrested and charged with kidnap and rape of 13-year-old girl he met for acting classes
      Cameron Thor, 54, is accused of sexually assaulting the girl over the course of a year by police in Los Angeles, California, who say he took her to a secluded area.
'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richman poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
       Former Man V. Food host Adam Richman is celebrating is 70lb weight loss with a naked spread in Cosmopolitan UK's July issue. Mr Richman, 40, poses lying down with a soccer ball precariously covering his genitals. He wears soccer cleats and knee socks and is surrounded by a smattering of soccer balls that read 'USA', in reference to this summer's World Cup.
School at centre of Islamist 'Trojan Horse' takeover plot rejects Ofsted report saying it is failing to protect pupils from extremism
      The report - made public yesterday but leaked to the Mail on Monday - said Golden Hillock school in Birmingham (pictured), was doing too little to keep students safe from extremist views.
Is this the street in which Jack the Ripper lived? Geographic profiling pinpoints exact address of Victorian serial killer
      A former Canadian police officer combined geographical profiling and computer models to pinpoint Ripper's address in Whitechapel, East London (pictured in 1902).
Still clutching their rosaries after hundreds of years, eerie photographs show mummies buried in a Czech underground crypt
       A monastery in the Czech Republic has a ghoulish secret for those willing to venture underground - two dozen corpses clutching rosaries are on display. The bodies in the Capuchin Crypt of the Holy Cross Church, in Brno, date back hundreds of years, but they were only recently rediscovered and opened to public viewing.
Google reveals 3D scanning sensors for tablets that will map your home and give you directions INSIDE a building
      California-based Google has revealed the next step in their 'Project Tango'. The ambitious 3D mapping technology is being brought to tablets (pictured).
Build more homes in the countryside to stop property boom, says Lagarde (as IMF abandons warnings on Osborne's austerity)
      IMF chief Christine Lagarde, said the Bank of England should start to put up interest rates and take measures to clamp down on risky mortgages.
      People who match with each other on the app can now send pictures visible for 24 hours to each other.
      The mums in Krasnoyarsk Krai, a city in central Russia, were among thousands who offered up their children in the races which have taken place across the country.
It's one in a mill-ion! Stunning riverside home with its own working water mill and vintage car museum could be yours (for £700,000)
       The secluded estate is set in 67 acres of woodland near South Molton, between the picturesque Dartmoor and Exmoor national parks in Devon, and features a water mill with exposed mechanics and a huge millstone. The magnificent building also features a spectacular 13,000 sq ft vintage car museum, riverside terrace and floodlit weir.
'Chaos and mass delays' as power failure grounds flights at Bristol Airport and passengers are told to wait outside terminal
      Passengers have taken to Twitter to voice their frustration as flights are delayed and the terminal fills with grounded passengers.
Air passengers delayed and 'forced to fly without luggage' from Heathrow due to Europe-wide computer problem
      The luggage system that manages baggage across Europe has experienced an IT failure which is affecting flight out of the UK.
Does the amount of make-up you wear affect how people treat you? Student tries three different looks to find out
       Brinton Parker, a 21-year-old student at the University of California, was inspired to conduct her experiment after noticing how her peers critiqued people's looks. So during a single week, she went to school wearing three very different make-up looks - bare-faced, moderate and heavy - in a bid to measure the ways it altered how people treated her.
          Katherine Jenkins ditches her usual glamorous make-up for a more natural look as she showcases her slim frame in navy mini dress
          Lucy and Lydia Mecklenburgh show off the results of their first training session together (but can't take a selfie without covering their faces)
          A look that will take you places! Michelle Keegan wears bright playsuit at photocall for holiday company
          Is that you, Cher? Lady Gaga tries to Turn Back Time in crazy curly '80s wig and retro robe suit as she apes iconic singer
          Keeping Upside Down With The Kardashians! Kris Jenner, 58, shows Kim how it's done at pole dancing class
          EXCLUSIVE: Abbey ever after! Robin Windsor and Marcus Collins reveal plans for Downton-themed wedding... eight months after Clancy set them up
          Pregnant Claire Sweeney displays growing bump in two tone mini dress as she treats herself to restaurant meal
          Handle with care! Nigella Lawson steps out looking pale and fragile... the morning after her dazed appearance at charity fundraiser
          One Direction's Louis Tomlinson to become co-chairman of Doncaster Rovers Football Club after 'finalising multi-million pound takeover deal'
          Jake Gyllenhaal and Rachel McAdams spotted sharing intimate meal in Pittsburgh as they prepare to start shooting new film Southpaw
          'That was like extreme incarceration!': Big Brother's Matthew Davies is let out of his glass box after 12 hours suspended above the garden
          'Some people hate it but I love getting up and going to the gym': Cheryl Cole reveals secrets behind music comeback physique
          BGT 2014's final will be a huge TV event... and a mindless, cynical circus: JIM SHELLEY's 12 reasons for hating Britain's Got Talent
          Rihanna cuts a forlorn figure as she parties in Hollywood wearing satin kimono jacket...  after jetting in from Paris earlier that day
          Barefaced Snooki bares her pregnant belly in skimpy bikini as she poses in series of selfies
          'Get witch or die tryin': Rapper 50 Cent sends up Angelina Jolie's evil queen character in hilarious spoof trailer MaleFiftyCent
          Cara Delevingne shows off her supermodel style in plunging printed silk jumpsuit as she attends Stella McCartney party with pal Jourdan Dunn
          It's over: Jennifer Lopez and dancer boyfriend Casper Smart 'call it quits'... amid transsexual sexting scandal
          Samantha Cameron walks hand-in-hand with veteran's family member at service to mark the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings
          She's still got it! Elle Macpherson, 50, is on trend in skinny jeans and casual sweater as she makes her way to Manchester photo-shoot
          Earning her fashion stripes: Pregnant Holly Willoughby wears comfortable T-shirt and jeans as she leaves Soho restaurant
          Now where did I put those Daisy Dukes? Jessica Simpson parades her slimmer figure in semi-sheer dress as she prepares for summer wedding
          'I had to leave my ego at the door with this' Behind the scenes with Kelly and Sharon Osbourne as they unveil new MAC range
          Only the best for his wife-to-be! George Clooney 'on the hunt for French love nest' with fiancee Amal Alamuddin... as he 'plans move into politics'
          Happy National Day, Sweden! As the Swedish Royal family embrace festivities, even three-month-old Princess Leonore is dressed to tradition
          Lara Stone shows off her cleavage and slim pins as she is joined by husband David Walliams at Terrence Higgins Trust event
          Amber Rose flashes her toned midriff in crop top as she leaves husband and son at home for dinner out
          Simply bellissimo! Chloe Green opts for effortless Italian glamour in pale pink tie- up shirt and leather skirt as she kicks off charity road trip in Venice
          Fit for Hollywood royalty! Sandra Bullock looks regal in side-split blue gown as she speaks at Jane Fonda Tribute
          They could be sisters! Sarah Michelle Gellar links arms with lookalike Isla Fisher in cute snap for Throwback Thursday
          Adam Levine 'transforming Beverly Hills bachelor pad into a lavish family home' as he prepares to marry model Behati Prinsloo
          And they're off! Fillies in fascinators and fancy frocks descend on a sunny Epsom Downs for Ladies Day at the Derby
          Girl power! Robin Wright, Jodie Foster and Taylor Schilling celebrate their huge success at Netflix Women Ruling TV event
          That looks familiar! Cindy Crawford's lookalike 14-year-old son Presley shows off the iconic mole he inherited from her
          Prison food went down well then! Chris Brown displays fuller physique as he arrives at his get out of jail free party thrown by girlfriend Karrueche Tran
          Sienna Miller and fiancé Tom Sturridge lead the way during ANOTHER celebrity-packed night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Lo(han) and behold... she's out again! Flame-haired Lindsay rocks a grungy leather jacket and skirt combo as she enjoys another night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Moss be having fun! Kate looks worse for wear in clashing prints as she hits Prince gig and Chiltern Firehouse with Nick Grimshaw
          Don't mind us! Michael Sheen and Sarah Silverman make a discreet exit after late night out at celebrity haunt Chiltern Firehouse
          Plus size label Simply Be showcases fashion-forward festival collection on leading bloggers who wear sizes 12-22
          Millie Mackintosh highlights her slender frame in snakeskin jumpsuit at Smirnoff Mix It campaign launch
          Another celebrity convert: Amber Le Bon models the world's first in-flight onesie (but don't expect to look as good as her at 30,000ft)
          It's perpetual bliss! Tim McGraw and Faith Evans put rocky marriage rumours to rest with a movie worthy on stage kiss
          'Fake boobs, sex and spirituality need to be addressed in opera!' The rugby WAG and Gary Barlow protégée who wants to shake up the classical music world
          Lovely in lace! Kate Beckinsale steals the show in strapless white dress at Macbeth opening night bash
          She must've Heard it was a fashion event! Amber steals the limelight as she displays her pins in fetching red minidress at Stella McCartney presentation
          Jesse Metcalfe takes girlfriend Cara Santana shopping in first sighting since Courtney Robertson labelled him 'pretty average' in bed
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney enters the Big Brother house... and claims she has been celibate for a year
          Girls star Gaby Hoffmann pregnant with her first baby and showing a bump at screening for her new film Obvious Child
          Now that's Fancy! Shipshape Iggy Azalea slips into green bikini for luxury yacht holiday to celebrate 24th birthday
          'She isn't waiting for a man': Dancing With The Stars pro Karina Smirnoff, 36, has frozen her eggs and 'may have a child on her own'
          Team green! Brooke Vincent's 22nd birthday celebrations continue as she hits Manchester in sexy jumpsuit flanked by pals
          Fancy meeting you here! Kim Kardashian and Hilary Duff bring their children to same parenting class in Beverly Hills
          'He's struggling!' Kris Jenner opens up about Rob Kardashian's issues, but does not deny daughter Kourtney is pregnant with third child
          Maggie Gyllenhaal wows in colourful boho chic as she holds her own at Stella McCartney's Spring 2015 presentation
          Crazy Stupid Stomach! Cheryl Cole reveals her washboard abs in low- cut crop top in stills from video for new single
          Meet first 10 Big Brother 2014 contestants: A former prostitute, a strict catholic and a one-hit wonder amongst those first in house
          Here come the girls! Daisy Lowe sports cropped blouse and flared dress trousers for night out at Scott's with fellow fashionista Alexa Chung
          Nigella Lawson lets her hair down at charity dinner... as her production company makes £2.5 million profit in a year
          Emma Roberts cuts a striking figure in a fetching red dress as she receives Maui Film Festival Shining Star Award alongside fiance Evan Peters
          When in Ibiza! TOWIE's Mario Falcone puts his washboard abs on display as he greets topless fans during stag do holiday
          They love the nightlife! Aussie star Guy Pearce plays tour guide as he takes actor  Robert Pattinson and his blonde lady friend on a trip to Sydney's top hotspots
          Doesn't she get a day off? Alesha Dixon shows off her super flat stomach as she dresses up again for UK premiere of Belle
          Kourtney Kardashian covers up 'baby bump' in baggy black sweater as she and Scott Disick grab lunch in The Hamptons
          That's better! Bradley Cooper trades questionably tight shorts for baggy cargo pants as he takes a break from the set of American Sniper
          TOWIE's Gemma Collins wears white skinny jeans with confidence after losing nearly two stone ahead of Marbella special
          'He's lost... but he's no racist': Rapper 50 Cent defends Justin Bieber following N-word storm... as singer 'takes responsibility for his actions'
          Still selfie obsessed! Kendall and Kylie Jenner pucker up for picture... despite being mobbed by fans at book signing
          'She has the perfect body!' Kris Jenner says daughter Kendall's topless modelling shots 'comes with the territory'
          Jumping into action! Emma Willis wins the viewers votes as she kicks off Big Brother 2014 in flattering white all-in-one
          Big Brother 2014 Launch: Pauline Bennet goes on a 'power trip' as a playboy bunny and devout Catholic are amongst first stars to enter the house
          Big Brother reveals first twist of the series as Pauline Bennet is told to pick who wins £5,000 and which housemate is excluded on first night
          He's scored! Phil Neville can't resist kissing bikini-clad wife Julie as family holiday in Barbados continues
          You gotta fight for your copyright! Beastie Boys awarded $1.7million after suing drink firm which used their music in commercials
          George RR Martin makes fundraising appeal to Game Of Thrones fans to name a character he will kill in upcoming novel
          Time to update the wardrobe! Chantelle Houghton wears her favourite white blazer as she goes shopping with Dolly
          Together again! Eva Longoria reunites with Desperate Housewives co-star Felicity Huffman at Jane Fonda Tribute
          Orange is the new black: Ashley Tisdale shows off her tanned and toned legs in tiny bright shorts as she enjoys shopping trip
          The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
          Rolling Stones stars Mick Jagger, Ronnie Wood and Charlie Watts visit Jerusalem's Western Wall before first ever Israel concert
          Look, I can do streetwise too! J-Lo is just Jenny From The Block as she steps out in denim after being branded a 'sell out' at Bronx homecoming 
          Diary of BGT's ditziest finalist: Lettice on auditioning hungover, her outrageous stage costumes and being loaned a £1.5million violin to perform
          The Queen lights up the Champs-Élysées: Her Majesty - in her FOURTH chic outfit of the day - has red carpet rolled out for her in Paris ahead of D-Day
          Pastel perfection: Lindsay Lohan reveals very slim pins in pale blue skinny jeans and jumper as she steps out to lunch
          Catherine Zeta-Jones and Morgan Freeman share a friendly kiss gone wrong... as she and Michael Douglas arrive at Hollywood event together
          Pins on parade! Jessica Seinfeld and Liv Tyler wear revealing short summer dresses at Stella McCartney presentation
          'She's celestial... I was born into her': Keith Urban on his divine connection with Nicole Kidman... and how her drug intervention saved him
          She's still got it! Jane Fonda, 76, wows as she accepts lifetime achievement award... days after giving sex tips on Conan O'Brien
          Return Of The Jedi! Mark Hamill, 62, shows he can still handle a Lightsaber during visit to Disney World 37 years after first playing Luke Skywalker
          'You don't always have to be naked!' TLC slam Rihanna for using sex to sell records saying it's the easy way to get to the top in the music industry
          Justin Bieber has been 'non-stop crying' after two videos surface showing him singing vile racial slurs at the age of 14
          Escorted by her Goodfella! Robert De Niro's wife Grace Hightower shines in blue dress at documentary premiere in New York
          A cause close to her heart: Demi Lovato speaks about her own personal struggles during mental health event
          Pregnant Jessica-Jane Clement shows off her growing baby bump as she takes her dogs for a leisurely walk
          'People don't want them here': Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian continue to annoy Hamptons locals with 'outrageous filming demands'
          Lupita Nyong'o to star in and produce big screen adaptation of award-winning novel Americanah
          I'll be back... after my cigar break: Arnold Schwarzenegger takes things slowly as he has a sly puff on set of Terminator: Genesis
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she had been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida - ending a 20-year scam in which she stole £144,000
       Janet Curtis, 64, top right, from Clacton, Essex, said her rheumatoid arthritis meant she could barely walk more than a few yards, and left her needing 24-hour live-in care. But fraud investigators found video footage showing her water-skiing on holiday in Florida, left, walking round theme parks and swimming. Curtis, pictured outside Ipswich Crown Court yesterday, bottom right, admitted nine benefits fraud charges and was ordered to repay the money, and given a curfew and 18-month suspended prison sentence.
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she'd been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida ending 20 year scam in which she stole £144,000
Germans complain British tourists are too loud and all too often drunk (but at least we're not as bad as the Russians)
      British tourists are second only to Russians when it comes to nationalities Germans dislike most when on holiday.
Sales of widescreen TVs boom ahead of World Cup as Tesco gears up for the big event by getting extra nuts in
      Tesco said TV sales have almost doubled ahead of the event, while John Lewis reported a 47 per cent jump in sales in its vision department.
      Labour MP Stella Creasy says women will have to ‘breed for Britain’ if immigration is restricted - and she has a point, writes RICHARD LITTLEJOHN.
Father who has been hiccupping for three years is devastated to be told he could have condition for LIFE
      Daniel Clavin (pictured with his wife, Susan), 38, from County Roscommon, has been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and believes the condition is responsible for his hiccups.
Father who has been hiccupping for three years is devastated to be told he could have condition for LIFE
Fancy hosting the next Olympics? Ultimate sporting mansion comes with golf course, climbing wall, tennis and badminton courts, pool, shooting range and even a lake (but it'll cost you £7million)
       The country estate near Exeter, Devon is set in 30 acres that include a golf course, tennis courts, beach volleyball court, archery and hockey facilities and a lake. And with a badminton court, squash court, climbing walls, 10-metre swimming pool, gymnasium and table tennis and snooker rooms inside, some have suggested its new owner could host their own mini-Olympics.
Customers at Coutts in line for compensation as Queen's bank launches probe into 'unsuitable' investment advice
      The review will conclude next year and could result in investors seeing the value of their portfolios adjusted or receiving compensation for any financial loss.
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
      The Jet 2 flight LS516 started to rapidly descend just an hour after departing from Paphos, Cyprus, to Newcastle last night.
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
From Londoners praying to New Yorkers using smartphones on the loo: Ikea survey reveals morning habits of major cities
      The Swedish furniture giant has published a new study called Life At Home which looks at the morning habits of residents in Berlin, London, Moscow, Mumbai, New York, Shanghai and Stockholm.
'It's time for the people to speak': Aunt of Spain’s new Queen Letizia tweets her followers calling for a Republic
      Henar Ortiz Alvarez, the aunt of future queen Letizia Ortiz, made her feelings known on Twitter tweeting: It's time for the people to speak...'
The Apple(by) doesn't fall far from the tree! Thousands of travellers soak up the sun during day two of annual horse fair in Cumbria
       Travellers and tourists made the most of the sun at the traditional Appleby Horse Fair in Cumbria's Eden Valley today, where 10,000 gipsies and 30,000 visitors flocked to enjoy the event, the largest of its kind in Europe. Today a father and son stripped off to enjoy the festivities, right, while a young woman drove a pony and trap, left. Travellers come from all over the world to meet friends, do business, and most importantly, trade horses.
      But researchers at the University of Pittsburgh found a man's consumption of alcohol had no influence on their daughter's drinking habits.
Talking about alcohol can make you as aggressive as drinking it: Words such as 'beer' and 'wine' cause people to be hostile
      University of Kent conducted a study in which students were exposed to either alcohol, or non-alcohol-related words. Those in the first group were more aggressive when given feedback on an essay.
Restaurant rage: Living in an area with lots of fast food stores can make you impatient and unable to savour things, researchers warn
      Toronto researchers say just the presence of the chains was enough to cause people to struggle to slow down and savour things.
The transforming desk that moves up and down to keep you fit - and can even track how much exercise you get at the office
      The $3,900 Stir Kinect desk has a motor to raise and lower itself, converting it into a standing desk or a traditional desk.
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: How unconventional 25-year marriage to first wife inspired world's greatest living scientist... and a movie
      Eddie Redmayne had books on Albert Einstein in his dressing room when he took on the part of Professor Stephen Hawking for a film about the physicist's 25-year love affair with his first wife, writes BAZ BAMIGBOYE.
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die': New book reveals Roman Polanski's private memories of wife Sharon Tate, slaughtered by Charles Manson's 'Family' when she was pregnant
      Sharon Tate's sister Debra has compiled a book of exclusive photographs and memories dedicated to the actress from her husband Roman Polanski.
Sword-wielding Sikhs clash at India's Golden Temple during prayers to mark the deadly 1984 military assault at Amritsar
       At least six people were injured as dozens of Sikh radicals clashed with supporters of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC) at the Golden Temple, in Amritsar. It is understood the scuffle erupted over who would speak first at the service, held to remember victims of government offensive Operation Blue Star that left hundreds dead on June 6, 1984.
'Stabby, stab, stab': Two US girls, 12, who knifed schoolmate 19 times used code words to plan horrific 'Slender Man' attack
      A police document compiled soon after the stabbing in Waukesha, Wisconsin, revealed that when Morgan Geyser and Anissa Weier discussed the attack, they would use the word 'cracker' to describe a knife or killing.
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at US university, killing one and wounding three
      Students at Seattle Pacific University say Jon Meis saved countless lives when he sprang into action as the shooter stopped to reload his weapon.
Extravagant hen dos now cost guests so much they rival the amount spent on attending the actual wedding!
      Gone are the days of a knees-up down the pub as the average cost of attending a hen do has rocketed and often involves a trip abroad.
New obesity jab could be available within two years after scientists discover hormone that helps the body burn fat
      Researchers at Havard Medical School and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in the U.S. have found a new hormone, they believe could provide the key to treating obesity and diabetes.
Shot twice, stuffed in a sack and dumped in a canal... but Pakistani girl, 18, SURVIVES botched 'honour killing' carried out by her own family for marrying the man she loved
       Saba Maqsood (pictured) was attacked by her father, uncle, brother and aunt before she was tossed into the canal, said Ali Akbar, a spokesman for police in Hafizabad, Punjab province. It comes just a week-and-a-half after the broad daylight 'honour killing' of another woman in a city centre drew worldwide condemnation. Mr Akbar told Reuters that the most recent case was also 'an honour-related incident'. 'The victim, Saba ... married her neighbour Muhammad Qaiser for love five days ago against the wishes of her family,' he said.
Woman, 50, who set up the rape of underage teenage girl by landlord to pay off debts is jailed for eight years
      Muriel Coleman, of Stanley, Durham, organised meetings between the vulnerable youngster and Akhtar Hassan whose family owned the house she lived in after she fell just over £1,000 behind on her rent.
Now that's a randy rodent! Male guinea pig at animal sanctuary breaks free from his cage and makes 100 females pregnant
      The two-year-old rodent - nicknamed Randy - managed to get all of the female guinea pigs at Hatton Country World, Warwickshire, pregnant before staff cottoned on to his antics.
Weak pound and high cost of living: Why retiring abroad is now branded 'a luxury' with some popular destinations even pricier than UK
      Experts warned moving abroad is 'no longer an option for the average British person' according to experts, due to rising prices in Europe.
Britons' favourite drive is the A470 through Snowdonia National Park and the Brecon Beacons (and everyone hates the M25)
      Wales and Scotland topped the poll for the best UK roads, followed by the north of England, but the south has most of the worst roads in Britain.
Don't look down! World's tallest tower will feature an elevator that travels at 32 feet a SECOND when it opens in 2018
The Kingdom Tower in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia will feature the world's fastest double-decker elevator which will let visitors travel over 2,165ft (660metres) in one go. It will ascend the mighty skyscraper at 32ft (10 metres) a second. The lift will use high-tech carbon fibre cables, and this UltraRope technology is lighter than conventional steel cable.
Masked rapist, 67, who attacked 100 women over 30 years is finally caught after woman fights him off in Moscow park
      Valery Makarenkov prowled the streets and parks of capital Moscow preying on women in a reign of terror that spanned more than 30 years.
Would YOU eat it? Seaside parlour creates battered fish and chip flavoured ice cream - complete with mushy peas
      Teare Wood's Ice Cream Parlour, in Whitby, North Yorkshire, has combined the traditional holiday tastes to tempt tourists.
      Research published in the journal The Obstetrician and Gynaecologist shows a small percentage of headaches were caused by potentially life-threatening neurological conditions.
Supermarkets cut 2p off a litre of diesel as wholesale price drops finally filter through to motorists
      Three of Britain’s biggest supermarkets are chopping 2p a litre off diesel prices at the pumps tomorrow morning, days after criticism from a motoring organisation.
China outrage after toddler, 2, is pictured smoking in the street like an 'old pro' as people stand back and laugh
      The footage appears to show the child in a street in China puffing on the cigarette and despite passing adults, nobody attempts to take the cigarette away. Passers-by can be heard laughing as the little boy smoke the cigarette and it has sparked fresh debate about the scale of China's tobacco problem, with around 30 per cent of the country's population having the habit.
Ex-boyfriend murdered hairdresser by stabbing her 14 times at salon in front of horrified colleagues after they split up
       Asher Maslin, left, 22, stabbed 20-year-old Hollie Gazzard, right, 14 times as she worked at Fringe Benefits and La Bella Beauty salon, inset, in front of horrified bystanders in Gloucester city centre. Maslin purchased a knife before heading to the salon after the pair had separated. He pleaded guilty to the killing during a hearing at Bristol Crown Court and he has been told to expect a life sentence later this month.
Ex-boyfriend murdered hairdresser stabbing her 14 times at salon in front of horrified colleagues after they split up
Flight of a lifetime! 130 tickets go on sale to fly alongside Lancaster bomber that's in UK for last time - but it will set you back £2,150
      The Lancaster will be in the UK, flying from Canada to England, for four days, arriving on August 8, making the 18-hour trip for the first and final time.
The Best Night Ever! Woman, 28, goes into labour at One Direction concert - and nearly names him Harry in honour of Mr. Styles
      Sarah Turnbull, 28, from Glebe in Washington, County Durham, was 39 weeks pregnant when her waters broke during One Direction's gig in Sunderland.
Two people rescued by police after barricading themselves in a bedroom because they were scared of their dog Fluffy
      The dog owners blocked themselves in their home in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, after becoming frightened of their Staffordshire bull terrier, Fluffy (pictured).
Motorcyclist rushed to hospital and bystanders injured by flying debris after crash with a police car
      The motorcyclist suffered left head and leg injuries in the crash at around 1.20pm on the Cotton Street junction with Poplar High Street, in Poplar, east London.
Submarines on Titan and giant nets to capture asteroids: Nasa unveils futuristic designs that could help explore new worlds
       Nasa has unveiled 12 proposals for next-gen exploration technologies in Washington, including a mission to bag an asteroid (illustration left), a submarine in Titan's largest sea (top right) and a spacecraft that could travel from the sun to Neptune in a year (bottom right). These will each receive $100,000 of funding for study over 18 months.
World's biggest tumour weighing 30lbs and the size of a watermelon is removed from the uterus of Indian woman
      WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT: Surgeons in the city of Chennai spent three-and-a-half hours removing the giant uterine tumour, which could have been growing for two years.
      When hungry, people were found to find a wider range of body shapes attractive and were more likely to be attracted to bigger people.
      Researchers from the National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA) in the U.S. say the damaging effects remain even if a person stops smoking cannabis in adulthood.
      The footage, captured on the cyclist's GoPro helmet camera shows the confrontation in a Dublin street, which sees the driver threaten to 'run over' the cyclist.
This is how you catfight, son! Father teaches his kittens the best way to pack a punch when he sees how terrible they are at brawling
       A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video shot in an unknown location that proves boys will be boys no matter the species. The YouTube clip from user kamzer opens with two very young kitten siblings wrestling on a kitchen counter. Suddenly their papa cat peeps up from the floor below and before they can purr 'TKO,' their dad is in the mix teaching them a proper left hook.
So you think you can dance? Two kittens wow with their perfectly synchronized groove to hip hop track
      The cats were filmed at the home of Hayley Markham and Andrew Kerr in Virginia, as they danced to DJ Snake and Lil Jon's 2013 club sensation Turn Down For What.
Killed by a single punch: Thug admits killing pensioner with a single blow after 'scuffle' outside pub
      Sean Sillet, 20, pictured, pleaded guilty the manslaughter of Kenneth Brough, 65, outside the Beehive in Newcastle's Bigg Market on January 28.
Girlfriend of Camilla's tragic brother Mark Shand leads tributes to him at fundraiser for endangered elephants held in his memory
      More than 600 guests attended the evening in London hosted by Mr Shand's nephew Ben Elliot, Elephant Family’s CEO and Mr Shand's former girlfriend Ruth Powys as well as Sotheby’s Chairman Henry Wyndham.
Terrifying moment motorist gets mobbed by dozens of drunk Frenchmen who jump up and down on her car after spilling out of BMX festival
      Dozens of drunk and overexcited extreme sports fans brought an area of central Montpellier, France, to a standstill last night after spilling out of the city's famous FISE festival and attacking cars that stood in their way.
Filthy fish and chip shop shut down after dead mice were found rotting while staff cooked meals and droppings were found in spice mix
       Health inspectors investigating an Oldham takeaway discovered rotting mice decaying on a glue trap, left, with a deep fat frying covered in grease and fat, top right, and work surfaces used for preparing food covered in mouse droppings, a court has heard. Owner Sarfaz Rouf told magistrates that he did not have a 'vast knowledge' of food hygiene. Him and Iram Bibi were fined just £250 each and the business has now closed.
      One man gets through the front door to find his Old English Sheepdog reared on its back legs and happily plants a kiss on its head.
How the moon was made: Researchers reveal new evidence Earth was hit by giant object as big as Mars 4.5 billion years ago
      German researchers say their analysis of Apollo moon rocks rocks show Earth was hit by a huge object called 'Theta' which led to the moon's formation.
Did HUMANS wipe out the woolly mammoth? Study finds a direct link between hunting and the extinction of large Ice Age animals
      Researchers at Aarhus University in Denmark came to the conclusion after looking at the pattern of extinctions for 177 species between 132,000 years and 1,000 years ago.
Sky-high WiFi will soon be available across Europe: Passengers on British Airways flights to get internet within three years
      Internet will be soon be available on British Airways flights (pictured) across Europe. The service will be provided by London-based satellite operator Inmarsat.
At last - something to get pedestrians out of the way when you're running: Couple design a 'run bell' to clear the path ahead
       The Runbell is a small brass bell that can be worn on the fingers and rung when slow-paced walkers get in your way. It weighs just 30g and will be sold for about £12. The creators say the design was based on other items of popular jewellery and that it comes in different styles for men and women.
My Big Fat Gypsy horse fair: Traditional gathering begins in Appleby - and is already hit by row over 'invasion'
      A large number of traveller families have pitched cars, caravans and horse buggies on a privately owned golf course in the small market town of Appleby, Cumbria.
Tasty Terracotta Army! Food artist makes China's iconic warriors with PIZZA dough (but they won't last thousands of years)
      Annabel de Vetten created the scaled-down warriors to celebrate the opening of Pizza Express' 500th restaurant... in Beijing.
You appear to have an ad-blocker running which will prevent this page from functioning as intended. Please disable your ad-blocker or set an exception for this page.Today's hottestfashion findsSee moreRihannaWow like Rihanna in an embellished sheer dressRead more ›KarruecheWork a simple white dress into your summer wardrobeRead more ›KourtneyGo back to black in monochrome Nike trainersRead more ›MichellePut a playful spin on your wardrobe with Michelle's playsuitRead more ›
          Jaime King parades her pins in sporty cardigan and matching mini-skirt at the McDonald's World Cup party in NYC
          'I am not an opportunist!' Fan who bought Whitney Houston's mansion for $1.5m insists he will NOT open it to the public
          Christie Brinkley, 60, proves you're never too old for leather trousers as she stuns on lunch date with her son Jack
          Showing off her street style! Emmy Rossum awaits Stella McCartney presentation on the sidewalk in chic fringe dress
          Orange Is The New White! Taylor Schilling shows off toned pins in pearl-coloured dress at TheWrap's Emmy Celebration
          'Ready to rumble!' Pretty Little Liars star Tammin Sursok puckers up for the camera as she celebrates returning to work after giving birth seven months ago
          Did she use those scissors on her skirt? LeAnn Rimes sizzles in slinky white dress with thigh-high slit as she cuts ribbon to kick off CMA Music Festival
          Over already? Jennifer Lopez parties in NY with handsome rapper T.I.... as 'cheating' toy boy Casper Smart is nowhere to be seen
          Carey Mulligan and Helena Bonham Carter chant at a Votes for Women rally in first still from upcoming film Suffragette
          Are those clothes from the Thrift Shop? Macklemore and Ryan Lewis make a cool arrival in dapper attire to Sin City nightclub
          Happy to get his kit off! Robbie Williams gets help to change into his football top during preparations for SoccerAid
          One big happy family! Hilary Swank shows her maternal side as she gives her boyfriend's little girl a kiss at French Open
          'I've had a lot of therapy': Katy Perry talks about getting over exes John Mayer and Russell Brand... and how long she's gone without sex in new interview
          Ricky Gervais and longtime partner Jane Fallon attend Derek event after visiting their Muppet pals on Sesame Street
          Date night! Twilight star Ashley Greene stuns in tiny black playsuit at she takes boyfriend Paul Khoury to glitzy event in West Hollywood
          While they were teaching! Sandra Bullock makes a surprise visit to her son Louis' school as she donates goodies to the faculty
          What will Rita think? Calvin Harris parties with ANOTHER mystery woman on a night out as girlfriend Ora enjoys Mexican getaway
          Evan Rachel Wood sued for $30M after bailing on film 10 Things I Hate About Life... as rep slams lawsuit as 'preposterous' and a 'bullying tactic'
          'With you I will go': Kanye West beams as Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli serenades Kim Kardashian at their lavish Florence wedding
          Newlywed Kim Kardashian to spend up to a month shooting KUWTK spin-off in The Hamptons... but Kanye West isn't sure if he wants to join her
          Deja blue: Rosario Dawson is back in her favorite colour after wowing in that revealing gown at the Cannes Film Festival
          'I'm Sporty Spice!' Gisele Bundchen shows off washboard stomach in a bikini for cover shoot as she admits she loves to exercise
          That's her secret! Jordana Brewster shows off svelte arms pushing her son Julian along in his stroller
          The fight for $50m: Bowling For Columbine filmmaker Michael Moore claims wife of 22 years spent recklessly as they prepare for divorce trial
          Third time's the charm! Tegan Martin finally wins Miss Universe Australia - and she's from the same home town as Jennifer Hawkins!
          She's no shrinking violet! Lorde wears purple lipstick from her new Mac collection during bewitching performance in London
          Looking scarily good! Camilla Belle wears a skull print T-shirt as she arrives at LAX after South America trip
          You'll never take King's Landing with THAT! Game Of Thrones star Kit Harington poses with plastic dragon at Universal Studios
          'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honour': Man V. Food host Adam Richmand poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
          Shane Warne caught kissing and sharing intimate embrace with Playboy cover girl Emily Scott... but he STILL insists he's single
          Boho babe: Alessandra Ambrosio forgoes make-up as she runs errands in LA clad in a pretty lilac tie-dye maxi-dress
          King Kevin rules supreme: Spacey is magnificent in one-man show Clarence Darrow, writes QUENTIN LETTS
          BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Let's hear it for the Scottsboro Boys! Brandon Victor Dixon to star in West End production of extraordinary show
          Poetic, haunting... these D-Day letters moved me to tears: CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV
          A hit and miss comedy: There are funny moments, but Jump Street's daft cops fail to reach the hilarious heights of their first film
          This won't do Grace any favours: BRIAN VINER reviews Nicole Kidman's latest film Grace of Monaco
          'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die:' Roman Polanski shares private memories of wife Sharon Tate in new book on pregnant beauty's tragic life
          Hollywood's $800 facial: The secret to Angelina Jolie's glowing skin combines microdermabrasion, laser and a peel
          It's DJ Delta! The Voice Kids coach Goodrem jets home from Hollywood with an edgy new look complete with ripped jeans and shiny headphones
          She's certainly a good advertisement! US TV presenter Maria Menounos promotes her diet and fitness book in shiny black shorts in New York City
          'I gave him every bit of advice but now it's up to him': Usher opens up about his friend Justin Bieber's spiral out of control
          It's ON Again! Spring Breakers star Ashley Benson steps out with her beau Ryan Good wearing a bright playsuit
          Put away the bowl! Cindy Crawford reveals her stunning mane of hair was not always her crowning glory in cute flashback photo
          'I almost killed Tom Cruise!' Emily Blunt recalls terrifying moment she nearly crashed a car while shooting scenes for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Still a sex symbol! Raquel Welch, 73, looks decades younger in white jeans and yellow jacket while out to dinner
          Her own best ad! Kate Hudson displays her washboard abs as she models for fitness line... and shares her workout motivation
          Angela Simmons displays toned physique in sexy summery outfit as she hints at new venture following power lunch with her 'fitness gurus'
          The Devil Wears...white! Meryl Streep goes sinister as the Chief Elder of a dystopian society in The Giver
          Nature girl! Vanessa Hudgens shows off her toned tummy in black crop top and shorts during a vigorous hillside hike
          'I'd be open to doing more True Detective': Matthew McConaughey expresses interest in reprising Rust Cohle TV role
          Pretty as a picture! Jessica Alba shows her passion for prints while leaving the studio with takeout lunch
          That's where she gets it from! Leggy Gigi Hadid is chic in short metallic frock while out with her stylish mother Yolanda Foster
          Natalie Portman is fresh-faced and flawless as she touches down at LAX with husband Benjamin Millepied and their adorable son Aleph
          Good news for Miley Cyrus as police 'arrest two people in their 20s' in connection with star's stolen $100k Maserati
          Hot mama! Country singer Jessie James shows off her trim post-baby body at CMT Awards... just three months after giving birth
          Don't mention the outfit! Even Lena Dunham has 'no comment' over her unflattering ensemble as she enjoys a stroll in New York
          'Superhero workout!' Arrow's Stephen Amell shows off his impressive 'parkour' skills on military inspired obstacle course
          Strong sensitive types! Insurgent's Theo James brings Fault In Their Stars book to the gym while Miles Teller pumps some iron
          Farrah Abraham reveals she's writing a Christian parenting book... despite admitting she needs 'space' from her four-year-old and waxes child's eyebrows
          She's glowing: Holly Willoughby shows off growing bump in navy skater dress as she films This Morning segment
          She's anything but PLANE! Carol Vorderman shows off her pins in hot pink and black dress at photocall after jetting herself back from awards show
          'We've got a Christmas bun in the oven! Coronation Street's Paula Lane announces first pregnancy with childhood sweetheart Tom Shaw on Twitter
          'I'm going to get stick for this': Amy Willerton posts bikini selfie... but worries about how her fans will react
          'Squats are the key! Even 10 make me feel better': Victoria's Secret Angel Candice Swanepoel reveals secrets behind that body
          The lady is a vamp! Rihanna unleashes her rock chick side in a skimpy leather two-piece and fierce lace-up heels for Paris charity event
          Explicit content! Lindsay Lohan can't even manage a supporting role in sheer logo top... but at least gives parental advisory warning
          A leggy Lily Allen makes rare appearance with husband Sam Cooper for date night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Think pink! Alex Gerrard shows off her toned figure and glowing tan in bubblegum-hued workout gear
          She's well-heeled: BGT star Lettice Rowbotham whips off her shoes as she heads to BBC studios
          Russell Brand DEFENDS Justin Bieber for making vile racial slurs at the age of 14... claiming he should be 'let off' because it was 'ages ago'
          Whatever the leather: New mum Caprice shows off her post-pregnancy figure in skin-tight leather skirt and top
          Welcome to the strip: Danielle Lloyd and husband Jamie O'Hara jet into Vegas for a holiday with friends
          Not a bad consolation prize! Michael Carrick puts World Cup woes behind him as he and wife Lisa strip to their swimwear to top up their tans in Ibiza
          Graham Norton saves Amanda Holden from revealing more than she intended while doing a handstand in LBD
          It's a very Vogue birthday: Model Bambi Norwood-Blyth celebrates by shooting for fashion magazine with designer husband Dan Single
          J-Wow! Jennifer Lopez doesn't leave much to the imagination as she strips down to sexy latex stockings and suspenders to play first-ever hometown gig
          J.Lo revisits the Bronx and THAT Versace dress for homecoming show... after transsexual bikini model linked to Casper Smart speaks out
          Feeling like a million dollars! Matchmaker Patti Stanger, 53, wears plunging swimsuit as she celebrates her birthday with toyboy fiancé
          Do Ya Thang! Rihanna is sexy in a silky black miniskirt and matching tuxedo jacket as she goes for dinner in Paris
          Here comes the bride! Adam Levine to marry model Behati Prinsloo in 'intimate Mexican ceremony' on July 19
          Politics is the new black: AnnaLynne McCord votes for her spiritual guru as congressional candidate... but she comes in fourth
          She can't resist her man in uniform! Suki Waterhouse gets to grips with Bradley Cooper on set of American Sniper
          Million dollar smile! Victoria Justice beams in an unusual wrap dress at the Spent: Looking For Change premiere
          Strong after 22 years! Woody Allen strolls through Central Park with Soon-Yi Previn... as he prepares to shoot Emma Stone movie in Rhode Island
          Mama June doesn't let her 'forklift foot' get in the way of a family pool day as she goes swimming in socks
          Ramona Singer holds hands with husband Mario on romantic movie date... after firing off legal warning to his mistress over 'lewd messages'
          'Millie Mackintosh and Abbey Clancy already have their eyes on a few pieces': Julien Macdonald unveils glamorous beachwear range for Matalan
          She's stopping traffic: Elsa Pataky wears striking lime green reptilian dress to take over the streets of Madrid for fashion shoot
          Ivana Trump sells her Palm Beach mansion for $18 million - more than FOUR TIMES what she paid for it in 1994
          Table for three! Pregnant Julia Carey displays subtle baby bump as she steps out for dinner with James Corden at Chiltern Firehouse
          Beyonce shows off her amazing legs in pink mini dress as she has a date night with Jay Z in New York
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney set to reveal sex secrets in Big Brother house
          Watch your tan-line! Abbey Clancy wows in a daring cut-out panel swimsuit as she holidays in Hawaii with Peter Crouch
          Now that's a game plan! Gisele Bundchen and Tom Brady's sprawling new Boston mansion takes shape
          Your slip is showing! Leggy Chrissy Teigen heats up New York in black lace lingerie and white knit sweater while heading to dinner
          Looking slinky! Casey Batchelor struts in shiny snakeskin leggings and low-cut top as she models her new fashion collection
          She's got it! Eliza Doolittle is a triumph in plunging leather crop-top and sporty silk trousers at The Other Ball
          'There's quite a bit of blood': The 911 call made after The Brady Bunch housekeeper Ann B Davis has fatal fall is released
          Does she EVER stay in? As Princess Beatrice dines at Roka, we bring you the hotspot-hopping royal's guide to London's smartest restaurants
          From Iceland to ice cool: Sexiest Woman of All Time Rachel Stevens swaps supermarket chic for a semi-sheer top and smart tailoring
          Hawaii-five-WHOAH!! Emma Roberts bares her toned tum in daring crop top... while Lupita Nyong'o is a vision in green at the Maui Film Festival opening 
          Is this Jen 2.0? Meet the 2014 Miss Universe Australia finalist who works as Jennifer Hawkins' body double - and she's from her home town!
Thor, god of the lie-in! 'Talking' puppy growls 'no' at his owner as he's told to get out of bed at 3:30am
       Thor the dog from Birmingham, Michigan, is seen in a video peacefully lying in bed before being woken up at 3.30am. But showing that it's not just humans who struggle in the morning, the little pup repeatedly growls what sounds like 'no' as he refuses to get up.
Is that an Old Master painting - or Beyonce’s Master Cleanse? Photographer recreates celebrity diets as still lifes
      Italian Dan Bannino reproduced the diets of Gwyneth Paltrow, Kate Moss, Beyonce Knowles, Simon Cowell, and even King Henry VIII.
Fizzy drinks 'loaded with harmful sugars could increase the risk of developing diabetes, cardiovascular and liver disease'
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say the drinks contain more fructose, which is converted to fat in the liver, than people realise.
       The rhino was part of a relocation programme in the Zululand region of South Africa, which aims to keep the animals safe. The images of its dramatic airlift, which was carried out by KZN Wildlife Game Capture, were taken by photographer Em Gatland, who described witnessing the transfer as surreal and a mixture of emotion.
China may have banned Tiananmen Square memorial but the rest of Asia remembers: From Hong Kong to Taiwan thousands hold vigil on 25th anniversary of Beijing massacre
Dont come back, next time you wont get out alive: Talibans taunt as they released deserter POW Bowe revealed in propaganda video
Pictured: Grinning father of famous model moments after he executed his neighbour and minutes before he 'swallowed the gun' in dramatic standoff with Chinese SAS
Suicidal Chinese mother leaps from third floor balcony after her daughter refused to break up with 'lazy' boyfriend (but miraculously survives)
Hundreds of pro-Russian rebels killed in fierce attack by Ukrainian forces as Obama tells Nato allies 'you'll never be alone'
Thousands of anti-monarchist protesters take to streets of Spain calling for a republic after King Juan Carlos abdicates after 39 years
Woolly jumpers, wide collared jackets and unflattering skirts ... the medal for worst Commonwealth Games uniforms goes to Australia
King Juan Carlos of Spain in shock abdication after 40 years as his son and glamourous ex-newsreader wife take on challenge of leading Spain out of the doldrums
Spain harbours highest number of expat benefit cheats with more than 700 believed to be scamming the system while soaking up the sun
Mother of British backpacker missing in Malaysian jungle for six days arrives in country 'to be here when they find him'
Come here you big BULLy! Chinese wrestlers get to grips with giant calves in man over beast competition
China disgust at woman who beheads cat and posts image online - and then blames 'alcohol and domestic misfortune'
Bodies of five French soldiers from WWI found alongside their wallets, rifles and a figurine of the Virgin Mary in French wood 100 years after they were killed
Mother in tears after being called a 'slut' by two customers for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of...
Obama pleads with Scotland to vote 'No' to independence AND for Britain to stay in the European Union
Brother of Sudanese woman facing death penalty for ‘abandoning her Islamic faith’ by marrying a Christian says...
Home of the free! Father paints his house with stars and stripes in protest at local officials who tried to...
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at Seattle Pacific...
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left...
'This tiny sliver of land… changed the course of human history': Obama leads tributes to D-Day heroes as world...
A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video, that proves boys will be boys no...
Emotional moment US marine is reunited with bomb-sniffing dog who kept him safe in Afghanistan after they were separated four years ago without saying goodbye
       U.S. Marine Corps veteran Corporal Jeff DeYoung of Muskegon, Michigan worked with bomb-sniffing black Lab Cena until April 2010. That's when DeYoung went home to Michigan and he's since started a family but never forgot about his best canine friend. Their emotional reunion took place Thursday at the Detroit airport thanks to a non-profit group called Mission K9 Rescue.
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say fasting could be particularly beneficial for people whose immune systems have been damaged by chemotherapy.
Couples that sleep together, stay together: Spouses are more likely to slumber in sync if the wife is satisfied with their marriage
      New study showS that overall synchrony in sleep-wake schedules among couples was higher when the woman was happier in the relationship.
Who left the hand-brake off? Investigation under way after Ryanair plane rolls backwards and crashes into airport building, destroying tail wing
      The force of the impact tore apart the rear stabiliser of the £72m Boeing 737 at Rome Ciampino Airport yesterday.
Malaysian police refuse to rule out foul play in case of missing backpacker Gareth Huntley as his family await autopsy to determine whether shirtless body found in Malaysian jungle pond is him
      Mr Huntley's mother Janet Southwell, who arrived in Malaysia on Monday was pictured this morning outside Tengku Ampuan Afzan Hospital in Kuantan with his girlfriend Kit Natariga.
Shocking moment one-armed Russian motorist starts furious road rage punch-up with car behind... but then ends up getting badly beaten
       A one-armed Russian man (circled, top left) has been filmed starting a road rage fight in Moscow, but quickly has the tables turned on him as he is kicked in the head and has his false arm pulled off (bottom right). Nikita Korolev, 43, and Kiril Stepanov, 45, started punching and kicking the occupants of a car behind them through the open windows after the driver refused to back up, but ended up being beaten themselves.
          Follow Sportsmail's coverage of the French Open, as Andy Murray takes on Rafael Nadal in the semi-finals
          Stuart Pearce insists Everton midfielder Ross Barkley should not be in Brazil this summer at all
          Robin van Persie has declared himself 100 per cent fit for the World Cup as the Dutch squad arrived in Rio
          The Azzurri hit a hiccup ahead of the World Cup when they realised their plane was too small
          Aston Villa have sounded out Rio Ferdinand over a possible move to Villa Park - but the defender is thought to favour Spurs
          Jose Mourinho has admitted Chelsea are interested in signing the former Arsenal captain from Barcelona 
=======================================================
.site-masthead-subscribe-primary-text { font-size: 16px; } .site-masthead-subscribe-secondary-text { font-size: 13px; } @media only screen and (max-width: 1150px) { .site-nav-text-span { padding: 0 14px; } .site-nav-auxiliary-text-span { padding: 0 12px; } .site-masthead-search-form-input { width: 400px; } } @media only screen and (min-width: 1150px) { .site-nav-text-span { padding: 0 8px; } .site-nav-auxiliary-text-span { padding: 0 6px; } .site-nav-icon-span { padding: 0 5px; } .site-masthead-search-form-input { width: 475px; } } @media only screen and (min-width: 1250px) { .site-nav-text-span { padding: 0 11px; } .site-nav-auxiliary-text-span { padding: 0 9px; } .site-nav-icon-span { padding: 0 9px; } }
    .most-popular .play-btn-m{left:33px;} .promo-frame{display:block}.big-headline-large-text {line-height: 101%;font-size: 40px; /* this is the small screen (iPad) size */}@media only screen and (min-width: 1150px) {.big-headline-large-text {font-size: 50px; /* this is the medium screen (old laptops) size */}}@media only screen and (min-width: 1250px) {.big-headline-large-text {font-size: 52px; /* this is the regular size */}}SUBSCRIBE NOWto get home deliveryNewsSportsLifeMoneyTechTravelOpinionWeatherIconHumidityPrecip.WindsOpen settingsSettingsEnter City, State or ZipCancelSetClose settingsFull ForecastCrosswordsYour TakeInvestigationsVideoStocksMorePhoto GalleriesUSA WeekendBest-Selling BooksCollegeMarketsWeb to WatchPortfolio TrackerNewslettersScoresNewsstandUSA NOWAppsInteractivesClassifiedsCorrectionsYour TakeInvestigationsCrosswordsYour TakeInvestigationsVideoStocksDefault ViewBig PageUserSign in with FacebookSign in with GoogleSign In FAQ You are logged in as Log outSign In FAQSearchCloseBusiness
                        Read StoryEconomy regains jobs lost in recessionStocks up after jobs reportTOP STORIESWorld
                                 .site-masthead, .site-nav-list, #breaking-stories, .site-footer-var-width { width: 1080px; } body, .site-header-inner-wrap { min-width: 1080px; } @media (min-width: 1321px) { .site-masthead, .site-nav-list, #breaking-stories, .site-footer-var-width { width: 1320px; } body, .site-header-inner-wrap { min-width: 1320px; } } .mpsm-image-wrap { height: 179px; width: 319px; } .site-nav-auxiliary-text-link { display: block; } .site-nav-more-dropdown-dynamic-list { display: none; } @media only screen and (max-width: 1320px) { .site-nav-text-span { padding: 0 8px; } .site-nav-auxiliary-text-span { padding: 0 6px; } .site-nav-icon-span { padding: 0 5px; } } @media only screen and (min-width: 1321px) { .site-nav-text-span { padding: 0 11px; } .site-nav-auxiliary-text-span { padding: 0 9px; } .site-nav-icon-span { padding: 0 9px; } } NationWWII memorial in DC marks 70th D-Day anniversaryNationHow roaches may protect your baby from allergiesNBA#LeBroning is the Lebron-mocking craze that's sweeping AmericaNation-nowPart quesadilla, part burrito: Taco Bell unveils quesaritoOUR PICKSPeopleB. Smith reveals she has Alzheimer'sKomandoHow to boost home WiFi for PCs and moreNationTrue stories from the real 'Band of Brothers' (Ozy.com)Best-beaches11 beaches where history was madeD-Day veteran recounts 'horrible scene' at Normandy | USA NOWOn the 70th anniversary of D-Day, surviving veterans remember the largest seaborn invasion in history. President Obama honored the Americans who lost their lives during a ceremony in Normandy. 1 of 10See more videoSeattle shooting witness: 'It could have been me'Seattle Pacific Univeristy shooting witness describes the scene and expresses fears about one victim. 2 of 10See more video'Homeless valedictorian' gives emotional speechThe Florida student whose success story went viral as the "Homeless Valedictorian," spoke about the tough times he experienced growing up. 3 of 10See more videoCatch up on 'OITNB' before Season 2| USA Entertainment NowNetflix hit "Orange Is the New Black" gets 13 new episodes June 6. Before you binge-watch them all, Carly Mallenbaum reminds you where we left Piper and the other ladies of Litchfield. 4 of 10See more videoBaby spa: Because they need help relaxing too, right?A new spa in Houston, Texas caters only to babies, offering light massages and a float in a warm pool. 5 of 10See more videoHot on Demand: 'Robocop' better than the originalOut on Demand is "Robocop" which is better than the original thanks to the special effects. Toni Collette shines in "Lucky Them" and the late Phillip Seymour Hoffman stars in "God's Pocket." 6 of 10See more videoSave of the Day: Amazing barbecue bargainsCheck out this deal for amazing barbecue bargains. Go to @MattGranite on Twitter for more information on these deals. 7 of 10See more videoMan turns NYC bedroom into 80's arcade and loses fianceeChris Kooluris has the bedroom of his dream...his childhood dreams. He transformed the space into a 1980s arcade. 
Video provided by Buzz60 8 of 10See more videoRare approach takes cancer fight to next levelBiotech clinics in Seattle are teaming together to fight cancer in a rare way. 9 of 10See more videoHey People, Hillary Clinton is NOT using a walker | ZoomINMany tweets, even from the Drudge Report and Wall Street Journal had to ask about Hillary Clinton's People Magazine Cover: is that a walker? Shannon Rae Green breaks down the memes and tweets on ZoomIN. 10 of 10See more videoLast VideoNext Video
    Chimps more strategic than humans at  competitive games, study findsPutin chats with Obama, new Ukraine leader5 craziest crimes of the week
    Broken AC plays big role in Game 1Angry ESPN host has choice words for KlinsmannFormer tennis champion indicted on rape charges
                    Cross WordMore GamesEntertain This!'Orange' is the new bingeB. Smith reveals she has Alzheimer's'Words and Pictures' plays with passion's core
                    StocksPortfolio TrackerAmerica's Markets5 reasons why the stock market is shining brightU.S. economy regains all jobs lost in recessionSave of the Day: Amazing barbecue bargains!
    Tech Five: Angie's List shares surgeVideo: First look at 'Madden NFL 15'Q and A: Save money on printer ink
    11 beaches where history was madeThese resort chefs will prepare your catch of the dayFantastic Father's Day gifts in the Caribbean
    New study reveals state-by-state drinking habits'Free beer for life' is a reality for 76 MinnesotansNew update fixes Instagram's biggest mistake
    Mark Hamill joins Disney's Star Wars WeekendsBack to nature: America's 10 most scenic national parksHot tables: The best cruise ship specialty restaurantsVOICESYour-take-storiesYour Take: Honor #DDay70 with your flagOpinionNodding GM fell asleep at the wheel: Our viewHorse RacingHere's how to make the official drink of the Belmont StakesOpinionOnto the beaches: ColumnAbramsStrategies: Fight isolation of running a small businessExperience10 tastiest donut shops in the USANationD-Day: 70th anniversary rememberedNation-nowNeed a confidence boost? Try our outrageous Kanye West quote generator
.pssm-item{list-style:none}.pssm-link{background-color:#f9f9f9;border-top:1px solid #fff;border-bottom:1px solid #dcdcdc;display:block;padding:15px 50px 15px 20px;position:relative;transition:color,background-color 75ms,75ms;-webkit-transition:color,background-color 75ms,75ms;-moz-transition:color,background-color 75ms,75ms}.pssm-light-link:hover{background-color:#fff;border-top-color:transparent}.pssm-link:after{background:url(http://www.gannett-cdn.com/static/usat-web-static-23.2.0/images/modules/popular-social/arrows.png) no-repeat;content:'';display:block;height:8px;margin:-4px 0 0;position:absolute;right:20px;top:50%;width:13px}.pssm-link-up:after{background-position:0 0}.pssm-link-down:after{background-position:-14px 0}.pssm-link-equal:after{background:0;border-top:1px solid #7c7c7c;height:0;margin-top:0}.pssm-light-title{color:#282828;font-size:13px;line-height:1.4em}Trending on Social
                    Right NowFullscreenNewsNationWorldWashingtonElectionsSportsNFLMLBNBANHLNCAAFNCAABMore...NCAAWNASCARGolfFantasySoccerUFCTennisOlympicsBoxingWNBAMotor SportsHigh SchoolAction SportsHorse RacingMMACyclingCollegeSports EventsLifePeopleMoviesMusicTVBooksMoneyMarketsBusinessPersonal FinanceCarsTechPersonal TechGamingTravelDestinationsFlightsCruisesHotelsExperience TravelDealsMore...Road WarriorsTrip TipsBucket ListOpinionCartoonsWeather
            InformationAbout UsEditorial PolicyCorrections & ClarificationsPress ReleasesMedia KitJobsDeveloper's NetworkTerms of ServicePrivacy Notice/Your California Privacy RightsAd ChoicesMedia PartnersUSA WEEKENDSports WeeklyEducationTravel TipsCareerBuilder10BestStay ConnectedContact UsStaff IndexGet Home DeliveryNewsletters & AlertsMobile AppsGet the e-NewspaperUSA TODAY ShopReprints & Permissions
