=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
"Jacqueline Bouvier" redirects here. For the character on The Simpsons, see Simpson family#Jacqueline Bouvier.
Jacqueline Lee (Bouvier) Kennedy Onassis (pronounced /ˌˈdʒækliːn ˈliː ˈbuːvieɪ/)[1] commonly known as "Jackie" (July 28, 1929 – May 19, 1994) was the wife of the 35th President of the United States, John F. Kennedy, and First Lady of the United States during his presidency from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. Five years later she married Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis; they remained married until his death in 1975.
For the final two decades of her life, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis had a career as a book editor. She is remembered for her contributions to the arts and preservation of historic architecture, her style, elegance, and grace.[2][3] She was a fashion icon; her famous ensemble of pink Chanel suit and matching pillbox hat has become symbolic of her husband's assassination and one of the lasting images of the 1960s.[4][5]
Jacqueline Lee Bouvier was born in Southampton, New York in 1929,[6] to Wall Street stockbroker John Vernou "Black Jack" Bouvier III (1891–1957) and Janet Norton Lee (1907–1989). Jackie's younger sister Caroline Lee Bouvier was born in 1933. The Bouviers divorced in 1940. Janet later married Standard Oil heir Hugh Dudley Auchincloss, Jr. in 1942 and had two more children: Janet Jennings Auchincloss (1945–1985) and James Lee Auchincloss (born 1947).
Her mother had Irish ancestry[7] and her father's ancestry included French, Scottish, and English.[8] Her maternal great-grandfather emigrated from Cork, Ireland, and later became the Superintendent of the New York City Public Schools. Michel Bouvier, Jacqueline's patrilineal great-great-grandfather, was born in France and was a contemporary of Joseph Bonaparte and Stephen Girard. He was a Philadelphia-based cabinetmaker, carpenter, merchant, and real estate speculator.[9] Michel's wife, Louise Vernou, was the daughter of French émigré tobacconist John Vernou and English-born Elizabeth Clifford Lindsay. Michel and Louise's sons included John Vernou Bouvier, Sr. (Jackie's patrilineal great-grandfather) and Michel Charles Bouvier. Jackie's paternal grandfather John Vernou Bouvier Jr. fabricated a more noble ancestry for his family in his vanity family history book, Our Forebears. Recent scholarship and the research done by Jackie's cousin John Hagy Davis in his book, The Bouviers: Portrait of an American Family,[10] have disproved most of these fantasy lineages.
Bouvier spent her early years in New York City and East Hampton, New York, at the Bouvier family estate, "Lasata."[11] Following their parents' divorce, the Bouvier sisters divided their time between their mother's homes in McLean, Virginia and Newport, Rhode Island, and their father's homes in New York City at 125 East 74th Street[12][13][14] and Long Island.[15] Bouvier attended the Chapin School in New York City[16] for first through sixth grade. Bouvier's paternal grandfather covered the expenses of the school, which were substantial, especially in light of the annual income earned by many Americans during the Great Depression.[17]
At a very early age, she became an enthusiastic equestrienne,[15][16] and horse-riding remained a lifelong passion.[18] By age 2, Bouvier was able to control her pony with confidence. Whenever she fell off, she would instantly climb back on after getting up.[19]
Bouvier's mother married Hugh D. Auchincloss on June 21, 1942. She and her sister did not attend the ceremony because the wedding was arranged quickly and "because of wartime travel restrictions." Two days after the wedding, Auchincloss shipped out to work with British intelligence in Jamaica. Bouvier's mother stayed with her and her sister while he was away. After he returned, Bouvier and her sister, along with Auchincloss's son Hugh Dudley "Yusha" Auchincloss III and the couple's two children together, were all brought to Auchincloss's Merrywood estate in McLean, Virginia. Merrywood would go on to be Bouvier's primary residence for the remainder of her teen years and Auchincloss's son, Yusha, became Bouvier's closest step-sibling and one of her most trusted confidants.[20]
Bouvier attended the Holton-Arms School in Bethesda, Maryland, from 1942 to 1944, and Miss Porter's School in Farmington, Connecticut, from 1944 to 1947.[7]
When she made her society debut in 1947, Hearst columnist Igor Cassini dubbed her "debutante of the year."[21]
Beginning in 1947, Bouvier spent her first two years of college at Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, New York, and then spent her junior year (1949–1950) in France – at the University of Grenoble in Grenoble, and at the Sorbonne in Paris – in a study-abroad program through Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts.[22] Upon returning home to the U.S., she transferred to The George Washington University in Washington, D.C.; she graduated in 1951 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in French literature.[6] Bouvier's college graduation coincided with her sister's high school graduation, and the two spent the summer of 1951 on a trip through Europe.[citation needed] This trip was the subject of Jacqueline's only autobiographical book, One Special Summer, – co-authored with her sister; it is also the only one of Jacqueline's publications to feature her drawings.[23]
Following her graduation, Bouvier was hired as "Inquiring Photographer" for The Washington Times-Herald. The position required her to pose witty questions to individuals chosen at random on the street and take their pictures to be published in the newspaper alongside selected quotations from their responses. During this time, she was engaged to a young stockbroker, John G. W. Husted, Jr., for three months.[22] Bouvier later took continuing education classes in American History at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C.[6]
Jacqueline Kennedy at Hammersmith Farm in Newport, Rhode Island on her wedding day, September 12, 1953
Jacqueline Bouvier and then-U.S. Representative John Fitzgerald "Jack" Kennedy belonged to the same social circle and often attended the same functions.[22] They were formally introduced by a mutual friend, journalist Charles L. Bartlett, at a dinner party in May 1952.[22] Kennedy was then busy running for the US Senate but after his election in November, the relationship grew more serious and led to their engagement, officially announced on June 25, 1953.[citation needed]
They were married on September 12, 1953, at St. Mary's Church in Newport, Rhode Island, in a Mass celebrated by Boston's Archbishop Richard Cushing.[24] The wedding was considered the social event of the season with an estimated 700 guests at the ceremony and 1,200 at the reception that followed at Hammersmith Farm.[25]
The wedding cake was created by Plourde's Bakery in Fall River, Massachusetts.[26] The wedding dress, now housed in the Kennedy Library in Boston, Massachusetts, and the dresses of her attendants were created by designer Ann Lowe of New York City.[27]
The newlyweds honeymooned at the San Ysidro Ranch in California, before settling in their new home, Hickory Hill in McLean, Virginia.[28] Behind the glamour, however, the couple faced several personal setbacks. Jack had some serious health issues then unknown to the public: he suffered from Addison's Disease and from chronic and at times debilitating back pain due to a war injury. During the fall and winter of 1954, he underwent two delicate spinal operations which almost proved fatal.[29] Additionally, Jackie suffered a miscarriage in 1955 and in August 1956 gave birth to a stillborn daughter whom they planned to name Arabella.[30]
The couple sold their Hickory Hill estate to Jack's brother Robert Francis "Bobby" Kennedy, his wife Ethel Skakel, and their growing family, and bought a townhouse on N Street in Georgetown.[7] Jackie subsequently gave birth to a second daughter, Caroline Bouvier, in 1957, and a son, John F. Kennedy Jr., in 1960, both via Caesarean section.[30] A second son, Patrick, was born prematurely in an emergency caesarean section on August 7, 1963, and died two days later.[31]
Author, attorney, and Ambassador to Japan. Married to Edwin Schlossberg; has two daughters and a son. She is the last surviving child of Jacqueline and John F. Kennedy.
Magazine publisher and lawyer. Married to Carolyn Jeanne Bessette. He perished in a plane crash with his wife Carolyn and sister-in-law Lauren Bessette on July 16, 1999, off Martha's Vineyard in a Piper Saratoga II HP piloted by Kennedy.
On January 3, 1960, John announced his candidacy for the Presidency and launched his nationwide campaign.[32] Though she had initially intended to take an active role in the campaign, Kennedy learned that she was pregnant shortly after the campaign began.[33] Due to her previous difficult pregnancies, Kennedy's doctor instructed her to stay at home.[34] From Georgetown, Kennedy participated in her husband's campaign by answering letters, taping television commercials, giving televised and printed interviews, and writing a weekly syndicated newspaper column, Campaign Wife.[34] She also made rare personal appearances.
Kennedy was fluent in Spanish and French, and during her husband's presidential campaign, she spoke in Italian and Polish in public.[35]
First Lady Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy, President John F. Kennedy, André Malraux, Marie-Madeleine Lioux Malraux, Lyndon B. Johnson and Lady Bird Johnson having just descended White House Grand Staircase on their way to a dinner with the French cultural minister, April 1962. The First Lady wears a gown designed by Oleg Cassini[36]
In the general election on November 8, 1960, John F. Kennedy narrowly beat Republican Richard Milhous Nixon in the U.S. presidential election.[37] A little over two weeks later, Jackie gave birth to the couple's first son, John F. Kennedy, Jr.[38] When her husband was sworn in as president on January 20, 1961, Kennedy became, at age 31, the third youngest First Lady in history, behind Frances Folsom Cleveland (21) and Julia Gardiner Tyler (24).[39]
Jackie is remembered for reorganizing entertainment for White House social events, restoring the interior of the presidential home, her taste in clothing worn during her husband's presidency, her popularity among foreign dignitaries, and leading the country in mourning after JFK's 1963 assassination.[40]
Like any First Lady, she was thrust into the spotlight and while she did not mind giving interviews or being photographed, she preferred to maintain as much privacy as possible for herself and her children.[41] She ranks among the most popular of First Ladies.[42]
As First Lady, Kennedy devoted much of her time to planning social events at the White House and other state properties. She often invited artists, writers, scientists, poets, and musicians to mingle with politicians, diplomats, and statesmen. She also began to let guests at The White House drink cocktails, to give the mansion a more relaxed feeling.[43]
Perhaps due to her skill at entertaining, Kennedy proved quite popular among international dignitaries. When Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev was asked to shake President Kennedy's hand for a photo, Khrushchev said, "I'd like to shake her hand first."[44] Kennedy was well received in Paris, France, when she visited with her husband, and when she traveled with Lee to Pakistan and India in 1962.[45]
The Blue Room of the White House as redecorated by Stéphane Boudin in 1962. Boudin chose the period of the Madison administration, returning much of the original French Empire style furniture
The restoration of the White House was Kennedy's first major project as First Lady. She was dismayed during her pre-inauguration tour of the White House to find little of historic significance in the house. The rooms were furnished with undistinguished pieces that she felt lacked a sense of history. Her first efforts, begun her first day in residence (with the help of society decorator Sister Parish), were to make the family quarters attractive and suitable for family life. Among these changes was the addition of a kitchen on the family floor and rooms for her children. Upon almost immediately exhausting the funds appropriated for this effort, Kennedy established a fine arts committee to oversee and fund the restoration process and asked early American furniture expert Henry du Pont to consult.[46]
While her initial management of the project was hardly noted at the time, later accounts have determined that she managed the conflicting agendas of Parish, du Pont, and Boudin with seamless success;[47] she initiated publication of the first White House guidebook, whose sales further funded the restoration; she initiated a Congressional bill establishing that White House furnishings would be the property of the Smithsonian Institution, rather than available to departing ex-presidents to claim as their own; and she wrote personal requests to those who owned pieces of historical interest that might be, and later were, donated to the White House.[48]
On February 14, 1962, Kennedy took American television viewers on a tour of the White House with Charles Collingwood of CBS News. In the tour she said, "I feel so strongly that the White House should have as fine a collection of American pictures as possible. It's so important... the setting in which the presidency is presented to the world, to foreign visitors. The American people should be proud of it. We have such a great civilization. So many foreigners don't realize it. I think this house should be the place we see them best."[47] Working with Rachel Lambert Mellon, she oversaw redesign and replanting of the White House Rose Garden and the East Garden, which was renamed the Jacqueline Kennedy Garden after her husband's assassination. Her efforts on behalf of restoration and preservation at the White House left a lasting legacy in the form of the White House Historical Association, the Committee for the Preservation of the White House which was based upon her White House Furnishings Committee, a permanent Curator of the White House, the White House Endowment Trust, and the White House Acquisition Trust.[47]
Broadcasting of the White House restoration greatly helped the Kennedy administration.[47] The U.S. government sought international support during the Cold War, which it achieved by affecting public opinion. The First Lady's celebrity and high profile status made viewing the tour of the White House very desirable. The tour was filmed and distributed to 106 countries since there was a great demand to see the film. In 1962 at the 14th Annual Emmy Awards (NBC, May 22), Bob Newhart emceed from the Hollywood Palladium; Johnny Carson from the New York Astor Hotel; and NBC newsman David Brinkley hosted at the Sheraton Park Hotel in Washington D.C., and took the spotlight as a special Academy of Television Arts and Sciences Trustees Award was given to Jacqueline Kennedy for her CBS-TV tour of the White House. Lady Bird Johnson accepted for the camera-shy First Lady. The Emmy statuette is on display in the Kennedy Library located in Boston, Massachusetts. Focus and admiration for Jacqueline Kennedy took negative attention away from her husband. By attracting worldwide public attention, the First Lady gained allies for the White House and international support for the Kennedy administration and its Cold War policies.[49]
Before the Kennedys visited France, a television special was shot in French with the First Lady on the White House lawn. After arriving in the country, she impressed the public with her ability to speak French, as well as her extensive knowledge of French history.[45] Kennedy had been aided in her learning of the French language by the prominent Puerto Rican educator María Teresa Babín Cortés.[50] At the conclusion of the visit, Time magazine seemed delighted with the First Lady and noted, "There was also that fellow who came with her." Even President Kennedy joked, "I am the man who accompanied Jacqueline Kennedy to Paris — and I have enjoyed it!"[51]
At the urging of John Kenneth Galbraith, U.S. Ambassador to India, she undertook a tour of India and Pakistan, taking her sister Lee Radziwill along with her, which was amply documented in photojournalism of the time as well as in Galbraith's journals and memoirs. At the time, Ambassador Galbraith noted a considerable disjunction between Kennedy's widely-noted concern with clothes and other frivolity and, on personal acquaintance, her considerable intellect.[45]
While in Karachi, Pakistan, she found some time to take a ride on a camel with her sister.[52] In Lahore, Pakistan, Pakistani President Ayub Khan presented the First Lady with a much-photographed horse, Sardar (the Urdu term meaning "leader"). Subsequently this gift was widely misattributed to the king of Saudi Arabia, including in the various recollections of the Kennedy White House years by President Kennedy's friend, journalist and editor Benjamin Bradlee. While at a reception in her honor at the Shalimar Gardens, Kennedy told guests "all my life I've dreamed of coming to the Shalimar Gardens. It's even lovelier than I'd dreamed. I only wish my husband could be with me."[53]
In early 1963, Jackie was pregnant again and curtailed her official duties. She spent most of the summer at the Kennedys' rented home on Squaw Island, near the Kennedy family's Cape Cod compound at Hyannis Port, where she went into preterm labor on August 7, 1963. She gave birth to a boy, Patrick Bouvier Kennedy, via emergency Caesarian section at Otis Air Force Base, five and a half weeks prematurely. His lungs were not fully developed, and he died at Boston Children's Hospital of hyaline membrane disease (now known as respiratory distress syndrome) two days after birth on August 9, 1963.[54]
Main articles: Assassination of John F. Kennedy, State funeral of John F. Kennedy and John F. Kennedy autopsy
Jackie, still wearing the blood stained pink suit, stands alongside as Johnson takes the oath of office
On November 21, 1963, the First Couple left the White House for a political trip to Texas, stopping in San Antonio, Houston, and Fort Worth that day. After a breakfast on November 22, the Kennedys flew from Fort Worth's Carswell Air Force Base to Dallas' Love Field on Air Force One, accompanied by Texas Governor John Connally and his wife Nellie.[55] The First Lady was wearing a bright pink Chanel suit.[4][5] A 9.5-mile (15.3 km) motorcade was to take them to the Trade Mart, where the President was scheduled to speak at a lunch. The First Lady was seated next to her husband in the limousine, with the Governor and his wife seated in front of them. Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson and his wife followed in another car in the motorcade.
After the motorcade turned the corner onto Elm Street in Dealey Plaza, the First Lady heard what she thought to be a motorcycle backfiring and did not realize that it was a gunshot until she heard Governor Connally scream. Within 8.4 seconds, two more shots had rung out, and she leaned toward her husband. Another shot struck the President in the head. Almost immediately, she reached out across the trunk of the car for something. Her Secret Service agent, Clint Hill, later told the Warren Commission that he thought she had been reaching across the trunk for a piece of the President's skull that had been blown off.[56][57] Hill ran to the car and leapt onto it, directing her back to her seat. The car rushed to Dallas' Parkland Hospital, and on arrival there, the president was rushed into a trauma room. The First Lady, for the moment, remained in a room for relatives and friends of patients just outside.
A few minutes into her husband's treatment, accompanied by the President's doctor, Dr. Malcolm Perry, she left her folding chair outside Trauma Room One and attempted to enter the operating room. Nurse Doris Nelson stopped her and attempted to bar the door to prevent her from entering. She persisted, and the President's doctor suggested she take a sedative, which she refused. "I want to be there when he dies," she told Burkley. He eventually persuaded Nelson to grant her access to Trauma Room One, saying: "It's her right, it's her prerogative."[56]
Later, when the casket arrived, the widow removed her wedding ring and slipped it onto the President's finger. She told aide Ken O'Donnell, "Now I have nothing left."[55]
Family members depart the U.S. Capitol after a lying-in-state ceremony for the President, November 24, 1963
After the president's death, she refused to remove her blood-stained clothing and regretted having washed the blood off her face and hands. She continued to wear the blood-stained pink suit as she went on board Air Force One and stood next to Johnson when he took the oath of office as President. She told Lady Bird Johnson, "I want them to see what they have done to Jack."[58]
Kennedy took an active role in planning the details of her husband's state funeral, which was based on Abraham Lincoln's. The funeral service was held at Cathedral of St. Matthew the Apostle, Washington D.C., and the burial at Arlington National Cemetery; the widow led the procession there on foot and lit the eternal flame at the gravesite, a flame that had been created at her request. Lady Jeanne Campbell reported back to The London Evening Standard: "Jacqueline Kennedy has given the American people... one thing they have always lacked: Majesty."[59]
Following the assassination and the media coverage which had focused intensely on her during and after the burial, Kennedy stepped back from official public view. She did, however, make a brief appearance in Washington to honor the Secret Service agent, Clint Hill, who had climbed aboard the limousine in Dallas to try to shield her and the President.
In September 2011, audio tapes of Jackie Kennedy were released that had been recorded in 1964 after her husband's assassination. They were not supposed to be released until 50 years after her death (she died in 1994). Approximately 8.5 hours in length, the tapes contain an interview with Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., in which Jackie reveals her thoughts on a wide range of topics, including the vice-president, Lyndon B. Johnson, and civil rights leader, Martin Luther King, Jr. She also discusses how she refused to leave her husband's side during the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis when other officials had sent their wives away for their safety.[60][61]
More recently, personal correspondence of Jackie Kennedy from the years 1950 to 1964 have surfaced. The letters were written by her to Irish priest Joseph Leonard, whom she had twice met while in Ireland. The tone of the letters are said to be correspondence such as one would find between friends.[62]
A week after her husband's assassination, Kennedy was interviewed in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts, on November 29 by Theodore H. White of Life magazine. In that session, she compared the Kennedy years in the White House to King Arthur's mythical Camelot, commenting that the President often played the title song of Lerner and Loewe's musical recording before retiring to bed. She also quoted Queen Guinevere from the musical, trying to express how the loss felt.[63] Upon leaving the White House for the last time, Kennedy asked her Secret Service drivers to arrange her trips so that she would never accidentally glimpse the old mansion.[64]
Her steadiness and courage after her husband's assassination and funeral won her admiration around the world.[55] Following his death, Kennedy and her children remained in their quarters in the White House for two weeks, preparing to vacate. They spent the winter of 1964 in Averell Harriman's home in the Georgetown section of Washington, D.C., before purchasing their own home on the same street. Later in 1964, in the hope of having more privacy for her children,[65] Kennedy decided to buy an apartment located at 1040 Fifth Avenue on the Upper East Side in Manhattan and sold her new Georgetown house and the country home in Atoka, Virginia, where she and her husband had intended to retire. She spent a year in mourning,[66] making few public appearances; during this time, Caroline told one of her teachers that her mother cried frequently.[67][68]
In 1965, Kennedy and Queen Elizabeth II dedicated the United Kingdom's official memorial to President Kennedy at Runnymede, England. The memorial included several acres of meadowland given in perpetuity from the UK to the U.S., near where King John had signed the Magna Carta in 1215.[69]
Jackie perpetuated her husband's memory by attending selected, additional memorial dedications. These included the 1967 christening of the U.S. Navy aircraft carrier USS John F. Kennedy (CV-67) (decommissioned in 2007), in Newport News, Virginia, and a memorial in Hyannisport. They also included the dedication of a park near New Ross, Ireland. She also oversaw plans for the establishment of the John F. Kennedy Library, which is the repository for official papers of the Kennedy Administration. Original plans were to have the library situated in Cambridge, Massachusetts, near Harvard University, but it was instead situated in Boston, in Dorchester, next to the University of Massachusetts, Boston Campus. The finished library, designed by I.M. Pei, includes a museum and was dedicated in Boston in 1979 by President Jimmy Carter.
In November 1967, during the midst of the Vietnam War, Life magazine recognized Kennedy as "America's unofficial roving ambassador" during her visit to Cambodia, when she met with Chief of State Norodom Sihanouk. During the visit, Kennedy joined Sihanouk on a visit to Angkor Wat.[70] At that point, diplomatic relations between the U.S. and Cambodia had been broken since May 1965.[71]
In June 1968, when her brother-in-law Robert F. Kennedy was assassinated, she came to fear for her life and those of her children, saying: "If they're killing Kennedys, then my children are targets ... I want to get out of this country."[72] On October 20, 1968, she married Aristotle Onassis, a wealthy Greek shipping magnate, who was able to provide the privacy and security she sought for herself and her children.[72]
The wedding took place on Skorpios, Onassis's private island in the Ionian Sea, in Greece.[73] Following her marriage, Mrs. Onassis lost her right to Secret Service protection and her franking privilege, both of which are entitlements to a widow of a U.S. president. The marriage brought her considerable adverse publicity, including talk of excommunication by the Roman Catholic church (deemed as "nonsense" by Cardinal Cushing)[74] and condemnation as a "public sinner,"[75] and she became the target of paparazzi who followed her everywhere and nicknamed her "Jackie O."[76]
Tragedy struck again when Aristotle Onassis' son Alexander died in a plane crash on January 1973.[77] Aristotle Onassis' health began deteriorating rapidly and he died of respiratory failure at age 69 in Paris, on March 15, 1975. Mrs. Onassis' financial legacy was severely limited under Greek law, which dictated how much a non-Greek surviving spouse could inherit. After two years of legal battle, she eventually accepted a settlement of $26 million from Christina Onassis, Onassis' daughter and sole heir, waiving all other claims to the Onassis estate.[78]
During their marriage the couple inhabited six different residences: her 15-room Fifth Ave. apartment in New York City, her horse farm in New Jersey, his Avenue Foch apartment in Paris, his private island in Greece named Skorpios, his house in Athens, and his 325 ft (99 m) yacht The Christina.[79]
Aristotle Onassis' death in 1975 made Onassis a widow for the second time. Now that her children were older, she decided to find work that would be fulfilling to her. Since she had always enjoyed writing and literature, in 1975 she accepted a job offer as an editor at Viking Press. But, in 1978, the President of Viking Press, Thomas H. Guinzburg, authorized the purchase of the Jeffrey Archer novel Shall We Tell the President?, which was set in a fictional future presidency of Ted Kennedy and described an assassination plot against him. Although Guinzburg cleared the book purchase and publication with Onassis, upon the publication of a negative New York Times review which asserted that Onassis held some responsibility for its publication, she abruptly resigned from Viking Press the next day.[80] She then moved to Doubleday as an associate editor under an old friend, John Sargent, and lived in New York City, Martha's Vineyard, and the Kennedy Compound in Hyannis, Massachusetts. From the mid-1970s until her death, her companion was Maurice Tempelsman, a Belgian-born industrialist and diamond merchant who was long separated from his wife.[81]
Among the many books Onassis edited was Larry Gonick's The Cartoon History of the Universe.[82] He expressed his gratitude in the acknowledgments in Volume 2. At Doubleday she also oversaw, with Martha Levin, the English translation of the three volumes of Naghib Mahfuz's Cairo Trilogy.[83]
Onassis also appreciated the contributions of African-American writers to the American literary canon. She encouraged Dorothy West, her neighbor on Martha's Vineyard and the last surviving member of the Harlem Renaissance, to complete the novel The Wedding (1995), a multi-generational story about race, class, wealth, and power in the U.S.; West acknowledged Onassis' encouragement in the foreword. The novel, which received literary acclaim when it was published by Doubleday,[84] was later adapted into a television miniseries of the same name (1998) starring Halle Berry.[85]
Onassis also worked to preserve and protect America's cultural heritage. The notable results of her hard work include Lafayette Square in Washington, D.C. and Grand Central Terminal, New York City's historic railroad station.[47] While First Lady, she helped to stop the destruction of historic homes in Lafayette Square, because she felt these buildings were an important part of the nation's capital and played an essential role in its history.[47] Later, in New York City, she led an historic preservation campaign to save from demolition and renovate Grand Central Terminal.[65] A plaque inside the terminal acknowledges her prominent role in its preservation. In the 1980s, she was a major figure in protests against a planned skyscraper at Columbus Circle which would have cast large shadows on Central Park;[65] the project was cancelled, but a large twin-towered skyscraper would later fill in that spot in 2003, the Time Warner Center.
She remained the subject of considerable press attention, most notoriously involving the photographer Ron Galella. He followed her around and photographed her as she went about her day-to-day activities, obtaining candid photos of her.[86] She ultimately obtained a restraining order against him, and the situation brought attention to paparazzi-style photography.[87] In 1995, John F. Kennedy, Jr. allowed Galella to photograph him at public events.
From her apartment windows in New York City she had a splendid view of a glass-enclosed wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which displays the Temple of Dendur. This was a gift from Egypt to the U.S. in gratitude for the generosity of the Kennedy administration, which had been instrumental in saving several temples and objects of Egyptian antiquity that would otherwise have been flooded after the construction of the Aswan Dam.[11]
In January 1994, Onassis was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a form of cancer.[88] Her diagnosis was announced to the public the following month. The family and doctors were initially optimistic, and she stopped smoking at the insistence of her daughter, having previously been a three-pack-a-day smoker.[89] She continued her work with Doubleday, but curtailed her schedule. The cancer proved to be aggressive, and by April had spread. She made her last trip home from New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center on Wednesday, May 18, 1994. A large crowd of well-wishers and reporters gathered on the sidewalk outside her apartment. The following night at 10:15 p.m. Onassis died in her sleep. It was Thursday, May 19, 1994, two and a half months before her 65th birthday. Her son, John F. Kennedy, Jr., announced her death with the following: "My mother died surrounded by her friends and her family and her books, and the people and the things that she loved. She did it in her own way, and on her own terms, and we all feel lucky for that."[90]
Onassis' funeral was held on May 23, 1994 at Saint Ignatius Loyola Church in Manhattan — the church where she was baptized in 1929 and confirmed as a teenager.[91][92] At her funeral, her son John described three of her attributes as the love of words, the bonds of home and family, and the spirit of adventure. She was buried alongside President Kennedy, their son Patrick, and their stillborn daughter Arabella at Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Virginia.[66][93]
Mrs. Onassis was survived by her two children, her sister Lee Radziwill, and her mother-in-law, Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy, who at the age of 103, was unable to travel to New York from Massachusetts to attend the funeral services of the late First Lady. Rose would die 8 months later in January, 1995.
In her will, Onassis left her children Caroline and John an estate valued at $43.7 million by its executors.[94]
During her husband's presidency, Jacqueline Kennedy became a symbol of fashion for women worldwide. She retained French-born American fashion designer and Kennedy family friend Oleg Cassini in the fall of 1960 to create an original wardrobe for her as First Lady. From 1961 to late 1963, Cassini dressed her in many of her most iconic ensembles, including her Inauguration Day fawn coat and Inaugural gala gown, as well as many outfits for her visits to Europe, India, and Pakistan. In her first year in the White House, Kennedy spent $45,446 more on fashion than the $100,000 annual salary her husband earned as president (He donated the annual salary to charity). Her clean suits with a skirt hem down to middle of the knee, three-quarter sleeves on notch-collar jackets, sleeveless A-line dresses, above-the-elbow gloves, low-heel pumps, and famous pillbox hats were overnight successes around the world and quickly became known as the "Jackie" look.[95] Although Cassini was her primary designer, she also wore ensembles by French fashion legends such as Chanel, Givenchy, and Dior. More than any other First Lady her style was copied by commercial manufacturers and a large segment of young women.[6] Her influential bouffant hairstyle, described as a "grown-up exaggeration of little girls' hair," was created by Kenneth, whom she had been seeing since 1954, and who continued to style her hair until 1986.[96][97]
In the years after the White House, her style changed dramatically. Gone were the modest "campaign wife" clothes. Wide-leg pantsuits, large lapel jackets, gypsy skirts, silk Hermès head scarves, and large, round, dark sunglasses became her new look. She often chose to wear brighter colors and patterns and even began wearing jeans in public.[98] Beltless, white jeans with a black turtleneck, never tucked in, but pulled down over the hips, was another fashion trend that she set.[99]
Throughout her lifetime, Kennedy acquired a large collection of exquisite and priceless jewelry. Her triple-strand pearl necklace designed by American jeweler Kenneth Jay Lane became her signature piece of jewelry during her time as First Lady in the White House. Often referred to as the "berry brooch," the two-fruit cluster brooch of strawberries made of rubies with stems and leaves of diamonds, designed by French jeweler Jean Schlumberger for Tiffany & Co., was personally selected and given to her by her husband several days prior to his inauguration in January 1961.[100] Kennedy wore Schlumberger's gold and enamel bracelets so frequently in the early and mid-1960s that the press called them "Jackie bracelets;" she also favored his white enamel and gold "banana" earrings. Kennedy wore jewelry designed by Van Cleef & Arpels throughout the 1950s,[101] 1960s[101] and 1970s; her sentimental favorite was the Van Cleef & Arpels wedding ring given to her by President Kennedy.[102]
A high school named Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis High School for International Careers, was dedicated by New York City in 1995, the first high school named in her honor. It is located at 120 West 46th Street between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, and was formerly the High School for the Performing Arts.[105]
In December 1999, Onassis was among 18 included in Gallup's List of Widely Admired People of the 20th Century, from a poll conducted of the American people.[106]
The main reservoir in Central Park, located in New York City, New York, was renamed in her honor as the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Reservoir.[107]
The Municipal Art Society of New York presents the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Medal to an individual whose work and deeds have made an outstanding contribution to the city of New York. The medal was named in honor of the former MAS board member in 1994, for her tireless efforts to preserve and protect New York City's great architecture.[108]
At George Washington University, a residence hall located on the southeast corner of I and 23rd streets NW in Washington, D.C., was renamed Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy Onassis Hall in honor of the alumna.[109]
In 2007, her name and her first husband's were included on the list of people aboard the Japanese Kaguya mission to the moon launched on September 14, as part of The Planetary Society's "Wish Upon The Moon" campaign.[111] In addition, they are included on the list aboard NASA's Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter mission.
A school and an award at the American Ballet Theatre have been named after her in honor of her childhood study of ballet.[112]
The companion book for a series of interviews between mythologist Joseph Campbell and Bill Moyers, The Power of Myth, was created under the direction of Onassis, prior to her death. The book's editor, Betty Sue Flowers, writes in the Editor's Note to The Power of Myth: "I am grateful... to Jacqueline Lee Bouvier Kennedy Onassis, the Doubleday editor, whose interest in the books of Joseph Campbell was the prime mover in the publication of this book." A year after her death in 1994, Moyers dedicated the companion book for his PBS series, The Language of Life to Onassis. The dedication read: "To Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. As you sail on to Ithaka." Ithaka was a reference to the C.P. Cavafy poem[113] that Maurice Tempelsman read at her funeral.[114]
A white gazebo is dedicated to Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis on North Madison Street in Middleburg, Virginia. Jacqueline and President Kennedy frequented the small town of Middleburg and intended to retire in the nearby town of Atoka. She also hunted with the Middleburg Hunt numerous times.[115]
Abbott, James A (1995). A Frenchman in Camelot: The Decoration of the Kennedy White House by Stéphane Boudin. Boscobel Restoration Inc. ISBN 0-9646659-0-5.
Abbott James A., and Elaine M. Rice (1998). Designing Camelot: The Kennedy White House Restoration. Van Nostrand Reinhold. ISBN 0-442-02532-7.
Baldrige, Letitia (1998). In the Kennedy Style: Magical Evenings in the Kennedy White House. Doubleday. ISBN 0-385-48964-1.
Kennedy, Jacqueline (2011). Jacqueline Kennedy: Historic Conversations on Life with John F. Kennedy. Hyperion. ISBN 1401324258.
Perry, Barbara A. (2004). Jacqueline Kennedy: First Lady of the New Frontier. University Press of Kansas. ISBN 978-0-7006-1343-4.
Taraborrelli, J. Randy (2000). Jackie, Ethel, Joan: Women of Camelot. Warner Books. ISBN 0-446-52426-3.
Cassini, Oleg (1995). A Thousand Days of Magic: Dressing the First Lady for the White House. Rizzoli International Publications. ISBN 0-8478-1900-0.
West, J.B. with Mary Lynn Kotz (1973). Upstairs at the White House: My Life with the First Ladies. Coward, McCann & Geoghegan. SBN 698-10546-X.
Exhibition Catalogue, Sale 6834: The Estate of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis April 23–26, 1996. Sothebys: 1996.
The White House: An Historic Guide. White House Historical Association and the National Geographic Society: 2001. ISBN 0-912308-79-6.
Bowles, Hamish; Schlesinger, Jr., Arthur M.; Mellon, Rachel (2001). Jacqueline Kennedy: The White House Years. The Metropolitan Museum of Art. bulfinch Press/Little, Brown and Company. ISBN 0-8212-2745-9.
McFadden, Robert D. (May 20, 1994). "Death of a First Lady ; Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Dies of Cancer at 64" (obituary). The New York Times. Retrieved May 18, 2011.
Kennedy Assassination Chronicles (Fall 1995) PDF (183 KB) — contains much of "the Camelot interview."
The short film Invitation to Pakistan (1962) is available for free download at the Internet Archive [more]
D C McJonathan-Swarm (Jan 1, 2001). "Jacqueline Lee "Jackie" Kennedy Onassis". Presidential First Lady. Find a Grave. Retrieved Aug 18, 2011. 
First Lady of the United States · National Historic Site · Lifetimes · First Ladies: Influence & Image
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jacqueline_Kennedy_Onassis&oldid=611548937"					
Categories: 1929 births1994 deathsAmerican people of English descentAmerican people of French descentAmerican people of Irish descentAmerican people of Scottish descentAmerican socialitesAmerican equestriansAmerican book editorsAmerican Roman CatholicsFirst Ladies of the United StatesHistorical preservationistsBouvier familyKennedy familyOnassis familyBurials at Arlington National CemeteryCancer deaths in New YorkDeaths from lymphomaChapin School (Manhattan) alumniGeorge Washington University alumniMiss Porter's School alumniSmith College alumniUniversity of Paris alumniUniversity of Grenoble alumniVassar College alumniPeople from Bernardsville, New JerseyPeople from East Hampton (town), New YorkPeople from ManhattanSpouses of Massachusetts politiciansSpouses of members of the United States House of RepresentativesSpouses of United States SenatorsWitnesses to the John F. Kennedy assassinationHidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersUse mdy dates from April 2013All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2014Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Copyright, Attention:   This website and its contents contain intellectual property copyright materials and works belonging to the National First Ladiesâ Library and Historic Site and to other third parties. Please do not plagiarize. If you use a direct quote from our website please cite your reference and provide a link back to the source.
Birth:   Place: Southampton Hospital, Southampton, New York Date: 1929, July 28   Father:John "Jack" Vernou Bouvier, III, born 1891, May 19, East Hampton, New York, stock broker, New York Stock Exchange; died 1957, August 2, New York, New York   Mother:Janet Norton Lee, born 1907, December 3, New York, New York; attended Sweetbriar College, Virginia, and Vassar College but did not graduate from either institution; a noted horsewoman and a multiple trophy winner. Janet Lee married John Bouvier, 1928, July 7, at St. Philomena's Church, East Hampton, New York; died, 1989, July 22, Newport, Rhode Island.   Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis's parents divorced in 1940. Janet Bouvier married a second time on 1942, June 21, to Hugh D. Auchincloss (1897-1972). She married a third time on 1979, October 25, to Bingham Morris. Morris's first wife had been a bridesmaid in the wedding party of his second wife (Janet Lee Bouvier).   Ancestry:Irish, English, French, Scottish; Jacqueline Kennedy was half-Irish, her mother being the granddaughter of four immigrants from County Cork, who came to New York during the 1840's potato famine. Jacqueline Kennedy's paternal grandmother Maude Sergeant was the daughter of an immigrant from Kent, England. Despite her maiden name, Jacqueline Kennedy's French ancestry was descent from one great-grandfather, making her only one-eight French. The first Bouvier to settle in America was carpenter Michel Bouvier, who arrived in Philadelphia in 1815 from Point Saint-Esprit in the Provence region.  One source claims the legend of ancestral descent of the Bouviers to include a later descendant of the Van Salees family, Dutch/African merchants that settled in New Amsterdam in the 17th century.   Birth Order and Siblings:Eldest of two, she had a younger sister, Caroline Lee Bouvier Canfield Radziwill Ross (born 1933, March 3).   Through the second marriage of her mother, Jacqueline Kennedy had two half-siblings, Janet Jennings Auchincloss (1945-1985) and James Lee Auchincloss (born 1947); by Hugh D. Auchincloss's first marriage to Maria Chrapovitsky, she had a step-brother, Hugh D. ("Yusha") Auchincloss, Jr. (born 1927?); by Hugh D. Auchincloss's second marriage to Nina Gore Vidal, she had a step-sister, Nina Auchincloss Steers Straight (born 1935?), and a step-brother Thomas Auchincloss (born 1937?).   Although the author, playwright and social critic Gore Vidal has often been identified as a stepbrother to Jacqueline Kennedy, they both shared the same stepfather, but through different mothers.   Physical Appearance:5'8", brown hair, brown eyes   Religious Affiliation:Roman Catholic; Although she married a second time to a divorced man in a ceremony of his Greek Orthodox faith, thus breaking her faith's tenets, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis did not convert and was buried with full rites of the Catholic Church.   Education:Chapin School, 1935-1942, New York City (kindergarten and grammar school); Holton Arms School, 1942-1944, Washington, D.C. (completed grammar school and first year of high school); Miss Porter's School, 1944-1947, Farmington, Connecticut (high school); Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, New York (freshman and sophomore years, college) 1947-1949; University of Grenoble and Sorbonne, Paris, France (junior year abroad program through Smith College), 1949-1950; George Washington University, Washington, D.C. (senior year, college), B.A. French literature, 1950-951; Georgetown University, Washington, D.C. (American history continuing education classes), 1954   Occupation before Marriage:At an early age, Jacqueline Kennedy wrote essays and poems which were sometimes published in local newspapers. In her high school newspaper Salmagundi, she penned a cartoon series and won the graduating award for literature. In 1951, she submitted an entry to Vogue magazine's Prix de Paris contest, the prize for which was to spend half a year in New York, and the other half in Paris as a junior editor for the magazine. The submission was rigorous, requiring an original theme for an entire issue, illustrations, articles, layout and design, an advertising campaign that could be tied into the issue's content. In the requisite essay, "People I Wish I Had Known," she listed playwright Oscar Wilde, poet Charles Baudelaire and ballet impresario Serge Diaghilev. Named one of the twelve finalists, she was then interviewed by the magazine editors and out of 1,280 entries she won the contest. Her mother, however, did not want her to leave the U.S. and made her turn down the prize. After college, she worked for the Washington Times-Herald as its Inquiring Camera Girl, earning $42.50 a week.  Her job was to both photograph and interview local citizens with one question each day; her first interview was with Pat Nixon and others included Vice President Nixon and Senator John F. Kennedy whom she later married. The questions became increasingly political, including topics like the Soviet Union, the Korean War, and the U.S. involvement in Southeast Asia. One of her last assignments was to cover Queen Elizabeth's 1953 coronation.   Marriage:First: 1953, September 12, to John F. Kennedy, born 1917, May 29, in Brookline, Norfolk County, Massachusetts, United States Senator (D-Massachusetts), former U.S. Congressman (D-Massachusetts), at St. Mary's Church, Newport, Rhode Island. John F. Kennedy died 1963, November 22, Dallas, Texas.   Second:1968, October 20, to Aristotle Socrates Onassis, born 1906, June 15, in Smyrna, Turkey, international shipping magnate, airline owner, at Skorpios Island, Greece. He died 1975, March 15, The American Hospital, Paris, France. His first marriage was to Athina Tina Livanos (1926- 1973), in 1946 in New York City, New York.   Children:Caroline Bouvier Kennedy (born, 1957, November 27); John F. Kennedy, Jr. (1960, November 25 - 1999, July 16); Patrick Bouvier Kennedy (1963, August 7 - 1963, August 9)   Stepchildren: Alexander Onassis (1948-1973), Christina Onassis (1950-1988)   Occupation after Marriage:Although Jacqueline Kennedy remarked at her wedding that she wished to write a novel, her marriage suspended her writing ambitions. Nevertheless, as a Senator's spouse she found an outlet in responding to constituent mail, translating articles, drafting her husband's 1956 endorsement statement of Adlai Stevenson, and acting as something like a coordinating editor for his Pulitzer Prize-winning book Profiles In Courage. She made short speeches in Italian, French and Spanish to ethnic constituents during his 1958 re-election campaign.   Presidential Campaign and Inauguration:Since she was pregnant for most of the 1960 presidential campaign, Jacqueline Kennedy played a limited public role in it; she wrote a column "Campaign Wife," mixing personal stories with Democratic Party policy views on the aged and education that was distributed by the national party; she participated in television and newspaper interviews; she taped campaign radio commercials in foreign languages. Privately, she supplied her husband with numerous literary and historical examples and quotations that he used in his speeches. Jacqueline Kennedy influenced her husband to invite numerous artists in all disciplines to his 1961 inaugural ceremony as a symbol of the new Administration's intended support of the arts. Her appearance in a large pillbox hat for the swearing-in ceremony, however, eclipsed this news and began a popular millinery style.   First Lady:1961, January 20 - 1963, November 22 31 years old   Jacqueline Kennedy entered the role of First Lady by declaring that her priorities were her young children and maintaining her family's privacy. Nevertheless, during the weeks before the inauguration, she began her plans to not only redecorate the family quarters of the White House but to historically restore the public rooms. She created a committee of advisors led by Americana expert Henry Dupont, with sub-committees led by experts on painting, furniture and books. By March 1961, Jacqueline Kennedy was scouring government warehouses in search of displaced White House furnishings, and soliciting the nation to donate important historical and artistic items. As part of this effort, she successfully pressed Senator Clint Anderson and the 87th Congress to pass what became Public Law 87286 that would make such donated items the inalienable property of the White House. Since the restoration project was privately funded, she helped to create a White House Historical Association, an entity which was able to raise funds through the sale to the public of a book she conceived, The White House: An Historic Guide. She also successfully pressed for the creation of the federal position of White House Curator to permanently continue the effort of protecting the historical integrity of the mansion. Her legacy of fostering an national interest in historic preservation extended to her own "neighborhood," when she reversed a previous federal plan to destroy the historic Lafayette Square across from the White House and helped to negotiate not only a restoration of old buildings there, but a reasonable construction of new buildings with modern use.   Jacqueline Kennedy also sought to use the White House to "showcase" the arts. She became the most prominent proponent for the establishment of the National Cultural Center in the nation's capital, eventually to be named for her husband. At the White House she hosted performances of opera, ballet, Shakespeare and modern jazz, all performed by American companies. After her meeting with French Minister of Culture Andre Malraux in May of 1961, he made a loan to the U.S. from France of the Louvre Museum's famous Mona Lisa painting, and Jacqueline Kennedy presided over the unveiling. From Malraux, she developed ideas on the eventual creation of a U.S. Department of the Arts and Humanities, an undertaking she discussed with Rhode Island Senator Claiborne Pell and one that she anticipated would emerge with the creation of a presidential arts advisor and advisory board in 1961. The eventual creation of the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Arts achieved her goal, she later reflected.   Contrary to the image of "lovely inconsequence" that her friend, historian Arthur Schlesinger characterized her as feigning, Jacqueline Kennedy had an intense interest in the substantive issues faced by the Administration; she kept this covert, however, believing that public knowledge of her views would distract from the uncontroversial historic and arts projects she adopted. Privately, she was known to provide the President with withering assessments of political figures with whom he was negotiating, whether it was Pentagon brass or the Soviet Politburo. After the Bay of Pigs, Jacqueline Kennedy made a speech in Spanish, in Miami, December 1962, to the brigade of Cuban fighters who had landed in Cuba to carry out the ill-considered operation. Throughout the days of the Cuban Missile Crisis, she remained at the President's side and he kept her informed of each top-secret move that the U.S. and Soviet Union were making; afterwards, in thanks for the emotional support she provided to him, he presented her with one of the same silver calendars commemorating the crisis that he gave to his military advisors who had helped him. As the fight for civil rights of African-Americans gained momentum, the First Lady illustrated a subtle support for it; when she created a kindergarten in the White House for her daughter and a few select youngsters, it was racially integrated and photographs of the group were publicly released. Jacqueline Kennedy made more international trips than any of her predecessors, both with the President and on her own: France, Austria, England, Greece, Venezuela and Colombia in 1961, India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Italy and Mexico in 1962, Morocco, Italy, Turkey, Greece, France in 1963. On many of these trips, she forged personal friendship with world leaders, including France's Charles DeGaulle, India's Jawaharlal Nehru, Pakistan's Ayub Kahn, England's Harold McMillan, subtly furthering the interests of the President and the U.S. In South American nations, for example, she made speeches in Spanish hailing the promise of the Administration's Peace Corps. Believing that Kennedy's most important accomplishment was his 1963 Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, days after his assassination she penned a remarkable letter to Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev, calling on him to remain committed to nuclear arms reduction and urge smaller nations to do likewise.   Often sketching designs for her clothing as First Lady, Jacqueline Kennedy fashion immediately drew international attention; more than any other First Ladies her style was copied by commercial manufacturers and a large segment of young women. While she appeared largely in the media in unauthorized wire service photographs and "paparazzi" snapshots, White House photographs were more frequently issued to the press than ever before and the role of the official in-house photographer was instigated as a result of Jacqueline Kennedy's own interest and instruction. She also made several television appearances, the most prominent being A Tour of the White House with Mrs. John F. Kennedy, aired on CBS on February 14, 1962. It was the first glimpse into her restoration project and the most sustained exposure the nation had to this youthful and unique First Lady. The television special only further fueled media attention on her and she soon became the first First Lady to find herself on the cover of thousands of popular magazines. The first First Lady to also have her own press secretary, her visibility would permanently forge the media interest in the activities of the presidential spouses.   Post-Presidential Life:As the president's widow in late 1963, Jacqueline Kennedy successfully sought President Lyndon Johnson's support for several measures she considered important to her late husband, including the revitalization of Pennsylvania Avenue. After living in Washington for several months, she moved to New York. Although raising her two young children was her priority, she also focused on the creation of the John F. Kennedy Library and became intricately involved in the architecture and landscaping, as well as the academic direction of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. Frequently traveling abroad, she led an effort to halt the potential damage in Venice, Italy posed by rising water levels, and also attempted to broker better diplomatic relations between the U.S. and Cambodia.   After her remarriage to Aristotle Onassis in 1968, she lived part of each year in Athens or on Skorpios Island, Greece, or in Paris, France, at his homes. She successfully lobbied Athens officials to retain an ancient marketplace. Following his death, she resumed her career in the writing profession, but as an editor, first at Viking Press, and then Doubleday; she often wrote the introduction to the books she edited and also worked on obtaining and laying out the illustrations.   Working with the New York Municipal Arts Society, she led a successful public information campaign to save New York's Grand Central Station, coming to Washington, D.C. to urge the Congress to pass landmark legislation; along these lines, she also lobbied legislators in the New York State capital of Albany, to prevent private organizations from altering or destroying their property if it was deemed historical architecture. Included among the civic activities in which she was further involved were the revitalization of the Broadway theater district, the Central Park Conservancy, the Literary Lions of the New York Public Library, the Metropolitan Museum's Egyptian wing and the Costume Institute, and the American Ballet Theater at Lincoln Center.   Death:Her apartment, New York, New York 1994, May 19 64 years old   Buried:Arlington National Cemetery, Arlington, Virginia   * Jacqueline Kennedy is the first First Lady who was born in a hospital *In attendance at her funeral mass were former First Lady Lady Bird Johnson and incumbent First Lady Hillary Clinton   
                    copyright © The National First Ladies' Library, 330-452-0876Museum/Saxton McKinley House 331 S. Market Ave. Canton, Ohio 44702Education and Research Center 205 S. Market Ave. Canton, Ohio 44702
Attention:   This website and its contents contain intellectual property copyright materials and works belonging to the National First Ladiesâ Library and Historic Site and to other third parties. Please do not plagiarize. If you use a direct quote from our website please cite your reference and provide a link back to the source.
=======================================================
Jacqueline Lee Bouvier was born on July 28, 1929, in Southampton, New York. Her father, John, was a wealthy stockbroker on Wall Street whose family had come from France in the early 1800s. Her mother, Janet, had ancestors from Ireland and England. Janet Bouvier was an accomplished rider, and Jackie was only a year old when her mother first put her on a horse. By age 11, she had already won several national championships. The New York Times wrote in 1940: "Jacqueline Bouvier, an eleven-year-old equestrienne from East Hampton, Long Island, scored a double victory in the horsemanship competition. Miss Bouvier achieved a rare distinction. The occasions are few when a young rider wins both contests in the same show."Jackie also enjoyed reading. Before she started school, she had read all the children’s books on her bookshelves. Her heroes were Mowgli from Rudyard Kipling's The Jungle Book, Robin Hood, Little Lord Fauntleroy’s grandfather, Scarlett O'Hara from Gone With the Wind, and the poet Byron. Mrs. Bouvier wondered if Jackie might one day be a writer. 
After kindergarten, Jackie started first grade at Miss Chapin’s School on East End Avenue in New York. One of her teachers, Miss Platt, thought Jackie was "a darling child, the prettiest little girl, very clever, very artistic, and full of the devil." At times she did get into mischief and would be sent to the headmistress, Miss Ethel Stringfellow, who wrote on her report card: "Jacqueline was given a D in Form because her disturbing conduct in her geography class made it necessary to exclude her from the room." When Jackie was ten years old, her parents divorced. It was a difficult period for her, especially because at the time few children had divorced parents. She also came from a Catholic family, and the Catholic Church disapproves of divorces. Jackie had always been a private person, but now she became still quieter, keeping her thoughts to herself. Despite these hard times, Jackie had many advantages and opportunities in life. She took classical ballet lessons in the old Metropolitan Opera House. She began taking lessons in French. In 1942, when Jackie was about to turn thirteen, her mother married a businessman named Hugh Auchincloss who had children from previous marriages. Besides her younger sister, Lee, Jackie now had two stepbrothers, Yusha and Tommy, and a stepsister, Nina. In June 1947, Jackie graduated from Miss Porter’s School, a boarding school for girls in Connecticut. She continued her education at Vassar College in New York, where she studied history, literature, art, and French. Jackie spent her junior year studying abroad in Paris, France. She lived with the de Renty family at 76 Avenue Mozart. Madame de Renty had two daughters, Claude and Ghislaine, and one four-year-old son, Christian. Jackie later wrote about her experience: "I loved it more than any year of my life. Being away from home gave me a chance to look at myself with a jaundiced eye. I learned not to be ashamed of a real hunger for knowledge, something I had always tried to hide, and I came home glad to start in here again but with a love for Europe that I am afraid will never leave me." She returned to the United States to finish up her last year of college, transferring from Vassar College to The George Washington University because she preferred being in the city and close to her family. 
Jacqueline started her first job in the fall of 1951 as the "Inquiring Camera Girl" for the Washington Times-Herald newspaper. Roving around the city, she took pictures of people she encountered, asked them questions on the issues of the day, and wove their answers into her newspaper column. Among those she interviewed for her column was Richard M. Nixon. She also covered the first inauguration of Dwight D. Eisenhower and the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II. During this time, Jacqueline met John F. Kennedy, who was a congressman and soon to be elected a Senator from Massachusetts. On September 12, 1953, they married at St. Mary’s Church in Newport, Rhode Island. After their honeymoon in Mexico, the Kennedys returned to Washington D.C. Early on in their marriage, Senator Kennedy suffered crippling pain in his back from football and wartime injuries and had two operations. While recovering from surgery, Mrs. Kennedy encouraged him to write a book about several U.S. senators who had risked their careers to fight for the things they believed in. The book, called Profiles in Courage, was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for biography in 1957. That same year, the Kennedys’ first child, Caroline, was born. In January 1960, Senator John F. Kennedy announced his candidacy for the presidency of the United States. He began traveling all around the country and Jacqueline often accompanied him. During the campaign, she learned that she was pregnant and her doctors instructed her to remain at home. From there, she answered hundreds of campaign letters, taped TV commercials, gave interviews, and wrote a weekly newspaper column, Campaign Wife, which was distributed across the country. On November 8, 1960, John F. Kennedy beat Republican Richard M. Nixon in a very close race. Two and-a-half weeks later, Mrs. Kennedy gave birth to their second child, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, Jr. 
For younger readers and families: view a slide show or read a picture book on the life of Jacqueline B. Kennedy. Includes poems and drawings, family photographs and special artifacts.
=======================================================
	The inauguration of John F. Kennedy in 1961 brought to the White House and to the heart of the nation a beautiful young wife and the first young children of a President in half a century.
	She was born Jacqueline Lee Bouvier, daughter of John Vernon Bouvier III and his wife, Janet Lee. Her early years were divided between New York City and East Hampton, Long Island, where she learned to ride almost as soon as she could walk. She was educated at the best of private schools; she wrote poems and stories, drew illustrations for them, and studied ballet. Her mother, who had obtained a divorce, married Hugh D. Auchincloss in 1942 and brought her two girls to "Merrywood," his home near Washington, D.C., with summers spent at his estate in Newport, Rhode Island. Jacqueline was dubbed "the Debutante of the Year" for the 1947-1948 season, but her social success did not keep her from continuing her education. As a Vassar student she traveled extensively, and she spent her junior year in France before graduating from George Washington University. These experiences left her with a great empathy for people of foreign countries, especially the French.
	In Washington she took a job as "inquiring photographer" for a local newspaper. Her path soon crossed that of Senator Kennedy, who had the reputation of being the most eligible bachelor in the capital. Their romance progressed slowly and privately, but their wedding at Newport in 1953 attracted nationwide publicity.
	With marriage "Jackie" had to adapt herself to the new role of wife to one of the country's most energetic political figures. Her own public appearances were highly successful, but limited in number. After the sadness of a miscarriage and the stillbirth of a daughter, Caroline Bouvier was born in 1957; John Jr. was born between the election of 1960 and Inauguration Day. Patrick Bouvier, born prematurely on August 7, 1963, died two days later.
	To the role of First Lady, Jacqueline Kennedy brought beauty, intelligence, and cultivated taste. Her interest in the arts, publicized by press and television, inspired an attention to culture never before evident at a national level. She devoted much time and study to making the White House a museum of American history and decorative arts as well as a family residence of elegance and charm. But she defined her major role as "to take care of the President" and added that "if you bungle raising your children, I don't think whatever else you do well matters very much."
	Mrs. Kennedy's gallant courage during the tragedy of her husband's assassination won her the admiration of the world. Thereafter it seemed the public would never allow her the privacy she desired for herself and her children. She moved to New York City; and in 1968 she married the wealthy Greek businessman, Aristotle Onassis, 23 years her senior, who died in March 1975. From 1978 until her death in 1994, Mrs. Onassis worked in New York City as an editor for Doubleday. At her funeral her son described three of her attributes: "love of words, the bonds of home and family, and her spirit of adventure."
The biographies of the First Ladies on WhiteHouse.gov are from “The First Ladies of the United States of America,” by Allida Black. Copyright 2009 by the White House Historical Association.
background: url(http://www.whitehouse.gov/files/images/tout/feedback_tout_long.png) no-repeat 0px 0px;
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesCash for College! 54 Scholarships Worth $10&#044;000 or MoreErikson's Psychosocial Stages Summary ChartHow to Control Carpenter BeesQuiz - What's Your Leadership Style? [About Psychology]College Interview Questions
Top Related Searchesjacqueline lee bouvierwashington times heraldnewport rhode islandjohn hustedjohn bouvierjackie onassis
As the wife of President John F. Kennedy, Jackie Kennedy became the 35th First Lady of the United States. She remains an icon and one of the favorite First Ladies of all time for her beauty, grace, and restoration of the White House as a national treasure. 
On July 28, 1929, in Southampton, New York, Jacqueline Lee Bouvier was born into wealth. She was the daughter of John Bouvier III, a Wall Street stockbroker, and Janet Bouvier (née Lee). She had one sister, Caroline Lee, born in 1933. As a youth, Jackie enjoyed reading, writing, and horseback riding. 
In 1940, Jackie’s parents divorced due to her father’s alcoholism and womanizing; however, Jackie was able to continue her prestigious education. Two years later, her mother married a wealthy Standard Oil heir, Hugh Auchincloss Jr. 
After attending Vassar, Jackie spent her junior year learning French literature at the Sorbonne in Paris. She then transferred to George Washington University in Washington D.C. and in 1951 she received a Bachelor of Arts degree.
Newly out of college, Jackie was hired as an “inquiring photographer” for the Washington Times-Herald. Her job was to surprise random people on the street with questions while taking their pictures for the entertainment section. 
Although busy with her job, Jackie also made time to have a social life. In December 1951, she became engaged to John Husted Jr., a stockbroker. However, in March 1952, Bouvier broke her engagement to Husted, saying he was too immature. 
Two months later she began dating John F. Kennedy, who was 12 years her senior. The newly elected Massachusetts Senator proposed to Bouvier in June 1953. The engagement was short for the couple married on September 12, 1953, in Newport, Rhode Island, at St. Mary’s Church. Kennedy was 36 and Bouvier (now known as Jackie Kennedy) was 24. (Jackie’s father did not attend the wedding; alcoholism was cited as the reason.) 
While Mr. and Mrs. John F. Kennedy settled down in Georgetown in the Washington D.C. area, Kennedy was suffering from back pain from a WWII injury. (He had received the Navy and Marine Corps Medal for saving a dozen of his crewmembers’ lives, but had hurt his back in the process.) 
In 1954, Kennedy opted for surgery to repair his spine. However, since Kennedy also had Addison’s disease, which can cause very low blood pressure and coma, he became unresponsive after his back surgery and was administered the last rites. Married less than two years, Jackie thought her husband was going to die. Thankfully, after several weeks, Kennedy came out of the coma. During his long recovery, Jackie suggested that her husband write a book, so Kennedy wrote Profiles in Courage. 
After the near loss of her husband, Jackie hoped to start a family. She got pregnant but soon suffered a miscarriage in 1955. Then more tragedy struck on August 23, 1956, when a devastated Jackie gave birth to a stillborn girl named Arabella. 
While still recovering from the loss of their daughter, that November Kennedy was nominated for vice president on the Democratic ticket with the presidential nominee, Adlai Stevenson. However, Dwight D. Eisenhower was to win that presidential election. 
The year 1957 proved to be a much better year for both Jackie and John Kennedy. On November 27, 1957, Jackie gave birth to a girl, Caroline Bouvier Kennedy (named after Jackie’s sister). John Kennedy won the Pulitzer Prize for his book, Profiles in Courage. 
In 1960, the Kennedys became a household name when John F. Kennedy announced his candidacy for U.S. President in January 1960; he soon became the frontrunner for the Democratic ticket against Richard M. Nixon. 
Jackie had monumental news of her own when she discovered she was pregnant in February 1960. Being part of a national presidential campaign is taxing for anyone, so doctors advised Jackie to take it easy. She took their advice and from her Georgetown apartment she wrote a weekly column in national newspapers called “Campaign Wife.” 
Jackie was able to also help her husband’s campaign by participating in TV interviews and campaign spots. Her charm, young motherhood, upper-class background, love of politics, and knowledge of multiple languages added to the Kennedy appeal for presidency.
In November 1960, 43-year-old John F. Kennedy won the election. Sixteen days later, on November 25, 1960, 31-year-old Jackie gave birth to a son, John Jr.
In January 1961, Kennedy was inaugurated as the 35th President of the United States and Jackie became the First Lady. After the Kennedy family moved into the White House, Jackie hired a press secretary to help her with First Lady obligations since her priority was to raise her two children. 
Unfortunately, life in the White House was not perfect for the Kennedys. The stress and strain of the job added to the continued pain President Kennedy felt in his back, which caused him to excessively resort to pain pills for help. He is also known to have had numerous extramarital affairs, including an alleged affair with actress Marilyn Monroe. Jackie Kennedy continued on, focusing her time on both being a mom and restoring the White House.  
As First Lady, Jackie renovated the White House with an emphasis on history while raising funds to support the restoration. She created the White House Historical Association and worked with Congress to pass laws for historic preservation, which included the creation of a White House Curator. She also worked to ensure that the White House furniture remained the property of the federal government through the Smithsonian Institution. 
In February 1962, Jackie gave a televised tour of the White House so that Americans could see and understand her commitment. Two months later, she received a special Emmy award for public service from the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences for the tour.
Jackie Kennedy also used the White House to showcase American artists and lobbied for the creation of the National Endowments of the Arts and Humanities. 
Despite her successes with the White House restoration, Jackie soon suffered another loss. Pregnant again in early 1963, Jackie sadly delivered a premature boy, Patrick Bouvier Kennedy, on August 7, 1963, who died two days later. He was buried next to his sister, Arabella. 
Just three months after Patrick’s death, Jackie agreed to make a public appearance with her husband in support of his 1964 presidential reelection campaign. 
On November 22, 1963, the Kennedy’s landed in Dallas, Texas, via Air Force One. The couple sat in the backseat of an open limousine, with Texas Governor John Connally and his wife, Nellie, sitting in front of them. The limousine became part of a motorcade, headed from the airport to the Trade Mart where President Kennedy was scheduled to speak at a luncheon.
While unsuspecting Jackie and John Kennedy waved to the crowds lining the streets in the Dealey Plaza area of downtown Dallas, Lee Harvey Oswald waited in the sixth floor window at the Schoolbook Depository building where he was an employee. Oswald, a former U.S. Marine who had defected to the Communist Soviet Union, used a sniper rifle to shoot President Kennedy at 12:30 p.m. 
The bullet hit Kennedy in the upper back. Another shot struck Governor Connally in the back. As Connally screamed, Nellie grabbed her husband down onto her lap. Jackie leaned toward her husband, who was grasping at his neck. Oswald’s third bullet shattered President Kennedy’s skull. 
In a panic, Jackie bolted onto the rear of the car and across the trunk towards Secret Service Agent, Clint Hill, for help. Hill, who had been on the fender of the Secret Service car following the open limousine, hurried onto the car, pushed Jackie back into her seat, and protected her as the President was rushed to nearby Parkland Hospital. 
In her now famous Chanel pink suit splattered with her husband's blood, Jackie sat outside of Trauma Room One. After insisting to be with her husband, Jackie was beside President Kennedy when he was pronounced dead at 1:00 p.m. 
John F. Kennedy’s body was placed into a casket and boarded onto Air Force One. Jackie, still wearing her bloodstained pink suit, stood next to Vice President Lyndon Johnson as he was sworn in as President of the United States at 2:38 p.m. before takeoff. 
Oswald was arrested just hours after the shooting for killing a police officer and subsequently the slain President. Two days later, when Oswald was being transported through the basement of police headquarters to the nearby county jail, nightclub owner Jack Ruby jumped out of the crowd of spectators and fatally shot Oswald. Ruby said Dallas was redeemed by his action. The bizarre sequence of events shocked the mourning nation, wondering if Oswald acted alone or was in conspiracy with the Communists, Fidel Castro of Cuba, or the mob, since Ruby was involved in organized crime. 
On Sunday, November 25, 1963, there were 300,000 people in Washington D.C. watching the funeral procession as the John F. Kennedy’s casket was taken to the U.S. Capitol Rotunda via horse and carriage in model of Abraham Lincoln’s funeral. Jackie escorted her children, Caroline age six, and John Jr. age three. Instructed by his mother, young John Jr. saluted his father’s coffin as it passed by. 
The grieving nation watched the tragic funeral unfold on television. The procession then went to St. Matthew’s Cathedral for the funeral and on to Arlington National Cemetery for burial. Jackie lit the eternal flame over her husband’s grave that continues to burn. 
On November 29, 1963, just days after the funeral, Jackie was interviewed by Life Magazine in which she referred to her years in the White House as “Camelot.” Jackie wanted her husband remembered in a positive way, how he listened to the record Camelot before going to sleep at night. 
Jackie and her children moved back into their Georgetown apartment, but by 1964, Jackie found Washington unbearable due to the many memories. She purchased a Manhattan apartment on Fifth Avenue and moved her children to New York City. Jackie memorialized her husband at many events and helped establish the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston. 
On June 4, 1968, New York Senator Bobby Kennedy, President Kennedy’s younger brother who was running for President, was assassinated in a hotel in Los Angeles. Jackie feared for her children’s safety and fled the country. The news media coined the phrase, “the Kennedy Curse” regarding the Kennedy tragedies. 
Jackie took her children to Greece and found comfort with the 62-year-old Greek shipping magnate, Aristotle Onassis. In the summer of 1968, 39-year-old Jackie announced her engagement to Onassis, stunning the U.S. public. The couple married on October 20, 1968, on Onassis’ private island, Skorpios. Jackie Kennedy Onassis was dubbed “Jackie O” by the press. 
When Onassis’ 25-year-old son Alexander died in a plane crash in 1973, Christina Onassis, Onassis’ daughter, said it was “the Kennedy Curse” that followed Jackie. The marriage became strained until Onassis’ death in 1975. 
Forty-six-year-old Jackie, now twice widowed, returned to New York in 1975 and accepted a publishing career with Viking Press. She left her job in 1978 due to a book regarding the fantasy assassination of Ted Kennedy, another Kennedy brother in politics. 
She then went to work for Doubleday as an editor and began dating a long-time friend, Maurice Tempelsman. Tempelsman eventually moved into Jackie’s Fifth Avenue apartment and remained her companion for the rest of her life.
Jackie continued memorializing President Kennedy in helping design both the Harvard Kennedy School of Government and the JFK Memorial Library in Massachusetts. In addition, she helped with the historic preservation of Grand Central Station. 
In January 1994, Jackie was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma, a form of cancer. On May 18, 1994, 64-year-old Jackie passed away quietly in her sleep in her Manhattan apartment.
Jackie Kennedy Onassis’ funeral was held at Saint Ignatius Loyola Church. She was buried in Arlington National Cemetery beside President Kennedy and her two deceased infants, Patrick and Arabella.
Related ArticlesJackie O.’s Private School EducationThe Kennedy AssassinationPresident John F. Kennedy's Economic PoliciesPresident John F Kennedy - Fast FactsPresident John F. Kennedy Gives Man on the Moon Speech 
What Everyone Should Know About the Vietnam WarHistory Basics: What Everyone Should Know About...34 Facts About Nazi Leader Adolf Hitler33 Facts You Should Know About the Holocaust10 Shocking Facts About the Titanic
Crimes & ScandalsDecade By DecadeDisasters & TragedyFads & FashionsImportant PeopleMedical Advances & IssuesPhotographsScientific DiscoveriesTimelinesWars & ConflictsBlog
20th Century HistoryAbout.comEducation20th Century HistoryImportant PeopleBiographical Profile of Jackie KennedyAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
=======================================================
ul.multicol2,ul.multicol3 {float:left;width:100%;margin:0;padding:0;list-style:none;text-align:center}
Jacqueline Kennedy OnassisU.S. First LadyBorn: 28 July 1929Died: 19 May 1994 (cancer)Birthplace: Southhampton, New YorkBest known as: Wife of president John F. KennedyName at birth: Jacqueline Lee Bouvier The wife and then widow of U.S. president John F. Kennedy, Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy Onassis remains an American icon of high style and grace. She was 24 when she married Kennedy, then a U.S. senator from Massachusetts, in 1953. Kennedy was elected president in 1960 and "Jackie" became a popular First Lady, known for her elegant sophistication and her historical interest in the White House. She was made a widow when Kennedy was assassinated by Lee Harvey Oswald in 1963. Five years later, in 1968, she married wealthy Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis. Onassis died in 1975; Jacqueline settled in Manhattan and began working as an editor for Doubleday, a job she continued until her death in 1994. She was buried next to Kennedy in Arlington National Cemetery.Extra credit: Jackie Kennedy was only 31 years old when she became First Lady... She attended Vassar and the Sorbonne but received her degree from George Washington University... She and John Kennedy had two children, Caroline (b. 1957) and John Jr. (b. 1960); a third child, Patrick, was born on 7 August 1963, but died two days later. Patrick remains the most recent child to be born to a First Lady while her husband was president. John, Jr. died in a private plane crash in 1999... After her marriage to Onassis she was nicknamed "Jackie O" by the tabloid press.Copyright © 1998-2014			by Who2?, LLC. All rights reserved.More on Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis from Infoplease:
Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis - Biography of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Wife of president John F. KennedyOnassis: meaning and definitions - Onassis: Definition and PronunciationJacqueline Bouvier Onassis - Onassis, Jacqueline Bouvier Onassis, Jacqueline Bouvier , 1929–94, b. Southampton, N.Y. Of a ...This Day in History: May 19 - May 19 Yesterday Tomorrow 1536 Anne Boleyn, the second wife of King Henry VIII, was beheaded. 1588 ...Caroline Kennedy - Biography of Caroline Kennedy, The oldest child of John and Jackie Kennedy
Warning: fsockopen(): php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
Warning: fsockopen(): unable to connect to :3128 (php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known) in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
=======================================================
The journalist and socialite Jacqueline Lee Bouvier married John F. Kennedy, then a freshman U.S. senator from Massachusetts, in 1953. In 1960, Kennedy became the youngest man (and the first Catholic) to be elected president of the United States. As first lady, Jackie Kennedy became an international icon of style and sophistication, and dedicated great effort to restoring the White House with historic furnishings and art. When her husband was assassinated in November 1963, a grieving public admired the grieving first lady’s poise and grace, as well as her devotion to her two young children, Caroline and John Jr. In 1968, Jackie married Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis, one of the wealthiest men in the world. After Onassis’ death in 1975, Jackie began a career in publishing in New York City, which she continued until her death in 1994.
Jacqueline Lee Bouvier was born on July 28, 1929, in Southampton, New York. Her parents, Janet Lee and stockbroker John “Black Jack” Bouvier, divorced in 1942, and Jackie’s mother married lawyer Hugh Auchincloss. After a privileged childhood spent in New York City, East Hampton, Virginia and Newport, Rhode Island, Jackie entered Vassar College in 1947. She studied abroad at the Sorbonne in Paris during her junior year, and returned to graduate from George Washington University in 1951.
Did You Know? As first lady, Jacqueline Kennedy was admired at home and abroad for her beauty, style and linguistic ability. During a trip to Europe in 1961, her husband famously joked that he was "the man who accompanied Jacqueline Kennedy to Paris."During the summer of 1951, Jackie Bouvier was working as an “inquiring photographer” at the Washington Times-Herald when she was introduced to John F. Kennedy, then a popular young congressman from Massachusetts, at a friend’s dinner party in Washington. They didn’t begin a romantic relationship until almost a year later, and were engaged by June 1953. By that time, Kennedy had won election to the U.S. Senate. They were married on September 12, 1953, in St. Mary’s Catholic Church in Newport. The marriage came under stress early on: Jack Kennedy underwent spinal surgery, while Jackie suffered a miscarriage and a stillbirth. In 1957, she gave birth to a healthy daughter, Caroline.
In 1960, Jack Kennedy defeated Richard Nixon to become the youngest man and the first Roman Catholic to be elected as president of the United States. Jackie, who gave birth to a son, John Jr., just weeks after the election, was the youngest first lady (at 31) to enter the White House in 80 years. In addition to her devotion to her children, Jackie put great effort into redecorating the White House and restoring its public rooms, encouraging donations of historic paintings, furniture and books. In February 1962, 56 million viewers watched with rapt attention as she gave a televised tour of the White House restoration.
Though she usually refrained from making political appearances, she agreed to travel with her husband to Dallas in November 1963, and was sitting beside him in his motorcade on November 22 when he was assassinated. At her husband’s funeral, a grieving Jackie stood with her two young children, earning the respect, admiration and sympathy of the world.
After her husband’s funeral, Jackie Kennedy moved to New York City and attempted to live her life with some privacy amid the glare of celebrity. In October 1968, she sparked a frenzy of publicity when she married the Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis, 28 years her senior and one of the wealthiest men in the world. She lived with him in homes in Greece and Paris, but still spent much of her time in New York, where her children attended school. By 1975, when Onassis died, the couple had apparently been separated for some time; he left her some $20 to $26 million, while the bulk of the estate went to his daughter.
Widowed for the second time, Jackie returned to her love of publishing. She worked as a consulting editor at Viking Press before moving to Doubleday, where she eventually became a senior editor. She was also active in the arts and landmark preservation, including that of several historic New York buildings. Her companion in her later years was Maurice Tempelsman, a Belgian-born diamond dealer. In 1994, Jackie was diagnosed with non-Hodgkins lymphoma. She died in her New York apartment on May 19, 1994, at the age of 64, and was buried next to her first husband in Arlington National Cemetery.
Fact Check We strive for accuracy and fairness. But if you see something that doesn't look right, contact us!
