=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Sir Paul McCartney is a key figure in contemporary culture as a singer, composer, poet, writer, artist, humanitarian, entrepreneur, and holder of more than 3 thousand copyrights. He is in the "Guinness Book of World Records" for most records sold, most #1s (shared), most covered song, "Yesterday," largest paid audience for a solo concert (350,000+ people, in 1989, in Brazil). He is considered one of the most successful entertainers of all time.He was born James Paul McCartney on June 18, 1942, in Liverpool General Hospital, where his mother, Mary, was a medical nurse and midwife. His father, Jim, was a cotton salesman and a pianist leading the Jim Mac's Jazz Band in Liverpool. Young Paul McCartney was raised non-denominational. He studied music and art, and had a happy childhood with one younger brother, Michael. At age 11, he was one of only four students who passed the 11+ exam, known as "the scholarship" in Liverpool, and gained a place at Liverpool Institute for Boys. There he studied from 1953 to 1960, earning A level in English and Art.At the age of 14, Paul McCartney was traumatized by his mother's sudden death from breast cancer. Shortly afterward, he wrote his first song. In July 1957 he met John Lennon during their performances at a local church fête (festival). McCartney impressed Lennon with his mastery of guitar and singing in a variety of styles. He soon joined Lennon's band, The Quarrymen, and eventually became founding member of The Beatles, with the addition of George Harrison and Pete Best. After a few gigs in Hamburg, Germany, the band returned to Liverpool and played regular gigs at the Cavern during 1961.In November 1961, they invited Brian Epstein to be their manager, making a written agreement in January 1962. At that time McCartney and Harrison were under 21, so the paper wasn't technically legal, albeit it did not matter to them. What mattered was their genuine trust in Epstein. He improved their image, secured them a record deal with EMI, and replaced drummer Best with Ringo Starr. With a little help from Brian Epstein and George Martin, The Beatles consolidated their talents and mutual stimulation into beautiful teamwork, launching the most successful career in the history of entertainment.The Beatles contributed to music, film, literature, art, and fashion, made a continuous impact on entertainment, popular culture and the lifestyle of several generations. Music became their ticket to ride around the world. Beatlemania never really ended since its initiation; it became a movable feast in many hearts and minds, a sweet memory of youth, when all you need is love and a little help from a friend to be happy. Their songs and images carrying powerful ideas of love, peace, help, and imagination evoked creativity and liberation that outperformed the rusty Soviet propaganda and contributed to breaking walls in the minds of millions, thus making impact on human history.All four members of The Beatles were charismatic and individually talented artists, they sparked each other from the beginning. Paul McCartney had the privilege of a better musical education, having studied classical piano and guitar in his childhood. He progressed as a lead vocalist and multi-instrumentalist, as well as a singer-songwriter. In addition to singing and songwriting, Paul McCartney played bass guitar, acoustic and electric guitars, piano and keyboards, as well as over 40 other musical instruments.McCartney wrote more popular hits for the Beatles than other members of the band. His songs Yesterday, Let It Be, Hey Jude, Blackbird, All My Loving, Eleanor Rigby, Birthday, I Saw Her Standing There, I Will, Get Back, Carry That Weight, P.S. I Love You, Things We Said Today, "Hello, Goodbye," Two of Us, Why Don't We Do It in the Road?, Helter Skelter, Honey Pie, When I'm 64, Lady Madonna, She's a Woman, Maxwell's Silver Hammer, "Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da," Mother Nature's Son, Long And Winding Road, Rocky Raccoon, Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, The Fool on the Hill, You Never Give Me Your Money, Your Mother Should Know, The End, Yellow Submarine, and many others are among the Beatles' best hits. Yesterday is considered the most covered song in history with over three thousand versions of it recorded by various artists across the universe.Since he was a teenager, McCartney honored the agreement that was offered by John Lennon in 1957, about the 50/50 authorship of every song written by either one of them. However, both were teenagers, and technically, being under 21, their oral agreement had no legal power. Still, almost 200 songs by The Beatles are formally credited to both names, regardless of the fact that most of the songs were written individually. The songwriting partnership of John Lennon and Paul McCartney was really working until the mid-60s, when they collaborated in many of their early songs. Their jamming on a piano together led to creation of their first best-selling hit 'I Want to Hold Your Hand' in 1963.In total, The Beatles created over 240 songs, they recorded many singles and albums, made several films and TV shows. Thousands of memorable pictures popularized their image. In their evolution from beginners to the leaders of entertainment, they learned from many world cultures, absorbed from various styles, and created their own. McCartney's own range of interests spanned from classical music and English folk ballads to Indian raga and other Oriental cultures, and later expanded into psychedelic experiments and classical-sounding compositions. His creative search has been covering a range of styles from jazz and rock to symphonies and choral music, and to cosmopolitan cross-cultural and cross-genre compositions.Epstein's 1967 death hurt all four members of The Beatles, as they lost their creative manager. Evolution of each member's creativity and musicianship also led to individual career ambitions, however, their legacy as The Beatles remained the main driving force in their individual careers ever since. McCartney and The Beatles made impact on human history, because their influence has been liberating for generations of nowhere men living in misery beyond the Iron Curtain.Something in their songs and images appealed to everybody who wanted to become free as a bird. Their songs carrying powerful ideas of real love, peace, help, imagination and freedom evoked creativity and contributed to breaking chains and walls in the minds of millions. The Beatles expressed themselves in beautiful and liberating words of love, happiness, freedom, and revolution, and carried those messages to people across the universe. Their songs and images helped many freedom-loving people to come together for revolutions in Prague and Warsaw, Beijing and Bucharest, Berlin and Moscow. The Beatles has been an inspiration for those who take the long and winding road to freedom.McCartney was 28 when he started his solo career, and formed his new band, Wings. His first solo album, "McCartney," was a #1 hit and spawned the evergreen ballad "Maybe I'm Amazed", yet critical reaction was mixed. He continued to release music with Wings, that eventually became one of the most commercially successful groups of the 70s. "Band on the Run" won two Grammy Awards and remained the Wings' most lauded work. The 1977 release "Mull of Kintyre" stayed at #1 in the UK for nine weeks, and was highest selling single in the UK for seven years. In 1978 McCartney's theme "Rockestra" won him another Grammy Award. In 1979, together with Elvis Costello, he organized Concerts for the People of Kampuchea. In 1979, McCartney released his solo album "Wonderful Christmastime" which remained popular ever since.In 1980 McCartney was arrested in Tokyo, Japan, for marijuana possession, and after a ten-day stint in jail, he was released to a media firestorm. He retreated into seclusion after the arrest, and was comforted by his wife Linda. Yet he had another traumatic experience when his ex-band-mate, John Lennon, was shot dead by a crazed fan near his home in New York City on December 8, 1980. McCartney did not play any live concerts for some time because he was nervous that he would be "the next" to be murdered.After almost a year of absence from the music scene, McCartney returned in 1982 with the album "Tug of War," which was well received by public and enjoyed great critical acclaim. He continued a successful career as a solo artist, collaborated with wife Linda McCartney, and writers such as Elvis Costello. During the 80s, McCartney released such hits as 'No More Lonely Nights' and his first compilation, "All the Best." In 1989, he started his first concert tour since the John Lennon's murder.In 1994, the three surviving members of The Beatles, McCartney, Harrison, and Starr, reunited and produced Lennon's previously unknown song "Free as a Bird." It was preserved by Yoko Ono on a tape recording made by Lennon in 1977. The song was re-arranged and re-mixed by George Martin at the Abbey Road Studios with the voices of three surviving members. The Beatles Anthology TV documentary series was watched by 420 million people in 1995.During the 1990s McCartney concentrated on composing classical works for the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Society, such as "The Liverpool Oratorio" involving a choir and symphony, and "A Leaf" solo-piano project, both released in 1995. That same year he was working on a new pop album, "Flaming Pie," when his wife Linda was diagnosed with breast cancer, and caring for his wife during her illness meant only sporadic public appearances during that time. The album was released in 1997 to both critical and commercial success, debuting at #2 on both the UK and US pop charts. That same year he was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II as Sir Paul McCartney for his services to music.In April 1998, Linda McCartney, his beloved wife of almost 30 years, mother of their four children, and his steady partner in music, died of breast cancer. McCartney suffered from a severe depression and undergone medical treatment. He spent much of the next year away from the public eye, emerging only to campaign on behalf of his late wife for animal rights and vegetarian causes.He eventually returned to the studio, releasing an album of rock n'roll covers in 1999. "Run Devil Run" made both Entertainment Weekly and USA Today's year-end top ten lists. McCartney also slowly returned to the public spotlight with the release of his another classical album, "Working Classical" in November 1999, in recording by the London Symphony Orchestra. His 2000 release "A Garland for Linda" was a choral tribute album, which raised funds to aid cancer survivors.In 2000 he was invited by Heather Mills, a disabled ex-model, to her 32nd birthday. McCartney wrote songs dedicated to her, he and Mills developed a romantic relationship and became engaged in 2001. However, the year brought him a cascade of traumatic experiences. On September 11, 2001, Paul McCartney was sitting on a plane in New York when the World Trade Center tragedy occurred in front of his eyes, and he was able to witness the events from his seat. Yet there was another sadness, as his former band-mate George Harrison died of cancer in November, 2001.Recouperating from the stressful year, McCartney received the 2002 Academy Award-nomination for the title song to the movie Vanilla Sky (2001), and also went on his first concert tour in several years. In June, 2002, Sir Paul McCartney and Heather Mills married in a castle in Monaghan, Ireland. Their daughter, Beatrice Milly McCartney, was born in October 2003. Four years later, the high profile marriage ended in divorce, after a widely publicized litigation. "Whenever you're going through difficult times, I'm at the moment, it's really cool to be able to escape into music" says Paul McCartney.In 2003 Paul McCartney rocked the Red Square in Moscow with his show "Back in USSR" which was attended by his former opponents from the former Soviet KGB, including the Russian president Vladimir Putin himself, who invited McCartney to be the guest of honor in the Kremlin. In 2004 Paul McCartney received a birthday present from the Russian president. In June 2004, he and Heather Mills-McCartney stayed as special guests at suburban Royal Palaces of Russian Tsars in St. Petersburg, Russia. There he staged a spectacular show near the Tsar's Winter Palace in St. Petersburg where the Communist Revolution took place, just imagine.In 2005 the Entertainment magazine poll named The Beatles the most iconic entertainers of the 20th Century. In 2006, the guitar on which Paul McCartney played his first chords and impressed John Lennon, was sold at an auction for over $600,000.On June 18, 2006, Paul McCartney celebrated his 64th birthday, as in his song "when I'm Sixty-Four." McCartney's celebrity status, made it a cultural milestone for a generation of those born in the baby-boom era who grew up with the music of The Beatles during the 1960s. The prophetic message in the song has been intertwined with McCartney's personal life and his career.In 2007 McCartney left his longtime label, EMI, and signed with Los Angeles based Hear Music. He learned to play mandolin to create a refreshing feeling for his latest album "Memory Almost Full," then appeared in Apple Computer's commercial for iPod+iTunes to promote the album. In June 2007 McCartney appeared together with Ringo Starr, Yoko Ono, Olivia Harrison and Guy Laliberté in a live broadcast from the "Revolution" Lounge at the Mirage Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas.His 3-DVD set "The McCartney Years" with over 40 music videos and hours of Historic Live Performances was released in November 2007. His classical album "Ecco Cor Meum" (aka.. Behold My Heart), recorded with the Academy of St. Martin of the Fields and the boys of King's college Choir, was voted Classical Album of the Year in 2007. That same year, Paul McCartney began dating Nancy Shevell. The couple married in 2011, in London. Sir Paul's "On the Run Tour" once again took him flying across world from July through December 2011 giving sold out concerts in the USA, Canada, UK, United Arab Emirates, Italy, France, Germany, Sweden, Finland and Russia.In July 2012, Paul McCartney rocked the opening ceremony of the 2012 Summer Olympics in London. He delivered a live performance of The Beatles's timeless hit "Hey Jude" and engaged the crowd of people from all over the world to join his band in a sing along finale. The show was seen by a live audience of close to 80000 people at the Olympic Park Stadium in addition to an estimated TV audience of two billion people worldwide.On the long and winding road of his life and career, Sir Paul McCartney has been a highly respected entertainer and internationally regarded public figure.
      He is one of Britain's wealthiest men: according to the High Court judgment Sir Paul's total fortune comes to £387,012,000.
      Although all his songs for The Beatles are still credited as "Lennon - McCartney" he individually wrote almost half of all 200 songs for The Beatles, such as "Yesterday", "Let it Be", "Can't Buy Me Love", "Helter Skelter", "Eleanor Rigby", "Yellow Submarine", "Hey Jude" and many more. Only songs in earlier albums are really joint efforts with John Lennon. The co-credit was because of a handshake deal the two had made in their teens.
      His song "Yesterday" is one of the most popular songs of all time. Whilst he was looking for the right lyrics, he was temporarily using the line "Scrambled Eggs" until he came up with "Yesterday" in the final version of the song, as it is now known to the world. It became one of the most recorded songs of all time, with more than 3,000 known versions.
      During his engagement to Jane Asher, Paul (with John Lennon) wrote several songs for Jane's older brother, Peter Asher, of the singing duo Peter and Gordon, including their #1 hit "World Without Love". He also wrote the song "Woman" for them, under the pseudonym of Bernard Webb.
      He was respected by The Beatles producer, George Martin for his superior musicianship, musical inventiveness, and multi-instrumental abilities. Martin said that Paul McCartney was the one with enough attention span to sit at the piano, or in the studio as long as it takes to compose the best melody and harmony for their songs.
      Plays piano for the song, "Let It Be". Performed "Let It Be" at Live Aid in 1985. During this performance, Bob Geldof, David Bowie, Alison Moyet and Pete Townshend (of The Who) all came on stage towards the end to sing backup vocals.
      His four children with Linda McCartney are Heather McCartney (adopted from her previous marriage), photographer Mary McCartney, top fashion designer Stella McCartney and musician/sculptor James McCartney. Paul was married to rock photographer Linda Eastman on March 12, 1969 at the Marylebone Register Office.
      Inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of The Beatles January 20, 1988. Citing business differences, he did not attend the induction ceremony at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City with his former bandmates George Harrison and Ringo Starr.
      His later musical compositions have included classical works, such as the acclaimed 'Liverpool Oratorio' and 'Standing Stone'.
      He is in the Guinness Book of World Records with 60 gold discs and sales of over 100 million singles.
      Owns the double bass that once belonged to Elvis Presley's bassist Bill Black. He plays the instrument on his solo sessions at his studio.
      Played over 40 various instruments on two of his solo albums, 'McCartney' (1970) and 'McCartney II' (1980).
      According to McCartney, the name of the rock group Wings was inspired by daughter Stella McCartney's birth, which was premature and traumatic; Stella and her mother both almost died. As his daughter was being born by emergency cesarean section, Paul sat outside the operating room and prayed that she be born "on the wings of an angel."
      Had wanted The Beatles to do a club tour shortly before they broke up. John Lennon disagreed, thinking that if they did tour again, it should have been in stadium-sized venues.
      Animal-rights activist, vegetarian, and anti-landmine activist. Created Paul and Linda McCartney charity foundation and several other charities. Donated millions to humanitarian causes across the world, and has been involved in charity recordings and concert performances.
      Owns the copyrights to Buddy Holly's song catalogue, and also numerous other compositions, including "Ramblin' Wreck From Georgia Tech".
      Owns a Steinway concert piano model B made in Hamburg. He takes the piano along on his concert tours around the world.
      Claims his nights in a Japanese prison in 1980 were the only time he had been separated from then-wife, Linda McCartney.
      Has written several songs about his former bandmate John Lennon, including "Dear Boy", "Too Many People", "Dear Friend", "Let Me Roll It" and "Here Today."
      Holds a record with 29 #1 singles on the American charts with The Beatles, Paul McCartney & Wings, and as a solo artist (including one duet with Stevie Wonder).
      Fined $200 in 1973 for growing marijuana on his Scotland farm. Arrested and jailed briefly in Japan in 1980 for carrying same substance.
      Made an honorary detective by the New York City Police Department for the benefit concert he gave for 9/11 victims, April 2002.
      Won last-minute court order preventing Christie's from auctioning his handwritten lyrics to the song "Hey Jude." Paper with lyrics scrawled on it had been expected to bring up to $116,000 at auction scheduled for April 30, but England's High Court, ruled for Sir Paul the day before, deciding that the valuable artifact from The Beatles will remain at auction house until ownership is finally determined by agreement or trial.
      Won prize for drawing of a church at age 11. In 2002, from May-August, over 70 of his paintings from past 20 years on view at Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool, England.
      His first guitar was a Zenith archtop f-hole acoustic. He got it at the Rushworth and Drapers Music Store in Liverpool when he was 14, as a gift from his father (brother Mike McGear got a banjo at the same time, but broke his arm at Boy Scout camp a few weeks later).
      He wrote his first song, "I Lost My Little Girl", when he was 14. It was never recorded by the Beatles, and was not one of the songs McCartney and Lennon lost in 1969, when their publishing company Northern Songs was sold.
      His father, Jim, was a musician, and had a band called Jim Mac's Jazz Band. Paul has fond memories of lying on his bedroom floor and listening to his father play piano.
      Along with writing "Hey Jude" for Julian Lennon the summer his parents broke up, Paul also jokingly proposed to Cynthia Lennon, in the wake of his own breakup with Jane Asher. Cynthia appreciated the laugh they both shared-- and the single red rose that Paul had brought.
      Was the only member of The Beatles to graduate from Britain's equivalent of high-school; he majored in Art.
      Usually considered the most "conventional" of The Beatles, but Paul has had his share of far-out ideas, including the germ of the TV-movie Magical Mystery Tour (1967), and a "self-portrait" published as a 1960s magazine cover, a psychedelic painting a la Pablo Picasso.
      Set up John Lennon's "home studio" for him at Kenwood, with its chain of tape decks; Lennon used this setup to make song demos for the Beatles, and later the infamous 'Two Virgins' album with Yoko Ono (which Paul gave its cover quote).
      A lyric sheet to his song "Yesterday" is featured on the front cover of the Marillion album "Script for a Jester's Tear" (released 1983).
      In 2002 he changed the writing credits to many of the songs he made with The Beatles to "McCartney & Lennon", to a large public outrage. It is a common misconception, however that this was the first time he had done this. He made the same credit change on his 1976 live album "Wings Over America" to little or no public scrutiny, and to no public comment from John Lennon (who was still alive at the time). Give My Regards to Broad Street (1984) also listed the credit "Songs Composed by Paul McCartney" - including the Beatles songs performed in the movie.
      Has homes in London, New York and Beverly Hills, an estate in Scotland, and a ranch in Arizona.
      Eleven years after the breakup of The Beatles, along with Ringo Starr he played on George Harrison's, "All Those Years Ago", about the death of his singing partner, John Lennon.
      The three surviving members of The Beatles appeared on three separate episodes of The Simpsons (1989). Starr appeared in a 1991 episode of "Brush with Greatness," Harrison appeared in a 1993 episode of "Homer's Barbershop Quartet," and McCartney appeared in a 1995 episode of "Lisa The Vegetarian".
      In 1998, his song "Blackbird" was covered by Marillion for their live album "Unplugged at the Walls".
      In 1971, he produced (but did not perform on) "Thrillington", an instrumental version of the album "Ram" he recorded with his wife Linda. The songs were presented in orchestral versions, and Paul's work as producer and director was pseudonymously credited to "Percy 'Thrills' Thrillington". The album was not well received by the critics, but is now a much sought-after collectable.
      First used the pseudonym "Apollo C. Vermouth" when producing an album for the novelty musical group, The Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band (later known as The Bonzos). He used the pseudonym because record contract obligations prevented him from using his real name on a rival record label. The band repaid McCartney's efforts with a composition entitled "Mister Apollo", a song about an impossibly perfect body builder.
      Met George Harrison on a bus to school, and asked him to join the band that eventually became The Beatles.
      Born on the same day as film critic Roger Ebert, and two days before fellow musician and composer Brian Wilson.
The Beatles were voted the Greatest Rock 'n' Roll Artists of all time by Rolling Stone. They also topped a similar list complied by VH1.
      At 5' 11", he was the tallest member of The Beatles, being about half an inch taller than the late George Harrison.
      Several of his solo albums (and those with Wings) featured cover photos by first wife Linda McCartney, including "Ram", with a picture of him handling a ram at his Scottish farm (John Lennon later parodied this picture in his "Imagine" album, grasping the ears of a pig). The back cover included a photo of bugs mating; while it was unintentional, several fans thought this illustrated a negative attitude towards the Beatles.
      Showed his paintings at Concert at HP Pavilion in San Jose (November 8th) leading up to his performance as apart of his US Tour
      One of the guitars he used in his US tour (2005) was the one he used on The Beatles' appearance on Toast of the Town (1948) (aka The Ed Sullian Show) in the early 1960s.
      Though a huge fan of 'Weird Al' Yankovic's work, turned down his request to parody Paul's James Bond song "Live and Let Die" as "Chicken Pot Pie" for vegetarian reasons.
      According to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industries in 2006, The Beatles are the biggest popular music act of all time, with over 400 million albums sold officially, while the total number of all Beatles' records sold was over 1 billion copies.
      He still owns an interest in Apple Corps, the Beatles's company. His own company MPL Communications owns a sizable publishing catalog, with over three thousand copyrights (songs, poems, images, recordings, etc.).
      He and John Lennon quibbled bitterly in the press after the break up of The Beatles. However, in 1977, they met in New York, and watched the episode of Saturday Night Live (1975) in which Lorne Michaels offered $3000 to see The Beatles get back together. He and Lennon considered turning up that night together as a joke, but were too tired to follow through.
      All 34 of his solo albums have made the Billboard Top 200, something very few solo artists have achieved. 12 of them, including "Wingspan", went to #1. As of 2009, has released 34 studio albums, of which 31 feature pop music and 3 feature classical compositions. He has stated that he hopes to compose more classical pieces in the future, as well as a desire to venture into jazz at some point.
      Had a remarkable 62 top 100 singles from 1971-2005, under a variety of categories. 17 of them went to #1.
      Won five Grammys, including two with The Beatles. His "Eleanor Rigby" was Best Pop/Rock and Roll or Contemporary song. His "Michelle" won for Song Of The Year. "Uncle Albert/Admiral Halsy" won for Best Instrumental Arrangement Accompanying Vocalist(s)/Best Background Arrangement, "Band On The Run" won for Best Pop Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocal and "Rockestra Theme" won for Best Rock Instrumental Performance.
      He loved and was flattered by Ray Charles's cover of "Eleanor Rigby", but John Lennon did not like the version.
      Friends with Neil Young, who inducted him into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. He and his long-time wife, Linda McCartney, said that Young was their favorite performer. His favorite song of Young's is "Only Love Can Break Your Heart".
      Has five grandsons and one granddaughter: Mary McCartney's three sons Arthur Alistair Donald (b. 3 April 1999) Elliot Donald (b. 1 August 2002), and Sam Aboud (b. 11 August 2008), and Stella McCartney's sons Miller Alasdhair James Willis (b. 25 February 2005) and Beckett Robert Lee (b. 8 January 2008), and daughter Bailey Linda Olwyn Willis (b. 8 December 2006).
      During his engagement to Jane Asher, Paul (with John Lennon) wrote several songs for Jane's older brother, Peter Asher, of the singing duo Peter and Gordon, including their #1 hit "World Without Love". He also wrote the song "Woman" for them, under the pseudonym of Bernard Webb.
      [Sunday 13 November 2005] Became the very first musician to perform live music for an audience in space. This music milestone occurred during his concert in Anaheim, California, when he sang "Good Day Sunshine" and "English Tea" for NASA Astronaut Bill McArthur and Russian Cosmonaut Valery Tokarev who were orbiting some 220 miles above earth in their Space Shuttle Discovery.
The Beatles were inducted into the UK Music Hall of Fame for their outstanding contribution to British music and integral part of British music culture. [November 2004]
      The hit Yesterday does not feature any of the other members of The Beatles. It's just McCartney and a string section. As such, the record company considered releasing it as a McCartney solo song, but decided not to because of objections by John Lennon.
      In 1957, his knowledge of song lyrics , most notably Eddie Cochran's 1956 recording of "Twenty Flight Rock" with its 12 bar blues format, as well as Paul's superior ability to play guitar (including being able to tune one) impressed John Lennon so much that he invited McCartney to join his band the Quarry Men, which later became The Beatles.
      He was The Beatles' lead vocalist, bass player, pianist and songwriter. He was also an accomplished lead guitarist whose vibrato-laced solos can be heard on "Taxman," "Drive My Car," "Ticket to Ride," "Another Girl," and other Beatles' hits.
      Because of his 2008 divorce, he became the fourth and final member of The Beatles to get a divorce. Among the four, McCartney had the longest marriage (to Linda McCartney), although Ringo Starr is still married to his second wife (and has been since 1981).
      28 October 2003: A daughter named Beatrice Milly was born to Paul and wife Heather Mills. She was named after Heather's late mother Beatrice and Paul's Aunt Milly.
      In July 2001, shortly after their engagement was announced, his fiancée Heather Mills lost her $21,000 diamond and sapphire engagement ring, which was later found on a golf course.
      In 2007, before completion of the film Across the Universe (2007), director Julie Taymor brought the post-production copy to a private screening with Paul McCartney, and he liked the film. Yoko Ono also approved the film.
      Turned down the offer to write a new James Bond song for Quantum of Solace (2008), and recommended singer-songwriter Amy Winehouse for the job.
      Winner of the Brit Award for Outstanding Contribution in 2008. The Beatles previously won the award in 1977 and 1983, putting McCartney in a select group with John Lennon, Sting and Freddie Mercury as the only people to have won the award in a band and as an individual.
      In September 25th, 2008 performed in Tel Aviv, Israel, for the first time, after more than 40 years after the ban of the Israeli government on the Beatles performing in Israel. The concert was titled "Friendship First".
      He and The Beatles were awarded a Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for Recording at 7080 Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, California.
      He and The Beatles were awarded the MBE (Member of the Order of the British Empire) in the 1965 Queen's Birthday Honours List for their services to music.
      Paul played all the instruments and did all the vocal tracks on his 1970 "recording of "Maybe I'm Amazed". At the time, early 1970, The Beatles had not yet split up and the song was possibly a future "Beatle" recording. As it turned out, we have Paul with his own accompaniment, several other track and his first solo album "McCartney".
      He was the only "ex-Beatle" to appear on Toast of the Town (1948) (aka "The Ed Sullivan Show") with his 1970 video of "Maybe I'm Amazed".
      In one of his first solo recordings following The Beatles' breakup in 1970, Paul played all the instruments and did all the vocal tracks on "Maybe I'm Amazed".
      In 2012 when Paul McCartney was on "Saturday Night Live" New York City Children's Chorus joined him when he sang "Wonderful Christmas Time".
      On 15 May 1968, Paul McCartney and John Lennon appeared as "talk show" guests on NBC-TV's The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson (1962) with guest host Joe Garagiola. They mentioned that the two of them walked through NYC's Central Park the previous Sunday unnoticed by the many passersby.
      He reportedly turned down a part in Franco Zeffirelli's Romeo and Juliet (1968). McCartney didn't believe he would be good enough and the Beatles were recording Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band at the time.
      He was conferred as a Knights Bachelor in the 1997 Queen's New Years Honours List for his services to music. He is the only Beatle to be given a higher British honor since their MBE (Member of the Order of the British Empire) in the 1965 Queen's Birthday Honours List. John Lennon returned his MBE in 1969 out of protest.
      Though The Beatles have denied that there was ever an intentional "Paul Mc Cartney is dead" hoax, in one of the early studio takes of "Strawberry Fields", John Lennon is clearly heard saying "I buried Paul". In the "fade out" of the most popular hit version of "Strawberry Fields"', that statement comes across as the result of reverse over dubbing. In other words, that line was recorded by reciting " luaP deirub I " and playing it backwards. A process that was used to produce exotic instrumental and vocal sounds on The "Sergent Pepper" album.
      His younger brother, Michael, aka Mike McGear of the satirical group The Scaffold. Michael chose to take the name of "McGear" as his professional name so as not to capitalize on the fame of his brother. Mike McGear was awarded an OBE (Officer of the Order of the British Empire) in the 1997 Queen's New Years Honours List while Paul McCartney was awarded Knight Bachelor of the Order of the British Empire for his services to music.
      McCartney was the only barefooted Beatle crossing the street on the sleeve of the "Abbey Road" album (1969), a fact that merited a test segment on the popular Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (1998) TV series.
      Recipient of the 2010 Kennedy Center Honors; other recipients that year were Oprah Winfrey, Jerry Herman, Merle Haggard, and Bill T. Jones.
      (June 2010 East Room - White House) As a VIP guest of President Barack Obama at The White House, McCartney was presented with the Library of Congress "Gershwin Prize for Popular Song" trophy. The former Beatle was the third recipient of the prestigious award after Paul Simon and Stevie Wonder. When McCartney performed a selection of his songs, including "Michelle" especially for the First Lady, he played the very same electric Hofner bass guitar he played when The Beatles made their American TV debut (9 February 1964) on Toast of the Town (1948) (The Ed Sullivan Show) 46 years earlier. Among the various artists commemorating McCartney's spectacular achievement with personal renditions of his songs were: Herbie Hancock and Corinne Bailey Rae ("Blackbird"), Elvis Costello ("Penny Lane"), Emmylou Harris ("For No One"), Faith Hill ("The Long and Winding Road"), Stevie Wonder ("We Can Work It Out") and ("Ebony and Ivory" with Paul), David Grohl ("Band On the Run"), Jack White ("Mother Nature's Son"), The Jonas Brothers ("Drive My Car"), Jerry Seinfeld (stand-up shtick). Daughters Mary McCartney and Stella McCartney were seated immediately behind Paul and the First Family. The festive soirée culminated with a Lang Lang classical interpretation of "Celebrations" and an ensemble of artists performing "Hey Jude" for the grand finale.
      Engaged to Nancy Shevell. Acquaintances for some 20 years, they re-met at a summer party in the Hamptons in 2007 and have been a couple since then. Nancy is vice-president, administration, of her family's New Jersey-based trucking business, New England Freight Motors, Inc. She's also a cousin of Barbara Walters, who has said that "Nancy is like a second child to me". [August, 2011].
      Paul married for the third time, to Nancy Shevell, on Sunday, October 9, 2011 (John Lennon's birthday). In attendance were Paul's daughter, Beatrice, who was a flower girl; Nancy's son, Arlen; her cousin, Barbara Walters; Paul's brother, Mike McGear; Ringo Starr and his wife, Barbara Bach; and George Harrison's widow, Olivia Harrison.The couple wore clothes designed by Paul's daughter, Stella McCartney, and were married at Old Marylebone Town Hall, the same place where Paul had married Linda McCartney in 1969.
      The last appearance of The Beatles on Toast of the Town (1948) (aka "The Ed Sullivan Show") occurred on March 1, 1970 as part of a "Beatles' Songbook", which featured various artists performing their songs. Seen on film, taken from their not-yet-released documentary, "Let It Be" (1970), they performed "Let It Be" and "Two Of Us". In addition, Paul's 1965 performance of "Yesterday" was also aired.
      Was one of the first musicians to perform at Shea Stadium, with The Beatles, on August 15, 1965, and one of the last to performer at Shea Stadium, performing the closing number at Billy Joel's concert on July 18, 2008.
      Married his third wife, American heiress Nancy Shevell, on what would have been lifelong friend and former Beatle John Lennon's 71st birthday (9 Oct. 2011).
      The first John Lennon-McCartney composition to hit the US charts occurred in the summer of 1963. Del Shannon's version of "From Me To You" reached #66 US Pop.
      "Dr. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" was the original title for what eventually became The Beatles' "Sgt. Pepper" album. The soda company that owned the "Dr. Pepper" trademark would not give permission for its use.
      One of The Beatles' earlier names was that of "Johnny And The Moondogs. Popular DJ Alan Freed often went by the name "Moondog" in the mid-'50s. His films, such as Rock Rock Rock! (1956) and Mister Rock and Roll (1957) were well received in Great Britain. He would often shout to his radio followers, "Come on, all you Moondogs".
      He was a bit of an amateur bird-watcher and owned a beloved bird field guide as a boy. It was later inspire him to write the song "Blackbird".
      His world tours in 2002, 2003 and 2004 included over 100 large-scale concert performances in countries on three continents.
      Is expecting a fourth grandchild, in light of third daughter Stella McCartney's pregnancy announcement. [August 2006]
      Paul McCartney refused to be on "Saturday Night Live" unless they paid tribute to the ones who died in the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting. His request was granted and he went on as scheduled.
      I figure I've probably got a better chance of coming up with a good Paul McCartney song than Oasis has.
      Somebody said to me, [The Beatles] were anti-materialistic.' That's a huge myth. [John Lennon] and I literally used to sit down and say, 'Now, let's write a swimming pool.'
      arding his ten-day jail term after his arrest for cannabis possession at Tokyo's Narita Airport, Jan. 6, 1980] "It was pretty rough. Just a thin mattress on the floor. I had to wash using water from the toilet cistern. I had to share a bath with a bloke who was in for murder. I was afraid to take my suit off in case I got raped. But I'd seen all those prisoner-of-war movies and I knew you had to keep your spirits up. So I'd organize sing-alongs with other prisoners."
      We didn't all get into music for a job! We got into music to avoid a job, in truth - and get lots of girls.
      I've seen those famous Nixon [Richard Nixon] transcripts where Elvis [Elvis Presley] actually starts to try to shop us - The Beatles! He's in the transcript saying - to Richard Nixon, of all people - 'Well, sir, these Beatles, they're very un-American and they take drugs.' I felt a bit betrayed by that, I must say. The great joke is that we were taking drugs, and look what happened to him. He was caught on the toilet full of them! It was sad, but I still love him, particularly in his early period. He was very influential on me.
      I don't take any notice of her. She's John's wife so I have to respect her for that, but I don't think she's the brightest of buttons. She's said some particularly daft things in her time. Her life is dedicated to putting me down but I attempt very strongly not to put her down. [About Yoko Ono]
      You try to concentrate on the lyrics, the music, the melody, and putting it all together, and there's a sign . . . and half of you is saying, 'Ignore it', but the other half is saying, 'Read it, go ahead.' 'My grandmother saw you at Candlestick.' That says it all. erring to a sign in the audience]
      I used to think anyone doing anything weird was weird. Now I know that it is the people that call others weird that are weird.
      When we were kids, George [George Harrison] and I used to hang out and we had, we had one little party piece which was to show that we weren't stupid, so we used to do this thing by Bach that was our own little version of it, and we got it wrong,
      Maybe our government went in too fast with the Americans. It would have been better if the UN had been together. Now it's become very bloody with Iraq, it's very difficult. If someone came to my house and blew it up, I wouldn't just want to sit there and say thank you. I'd be angry like I think anyone would be, so I could see America and Britain being angry. To look for [Osama bin Laden] seemed reasonable to go against terrorism, but the war has become very difficult.
      I thought she was a cold woman. I think that's wrong. She's just the opposite. I think she's just more determined than most people to be herself. [on his updated feelings about Yoko Ono, 1995]
      Seeing that so many inaccurate stories have been written at the moment about [Heather Mills] and myself, all I can ask people to do is not believe them and understand that most of what is coming out is made up and entirely false. Thanks for your support.
      [About dealing with the memory of Linda McCartney today] "She's all around me, you know. And everybody I know knows her and remembers her. And so I talk a lot about her."
      I am the proudest dad in the world. I thought that it was brilliant, and Stella has come such a long way since she first started out. [Following daughter Stella McCartney's graduation fashion show, June 1995]
      (Recalling raising his children in the 1970s)There was one moment where they were riding their little ponies in Scotland, and Stella [Stella McCartney] said to me: 'Dad! You're Paul McCartney, aren't you?' 'Yes darling, but I'm Daddy really'.
      Everybody at EMI had become part of the furniture. I'd be a couch; Coldplay are an armchair. Robbie Williams, I dread to think what he was. (On leaving EMI, his record label of 45 years)
      (about filing the lawsuit that dissolved the Beatles's legal partnership) I felt like an arse, suing my best mates and being *seen* to sue my best mates.
      On his childhood home now part of the National Trust: It gets dangerous when you start believing your own legacy. That's why I've not gone back.
      On his vetting every photo taken by his hired photographers: I just don't like to see terrible photos of myself...it's straightforward vanity. You tell me someone who wants to see terrible photos of themselves.
      Before John Lennon died I got back a good relationship with him. That was very special. The arguments we had didn't matter. We were able to just take the piss about all those songs; they weren't that harsh. In fact, I have been thanked by Yoko Ono and everyone else for saving The Beatles from Allen Klein. Everything comes round in the end.
      On suing the other three Beatles over Allen Klein's management: I was placed in the most awkward position I've ever been placed in. I had to fight three mates to save their legacy, their money, as well as mine, and I did so knowing it would put me in a very dodgy position. Anyone who didn't thoroughly review the whole thing would be forgiven for thinking 'What a tosser'. So yes, that matters to me, it is still a haunting episode... It was pretty scary having to say to Johnny, Georgie, Ringo, I'm suing you!
      I love John's songs. In the Beatles, if you said it was one of your songs, it basically meant it was your idea. So Eleanor Rigby was my song, but John helped me finish it. A Day in the Life was his, but I helped him finish it. He came up with 'I read the news today' and I came up with 'he blew his mind out in a car.'
      On his 2008 to Israel and the West Bank: I'm not very politically aware of the situation, I suppose like the average British person. We do know there's a conflict, but we didn't know all the ins and outs. You don't have to visit a refugee camp to know there are a lot of Palestinians who have become dispossessed.
      This morning [sometime in 2008] I was walking into a cafe. A girl shouts, 'Hi Paul, you are fantastic. I really love you.' I take it with a pinch of salt, but I am honoured. I am pleased she didn't say, 'You're a total arsehole and I hate you.' I am pleased I have got a compliment, and I can still walk around Soho as I've always done.
      I've learnt to compartmentalise. There's me and there's famous Him. I don't want to sound schizophrenic, but probably I'm two people. I'm the guy who does shows ... but I'm also the guy who goes home to the kids. There I am just Dad.
      On his children: They've not been cloistered - Linda and I were very conscious of that. They're likable people. If you're as well off as I am, inevitably they will benefit. They've never understood hunger, like I did. I'm still hungry because I had that hunger, I've never lost it. It's good to have.
      In any situation with a high-ranking official, any boss, it's not always a good idea to tell him he's crap. But I try to encourage people. We all have meetings - the best ideas carry the day. If someone goofs up I tell them off. There have been one or two moments when somebody has been out of order.
      Somebody said to me, 'But The Beatles were anti-materialistic.' That's a huge myth. John [Lennon] and I literally used to sit down and say, 'Now, let's write a swimming pool.
      I used to feel sorry in a way for Elvis when he was in Vegas 'cos he'd have about 50 people on stage with him and it didn't sound any better than his early records when there were three people on it.
      The thing with The X Factor (2004) is, you don't have to turn it on. It is really not a bad thing. You are talking about people being on the dole (welfare) - this gets people off the dole. It gives some people an opportunity, it gives them confidence, it gives them work. There is nothing wrong with that.
      Many years ago I was fishing, and as I was reeling in the poor fish, I realised, 'I am killing him - all for the passing pleasure it brings me'. Something inside me clicked. I realised as I watched him fight for breath that his life was as important to him as mine is to me.
      If anyone wants to save the planet, all they have to do is just stop eating meat. It's staggering when you think about it. Vegetarianism takes care of so many things in one shot: ecology, famine, cruelty.
      On his knighthood in 1997: It's a fantastic honor and I am very gratefully receiving it on behalf of all the people of Liverpool and the other Beatles, without whom it wouldn't have been possible.
      Playing live was great then - and it's great now. The big difference is you can hear what you're doing. It was more like a football match in the old days. We were all part of some big celebration. Now with modern stage equipment, good sound and video screens it's much easier. I remember going to see Genesis at Wembley Stadium and I couldn't see who was on stage. All I saw were these little matchstick people miles away. I couldn't tell which one was Phil Collins. It was like...where is he? So I developed the idea that if somebody was right at the back of the venue they'd still be a part of my show. I enjoy playing live more now. I'm a lot more comfortable with it.
      When you start off in the music business you have the idea people are gonna hate you. You think, 'I'm no good and they're gonna boo me off.' I've now got to the stage where I think, 'The tickets are sold out so these people probably want to see me.' Treat the audience like they're your mates. I feel like I'm playing to family.
      John and George were real mates. I have a huge fondness for them. They were both part of my life and who I am. There are little reminders of them all the time. Today, somebody brought me a new book by 1960s photographer Duffy and I saw a picture of John in it. Now, if I write a song, I'm always cross-checking in my mind, 'Would John have let me write that line or is it just too soppy?' Sometimes, I just think, 'Too bad, it's my song.' But I'm always cross-checking with him.
      The combination of those four guys was pretty interesting. We weren't together that long but think of the work we put in. Every album was different. Album after album, single after single beat the last one. The nice thing now is I don't have to be modest about The Beatles any more. I can call them great because it's over. There was something very special about The Beatles.
      [on the break-up of The Beatles] Personally it was a nightmare. It was really difficult, because I knew I didn't hate them, but I knew we had to save The Beatles, and I was the only one who was going to do it - because the three of them were just sending it down the chute.
      Peter is an old friend of mine from Liverpool. While I found my way into a notorious music group, he went on to university and greater things! It was not long before he had a very successful career in television and though both of us have led fairly hectic lives, we still keep in touch. His memoirs are a must-read. (On Peter Sissons)
      [on "Press To Play"] I liked Hugh Padgham's work because I'd liked what he'd done with The Police, I liked what he'd done with Phil Collins and Genesis. I knew that if I worked with Hugh one thing - like the drum sound - would be good because he really gets a real great drum sound and it is the anchor of your album.
      [on getting the idea for the classic song 'Yesterday' in a dream] I just fell out of bed and it was there. I have a piano by the side of my bed and just got up and played the chords. I thought I must have heard it the night before or something, and spent about three weeks asking all the music people I knew, 'What is this song?' I couldn't believe I'd written it.
      [February 2013]: My grandkids always beat me at Rock Band. And I say, Listen, you may beat me at Rock Band, but I made the original records, so shut up.
=======================================================
Sir James Paul McCartney, MBE (born 18 June 1942) is an English musician, singer, songwriter, multi-instrumentalist, and composer. With John Lennon, George Harrison and Ringo Starr, he gained worldwide fame as a member of the Beatles, widely regarded as one of the most popular and influential acts in the history of rock music; his songwriting partnership with Lennon is one of the most celebrated of the 20th century. After the band's break-up, he pursued a solo career and later formed Wings with his first wife, Linda, and Denny Laine.
McCartney has been recognized as one of the most successful composers and performers of all time, with 60 gold discs and sales of over 100 million albums and 100 million singles of his work with the Beatles and as a solo artist.[2] More than 2,200 artists have covered his Beatles song "Yesterday", more than any other copyrighted song in history. Wings' 1977 release "Mull of Kintyre" is one of the all-time best-selling singles in the UK. Inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a solo artist in March 1999, McCartney has written, or co-written 32 songs that have reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100, and as of 2014[update] he has sold more than 15.5 million RIAA-certified units in the United States. McCartney, Lennon, Harrison and Starr received MBEs in 1965, and in 1997, McCartney was knighted for his services to music.
McCartney has released an extensive catalogue of songs as a solo artist and has composed classical and electronic music. He has taken part in projects to promote international charities related to such subjects as animal rights, seal hunting, landmines, vegetarianism, poverty, and music education. He has married three times and is the parent of five children.
James Paul McCartney was born on 18 June 1942, in Walton Hospital, Liverpool, England, where his mother, Mary (née Mohin), had qualified to practise as a nurse. His father, James ("Jim") McCartney, was absent from his son's birth due to his work as a volunteer firefighter during World War II.[3] Paul has one younger brother, Michael (born 7 January 1944). Though the children were baptised in their mother's Roman Catholic faith, their father, a former Protestant turned agnostic, felt Catholic schools sacrificed the education of their students for the sake of their religious teachings, so he and Mary did not emphasise religion in the household.[4]
McCartney had attended Stockton Wood Road Primary School from 1947 until 1949, when he transferred to Joseph Williams Junior School due to overcrowding at Stockton.[5] In 1953, he passed the 11-plus exam, with only three others out of ninety examinees, gaining admission to the Liverpool Institute.[6] In 1954, he met schoolmate George Harrison on the bus to the Institute from his suburban home in Speke. Harrison had also passed the exam, meaning he could attend a grammar school rather than a secondary modern school, where most pupils went until becoming eligible for work. The two quickly became friends; McCartney later admitted: "I tended to talk down to him because he was a year younger."[7]
McCartney's mother Mary was a midwife and the family's primary wage earner, enabling them to move into 20 Forthlin Road in Allerton, where they lived until 1964.[8] She rode a bicycle to her patients; McCartney described an early memory of her leaving at "about three in the morning [the] streets ... thick with snow".[9] On 31 October 1956, when McCartney was fourteen, his mother died of an embolism.[10] McCartney's loss later became a point of connection with John Lennon, whose mother, Julia, had died when he was seventeen.[11]
McCartney's father was a trumpet player and pianist who led Jim Mac's Jazz Band in the 1920s. He kept an upright piano in the front room, encouraged his sons to be musical and advised Paul to take piano lessons, but he preferred to learn by ear.[12][nb 1] Jim gave Paul a nickel-plated trumpet for his fourteenth birthday, but when rock and roll became popular on Radio Luxembourg, McCartney traded it for a £15 Framus Zenith (model 17) acoustic guitar, rationalising that it would be difficult to sing while playing a trumpet.[15] He found it difficult to play guitar right-handed, but after noticing a poster advertising a Slim Whitman concert and realising that Whitman also played left-handed, he reversed the order of the strings.[16] McCartney wrote his first song, "I Lost My Little Girl", on the Zenith, and composed another early tune that would become "When I'm Sixty-Four" on the piano. American rhythm and blues influenced him, and Little Richard was his schoolboy idol; "Long Tall Sally" was the first song McCartney performed in public, at a Butlins holiday camp talent competition.[17]
At the age of fifteen, McCartney met Lennon and his band, the Quarrymen, at the St Peter's Church Hall fête in Woolton on 6 July 1957.[18] The Quarrymen played a mix of rock and roll and skiffle, a type of popular music with jazz, blues and folk influences.[19] The band invited McCartney to join soon afterwards as a rhythm guitarist, and he formed a close working relationship with Lennon. Harrison joined in 1958 as lead guitarist, followed by Lennon's art school friend Stuart Sutcliffe on bass, in 1960.[20] By May 1960 the band had tried several names, including Beatals, Johnny and the Moondogs and the Silver Beetles.[21] They adopted the name the Beatles in August 1960 and recruited drummer Pete Best shortly before a five-engagement residency in Hamburg.[22]
Informally represented by Allan Williams, the Beatles' first booking was for a series of performances in Hamburg, starting in 1960.[23][nb 2] In 1961, Sutcliffe left the band and McCartney reluctantly became their bass player.[25] They recorded professionally for the first time while in Hamburg, credited as the Beat Brothers, as the backing band for English singer Tony Sheridan on the single "My Bonnie".[26] This brought them to the attention of Brian Epstein, a key figure in their subsequent development and success. He became their manager in January 1962.[27] Ringo Starr replaced Best in August, and the band had their first hit, "Love Me Do", in October, becoming popular in the UK in 1963, and in the US a year later. Their fans' hysteria became known as "Beatlemania", and the press sometimes referred to McCartney as the "cute Beatle".[28][nb 3][nb 4]
In August 1965, the Beatles released the McCartney composition "Yesterday", featuring a string quartet. Included on the Help! LP, the song was the group's first recorded use of classical music elements and their first recording that involved only a single band member.[31] "Yesterday" became the most covered song in popular music history.[32] Later that year, during recording sessions for the album Rubber Soul, McCartney began to supplant Lennon as the dominant musical force in the band. Musicologist Ian MacDonald wrote, "from [1965] ... [McCartney] would be in the ascendant not only as a songwriter, but also as instrumentalist, arranger, producer, and de facto musical director".[33] Critics described Rubber Soul as a significant advance in the refinement and profundity of the band's music and lyrics.[34] Considered a high point in the Beatles catalogue, both Lennon and McCartney claimed lead authorship for the song, "In My Life".[35] McCartney said of the album, "we'd had our cute period, and now it was time to expand."[36] Recording engineer Norman Smith stated that the Rubber Soul sessions exposed indications of increasing contention within the band: "the clash between John and Paul was becoming obvious ... [and] as far as Paul was concerned, George [Harrison] could do no right—Paul was absolutely finicky."[37]
In 1966, the Beatles released the album Revolver. Featuring sophisticated lyrics, studio experimentation, and an expanded repertoire of musical genres ranging from innovative string arrangements to psychedelic rock, the album marked an artistic leap for the Beatles.[38] The first of three consecutive McCartney A-sides, the single "Paperback Writer" preceded the LP's release.[39] The Beatles produced a short promotional film for the song, and another for its B-side, "Rain". The films, described by Harrison as "the forerunner of videos", aired on The Ed Sullivan Show and Top of the Pops in June 1966.[40] Revolver also included McCartney's "Eleanor Rigby", which featured a string octet. According to Gould, the song is "a neoclassical tour de force ... a true hybrid, conforming to no recognizable style or genre of song".[41] Except for some backing vocals, the song included only McCartney's lead vocal and the strings arranged by producer George Martin.[42][nb 5]
Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, "the most famous cover of any music album", wrote Beatles biographer Bill Harry.[44]
The band gave their final commercial concert at the end of their 1966 US tour.[45] Later that year, McCartney completed his first musical project apart from the group—a film score for the UK production The Family Way. The score was a collaboration with Martin, who used two McCartney themes to write thirteen variations. The soundtrack failed to chart, but it won McCartney an Ivor Novello Award for Best Instrumental Theme.[46]
Upon the end of the Beatles' performing career, McCartney sensed unease in the band and wanted them to maintain creative productivity. He pressed them to start a new project, which became Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, widely regarded as rock's first concept album.[47] Inspired to create a new persona for the group, to serve as a vehicle for experimentation and to demonstrate to their fans that they had musically matured, McCartney invented the fictional band of the album's title track.[48] As McCartney explained, "We were fed up with being the Beatles. We really hated that fucking four little mop-top approach. We were not boys we were men ... and [we] thought of ourselves as artists rather than just performers."[49]
Starting in November 1966, the band adopted an experimental attitude during recording sessions for the album.[50] According to engineer Geoff Emerick, "the Beatles were looking to go out on a limb, both musically and sonically ... we were utilising a lot of tape varispeeding and other manipulation techniques ... limiters and ... effects like flanging and ADT."[51] Their recording of "A Day in the Life" required a forty-piece orchestra, which Martin and McCartney took turns conducting.[52] The sessions produced the double A-side single "Strawberry Fields Forever"/"Penny Lane" in February 1967, and the LP followed in June.[29][nb 6] McCartney's "She's Leaving Home" was an orchestral pop song. MacDonald described the track as "[among] the finest work on Sgt. Pepper — imperishable popular art of its time."[54] Based on an ink drawing by McCartney, the LP's cover included a collage designed by pop artists Peter Blake and Jann Haworth, featuring the Beatles in costume as the Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, standing with a host of celebrities.[55][nb 7] The heavy moustaches worn by the Beatles reflected the growing influence of hippie style trends on the band, while their clothing "spoofed the vogue in Britain for military fashions", wrote Gould.[57] Scholar David Scott Kastan described Sgt. Pepper as "the most important and influential rock-and-roll album ever recorded".[58]
"After Brian died ... Paul took over and supposedly led us you know ... we went round in circles ... We broke up then. That was the disintegration. I thought, 'we've fuckin' had it.'"[59]
Epstein's death in August 1967 created a void, which left the Beatles perplexed and concerned about their future.[60] McCartney, stepping in to fill that void, gradually became the de facto leader and business manager of the group Lennon had once led.[61] His first creative suggestion after this change of leadership was to propose that the band move forward on their plans to produce a film for television, which was to become Magical Mystery Tour. The project was "an administrative nightmare throughout", according to Beatles' historian Mark Lewisohn.[62] McCartney largely directed the film, which brought the group their first unfavourable critical response.[63] However, the film's soundtrack was more successful. It was released in the UK as a six-track double extended play disc (EP), and as an identically titled LP in the US, filled out with five songs from the band's recent singles.[29] The only Capitol compilation later included in the group's official canon of studio albums, the Magical Mystery Tour LP achieved $8 million in sales within three weeks of its release, higher initial sales than any other Capitol LP up to that point.[64]
In January 1968, EMI filmed the Beatles for a promotional trailer intended to advertise the animated film Yellow Submarine, loosely based on the imaginary world evoked by McCartney's 1966 composition. Though critics admired the film for its visual style, humour and music, the soundtrack album issued seven months later received a less enthusiastic response.[65] By late 1968, relations within the band were deteriorating. The tension grew while recording The Beatles, commonly known as the White Album.[66][nb 8] Matters worsened the following year during the Let It Be sessions, when a camera crew filmed McCartney lecturing the group: "We've been very negative since Mr. Epstein passed away ... we were always fighting [his] discipline a bit, but it's silly to fight that discipline if it's our own".[68]
In March 1969, McCartney married Linda Eastman, and in August, the couple had their first child, Mary, named after his late mother.[69] For Abbey Road, the band's last recorded album, Martin suggested "a continuously moving piece of music", urging the group to think symphonically.[70] McCartney agreed, but Lennon did not. They eventually compromised, agreeing to McCartney's suggestion: an LP featuring individual songs on side one, and a long medley on side two.[70][nb 9]
On 10 April 1970, in the midst of business disagreements with his bandmates, McCartney announced his departure from the group.[72] He filed suit for the band's formal dissolution on 31 December 1970. More legal disputes followed as McCartney's attorneys, his in-laws John and Lee Eastman, fought Lennon, Harrison, and Starr's business manager, Allen Klein, over royalties and creative control. An English court legally dissolved the Beatles on 9 January 1975, though sporadic lawsuits against their record company EMI, Klein, and each other persisted until 1989.[61][nb 10][nb 11] They are widely regarded as one of the most popular and influential acts in the history of rock music.[77]
"I didn't really want to keep going as a solo artist ... so it became obvious that I had to get a band together ... Linda and I talked it through and it was like, 'Yeah, but let's not put together a supergroup, let's go back to square one.'"[78]
After the Beatles' break-up in 1970, McCartney continued his musical career with his first solo release, McCartney, a US number-one album. Apart from some vocal contributions from Linda, McCartney is a one-man album, with Paul providing compositions, instrumentation and vocals.[79][nb 12] In 1971, he collaborated with Linda and drummer Denny Seiwell on a second album, Ram. A UK number one and a US top five, Ram included the co-written US number-one hit single "Uncle Albert/Admiral Halsey".[81] Later that year, ex-Moody Blues guitarist Denny Laine joined the McCartneys and Seiwell to form the band Wings. McCartney had this to say on the groups's formation: "Wings were always a difficult idea ... any group having to follow [the Beatles'] success would have a hard job ... I found myself in that very position. However, it was a choice between going on or finishing, and I loved music too much to think of stopping."[82][nb 13] In September 1971, the McCartneys' daughter Stella was born, named in honour of Linda's grandmothers, both of whom were named Stella.[84]
Following the addition of guitarist Henry McCullough, Wings' first concert tour began in 1972 with a debut performance in front of an audience of seven hundred at the University of Nottingham. Ten more dates followed as they travelled across the UK in a van during an unannounced tour of universities, during which the band stayed in modest accommodation and received pay in coinage collected from students, while avoiding Beatles songs during their performances.[85] A seven-week, 25-show tour of Europe followed, during which the band played solely Wings and McCartney solo material except for a few covers, including the Little Richard hit "Long Tall Sally", the only song McCartney played during the tour that had previously been recorded by the Beatles. McCartney wanted the tour to avoid large venues; most of the small halls they played had capacities of fewer than 3,000 people.[86] Of his first two post-Beatles tours, McCartney said, "The main thing I didn't want was to come on stage, faced with the whole torment of five rows of press people with little pads, all looking at me and saying, 'Oh well, he is not as good as he was.' So we decided to go out on that university tour which made me less nervous ... by the end of that tour I felt ready for something else, so we went into Europe."[87]
In March 1973, Wings achieved their first US number-one single, "My Love", included on their second LP, Red Rose Speedway, a US number one and UK top five.[88][nb 14] Paul's collaboration with Linda and former Beatles producer Martin resulted in the song "Live and Let Die", which was the theme song for the James Bond film of the same name. Nominated for an Academy Award, the song reached number two in the US and number nine in the UK. It also earned Martin a Grammy for his orchestral arrangement.[89] Music professor and author Vincent Benitez described the track as "symphonic rock at its best".[90][nb 15]
After the departure of McCullough and Seiwell in 1973, the McCartneys and Laine recorded Band on the Run. The album was the first of seven platinum Wings LPs.[92] It was a US and UK number one, the band's first to top the charts in both countries and the first ever to reach Billboard magazine's charts on three separate occasions. One of the best-selling releases of the decade, it remained on the UK charts for 124 weeks. Rolling Stone named it Album of the Year for 1974, and in 1975 it won Grammy Awards for Best Contemporary/Pop Vocal and Best Engineered Album.[93][nb 16] In 1974, Wings achieved a second US number-one single with the title track.[95] The album also included the top-ten hits "Jet" and "Helen Wheels", and earned the 413th spot on Rolling Stone's list of the 500 Greatest Albums of All Time.[96][nb 17]
Wings followed Band on the Run with the chart-topping albums Venus and Mars (1975) and Wings at the Speed of Sound (1976).[98][nb 18] In 1975, they began the fourteen-month Wings Over the World Tour, which included stops in the UK, Australia, Europe and the US. The tour marked the first time McCartney performed Beatles songs live with Wings, with five in the two-hour set list: "I've Just Seen a Face", "Yesterday", "Blackbird", "Lady Madonna" and "The Long and Winding Road".[100] Following the second European leg of the tour and extensive rehearsals in London, the group undertook an ambitious US arena tour that yielded the US number-one live triple LP Wings over America.[101]
In September 1977, the McCartneys had a third child, a son they named James. In November, the Wings song "Mull of Kintyre", co-written with Laine, was quickly becoming one of the best-selling singles in UK chart history.[102] The most successful single of McCartney's solo career, it achieved double the sales of the previous record holder, "She Loves You", and went on to sell 2.5 million copies and hold the UK sales record until the 1984 charity single, "Do They Know It's Christmas?".[103][nb 19]
London Town (1978) spawned a US number-one single ("With a Little Luck"), and was Wings' best-selling LP since Band on the Run, making the top five in both the US and the UK. Critical reception was unfavourable, and McCartney expressed disappointment with the album.[105][nb 20] Back to the Egg (1979) featured McCartney's collaboration with a rock supergroup dubbed "the Rockestra". Credited to Wings, the band included Pete Townshend, David Gilmour, Gary Brooker, John Paul Jones and John Bonham. Though certified platinum, critics panned Back to the Egg.[107] Wings completed their final concert tour in 1979, with twenty shows in the UK that included the live debut of the Beatles songs "Got to Get You into My Life", "The Fool on the Hill" and "Let it Be".[108]
In 1980, McCartney released his second solo LP, the self-produced McCartney II, which peaked at number one in the UK and number three in the US. As with his first album, he composed and performed it alone.[109] The album contained the song "Coming Up", the live version of which, recorded in Glasgow, Scotland, in 1979 by Wings, became the group's last number-one hit.[110] By 1981, McCartney felt he had accomplished all he could creatively with Wings and decided he needed a change. The group disbanded in April 1981 following disagreements over royalties and salaries.[111][nb 21][nb 22]
In 1982 McCartney collaborated with Stevie Wonder on the Martin-produced number-one hit "Ebony and Ivory", included on McCartney's Tug of War LP, and with Michael Jackson on "The Girl Is Mine" from Thriller.[115][nb 23] "Ebony and Ivory" was McCartney's record 28th single to hit number one on the Billboard 100.[117] The following year, he and Jackson worked on "Say Say Say", McCartney's most recent US number one as of 2014[update]. McCartney earned his latest UK number one as of 2014[update] with the title track of his LP release that year, "Pipes of Peace".[118][nb 24]
In 1984, McCartney starred in the musical Give My Regards to Broad Street, a feature film he also wrote and produced which included Starr in an acting role. Disparaged by critics, Variety described the film as "characterless, bloodless, and pointless".[120] Roger Ebert awarded it a single star and wrote, "you can safely skip the movie and proceed directly to the soundtrack".[121] The album fared much better, reaching number one in the UK and producing the US top-ten hit single "No More Lonely Nights", featuring David Gilmour on lead guitar.[122] In 1985, Warner Brothers commissioned McCartney to write a song for the comedic feature film Spies Like Us. He composed and recorded the track in four days, with Phil Ramone co-producing.[123][nb 25] McCartney participated in Live Aid, performing "Let it Be", but technical difficulties rendered his vocals and piano barely audible for the first two verses, punctuated by squeals of feedback. Equipment technicians resolved the problems and David Bowie, Alison Moyet, Pete Townshend and Bob Geldof joined McCartney on stage, receiving an enthusiastic crowd reaction.[125]
McCartney collaborated with Eric Stewart on Press to Play (1986), with Stewart co-writing more than half the songs on the LP.[126][nb 26] In 1988, McCartney released Choba B CCCP, released only in the Soviet Union, which contained eighteen covers; recorded over the course of two days.[128] In 1989, he joined forces with fellow Merseysiders Gerry Marsden and Holly Johnson to record an updated version of "Ferry Cross the Mersey", for the Hillsborough disaster appeal fund.[129][nb 27] That same year, he released Flowers in the Dirt; a collaborative effort with Elvis Costello that included musical contributions from Gilmour and Nicky Hopkins.[131][nb 28] McCartney then formed a band consisting of himself and Linda, with Hamish Stuart and Robbie McIntosh on guitars, Paul "Wix" Wickens on keyboards and Chris Whitten on drums.[133] In September 1989, they launched the Paul McCartney World Tour, his first in over a decade. The following year, he released the triple album, Tripping the Live Fantastic, which contained select performances from the tour.[134][nb 29][nb 30] In 1990, the US publication Amusement Business presented McCartney with an award for the highest grossing show of the year; his two performances at Berkeley earned over $3.5 million.[137] He performed for the largest paying stadium audience in history on 21 April 1990, when 184,000 people attended his concert at Maracanã Stadium in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.[138]
McCartney ventured into orchestral music in 1991, when the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Society commissioned a musical piece by him to celebrate its sesquicentennial. He collaborated with composer Carl Davis, producing Liverpool Oratorio. The performance featured opera singers Kiri Te Kanawa, Sally Burgess, Jerry Hadley and Willard White, with the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra and the choir of Liverpool Cathedral.[139] Reviews were negative. The Guardian was especially critical, describing the music as "afraid of anything approaching a fast tempo", and adding that the piece has "little awareness of the need for recurrent ideas that will bind the work into a whole".[140] The paper published a letter McCartney submitted in response in which he noted several of the work's faster tempos and added, "happily, history shows that many good pieces of music were not liked by the critics of the time so I am content to ... let people judge for themselves the merits of the work."[140] The New York Times was slightly more generous, stating, "There are moments of beauty and pleasure in this dramatic miscellany ... the music's innocent sincerity makes it difficult to be put off by its ambitions".[141] Performed around the world after its London premiere, the Liverpool Oratorio reached number one on the UK classical chart, Music Week.[142]
In 1991, McCartney performed a selection of acoustic-only songs on MTV Unplugged and released a live album of the performance titled Unplugged (The Official Bootleg).[143][nb 31] During the 1990s, McCartney collaborated twice with Youth of Killing Joke as the musical duo "the Fireman". The two released their first electronica album together, Strawberries Oceans Ships Forest, in 1993.[145] McCartney released the rock album, Off the Ground, in 1993.[146][nb 32] The subsequent New World Tour followed, which led to the release of the Paul Is Live album later that year.[148][nb 33][nb 34]
Starting in 1994, McCartney took a four-year break from his solo career to work on Apple's Beatles Anthology project with Harrison, Starr and Martin. He recorded a radio series called Oobu Joobu in 1995 for the American network Westwood One, which he described as "widescreen radio".[152] Also in 1995, Prince Charles presented him with an Honorary Fellowship of the Royal College of Music—"kind of amazing for somebody who doesn't read a note of music", commented McCartney.[153]
In 1997, McCartney released the rock album Flaming Pie. Starr appeared on drums and backing vocals in "Beautiful Night".[154][nb 35] Later that year, he released the classical work Standing Stone, which topped the UK and US classical charts.[156] In 1998, he released Rushes, the second electronica album by the Fireman.[157] In 1999, McCartney released Run Devil Run.[158][nb 36] Recorded in one week, and featuring Ian Paice and David Gilmour, it was primarily an album of covers with three McCartney originals. He had been planning such an album for years, having been previously encouraged to do so by Linda, who had died of cancer in April 1998.[159]
In 1999, he continued his experimentation with orchestral music on Working Classical.[160] In 2000, he released the electronica album Liverpool Sound Collage with Super Furry Animals and Youth, using the sound collage and musique concrète techniques that had fascinated him in the mid-1960s.[161] He contributed the song "Nova" to a tribute album of classical, choral music called A Garland for Linda (2000), dedicated to his late wife.[162]
Having witnessed the 11 September 2001 attacks from the JFK airport tarmac, McCartney was inspired to take a leading role in organising the Concert for New York City. His studio album release in November that year, Driving Rain, included the song "Freedom", written in response to the attacks.[163][nb 37] The following year, McCartney went out on tour with a band that included guitarists Rusty Anderson and Brian Ray, accompanied by Paul "Wix" Wickens on keyboards and Abe Laboriel, Jr. on drums.[165] They began the Driving World Tour in April 2002, which included stops in the US, Mexico and Japan. The tour resulted in the double live album Back in the U.S., released internationally in 2003 as Back in the World.[166][nb 38][nb 39] The tour earned a reported $126.2 million, an average of over $2 million per night, and Billboard named it the top tour of the year.[168]
In July 2002, McCartney married Heather Mills. In November, on the first anniversary of George Harrison's death, McCartney performed at the Concert for George.[169] He participated in the National Football League's Super Bowl, performing "Freedom" during the pre-game show for Super Bowl XXXVI in 2002 and headlining the halftime show at Super Bowl XXXIX in 2005.[170] The English College of Arms honoured McCartney in 2002 by granting him a coat of arms. His crest, featuring a Liver Bird holding an acoustic guitar in its claw, reflects his background in Liverpool and his musical career. The shield includes four curved emblems which resemble beetles' backs. The arms' motto is Ecce Cor Meum, Latin for "Behold My Heart".[171] In 2003, the McCartneys had a child, Beatrice Milly.[172]
In July 2005, he performed at the Live 8 event in Hyde Park, London, opening the show with "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" (with U2) and closing it with "Drive My Car" (with George Michael), "Helter Skelter", and "The Long and Winding Road".[173][nb 40] In September, he released the rock album Chaos and Creation in the Backyard, for which he provided most of the instrumentation.[175][nb 41][nb 42] In 2006, McCartney released the classical work Ecce Cor Meum.[178][nb 43] The rock album Memory Almost Full followed in 2007.[179][nb 44] In 2008, he released his third Fireman album, Electric Arguments.[181][nb 45] Also in 2008, he performed at a concert in Liverpool to celebrate the city's year as European Capital of Culture. In 2009, after a four-year break, he returned to touring and has since performed over 80 shows.[183] More than forty-five years after the Beatles first appeared on American television during The Ed Sullivan Show, he returned to the same New York theatre to perform on Late Show with David Letterman.[184] On 9 September 2009, EMI reissued the Beatles catalogue following a four-year digital remastering effort, releasing a music video game called The Beatles: Rock Band the same day.[185]
McCartney's enduring fame has made him a popular choice to open new venues. In 2009, he played three sold-out concerts at the newly built Citi Field—a venue constructed to replace Shea Stadium in Queens, New York. These performances yielded the double live album Good Evening New York City later that year.[186] In 2010, McCartney opened the Consol Energy Center in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.[187][nb 46]
In July 2011, McCartney played two sold-out concerts at the new Yankee Stadium. A New York Times review of the first concert reported that McCartney was "not saying goodbye but touring stadiums and playing marathon concerts."[189] In September 2011, having been commissioned by the New York City Ballet, McCartney released his first score for dance, a collaboration with Peter Martins called Ocean's Kingdom.[190] Also in 2011, McCartney married Nancy Shevell.[191] He released Kisses on the Bottom, a collection of standards, in February 2012; that same month the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences honoured him as the MusiCares Person of the Year, two days prior to his performance at the 54th Grammy Awards.[192]
As of 2013[update], McCartney remains one of the world's top draws. He played to over 100,000 people total during two performances in Mexico City in May, the shows grossing nearly $6 million.[193][nb 47] In June 2012, McCartney closed Queen Elizabeth's Diamond Jubilee Concert held outside Buckingham Palace, performing a set that included "Let It Be" and "Live and Let Die".[195] He closed the opening ceremony of the 2012 Summer Olympics in London on 27 July, singing "The End" and "Hey Jude" and inviting the audience to join in on the coda.[196] Having donated his time, he received £1 from the Olympic organisers.[197] On 12 December, McCartney performed with three former members of Nirvana: Krist Novoselic, Dave Grohl, and Pat Smear during the closing act of 12-12-12: The Concert for Sandy Relief, seen by approximately two billion people worldwide.[198] On 28 August 2013, McCartney released the title track of his upcoming studio album New, which was released in October 2013.[199]
A primetime entertainment special celebrating the legacy of seven-time Grammy-winning group the Beatles and their groundbreaking first performance on The Ed Sullivan Show, featuring Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr, was taped 27 January 2014 at the Ed Sullivan Theater with a 9 February 2014 CBS airing. The show, titled The Night That Changed America: A Grammy Salute to The Beatles, featured 22 classic Beatles songs as performed by various artists, including McCartney and Starr.[200]
On May 19, 2014, it was reported that McCartney had been bedridden by an unspecified "virus" on doctor's orders, and had been forced to cancel a sold-out concert tour of Japan scheduled to begin later in the week. The tour would have included a stop at the famed Budokan Hall.[201]
Largely a self-taught musician, McCartney's approach was described by musicologist Ian MacDonald as "by nature drawn to music's formal aspects yet wholly untutored ... [he] produced technically 'finished' work almost entirely by instinct, his harmonic judgement based mainly on perfect pitch and an acute pair of ears ... [A] natural melodist—a creator of tunes capable of existing apart from their harmony".[202] McCartney commented, "I prefer to think of my approach to music as ... rather like the primitive cave artists, who drew without training."[203]
McCartney's skill as a bass player has been acknowledged by other bassists, including Sting, Dr. Dre bassist Mike Elizondo, and Colin Moulding of XTC.[204] Best known for primarily using a plectrum or pick, McCartney occasionally plays fingerstyle.[205] He does not use slapping or muting techniques.[206] He was strongly influenced by Motown artists, in particular James Jamerson, who McCartney called a hero for his melodic style. He was also influenced by Brian Wilson, as he commented: "because he went to very unusual places".[207] Another favourite bassist of his is Stanley Clarke.[208]
"Paul is one of the most innovative bass players ... half the stuff that's going on now is directly ripped off from his Beatles period ... He's an egomaniac about everything else, but his bass playing he'd always been a bit coy about."[209]
During McCartney's early years with the Beatles, he primarily used a Höfner 500/1 bass, though in 1965, he began sporadically using a Rickenbacker 4001S for recording. While typically using Vox amplifiers, by 1967 he had also begun using a Fender Bassman for amplification.[210] During the late 1980s and early 1990s, he used a Wal 5-String, which he said made him play more thick-sounding basslines, in contrast to the much lighter Höfner, which inspired him to play more sensitively, something he considers fundamental to his playing style.[206] He changed back to the Höfner around 1990 for that reason.[206] He uses Mesa Boogie bass amplifiers while performing live.[211]
MacDonald identified "She's a Woman" as the turning point when McCartney's bass playing began to evolve dramatically, and Beatles biographer Chris Ingham singled out Rubber Soul as the moment when McCartney's playing exhibited significant progress, particularly on "The Word".[212] Bacon and Morgan agreed, calling McCartney's groove on the track "a high point in pop bass playing and ... the first proof on a recording of his serious technical ability on the instrument."[213] MacDonald inferred the influence of James Brown's "Papa's Got a Brand New Bag" and Pickett's "In the Midnight Hour", American soul tracks from which McCartney absorbed elements and drew inspiration as he "delivered his most spontaneous bass-part to date".[214]
Bacon and Morgan described his bassline for the Beatles song "Rain" as "an astonishing piece of playing ... [McCartney] thinking in terms of both rhythm and 'lead bass' ... [choosing] the area of the neck ... he correctly perceives will give him clarity for melody without rendering his sound too thin for groove."[215] MacDonald considered the track the Beatles' best B-side, stating that its "clangorously saturated texture resonates around McCartney's [bassline]", which MacDonald described as "so inventive that it threatens to overwhelm the track". MacDonald also indicated the influence of Indian classical music in "exotic melismas in the bass part".[216] McCartney identified Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band as containing his strongest and most inventive bass playing, particularly on "Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds".[217]
McCartney primarily flatpicks while playing acoustic guitar, though he also uses elements of fingerpicking.[218] Examples of his acoustic guitar playing on Beatles tracks include "Yesterday", "I'm Looking Through You", "Michelle", "Blackbird", "I Will", "Mother Nature's Son" and "Rocky Raccoon".[219] McCartney singled out "Blackbird" as a personal favourite and described his technique for the guitar part in the following way: "I got my own little sort of cheating way of [fingerpicking] ... I'm actually sort of pulling two strings at a time ... I was trying to emulate those folk players."[218] He employed a similar technique for "Jenny Wren".[220] He played an Epiphone Texan on many of his acoustic recordings, but also used a Martin D-28.[221]
"Linda was a big fan of my guitar playing, whereas I've got my doubts. I think there are proper guitar players and then there are guys like me who love playing it".[222]
McCartney played lead electric guitar on several Beatles recordings, including what MacDonald described as a "fiercely angular slide guitar solo" on "Drive My Car", which McCartney played on an Epiphone Casino. McCartney said of the instrument, "if I had to pick one electric guitar it would be this."[223] He contributed what MacDonald described as "a startling guitar solo" on the Harrison composition "Taxman" and the "shrieking" guitar on "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" and "Helter Skelter". MacDonald also praised McCartney's "coruscating pseudo-Indian" guitar solo on "Good Morning Good Morning".[224] McCartney also played lead guitar on "Another Girl".[225] On his "Taxman" solo, McCartney commented, "I was very inspired by Jimi Hendrix. It was really my first voyage into feedback."[218] In 1990, when asked who his favourite guitar players were he included Eddie Van Halen, Eric Clapton and David Gilmour, stating, "but I still like Hendrix the best."[218] He has primarily used a Gibson Les Paul for electric work, particularly during live performances.[211]
McCartney's vocals cross several musical genres. On "Call Me Back Again", according to Benitez, "McCartney shines as a bluesy solo vocalist" while MacDonald called "I'm Down" "a rock-and-roll classic" that "illustrates McCartney's vocal and stylistic versatility".[226] MacDonald described "Helter Skelter" as an early attempt at heavy metal, and "Hey Jude" as a "pop/rock hybrid", pointing out McCartney's "use of gospel-style melismas" in the song and his "pseudo-soul shrieking in the fade-out".[227] Benitez identified "Hope of Deliverance" and "Put It There" as examples of McCartney's folk music efforts while musicologist Walter Everett considered "When I'm Sixty-Four" and "Honey Pie" attempts at vaudeville.[228] MacDonald praised the "swinging beat" of the Beatles' twenty-four bar blues song, "She's a Woman" as "the most extreme sound they had manufactured to date", with McCartney's voice "at the edge, squeezed to the upper limit of his chest register and threatening to crack at any moment."[229] MacDonald described "I've Got a Feeling" as a "raunchy, mid-tempo rocker" with a "robust and soulful" vocal performance and "Back in the U.S.S.R." as "the last of [the Beatles'] up-tempo rockers", McCartney's "belting" vocals among his best since "Drive My Car", recorded three years earlier.[230]
McCartney played piano on several Beatles songs, including "Every Little Thing", "She's a Woman", "For No One", "A Day in the Life", "Hello, Goodbye", "Hey Jude", "Lady Madonna", "Let It Be" and "The Long and Winding Road".[231] MacDonald considered the piano part in "Lady Madonna" as reminiscent of Fats Domino, and "Let It Be" as having a gospel rhythm.[232] MacDonald called McCartney's Mellotron intro on "Strawberry Fields Forever" an integral feature of the song's character.[233] McCartney played a Moog synthesizer on the Beatles song "Maxwell's Silver Hammer" and the Wings track "Loup (1st Indian on the Moon)".[234] Ingham described the Wings songs "With a Little Luck" and "London Town" as "full of the most sensitive pop synthesizer touches".[235]
McCartney played drums on the Beatles' songs "Back in the U.S.S.R.", "Dear Prudence", "Martha My Dear", "Wild Honey Pie" and "The Ballad of John and Yoko".[236] He also played all the drum parts on his first and second solo albums McCartney and McCartney II, as well as on the Wings album Band on the Run and most of the drums on his solo LP Chaos and Creation in the Backyard.[237] Using the pseudonym Paul Ramon, which he had first used during the Beatles first tour in Scotland in 1960, McCartney played drums on Steve Miller Band's 1969 tracks "Celebration Song" and "My Dark Hour".[238][239]
In the mid-1960s, when visiting artist friend John Dunbar's flat in London, McCartney brought tapes he had compiled at then-girlfriend Jane Asher's home. They included mixes of various songs, musical pieces and comments made by McCartney that Dick James made into a demo for him.[240] Heavily influenced by American avant-garde musician John Cage, McCartney made tape loops by recording voices, guitars and bongos on a Brenell tape recorder and splicing the various loops. He referred to the finished product as "electronic symphonies".[241] He reversed the tapes, speeded them up, and slowed them down to create the desired effects, some of which the Beatles later used on the songs "Tomorrow Never Knows" and "The Fool on the Hill".[242]
McCartney's earliest musical influences include Little Richard, Elvis Presley, Buddy Holly, Carl Perkins, and Chuck Berry.[244] When asked why the Beatles did not include Presley on the Sgt. Pepper cover, McCartney replied, "Elvis was too important and too far above the rest even to mention ... so we didn't put him on the list because he was more than merely a ... pop singer, he was Elvis the King."[245] McCartney stated that for his bassline for "I Saw Her Standing There", he directly quoted Berry's "I'm Talking About You".[246]
McCartney called Little Richard an idol, whose falsetto vocalizations inspired McCartney's own vocal technique.[247] McCartney said he wrote "I'm Down" as a vehicle for his Little Richard impersonation.[248] In 1971, McCartney bought the publishing rights to Holly's catalogue, and in 1976, on the fortieth anniversary of Holly's birth, McCartney inaugurated the annual "Buddy Holly Week" in England. The festival has included guest performances by famous musicians, songwriting competitions, drawing contests and special events featuring performances by the Crickets.[249]
While at school during the 1950s, McCartney thrived at art assignments, often earning top accolades for his visual work. However, his lack of discipline negatively affected his academic grades, preventing him from earning admission to art college.[250] During the 1960s, he delved into the visual arts, explored experimental cinema, and regularly attended film, theatrical and classical music performances. His first contact with the London avant-garde scene was through artist John Dunbar, who introduced McCartney to art dealer Robert Fraser.[251] At Fraser's flat he first learned about art appreciation and met Andy Warhol, Claes Oldenburg, Peter Blake, and Richard Hamilton.[252] McCartney later purchased works by Magritte, using his painting of an apple for the Apple Records logo.[253] McCartney became involved in the renovation and publicising of the Indica Gallery in Mason's Yard, London, which Barry Miles had co-founded and where Lennon first met Yoko Ono. Miles also co-founded International Times, an underground paper that McCartney helped to start with direct financial support and by providing interviews to attract advertiser income. Miles later wrote McCartney's official biography, Many Years From Now (1997).[254]
McCartney became interested in painting after watching artist Willem de Kooning work in de Kooning's Long Island studio.[255] McCartney took up painting in 1983, and he first exhibited his work in Siegen, Germany, in 1999. The 70-painting show featured portraits of Lennon, Andy Warhol and David Bowie.[256] Though initially reluctant to display his paintings publicly, McCartney chose the gallery because events organiser Wolfgang Suttner showed genuine interest in McCartney's art.[257] In September 2000, the first UK exhibition of McCartney's paintings opened, featuring 500 canvases at the Arnolfini Gallery in Bristol, England.[258] In October 2000, McCartney's art debuted in his hometown of Liverpool. McCartney said, "I've been offered an exhibition of my paintings at the Walker Art Gallery ... where John and I used to spend many a pleasant afternoon. So I'm really excited about it. I didn't tell anybody I painted for 15 years but now I'm out of the closet".[259] McCartney is lead patron of the Liverpool Institute for Performing Arts, a school in the building formerly occupied by the Liverpool Institute for Boys.[260]
When McCartney was a child, his mother read him poems and encouraged him to read books. His father invited Paul and his brother Michael to solve crosswords with him, to increase their "word power", as McCartney said.[261] In 2001, McCartney published Blackbird Singing, a volume of poems and lyrics to his songs for which he gave readings in Liverpool and New York City.[262] In the foreword of the book, he explains: "When I was a teenager ... I had an overwhelming desire to have a poem published in the school magazine. I wrote something deep and meaningful—which was promptly rejected—and I suppose I have been trying to get my own back ever since".[263] His first children's book was published by Faber & Faber in 2005, High in the Clouds: An Urban Furry Tail, a collaboration with writer Philip Ardagh and animator Geoff Dunbar. Featuring a squirrel whose woodland home is razed by developers, it had been scripted and sketched by McCartney and Dunbar over several years, as an animated film. The Observer labelled it an "anti-capitalist children's book".[264]
"I think there's an urge in us to stop the terrible fleetingness of time. Music. Paintings ... Try and capture one bloody moment please."[265]
In 1981, McCartney asked Geoff Dunbar to direct a short animated film called Rupert and the Frog Song; McCartney was the writer and producer, and he also added some of the character voices.[266] In 1992, he worked with Dunbar on an animated film about the work of French artist Honoré Daumier, which won them a BAFTA award.[267] In 2004, they worked together on the animated short film Tropic Island Hum.[268] The accompanying single, "Tropic Island Hum"/"We All Stand Together", reached number 21 in the UK.[269]
McCartney also produced and hosted The Real Buddy Holly Story, a 1985 documentary featuring interviews with Keith Richards, Phil and Don Everly, the Holly family, and others.[270] In 1995, he made a guest appearance on the Simpsons episode "Lisa the Vegetarian" and directed a short documentary about the Grateful Dead.[271]
Since the Rich List began in 1989, McCartney has been the UK's wealthiest musician, with an estimated fortune of £680 million in 2013.[272] In addition to an interest in Apple Corps and MPL Communications, an umbrella company for his business interests, he owns a significant music publishing catalogue, with access to over 25,000 copyrights, including the publishing rights to the musicals Guys and Dolls, A Chorus Line, Annie and Grease.[273] He earned £40 million in 2003, the highest income that year within media professions in the UK.[274] This rose to £48.5 million by 2005.[275] McCartney's 18-date On the Run Tour grossed £37 million in 2012.[272]
McCartney's music has appeared on several record labels. In January 1962, Polydor Records issued the first commercially released recording of the Beatles, a single called "My Bonnie". Credited to Tony Sheridan and the Beat Brothers, Decca Records issued the track in the UK in April 1962. The following year, Parlophone released the band's singles "Please Please Me"/"Ask Me Why" and "From Me to You"/"Thank You Girl" in the UK. Vee-Jay Records released them in the US. Also that year, Swan Records released the group's UK Parlophone single "She Loves You"/"I'll Get You" in the US. From then until July 1968, EMI's Capitol (US) and Parlophone (UK) labels released the band's music. Starting with the August 1968 release "Hey Jude"/"Revolution", their new material would be issued with Apple labels, logos and sleeves, but with Parlophone or Capitol serial numbers.[29]
Following the break-up of the Beatles, McCartney's music continued to be released by Apple Records under the Beatles' 1967 recording contract with EMI which ran until 1976. Following the formal dissolution of the Beatles' partnership in 1975, McCartney re-signed with EMI worldwide and Capitol in the US and Canada. In 1979, McCartney signed with Columbia Records in the US and Canada—reportedly receiving the industry's most lucrative recording contract to date, while remaining with EMI for distribution throughout the rest of the world.[276] McCartney returned to Capitol in 1985 and from 1985 until 2006, Parlophone released McCartney's music in the UK and Capitol in the US.[277] In 2007, McCartney signed with Hear Music, becoming the label's first artist. He remains there as of 2012[update]'s Kisses on the Bottom.[278]
In 1963, Dick James established Northern Songs to publish the songs of Lennon–McCartney.[279] McCartney initially owned 20% of Northern Songs, which became 15% after a public stock offering in 1965. In 1969, James sold a controlling interest in Northern Songs to Lew Grade's Associated Television (ATV) after which McCartney and John Lennon sold their remaining shares although they remained under contract to ATV until 1973. In 1972, McCartney re-signed with ATV for seven years in a joint publishing agreement between ATV and McCartney Music. Since 1979, MPL Communications has published McCartney's songs. McCartney and Yoko Ono attempted to purchase the Northern Songs catalogue in 1981, but Grade declined their offer and decided to sell ATV in its entirety to businessman Robert Holmes à Court. Michael Jackson subsequently purchased ATV in 1985. In 1995, Jackson merged his catalogue with Sony for a reported £59,052,000 ($95 million), establishing Sony/ATV Music Publishing, in which he retained half-ownership.[280] McCartney has criticised Jackson's purchase and handling of Northern Songs over the years. Now formally dissolved, in 1995 it became absorbed in the Sony/ATV catalogue.[281] McCartney receives writers' royalties which together are 33⅓ percent of total commercial proceeds in the US, and which vary elsewhere between 50 and 55 percent.[282] Two of the Beatles' earliest songs—"Love Me Do" and "P.S. I Love You"—were published by an EMI subsidiary, Ardmore & Beechwood, before signing with James. McCartney acquired their publishing rights from Ardmore in the mid-1980s, and they are the only two Beatles songs owned by MPL Communications.[283]
McCartney first used drugs in the Beatles' Hamburg days, when they often used Preludin to maintain their energy while performing for long periods.[284] Bob Dylan introduced them to marijuana in a New York hotel room in 1964; McCartney recalls getting "very high" and "giggling uncontrollably".[285] His use of the drug soon became habitual, and according to Miles, McCartney wrote the lyrics "another kind of mind" in "Got to Get You into My Life" specifically as a reference to cannabis.[286] During the filming of Help!, McCartney occasionally smoked a joint in the car on the way to the studio during filming, and often forgot his lines.[287] Director Richard Lester overheard two physically attractive women trying to persuade McCartney to use heroin, but he refused.[287] Introduced to cocaine by Robert Fraser, McCartney used the drug regularly during the recording of Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, and for about a year total but stopped because of his dislike of the unpleasant melancholy he felt afterwards.[288]
Initially reluctant to try LSD, McCartney eventually did so in late 1966, and took his second "acid trip" in March 1967, with Lennon, after a Sgt. Pepper studio session.[289] He later became the first Beatle to discuss the drug publicly, declaring, "It opened my eyes ... [and] made me a better, more honest, more tolerant member of society."[290] He made his attitude about cannabis public in 1967, when he, along with the other Beatles and Epstein, added his name to a July advertisement in The Times, which called for its legalisation, the release of those imprisoned for possession, and research into marijuana's medical uses.[291]
In 1972, a Swedish court fined McCartney £1,000 for cannabis possession. Soon after, Scottish police found marijuana plants growing on his farm, leading to his 1973 conviction for illegal cultivation and a £100 fine. As a result of his drug convictions, the US government repeatedly denied him a visa until December 1973.[292] Arrested again for marijuana possession in 1975, in Los Angeles, Linda took the blame, and the court soon dismissed the charges. In January 1980, when Wings flew to Tokyo for a tour of Japan, customs officials found approximately 8 ounces (200 g) of cannabis in his luggage. They arrested McCartney and brought him to a local jail while the Japanese government decided what to do. After ten days, they released and deported him without charge.[293] In 1984, while on holiday in Barbados, authorities arrested McCartney for possession of marijuana and fined him $200.[294] Upon his return to England, he stated: "cannabis is ... less harmful than rum punch, whiskey, nicotine and glue, all of which are perfectly legal ... I don't think ... I was doing anyone any harm whatsoever."[295] In 1997, he spoke out in support of decriminalisation of the drug: "People are smoking pot anyway and to make them criminals is wrong."[251]
Paul and Linda were vegetarians for most of their 30-year marriage. They decided to stop consuming meat after Paul saw lambs in a field as they were eating a meal of lamb. Soon after, the couple became outspoken animal rights activists.[296] In his first interview after Linda's death, he promised to continue working for animal rights, and in 1999 he spent £3,000,000 to ensure Linda McCartney Foods remained free of genetically engineered ingredients.[297] In 1995, he narrated the documentary Devour the Earth, written by Tony Wardle.[298] McCartney is a supporter of the animal-rights organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.[299] He has appeared in the group's campaigns and, in 2009, he narrated a short factory farm exposé titled "Glass Walls."[300][301][302] McCartney has also supported campaigns headed by the Humane Society of the United States, Humane Society International, the World Society for the Protection of Animals, and the David Shepherd Wildlife Foundation.[303][304][305]
Following McCartney's marriage to Mills, he joined her in a campaign against landmines, becoming a patron of Adopt-A-Minefield. He wore an anti-landmines T-shirt during some of the Back in the World tour shows.[306] In 2006, the McCartneys travelled to Prince Edward Island to raise international awareness of seal hunting. The couple debated with Danny Williams, Newfoundland's then Premier, on Larry King Live, stating that fishermen should stop hunting seals and start seal-watching businesses instead.[307] McCartney also supports the Make Poverty History campaign.[308]
McCartney has participated in several charity recordings and performances, including the Concerts for the People of Kampuchea, Ferry Aid, Band Aid, Live Aid and the recording of "Ferry Cross the Mersey".[309] In 2004, he donated a song to an album to aid the "US Campaign for Burma", in support of Burmese Nobel Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi. In 2008, he donated a song to Aid Still Required's CD, organised as an effort to raise funds to assist with the recovery from the devastation caused in Southeast Asia by the 2004 tsunami.[310]
In 2009, McCartney wrote to Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama, asking him why he was not a vegetarian. As McCartney explained, "He wrote back very kindly, saying, 'my doctors tell me that I must eat meat'. And I wrote back again, saying, you know, I don't think that's right ... I think he's now being told ... that he can get his protein somewhere else ... It just doesn't seem right – the Dalai Lama, on the one hand, saying, 'Hey guys, don't harm sentient beings ... Oh, and by the way, I'm having a steak.'"[311]
In August 1967, McCartney met the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi at the London Hilton and later went to Bangor in North Wales to attend a weekend initiation conference, where he and the other Beatles learned the basics of Transcendental Meditation.[312] He said, "The whole meditation experience was very good and I still use the mantra ... I find it soothing."[313] In 2009, McCartney and Starr headlined a benefit concert at Radio City Music Hall, raising three million dollars for the David Lynch Foundation to fund instruction in Transcendental Meditation for at-risk youth.[314]
McCartney has publicly professed support for Everton, and also shown favour for Liverpool.[315] In 2008, he ended speculation about his allegiance when he said, "Here's the deal: my father was born in Everton, my family are officially Evertonians, so if it comes down to a derby match or an FA Cup final between the two, I would have to support Everton. But after a concert at Wembley Arena I got a bit of a friendship with Kenny Dalglish, who had been to the gig and I thought 'You know what? I am just going to support them both because it's all Liverpool.'"[316]
McCartney's first serious girlfriend in Liverpool was Dot Rhone, whom he met at the Casbah club in 1959.[317] According to Spitz, Rhone felt that McCartney had a compulsion to control situations. He often chose clothes and make-up for her, encouraging her to grow her hair out like Brigitte Bardot's, and at least once insisting she have it re-styled, to disappointing effect.[318] When McCartney first went to Hamburg with the Beatles, he wrote to Rhone regularly, and she accompanied Cynthia Lennon to Hamburg when they played there again in 1962.[319] The couple had a two-and-a-half-year relationship, and were due to marry until Rhone's miscarriage; according to Spitz, McCartney, now "free of obligation", ended the engagement.[320]
McCartney first met British actress Jane Asher on 18 April 1963, when a photographer asked them to pose at a Beatles performance at the Royal Albert Hall in London.[321] The two began a relationship, and in November of that year he took up residence with Asher at her parents' home at 57 Wimpole Street, London.[322] They had lived there for more than two years before the couple moved to McCartney's own home in St. John's Wood, in March 1966.[323] He wrote several songs while living at the Ashers', including "Yesterday", "And I Love Her", "You Won't See Me" and "I'm Looking Through You", the latter three having been inspired by their romance.[324] They had a five-year relationship and planned to marry, but Asher broke off the engagement after she discovered he had become involved with Francie Schwartz.[325]
Linda Eastman was a music fan who once commented, "all my teen years were spent with an ear to the radio."[326] At times, she skipped school to see artists such as Fabian, Bobby Darin and Chuck Berry.[326] She became a popular photographer with several rock groups, including the Jimi Hendrix Experience, the Grateful Dead, the Doors and the Beatles, whom she first met at Shea Stadium in 1966. She commented, "It was John who interested me at the start. He was my Beatle hero. But when I met him the fascination faded fast, and I found it was Paul I liked."[327] The pair first properly met in 1967 at a Georgie Fame concert at The Bag O'Nails club, during her UK assignment to photograph rock musicians in London. As Paul remembers, "The night Linda and I met, I spotted her across a crowded club, and although I would normally have been nervous chatting her up, I realised I had to ... Pushiness worked for me that night!"[328] Linda said this about their meeting: "I was quite shameless really. I was with somebody else [that night] ... and I saw Paul at the other side of the room. He looked so beautiful that I made up my mind I would have to pick him up."[327] The pair married in 1969. About their relationship, Paul said, "We had a lot of fun together ... just the nature of how we are, our favourite thing really is to just hang, to have fun. And Linda's very big on just following the moment."[329] He added, "We were crazy. We had a big argument the night before we got married, and it was nearly called off ... [it's] miraculous that we made it. But we did."[330]
The two collaborated musically after the Beatles' break-up, forming Wings in 1971.[331] They faced derision from some fans and critics, who questioned her inclusion. She was nervous about performing with Paul, who explained, "she conquered those nerves, got on with it and was really gutsy."[332] Paul defended her musical ability: "I taught Linda the basics of the keyboard ... She took a couple of lessons and learned some bluesy things ... she did very well and made it look easier than it was ... The critics would say, 'She's not really playing' or 'Look at her—she's playing with one finger.' But what they didn't know is that sometimes she was playing a thing called a Minimoog, which could only be played with one finger. It was monophonic."[332] He went on to say, "We thought we were in it for the fun ... it was just something we wanted to do, so if we got it wrong – big deal. We didn't have to justify ourselves."[332] Former Wings guitarist McCullough said of collaborating with Linda, "trying to get things together with a learner in the group didn't work as far as I was concerned."[333]
They had four children—Linda's daughter Heather (legally adopted by Paul), Mary, Stella and James—and remained married until Linda's death from breast cancer at age 56 in 1998.[334] After her death, Paul stated in The Daily Mail, "I got a counsellor because I knew that I would need some help. He was great, particularly in helping me get rid of my guilt [about wishing I'd been] perfect all the time ... a real bugger. But then I thought, hang on a minute. We're just human. That was the beautiful thing about our marriage. We were just a boyfriend and girlfriend having babies."[335]
In 2002, McCartney married Heather Mills, a former model and anti-landmines campaigner.[336] In 2003, the couple had a child, Beatrice Milly, named in honour of Mills' late mother, and one of McCartney's aunts.[172] They separated in April 2006 and divorced acrimoniously in March 2008.[337] In 2004, he commented on media animosity toward his partners: "[the British public] didn't like me giving up on Jane Asher ... I married [Linda], a New York divorcee with a child, and at the time they didn't like that".[338]
McCartney married New Yorker Nancy Shevell in a civil ceremony at Old Marylebone Town Hall, London, on 9 October 2011. The wedding was a modest event attended by a group of about 30 relatives and friends.[191] The couple had been dating since November 2007.[339] Shevell is vice president of a family-owned transportation conglomerate which owns New England Motor Freight.[340] She is a former member of the board of the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority.[341]
This section is about social and other general interactions.  For creative collaborations, see Collaborations between ex-Beatles.
Though McCartney had a strained relationship with Lennon, they briefly became close again in early 1974, and played music together on one occasion.[342] In later years, the two grew apart.[343] While McCartney would often phone Lennon, he was apprehensive about the reception he would receive. During one call, Lennon told him, "You're all pizza and fairytales!"[344] In an effort to avoid talking only about business, they often spoke of cats, babies or baking bread.[345]
On 24 April 1976, the two were watching an episode of Saturday Night Live together at Lennon's home in The Dakota, during which Lorne Michaels made a $3,000 cash offer for the Beatles to reunite. While they seriously considered going to the SNL studio a few blocks away, they decided it was too late. This was their last time together.[346] VH1 fictionalised this event in the 2000 television film, Two of Us.[347] McCartney's last telephone call to Lennon, days before Lennon and Ono released Double Fantasy, was friendly; he said this about the call: "[It is] a consoling factor for me, because I do feel it was sad that we never actually sat down and straightened our differences out. But fortunately for me, the last phone conversation I ever had with him was really great, and we didn't have any kind of blow-up."[348]
"John is kinda like a constant ... always there in my being ... in my soul, so I always think of him".[349]
On 9 December 1980, McCartney followed the news that Lennon had been murdered the previous night, his death creating a media frenzy around the surviving members of the band.[350] That evening, as he was leaving an Oxford Street recording studio surrounded by reporters who asked him for his reaction, he responded: "It's a drag". The press quickly criticised him for what appeared to be a superficial response.[351] He later explained, "When John was killed somebody stuck a microphone at me and said: 'What do you think about it?' I said, 'It's a dra-a-ag' and meant it with every inch of melancholy I could muster. When you put that in print it says, 'McCartney in London today when asked for a comment on his dead friend said, "It's a drag".' It seemed a very flippant comment to make."[351] He described his first exchange with Ono after the murder, and his last conversation with Lennon:
I talked to Yoko the day after he was killed, and the first thing she said was, "John was really fond of you." The last telephone conversation I had with him we were still the best of mates. He was always a very warm guy, John. His bluff was all on the surface. He used to take his glasses down, those granny glasses, and say, "it's only me." They were like a wall you know? A shield. Those are the moments I treasure.[351]
In 1983, McCartney said, "I would not have been as typically human and standoffish as I was if I knew John was going to die. I would have made more of an effort to try and get behind his "mask" and have a better relationship with him."[351] He said that he went home that night, watched the news on television with his children and cried most of the evening. In 1997, he admitted the ex-Beatles were nervous at the time that they might also be murdered.[352] He told Mojo magazine in 2002 that Lennon was his greatest hero.[353] In 1981, McCartney sang backup on Harrison's tribute to their ex-bandmate, "All Those Years Ago", which featured Starr on drums.[354] McCartney released "Here Today" in 1982, a song Everett described as "a haunting tribute" to McCartney's friendship with Lennon.[355]
Discussing his relationship with McCartney, Harrison said, "Paul would always help along when you'd done his ten songs—then when he got 'round to doing one of my songs, he would help. It was silly. It was very selfish, actually ... There were a lot of tracks, though, where I played bass ... because what Paul would do—if he'd written a song, he'd learn all the parts for Paul and then come in the studio and say (sometimes he was very difficult): "Do this". He'd never give you the opportunity to come out with something."[356]
After Harrison's death in November 2001, McCartney issued a statement outside his home in St. John's Wood, calling him "a lovely guy and a very brave man who had a wonderful sense of humour". He went on to say, "We grew up together and we just had so many beautiful times together – that's what I am going to remember. I'll always love him, he's my baby brother."[357] On the first anniversary of his death, McCartney played Harrison's "Something" on a ukulele at the Concert for George.[358] He also performed "For You Blue" and "All Things Must Pass", and played the piano on Eric Clapton's rendition of "While My Guitar Gently Weeps".[359]
Starr once described McCartney as "pleasantly insincere", though the two generally enjoy each other's company, and at least once went on holiday together in Greece.[360] Starr recalled, "We couldn't understand a word of the songs the hotel band were playing, so on the last night Paul and I did a few rockers like "What'd I Say".[360] There was at times discord between them as well, particularly during sessions for the White Album. As Apple's Peter Brown recalled, "it was a poorly kept secret among Beatle intimates that after Ringo left the studio Paul would often dub in the drum tracks himself ... [Starr] would pretend not to notice".[361] In August 1968, the two got into an argument over McCartney's critique of Starr's drum part for "Back in the U.S.S.R.", which contributed to Starr temporarily leaving the band.[362] When Starr returned in September, he found bouquets of flowers on his drum kit.[363] Starr commented on working with McCartney: "Paul is the greatest bass player in the world. But he is also very determined ... [to] get his own way ... [thus] musical disagreements inevitably arose from time to time."[364]
McCartney and Starr collaborated on several post-Beatles projects starting in 1973, when McCartney contributed instrumentation and backing vocals for "Six O'Clock", a song McCartney wrote for Starr's album Ringo.[365] McCartney played a kazoo solo on another track from the album, "You're Sixteen".[366] In 1976, McCartney sang backing vocals on another song he wrote for Starr, "Pure Gold", from Ringo's Rotogravure. In 1981, McCartney produced and performed on three songs from Starr's Stop and Smell the Roses, two of which McCartney composed.[367] Starr played drums on and appeared in the music video for McCartney's song Take It Away (from the album "Tug of War" released in 1982).[368] Starr also appeared in the video for McCartney's 1983 song So Bad (from the Pipes of Peace album).[369] He would also appear the following year in an acting role in McCartney's film Give My Regards to Broad Street.[370]
Starr played drums and sang backing vocals on "Beautiful Night" from McCartney's 1997 album, Flaming Pie. The pair collaborated again in 1998, on Starr's Vertical Man, which featured McCartney's backing vocals on three songs, and instrumentation on one.[371] In 2009, the pair performed "With a Little Help From My Friends" at a benefit concert for the David Lynch Foundation.[372] They collaborated on Starr's album, Y Not, in 2010. McCartney played bass on "Peace Dream", and sang a duet with Starr on "Walk with You".[373] On 7 July 2010, Starr was performing at Radio City Music Hall in New York with his All-Starr Band in a concert celebrating his seventieth birthday. After the encores, McCartney made a surprise, last minute appearance, coming out and performing the Beatles' song "Birthday" backed by members of Starr's band.[374]
On January 26, 2014 McCartney and Starr performed "Queenie Eye" from McCartney's new album New at the 56th Annual Grammy Awards.[375]
Inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a solo artist in March 1999, in 1979 Guinness World Records described McCartney as "the Most Successful Composer and Recording Artist of All Time", with 60 gold discs (42 with the Beatles, 17 solo and 1 with the Beatles and Billy Preston) and sales of 100 million albums, 100 million singles, and a writer's credit on forty-three songs that have sold over one million copies each.[376] He has written or co-written "188 charted records, of which 129 are different songs. Of these records, 91 reached the Top 10 and 33 made it to number 1.[clarification needed] In total, the songs have spent 1,662 weeks in the charts (up to the beginning of 2007)."[377]
McCartney has written, or co-written 32 number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100: twenty with the Beatles; seven solo and/or with Wings; one as a co-writer of "A World Without Love", a number-one single for Peter and Gordon; one as a co-writer on Elton John's cover of "Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds"; one as a co-writer on Stars on 45's "Medley"; one as a co-writer with Michael Jackson on "Say Say Say"; and one as a co-writer with Stevie Wonder on "Ebony and Ivory".[378] As of 2014[update], he has sold 15.5 million RIAA certified units in the United States.[379]
Credited with more number ones in the UK than any other artist, McCartney has participated in twenty-four chart topping singles: seventeen with the Beatles, one solo, and one each with Wings, Stevie Wonder, Ferry Aid, Band Aid, Band Aid 20 and "The Christians et al."[380][nb 48] He is the only artist to reach the UK number one as a soloist ("Pipes of Peace"), duo ("Ebony and Ivory" with Wonder), trio ("Mull of Kintyre", Wings), quartet ("She Loves You", the Beatles), quintet ("Get Back", the Beatles with Billy Preston) and as part of a musical ensemble for charity (Ferry Aid).[382]
"Yesterday" is the most covered song in history with more than 2,200 recorded versions, and according to the BBC, "the track is the only one by a UK writer to have been aired more than seven million times on American TV and radio and is third in the all-time list ... [and] is the most played song by a British writer [last] century in the US".[383] His 1968 Beatles composition, "Hey Jude", is also a career highlight. It achieved the highest sales in the UK that year, topping the US charts for nine weeks, longer than any other Beatles single. It was also the longest single released by the band, and at seven minutes eleven seconds, the longest ever number one to that point.[384] "Hey Jude" is the best-selling Beatles single, achieving sales of over five million copies soon after its release.[385][nb 49]
In July 2005, McCartney's performance of "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" with U2 at Live 8 became the fastest-released single in history. Available within forty-five minutes of its recording, hours later it had achieved number one on the UK Official Download Chart.[173]
In June 1965, McCartney, Lennon, Harrison and Starr, were made Members of the Order of the British Empire.[387] In 1990, the IAU's Minor Planet Center named the planet 4148, "McCartney" in his honour.[388] In March 1997, Queen Elizabeth II knighted him for services to music.[389] In May 2000, the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors awarded him a Fellowship.[390] In 2008, he received a BRIT award for Outstanding Contribution to Music, as well as an honorary Doctor of Music degree from Yale University.[391] In 2010, President Barack Obama honoured McCartney with the Gershwin Prize for his contributions to popular music.[392] He returned to the White House later that year as a recipient of the Kennedy Center Honors.[393] McCartney won two Grammy awards with Wings, and two as a solo artist.[394] In 2012, he became the last Beatle to receive a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.[395] On 8 September 2012, during a ceremony in Paris, French President François Hollande decorated McCartney with the Légion d'Honneur, with a rank of officer, for his services to music.[396]
Main articles: List of songs recorded by Paul McCartney, Paul McCartney discography, Wings discography and the Beatles discography
Out There! Tour – yet 33 shows worldwide (North America, Central America, South America, Europe and Asia), 2013-2014
Babiuk, Andy; Bacon, Tony (editor) (2002). Beatles Gear: All the Fab Four's Instruments, from Stage to Studio (Revised ed.). Backbeat Books. ISBN 978-0-87930-731-8. 
Bacon, Tony; Morgan, Gareth (2006). Paul McCartney – Bass Master – Playing the Great Beatles Basslines (1st ed.). Backbeat Books. ISBN 978-0-87930-884-1. 
Badman, Keith (1999). The Beatles After the Breakup 1970–2000: A Day-by-Day Diary (2001 ed.). Omnibus. ISBN 978-0-7119-8307-6. 
Benitez, Vincent Perez (2010). The Words and Music of Paul McCartney: The Solo Years. Praeger. ISBN 978-0-313-34969-0. 
Blaney, John (2007). Lennon and McCartney: Together Alone (1st ed.). Jawbone Press. ISBN 978-1-906002-02-2. 
Bronson, Fred (1992). The Billboard Book of Number One Hits (3rd revised ed.). Billboard Books. ISBN 978-0-8230-8298-8. 
Brown, Peter; Gaines, Steven (2002). The Love You Make: An Insider's Story of The Beatles. New American Library. ISBN 978-0-451-20735-7. 
Doggett, Peter (2009). You Never Give Me Your Money: The Beatles After the Breakup (1st US hardcover ed.). Harper. ISBN 978-0-06-177446-1. 
Emerick, Geoff; Massey, Howard (2006). Here, There and Everywhere: My Life Recording the Music of The Beatles. Gotham. ISBN 978-1-59240-269-4. 
Everett, Walter (1999). The Beatles as Musicians: Revolver through the Anthology. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-512941-0. 
George-Warren, Holly, ed. (2001). The Rolling Stone Encyclopedia of Rock & Roll (2005 revised and updated ed.). Fireside. ISBN 978-0-7432-9201-6. 
Gould, Jonathan (2007). Can't Buy Me Love: The Beatles, Britain and America (First Paperback ed.). Three Rivers Press. ISBN 978-0-307-35338-2. 
Glenday, Craig (editor) (2008). "Guinness World Records 2009". Guinness World Records Ltd. ISBN 978-1-904994-37-4. 
Harry, Bill (2000a). The Beatles Encyclopedia: Revised and Updated. Virgin. ISBN 978-0-7535-0481-9. 
Ingham, Chris (2009). The Rough Guide to The Beatles (3rd ed.). Rough Guides. ISBN 978-1-84836-525-4. 
Kastan, David Scott (2006). Oxford Encyclopedia of British Literature 1. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-516921-8. 
Levy, Joe (editor) (2005). Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time (First Paperback ed.). Wenner Books. ISBN 978-1-932958-61-4. 
Lewisohn, Mark (1992). The Complete Beatles Chronicle:The Definitive Day-By-Day Guide to the Beatles' Entire Career (2010 ed.). Chicago Review Press. ISBN 978-1-56976-534-0. 
Lewisohn, Mark (editor) (2002). Wingspan: Paul McCartney's Band on the Run. Little, Brown. ISBN 978-0-316-86032-1. 
MacDonald, Ian (2005). Revolution in the Head: The Beatles' Records and the Sixties (3rd (2007) ed.). Chicago Review Press. ISBN 978-1-55652-733-3. 
McCartney, Paul; Mitchell, Adrian (editor) (2001). Blackbird singing: Poems and Lyrics 1965–1999. W.W. Norton and Company Inc. ISBN 978-0-393-02049-6. 
McGee, Garry (2003). Band on the Run: A History of Paul McCartney and Wings. Taylor Trade. ISBN 978-0-87833-304-2. 
Miles, Barry (1997). Paul McCartney: Many Years From Now (1st Hardcover ed.). Henry Holt & Company. ISBN 978-0-8050-5248-0. 
Miles, Barry (1998). The Beatles: A Diary—An Intimate Day by Day History (2009 ed.). JG Press. ISBN 978-1-57215-010-2. 
Miles, Barry (2001). The Beatles Diary Volume 1: The Beatles Years. Omnibus. ISBN 978-0-7119-8308-3. 
Roberts, David (editor) (2005). British Hit Singles & Albums (18 ed.). Guinness World Records Limited. ISBN 978-1-904994-00-8. 
Sheff, David; Golson, G. Barry (editor) (1981). The Playboy Interviews with John Lennon & Yoko Ono. Playboy Press. ISBN 0-87223-705-2. 
Sounes, Howard (2010). Fab: An Intimate Life of Paul McCartney. Da Capo Press. ISBN 978-0-306-81783-0. 
Southall, Brian; Perry, Rupert (contributor) (2006). Northern Songs: The True Story of the Beatles Song Publishing Empire. Omnibus. ISBN 978-1-84609-237-4. 
Barrow, Tony (2005). John, Paul, George, Ringo & Me: The Real Beatles Story. Thunder's Mouth. ISBN 1-56025-882-9. 
Davies, Hunter (2009). The Beatles: The Authorized Biography (3rd revised ed.). W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN 978-0-393-33874-4. 
Gambaccini, Paul (1996). The McCartney Interviews: After the Break-Up (2 ed.). Omnibus Press. ISBN 978-0-7119-5494-6. 
Gracen, Jorie B. (2000). Paul McCartney: I Saw Him Standing There. Watson-Guptill Publications. ISBN 978-0-8230-8372-5. 
Kirchherr, Astrid; Voormann, Klaus (1999). Hamburg Days. Guildford, Surrey: Genesis Publications. ISBN 978-0-904351-73-6. 
Martin, George (1979). All You Need Is Ears. New York: St. Martin's Press. ISBN 978-0-312-11482-4. 
Martin, George; Pearson, William (1994). Summer of Love: The Making of Sgt. Pepper. Macmillan. ISBN 0-333-60398-2. 
Peel, Ian (2002). The Unknown Paul McCartney: McCartney and the avant-garde. Reynolds & Hearn. ISBN 978-1-903111-36-9. 
Raymer, Miles (2010). How to Analyze the Music of Paul McCartney. ABDO Publishing Company. ISBN 978-1-61613-531-7. 
Christmas Kisses: "The Christmas Song (Chestnuts Roasting on an Open Fire)" / "Wonderful Christmastime"
Categories: Paul McCartney1942 births20th-century classical composers20th-century English singers21st-century classical composers21st-century English singersAnimal rights advocatesBacking vocalistsBest Original Music Score Academy Award winnersBrit Award winnersBritish people convicted of drug offencesCapitol Records artistsComposers awarded knighthoodsEnglish billionairesEnglish composersEnglish male singersEnglish multi-instrumentalistsEnglish people of Irish descentEnglish pop singersEnglish rock bass guitaristsEnglish rock guitaristsEnglish rock pianistsEnglish rock singersEnglish singer-songwritersFellows of the American Academy of Arts and SciencesGrammy Award-winning artistsGrammy Lifetime Achievement Award winnersHonorary Members of the Royal Academy of MusicIvor Novello Award winnersJames McCartneyKennedy Center honoreesKnights BachelorLiving peopleMcCartney familyMembers of the Order of the British EmpireMercury Records artistsMusicians awarded knighthoodsParlophone artistsPeople educated at Liverpool Institute High School for BoysPop singer-songwritersRagtime composersRecipients of the Order of Merit (Chile)Recipients of the Order of the Sun of PeruRock and Roll Hall of Fame inducteesRock singer-songwritersSilver Clef Awards winnersSingers awarded knighthoodsSingers with a four-octave vocal rangeSongwriters Hall of Fame inducteesThe Beatles membersThe Quarrymen membersTranscendental Meditation practitionersWings (band) membersAcademics of the Liverpool Institute for Performing ArtsGershwin Prize recipientsHidden categories: Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2012All articles containing potentially dated statementsArticles containing potentially dated statements from 2014Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersPages using citations with accessdate and no URLUse British English from January 2014Use dmy dates from January 2014Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesArticles with hAudio microformatsArticles with hCardsArticles containing potentially dated statements from 2013Wikipedia articles needing clarification from April 2014Featured articlesWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with ULAN identifiersWikipedia articles with MusicBrainz identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Sir Paul McCartney was born James Paul McCartney in Liverpool in 1942. His father, Jim McCartney worked as a cotton salesman and his mother, Mary, worked as a nurse and midwife. Paul’s dad had a talent for music too, and was a keen pianist: he even had his own band, called Jim Mac’s Jazz Band. Paul’s younger brother, Michael, is better known as Mike McGear, the Liverpool poet who belongs to a group called The Scaffold. Mike uses the stage name McGear so as not to capitalise on his older brother’s fame.
Growing up in Liverpool just after World War II, Sir Paul enjoyed a happy and uneventful childhood and showed an early gift for music and also for art. He did well at primary school and was one of only four pupils in his year to pass the 11+ exam. His success earned him a place at the prestigious Liverpool Institute for Boys, which he attended from 1953 until 1960. He left school having passed A-levels in English and art.
Sir Paul’s happy childhood came to an abrupt end when he was 14-years-old, and his beloved mother died very suddenly and unexpectedly from breast cancer. He was devastated by this tragic loss and turned to music and writing songs in order to try and come to terms with his mother’s death. A short while later, he was performing music at a local church fete, when he happened to meet a fellow budding musician called John Lennon. At that time, Lennon had already formed his own band, called The Quarrymen, and he was so impressed by Sir Paul’s guitar skills and versatile singing ability that he invited him to come and join his band. Over the course of the next few years, Lennon added George Harrison and Pete Best to the line-up and the band changed its name to The Beatles. The rest, as they say, is history.
In the beginning, the band played most of their gigs in their home town Liverpool, at a venue called The Cavern Club, and made a brief foray over to Germany, where they played in Hamburg. By the end of 1961, the boys had decided that they needed to find a manager and chose local businessman Brian Epstein for the job. Epstein was a skilful entrepreneur and helped the boys to improve their image and make the most of their raw, unpolished talents. Epstein also replaced drummer Pete Best with Ringo Starr, and helped the boys secure a recording contract with EMI. Sir Paul became the lead vocalist with The Beatles, as well as playing a variety of instruments, including bass guitar, acoustic and electric guitar, piano and keyboards. He reportedly also played upwards of three dozen other musical instruments.
Sir Paul was not only a multi-talented instrumentalist, he was also a gifted songwriter, and he and Lennon wrote many of the hit songs together during the Beatles years. Back in 1957, whilst they were still both teenagers, Lennon and Sir Paul agreed that every song they wrote together would have 50/50 ownership, and they stuck to this agreement in later years, despite the fact that such an oral contract wasn’t legally binding, as they were still both minors.
Even though each wrote a great many songs individually, over 200 songs that were recorded by The Beatles are still formally credited to both men. Many of the songs evolved during the band’s jamming sessions: the 1963 classic number, ‘I Want To Hold Your Hand’ is one such song. Sir Paul’s most famous songs have all become classics: perhaps the most famous of these are ‘Yesterday’, ‘Eleanor Rigby’, ‘Let It Be’, ‘When I’m 64’, and ‘Blackbird’. ‘Yesterday’ is arguably perhaps the most famous song ever written, since over 3,000 cover versions of it have been recorded by hundreds of artists, since it was first published. Many of the Beatles songs and cover images were quite political, and promoted values of peace, freedom and the liberation of the imagination.
As well as revolutionising the music of the day, The Beatles’ music and style had a massive impact on popular culture. As a band, they were massively popular, particularly with teenage girls, and tended to be greeted by hysterical crowds of screaming fans whenever they arrived in a city to play a gig. This phenomenon soon became known as ‘Beatlemania!’ Everything about them, their clothes, their hairstyles, was widely copied. It might well be said that they were the original ‘boy band’.
In 1967, the band suffered a terrible loss, when their manager Brian Epstein died. From that point onwards, the Beatles began to lose their unified creative focus, and all four members began to develop their individual creative ambitions. In 1969, Sir Paul married his first wife Linda, whom he’d met in a London nightclub called The Bag O’Nails. Linda was a musician too, and quite soon after his marriage, he formed his own band, called Wings. Sir Paul’s first solo album, ‘Maybe I’m Amazed’ was a number one hit, and his new band Wings soon became one of the most successful groups in the world during the 1970s; the album ‘Band On The Run’ won two Grammy Awards.
In 1977, Wings released ‘Mull of Kintyre’, which was number one in the UK charts for nine weeks, and became the highest selling single record for seven years. In 1979, Sir Paul teamed up with fellow musician Elvis Costello to help organise benefit concerts for the people of Cambodia.
As the 1980s dawned, Sir Paul encountered a run of bad luck. In 1980, he was arrested in Tokyo for possession of marijuana and spent ten days in jail. This scandalous event provoked a massive media response throughout the world and when he was released from prison, he retreated into seclusion for the major part of the following year. Fate also struck a tragic blow in December 1980, when his former song writing buddy and fellow Beatle John Lennon was killed by an assassin’s bullet outside his apartment building in New York. The tragedy caused Sir Paul to retreat still further from the public eye, and he did not appear in public again until 1982, when he released his new album ‘Tug Of War’.
Sir Paul pursued a highly successful career as a solo recording artist, and also found time to explore different forms of musical composition. During the 1990s, he composed several pieces of classical music for the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Society, including ‘The Liverpool Oratorio’, which was written for a choir and symphony orchestra, and a work for solo piano entitled ‘A Leaf’. In 1994, the three surviving members of The Beatles re-united and produced John Lennon’s unpublished song ‘Free As A Bird’, which had been preserved by Yoko Ono on a tape recording made in 1977.
During the 1980s and 1990s, Sir Paul and his wife Linda also made time to promote their own personal causes. The McCartneys were both committed vegetarians and spent considerable time and energy promoting vegetarianism (Linda McCartney produced her own line of vegetarian frozen foods), and raising public awareness of animal rights issues. Sir Paul and Linda raised four children - Stella, Mary, Heather and James - and enjoyed a happy marriage and family life. When he was arrested on drugs charges in Japan in 1980, he claimed that the nights he spent in prison were the only time he’d ever been separated from his wife.
Sadly, in 1995, Linda was diagnosed the breast cancer, the same disease that had claimed the life of Sir Paul’s mother: he nursed her during her illness, and she fought the disease bravely, but to no avail. She died in April 1998 after a marriage of almost 30 years. Shattered by his loss, Sir Paul retreated into seclusion once again. In 2000, he released the album ‘A Garland For Linda’, which was a tribute album, the proceeds of which were donated to help survivors of cancer. He was knighted by the Queen in 1997. Since Linda’s death, Sir Paul has pursued both his interest in classical music, and his own solo recording career. He released a classical album, ‘Working Classical’ at the end of 1999, and an album of rock’n’roll covers called ‘Run Devil Run’, also in 1999. His latest classical album, ‘Ecco Cor Meum’ (Behold My Heart) was widely acclaimed and was also voted Classical Album of The Year in 2007.
Also in 2000, Sir Paul was invited by the disabled former model Heather Mills to attend her birthday party. Romance blossomed, and he and Heather became engaged the following year. They married in June 2002 at a castle in Scotland and their daughter Beatrice Milly McCartney was born in October 2003. That same year, Sir Paul gave an extraordinary concert in Red Square in Moscow, called ‘Back in The USSR’. The concert was attended by the Russian president Vladimir Putin, who invited the Beatle to be guest of honour at the Kremlin.
Sadly, Sir Paul’s second marriage floundered: he and Heather split up in 2005 and generated massive media attention thanks to their highly acrimonious and public divorce. In March 2008, the courts ordered that Sir Paul pay £24.3m to Heather Mills. The judge awarded a lump sum of £16.5 million and assets of £7.8 million. The judge found that the total value of all Sir Paul’s assets, including his business interests, was about £400 million and that there was no evidence at all before him that he was worth £800 million - as had been reported in the media.
His latest musical venture saw him enter the world of ballet. The musician recently announced that he would be collaborating with Peter Martins, the New York City Ballet’s master in chief, on a World Premiere Ballet. Commenting on his decision to write for a ballet, Sir Paul said: “I am always interested in new directions that I haven’t worked in before. So I became very excited about the idea. When I got back to England after meeting Peter, I started writing music and am now in the very final stages of the orchestral score.” He explained that he was enjoying writing music that conveyed emotions, as opposed to using words to depict a feeling.
In 2008, Sir Paul was given an Outstanding Contribution to Music by the Brit Awards and an honorary degree - Doctor of Music - from Yale University. He also performed at a concert in Liverpool to celebrate the city being named the European Capital of Culture 2009.
In 2009, the US gave Sir Paul recognition in the form of a Grammy for Best Solo Rock Vocal Performance for his live version of ‘Helter Skelter’ from ‘Good Evening New York City’.
He said the news was a “big surprise” and described how he received a text telling him he had won after attending a BAFTA’s after show party.
This recognition from the US was followed by Sir Paul being honoured by current US president Barack Obama on 2 June 2010, as he was given the Gershwin Prize for his contributions to popular music in a live performance at the White House.
There are currently plans to record a tribute to Sir Paul, with artists including Kiss, Billy Joel and BB King, to name but a few, singing some of his songs.
Sir Paul announced an 11-date tour, with three dates being played in the UK, which will start in November 2011.
He will also be named Musicares Person of the Year on 10 February 2012, two days before the 54th Grammy Awards.
Sir Paul has been dating Nancy Shevell since 2007, who has perhaps notably nothing to do with the show business world, and is vice president of a family-owned transportation conglomerate which owns New England Motor Freight.
The couple got married on 9 October 2011 at the Old Marylebone Town Hall in London. The reception took place at his north London home, with Ringo Starr wishing them 'peace and love'.
He continues to write and record music that still delights audiences the world over. He's one of the key shakers and movers in popular culture, as well as being one of the wealthiest men in Britain.
He is generally acknowledged to be one of the most popular entertainers in the world today. The Guinness Book of Records has recognised his many and varied contributions to the music industry and lists him as the most successful musician and composer in popular music history.
=======================================================
Paul McCartney was the first of the Beatles to work on an extracurricular recording project (the soundtrack to the 1966 film The Family Way) and also the first to release a bonafide solo album of songs (McCartney, which appeared as the Beatles were dissolving in 1970). McCartney has been the most prolific ex-Beatle and has also enjoyed the greatest measure of commercial success.
Between his work with the Beatles and as a solo artist and leader of Wings, McCartney has written or co-written more than 50 Top 10 singles. With and without Wings, McCartney has been extremely prolific, averaging an album a year since the appearance of McCartney. Moreover, he’s been eclectic as well, not only recording pop and rock but also dabbling in various classical forms and ambient dance music. In the post-Beatles era, McCartney has cracked the Top 40 35 times. When combined with the Beatles’ 49 Top 40 U.S. singles, it is a matter of statistical fact that Paul McCartney is the most successful pop-music composer ever and the second greatest hitmaker, behind Elvis Presley. Without question he is one of the most important musicians of the 20th century.
Beyond the numerical achievements, McCartney’s career is noteworthy for the purposeful way in which he demystified himself as a rock star in the wake of the Beatles. During the Seventies – a decade of ego-tripping superstars, flamboyant glam-rockers and defiant punk-rockers – McCartney modestly presented himself to the world as a family man who happened to be a working musician. His songs often celebrated the mundane pleasures of everyday life. As a songwriter who delights in the quotidian, as opposed to edgier rock and rollers steeped in mystique and risk-taking, McCartney has rarely been a favorite of rock critics. However, his body of work – some of it admittedly lightweight, much of it unjustly dismissed – has given boundless pleasure to the music loving public. Having been the primary melodist within the Beatles, it is not surprising that McCartney’s knack for an ear-catching pop tune remained very much in evidence. 
McCartney’s low-key solo debut belied the turmoil that attended the simultaneous breakup of the Beatles. Recorded on a four-track machine, this collection of simple songs and fragments found him playing keyboards, guitar, bass and drums. A one-man show that added up to an evocation of (in his own words) “home, family, love,” McCartney anticipated the singer-songwriter movement that would fill the early-Seventies void after the chaos and clamor of the Sixties. McCartney appeared in April 1970, two weeks before Let It Be, the Beatles’ last studio release. A year later came Ram, credited to Paul and Linda McCartney. (The couple were married in March 1969; it was the second marriage for Linda.) Ram became a favorite with FM rock deejays and even yielded a Number One single, the whimsical, ambitious “Uncle Albert/Admiral Halsey.”
For the rest of the decade, save for the odd solo single, McCartney devoted his creative energies to Wings. Under the banner of Wings, McCartney worked with Linda (who played keyboards and sang) and a fairly stable lineup of musicians. Technically, Wings were an entity longer than the Beatles, though there occurred several personnel changes between their formation in 1971 and disbanding 10 years later. McCartney clearly intended Wings to be perceived as a band, and he willingly submerged his identity within the group framework, especially on Wings’ much-maligned 1971 debut, Wild Life. Their best recording – it was, in fact, attributed to Paul McCartney and Wings – was Band On the Run (1973). Recorded in Africa by the McCartneys and singer/guitarist Denny Laine (formerly of the Moody Blues), it struck many as McCartney’s attempt to deflect criticism that his post-Beatles’ work lacked substance. The album and its three Top 10 hits ("Jet," “Band on the Run” and “Helen Wheels") were catchy, energetic and fun, much like the best of the Beatles.
With the addition of guitarist Jimmy McCulloch and drummer Joe English, Wings expanded to a five-piece band for Venus and Mars. Commercially, McCartney had his finger on the pulse of the Seventies. Five consecutive Wings albums – Red Rose Speedway, Band on the Run, Venus and Mars, Wings at the Speed of Sound and Wings Over America (a triple live album) – topped the album charts. At the height of punk rock in 1977, McCartney must be considered one of the most influential musicians of the 20th century. Wings’ sentimental tribute to hearth and home, “Mull of  Kintyre,” became the best-selling single in British history. So popular were Wings that in 1978, the group could fill a 13-track best-of, Wings Greatest, with nothing but hits. In 1979, Wings switched labels, from Capitol to Columbia, and released their last album, Back to the Egg. The group officially disbanded in April 1981.
McCartney resumed his solo career with 1980’s McCartney II. He followed it with Tug of War (1982), which reunited him with Beatles producer George Martin and was regarded as his strongest outing since Band On the Run. McCartney duetted with Stevie Wonder on Tug of War‘s “Ebony and Ivory” and sang with Michael Jackson on “The Girl Is Mine,” which appeared on the latter’s Thriller. Another duet with Jackson, “Say Say Say,” turned up on McCartney’s Pipes of Peace (1983). Give My Regards to Broad Street, a feature film and accompanying soundtrack, released in 1984, included his reworkings of several Beatles songs.
The McCartney catalog has swelled since the mid-Eighties as he’s tackled an eclectic assortment of projects. These include a solid run of solo albums (Press to Play, Flowers in the Dirt, Off the Ground, Driving Rain, Memory Almost Full), live albums from world tours (Tripping the Live Fantastic, Paul Is Live, Back in the U.S. and Good Evening New York), an acoustic session for MTV (Unplugged: The Official Bootleg), an album of vintage rock and roll covers (Choba B CCCP, initially released only in the Soviet Union), and a pair of electronic “rave” albums issued under the alias “The Fireman.” McCartney also explored classical forms with his Liverpool Oratorio (1991), written with conductor Carl Davis, and the orchestral piece Standing Stone (1997), composed in celebration of the 100th anniversary of EMI, his record label. Also in 1997 came Flaming Pie, a modest masterpiece that nodded to the past while reaffirming his skills as a pop craftsman. McCartney claimed to have been inspired by his involvement in the Beatles’ Anthology, the 1995 TV miniseries and three-volume retrospective of the Fab Four’s recorded work: “The Anthology was very good for me because it reminded me of the Beatles’ standards and the standards that we reached with the songs,” he said.
Another project close to his heart was Wide Prairie, an album of songs by his late wife, Linda McCartney. Highly regarded in her own right as a photographer, animal rights activist and vegetarian cook (not to mention wife,  mother and inseparable companion) Linda died of breast cancer in 1998. McCartney returned to his rock and roll roots for the 1999 album Run Devil Run, whose 15 tracks were cut in only one week-much like the Beatles had worked back in the early days. Erasing any doubts that he’d “gone classical,” McCartney asserted, “I still love my rock and roll.”
McCarney has remained extremely active into the 21st Century. In 2001, he helped organize the Concert for New York City for the victims of the September 11 terrorist attacks, which he witnessed from the tarmac of JFK Airport in New York. He also released an album, Driving Rain, which included a song, "Freedom," about the attacks. In 2005, he performed at the Live 8 concert in London, and in 2012 - the year he turned 70 - he released Kisses on the Bottom, a collection of standards, and he performed at Queen Elizabeth's Diamond Jubilee Concert and at the opening ceremony for the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.
McCartney has scored more than 60 gold records, and he has sold more than 100 million CDs and 100 million singles. Despite his age, it appears that Paul McCartney will be a force to be reckoned with for many years to come.
=======================================================
More:Peter Travers•Yahoo Music•RS Dance•RS on Spotify•RS Soundtrack•My Favorite Music•Young Guns 
To close out the decade, McCartney made a series of high-profile concert appearances, starting with a performance of "I Saw Her Standing There" at the 51st Annual Grammys with Foo Fighters drummer Dave Grohl sitting in on drums. In early April 2009, McCartney and his Beatles bandmate Ringo Starr reunited onstage at a transcendental meditation benefit curated by director David Lynch at New York's Radio City Music Hall, and just days later, McCartney was recruited to headline the opening night of the Coachella Music Festival in Indio, California in 2009. Fittingly, when the Mets' new home Citi Field was opened in 2009, McCartney helped christen that stadium with a series of shows in July 2009 (Billy Joel returned McCartney's Shea favor by appearing at the opening Citi show.)
The concerts were preceded by a noteworthy McCartney performance on The Late Show with David Letterman, with McCartney and band staging a surprise performance on the marquee of the Ed Sullivan Theatre in New York. Both performances were documented in the CD/DVD Good Evening, New York City (Number 16.) It was also an especially active year for Beatles fans as well, as the Fab Four's entire discography was finally remastered and reissued on compact disc on September 9th, 2009. A video game starring digital avatars of the Beatles and boasting the group's music, The Beatles: Rock Band, was also released the same day as the album reissues.
As a testament of McCartney and his former bandmates' enduring and unimpeachable impact on music history, nearly 40 years after the Beatles dissolved, the Fab Four ended the first decade of the millennium by having the 2000s' best-selling album, the greatest hits collection 1.
We may use your e-mail address to send you the newsletter and offers that may interest you, on behalf of Rolling Stone and its partners. For more information please read our Privacy Policy.
100 Greatest Guitarists100 Greatest Singers500 Greatest Albums of All Time500 Greatest Songs100 Best Albums of the 2000s100 Greatest Beatles Songs 
=======================================================
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
   background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/twister/tiny-snake._V192199047_.gif') no-repeat scroll 0px 0px;
  cursor: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-in._V184888790_.bmp'),pointer;
  cursor: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-out._V184888738_.bmp),pointer;
.swSprite { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; margin: 0;padding: 0; position: relative; overflow: hidden; vertical-align: middle; background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler div.disabled-button { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image {  background-position: -60px -80px;background-color: white;}
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image { background-position: -30px -80px; background-color: white;}
.dpSprite { background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-dp-2._V384267953_.png'); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.udpSprite { background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/udp-sprite-dp-2._V358106326_.png') no-repeat; vertical-align: middle; display: inline-block;}
.cmtySprite { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-communities._V136632413_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192250049_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V156431432_.png);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192190832_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite._V192250042_.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192239831_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/customerimage/shuttle-gradient._V192250138_.gif); 
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V192238939_.gif');
    background: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/sprite-carousel-btns-stars2._V376388587_.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_left_17._V248144977_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_right_17._V248144979_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_left._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top._V265110086_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_left._V265110084_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom._V265110084_.png); }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-arrow-v._V219326286_.png);
     #twister .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; } #twister .a-dropdown-container span.a-button-dropdown { display: none !important } 	
     #buybox_feature_div .a-native-dropdown, #buybox .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; font-weight: normal;}
     #buybox_feature_div label.a-native-dropdown, #buybox label.a-native-dropdown {padding-right: 5px;}
     #buybox_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown, #buybox .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown  { display: none !important;} 
     #defaultChildDropdown_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown { display: none !important;}
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York TimesŽ Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
No Kindle device required. Download one of the free Kindle apps to start reading Kindle books on your smartphone, tablet and computer.
FREE Two-Day Shipping is available to Amazon Prime members. To join, select "Yes, I want FREE Two-Day Shipping with Amazon Prime" above the Add to Cart button and confirm your Amazon Prime free trial sign-up during checkout.
Important:  Your credit card will NOT be charged when you start your free trial or if you cancel during the trial period. If you're happy with Amazon Prime, do nothing. At the end of the free trial, your membership will automatically upgrade to an annual membership.
    * https://omni-grok.amazon.com/xref/src/appgroup/websiteTemplates/retail/SoftlinesDetailPageAssets/udp-intl-lock/src/legacy.css?indexName=WebsiteTemplates#40
This is a bargain book and quantities are limited. Bargain books are new but could include a small mark from the publisher and an Amazon.com price sticker identifying them as such. Details
 More than a rock star, more than a celebrity, Paul McCartney is a cultural touchstone who helped transform popular music as one half of the legendary Lennon-McCartney songwriting duo. In this definitive biography, Peter Ames Carlin examines McCartney’s entire life, casting new light not just on the Beatles era but also on his years with Wings and his thirty-year relationship with his first wife, Linda McCartney. He takes us on a journey through a tumultuous couple of decades in which Paul struck out on his own as a solo artist, reached the top of the charts with a new band, and once again drew hundreds of thousands of screaming fans to his concerts. Carlin presents McCartney as a musical visionary but also as a layered and conflicted figure as haunted by his own legacy—and particularly his relationship with John Lennon—as he was inspired by it. Built on years of research and fresh, revealing interviews with friends, bandmates, and collaborators spanning McCartney’s entire life, Carlin’s lively biography captures the many faces of the living legend.
{"currencyCode":"USD","itemData":[{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":6.4,"ASIN":"B005DIA95U","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":22.17,"ASIN":"0805052496","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":12.88,"ASIN":"0811859002","isPreorder":0}],"shippingId":"B005DIA95U::M1KFwtT3UMqyi65xq6NnO%2FRhclWrhsahLxWIJ4gYIKIEKmBE8n8UkYGF8vZY8oPtkgUNXtiOqiW3jDIuRIAfMPAAhl1Ok4kyN82jN4tKjvedOa59pVdl5g%3D%3D,0805052496::J9ZDn5iEE4o1U4paFQbsKTGoOaJeERKqQ28R6brHlfpoA1TuHYTJqLQCwUmmxxPWUOS7QYOLlQlK6lvVpFnKpxwxMLxpkTCreYtkL1R60lc%3D,0811859002::iNE9vyJynpU9Z535lgOiHAfQxNozja7do2AylfHuiZ0yuFiFlf2Vmh79GSrz12dRkPHDFbCI8BLk93FmvOLKwMrathmnvXITWVAhInKTWTQ%3D","sprites":{"addToWishlist":["wl_one","wl_two","wl_three"],"addToCart":["s_addToCart","s_addBothToCart","s_add3ToCart"],"preorder":["s_preorderThis","s_preorderBoth","s_preorderAll3"]},"shippingDetails":{"xz":"same","yz":"same","xy":"same","xyz":"same"},"tags":["x","y","z"],"strings":{"addToWishlist":["add to wishlist","Add both to Wish List","Add all three to Wish List"],"addToCart":["Add to Cart","Add both to Cart","Add all three to Cart"],"showDetailsDefault":"Show availability and shipping details","shippingError":"An error occurred, please try again","hideDetailsDefault":"Hide availability and shipping details","priceLabel":["Price:","Price for both:","Price for all three:"],"preorder":["Pre-order this item","Pre-order both items","Pre-order all three items"]}}
0060754028,0805052496,0811859002,1439191824,0306820471,0393328864,B00EUS9JF0,0312114826,B00J2PQZEY,0062112031,B000P2A242,B00018D2X8,B00CG0YLGG,B006OAB3ME,B003TJ4YU6,0061774189,1592402690,1439191832,B000AL730O,B005GRF31I,B000AYELY2,B00EEPFQ88,0307407837,B0015UKX6U,B004WJREPO,0143037323,1594867496,B001GKYBXA,1401324525,0306817837,B00CG0YMI8
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V397906885_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-right._V192549178_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_br._V192190565_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_03._V192190907_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-topleft._V192549173_.gif');
       Despite the famous rumors of his death in 1969, Paul is alive and well in Carlin's hagiographic portrait of the creative genius behind the Beatles, the lead man of Wings and the brilliant though sometimes insecure solo artist still filling stadiums. Drawing on recent interviews with friends and McCartney's former band mates from Wings as well as on fresh research on the Liverpool lad, Carlin chronicles McCartney's life from his childhood love of music and his youthful entry into rock and roll with John Lennon in the Quarrymen to his meteoric rise to fame as one of the Beatles, his breakup with the band, his marriage to Linda Eastman and her death, and his recent marriage to and divorce from Heather Mills. Carlin rehearses the well-known story of the Beatles' breakup and Paul's disenchantment with Yoko Ono's role in leading the musical directions of the band. Feeling lost after the band dissolved, McCartney channeled his grief into his music, much as he did when his mother died when he was only 12, though critics both panned and praised his solo records. Since Barry Miles's definitive biography, Paul McCartney: Many Years from Now), goes only up to Linda's death in 1998, Carlin's study brings the musician's life to his most recent solo album, Electric Arguments (2008). McCartney emerges from Carlin's admiring biography as a brilliant musician who provided the creative direction for the Beatles, who taught John Lennon how to play the guitar and who continues to create new musical challenges for himself even now, when he's moving past 64. What's missing are interviews with McCartney himself. (Nov.) Copyright © Reed Business Information, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
       More than half of Carlin’s McCartney biography overlaps the Beatles’ story. Carlin recounts the highs and lows most Beatle fans know, including McCartney’s Liverpool childhood, his mother’s tragic death, meeting John Lennon, the Beatles’ rowdy Hamburg days, the first U.S. tour, the chaotic glory years in the 1960s, and abandoning touring for the security of the recording studio. He chronicles the lawsuits, the personal rivalries, and the various couplings, successful and failed. On beyond the Fab Four days, he discusses McCartney’s solo career up to the 2007 release of his latest album, Memory Almost Full, and examines McCartney’s complicated personal life, including his marriage to Linda Eastman, her subsequent death, and the short, ill-fated marriage to Heather Mills. Written in a conversational style that becomes almost novelistic in tone, Carlin’s book breaks no new ground. Yet Beatles aficionados, especially the completists among them, will want to read it anyhow. --June Sawyers
      Peter Ames Carlin is a journalist, critic and author. Previously a free-lance writer, senior writer at People magazine and a TV critic for The Oregonian newspaper, his work has been published in the New York Times Magazine, the Los Angeles Times Magazine, the Times (UK), Men's Journal and the British music magazine, The Word. He is also the author of BRUCE (Touchstone, November 2012), PAUL McCARTNEY: A LIFE (Touchstone, November, 2009) and CATCH A WAVE: THE RISE, FALL AND REDEMPTION OF THE BEACH BOYS' BRIAN WILSON (Rodale, 2006). A professional writer since 1985, Carlin has written about a wide variety of subjects. His 2009 investigation of financial and identity fraud conducted by TV news executive Jeff Alan spurred a year-long federal investigation that sent Alan to federal prison. Still, Carlin's work has focused mostly on popular culture and music. Carlin lives in Portland, Ore. with his wife and three children. 
    .quotes-bubble-arrow { height: 0; width: 0; left: 18px; border-color: #EEEEEE rgba(238,238,238,0); border-width: 15px 0 0 19px; border-style: solid; position:relative; content:""; }
  For Christmas, I bought this book for my daughter.MarilynSmall point, but there are a lot of these kinds of things in the book that the author would pass on as facts that simply are not.A. S. D.I have not ever read a book by Peter Carlin, being a Macca/Beatles fan of course I was intrigued.Paul S. Herrmann
  Hardcover,340 pages of text,not including title page,contents,notes,etc.  The paper stock and type face  make this an easy to read book.  There are eight pages of black and white photographs,which include THE BEATLES in Germany and elsewhere,WINGS,and even a shot of McCartney and Heather Mills showing their mutual affection for each other.Yes,this is yet another biography of Paul McCartney.  However,this book,thanks to author Peter Ames Carlin,takes the reader in a slightly different direction.  This author was able to weave and juxtapose McCartney's life,with his human foibles,into his music making to a degree that hasn't been done previously.  The author interviewed a number of McCartney's friends,associates,and bandmates,throughout McCartney's (now) long life,and has collected his findings into a crisp,clean,well written book.Starting with McCartney's early life,which has been written  about extensively (yet somewhat academically),we begin to catch a glimmer of how McCartney,the person,came to view both work and music (which eventually became one and the same),and life (especially with his late wife Linda),giving room especially to his later years when he was a "solo" (sans BEATLES) artist.  This approach is both very refreshing and makes for rewarding reading.  The writing style is crisp and on target.  Along the way there are insights into the human side of McCartney and his view of the world,business and music-making.  The author's writing style is fresh and invigorating-this isn't just another dull rehash of facts we've all read before.  This book gives insight into why McCartney still matters to many listeners today.  While there are no real startling observations,the reader will come away with a newer,perhaps better understanding of Paul McCartney the man,and the musician-and how the man and the music are inseparable.
  This little masterwork is a great introduction to and portrait of "the cute Beatle".  In the book, the image of McCartney veers between hardworking genius driven by a desire for fame and fortune and slacking bon vivant given to superficial efforts and some fairly predictable human weaknesses. The ample notes section at the back reveals that Carlin has done his homework.  As someone who has read a fair share of Beatles' history, I found the book tells old tales well, mines some new territory (particularly in the area of Paul's business sense), and does real justice to the Paul vs. John debate.  While clearly somewhat enamored of his subject, Carlin isn't afraid to call McCartney for slip ups on or off the stage.  Best of all, Carlin has built off his previous success with the Brian Wilson biography by writing with great style about music.  The specific chords, lyrics and riffs you've heard your whole life are put instantly into context under Carlin's hand.  The descriptions of various concerts and studio sessions give you a real sense of being there.
There's been so much written about this band I really thought this guy would labor to bring his post beatle career to life.  And I certainly thought--because the beatle's recording engineer wrote a great book a couple of years back, Geoff Emerick, "Here, There, and Everywhere"--I certainly thought because of important revelations in that book that this guy would go to some lengths to give McCartney his real due, which is that from Rubber Soul through Mystery Tour he was basically the Beatles arranger/producer and George Martin just dropped in occasionally to see if Paul needed anything.You see, the thing a lot of people don't really consciously register about the Beatles is that--well,of course they had the fantastic song writing team.  The Beatles had two songwriting geniuses, people who say it was just one or the other are ridiculous because if they'd only had one they would have looked much more like the Beach Boys, who had one.  The Beatles had two, which is why we're still talking about them.But they had something else, too.  If you'll indulge me a short anecdote to illustrate.In about 1982 I was lying alone in my apartment in the dark listening to a radio interview with Nelson Riddle, the music arranger who was a legend in the music business--he worked with nat king cole, with Frank Sinatra (for crying out loud), etc.  At the end of the interview they asked him if there were any MUSIC ARRANGING GENIUSES working in the music business at that moment.  He had a one-word answer: "Wings."My point is that not only did the fabs have the writing team, they had a genius arranger/producer in paul McCartney.Read more ›
This book is pretty Anti-Paul if you ask me. The author paints McCartney in a pretty bad light through much of it and it seems to really get a lot of input from former associates of Paul's, some of them with an obvious axe to grind. As an example, first Wings guitarist- Henry McCullough (sp).According to the author, Henry really hated the fact that McCartney wanted Henry to play things the same each time in the studio by the numbers, but Henry wanted to improvise more. This might be the case, but if you're recording and the music is written by a writer with Paul's reputation, the writer has a right to get what he wants out of the recorded performance. It's HIS vision, not Henry's that's being realized.  Also, ANYONE that's listened to the early bootlegs of Wings college shows knows that Henry was not great at improvisation, at least with those early shows. There were times when you could tell that alcohol was the 6th Wings member and Henry's solos would go extremely out of key and out of the pocket. To listen to "Henry's Blues" from those boots is an exercise in patience. As an author, it's good to note that this bugged Henry. But man, listen to the performances and maybe you can see where Paul was coming from by wanting Henry to stick to the format. Of COURSE he'd want things to be the same. Bless Henry, he's a great player for sure, but during that period, things were not tight and Paul, as a band leader had the job of reigning it in. Seems that rather than just take Henry's word on it, the author might've wanted to research what was coming out of Henry's amp at the time.There were similar quotes from Dave Spinoza. Hey Dave, it's Paul's music, he's paying for the studio, and the musicians. He SHOULD be able to say "Yo Dave, please play it like this. I know what I'm after.".Read more ›
      I learned things about Paul I never knew before.  This book gave very insightful information about him and the Beatles that surprised me.
      I saw Sir Paul in concert a few weeks back. I'd never realized what a mega-talent he is. The book is full of stories about the bands he has been a member of like The Beatles, Wings...
      VERY INSITEFUL., THERE IS NOTHING ABOUT THIS BOOK I DON'T LIKE IT'S A WONDERFUL BOOK TO ADD TO ANY BEATLE FAN COLLECTION.
      Very revealing nothing held back.you learn of the complexities of his and John's personalities..I sent this on to my niece who is just getting into The Beatles. Good read.
      Not a bad book, but not up to the level of Carlin's biographies of Bruce Springsteen and Brian Wilson.
      This is a wonderful book (audio). I bought it for my husband for Christmas and absolutely loved it! He thought it was very sad in places but came away with a better understanding...
      Paul McCartney: A Life is a terrific book and a must for Paul's lovers. It can make one a little disappointed, for it reveals the petty side of him the public doesn't know about,...
      This book was just ok. I thought it focused too much on the small detail and not enough on the overall legacy of this music legend. Plus I thought it was too dragged out.
      .This is a detailed life of Paul McCartney. Strangely, though, the bulk of the book chronicles the years after Beatles period.
      I LOVE THIS BOOK!!!! I love the Beatles! I read this book origianily beacouse I had to fill in a book log for school. But once I started reading I couldnt stop! Plus, I cried.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMens GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
.ap_classic { border-top:1px solid #ccc;border-left:1px solid #ccc;border-bottom:1px solid #2F2F1D; border-right:1px solid #2F2F1D;background-color:#EFEDD4;padding:3px; }
.ap_classic .ap_content { clear:both;background-color:white;border:1px solid #ACA976;padding:8px;font-size:11px; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png");  
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV  Amazons Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
