=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
American Experience . The Richest Man in the World: Andrew Carnegie . People & Events | Andrew Carnegie 
One of the captains of industry of 19th century America, Andrew Carnegie helped build the formidable American steel industry, a process that turned a poor young man into one of the richest entrepreneurs of his age. Later in his life, Carnegie sold his steel business and systematically gave his collected fortune away to cultural, educational and scientific institutions for "the improvement of mankind."
Carnegie was born in Dunfermline, the medieval capital of Scotland, in 1835. The town was a center of the linen industry, and Andrew's father was a weaver, a profession the young Carnegie was expected to follow. But the industrial revolution that would later make Carnegie the richest man in the world, destroyed the weavers' craft. When the steam-powered looms came to Dunfermline in 1847 hundreds of hand loom weavers became expendable. Andrew's mother went to work to support the family, opening a small grocery shop and mending shoes.
"I began to learn what poverty meant," Andrew would later write. "It was burnt into my heart then that my father had to beg for work. And then and there came the resolve that I would cure that when I got to be a man."
An ambition for riches would mark Carnegie's path in life. However, a belief in political egalitarianism was another ambition he inherited from his family. Andrew's father, his grandfather Tom Morrison and his uncle Tom Jr. were all Scottish radicals who fought to do away with inherited privilege and to bring about the rights of common workers.
But Andrew's mother, fearing for the survival of her family, pushed the family to leave the poverty of Scotland for the possibilities in America. She borrowed 20 pounds she needed to pay the fare for the Atlantic passage and in 1848 the Carnegies joined two of Margaret's sisters in Pittsburgh, then a sooty city that was the iron-manufacturing center of the country. 
William Carnegie secured work in a cotton factory and his son Andrew took work in the same building as a bobbin boy for $1.20 a week. Later, Carnegie worked as a messenger boy in the city's telegraph office. He did each job to the best of his ability and seized every opportunity to take on new responsibilities. For example, he memorized Pittsburgh's street lay-out as well as the important names and addresses of those he delivered to.
Carnegie often was asked to deliver messages to the theater. He arranged to make these deliveries at night--and stayed on to watch plays by Shakespeare and other great playwrights. In what would be a life-long pursuit of knowledge, Carnegie also took advantage of a small library that a local benefactor made available to working boys.
One of the men Carnegie met at the telegraph office was Thomas A. Scott, then beginning his impressive career at Pennsylvania Railroad. Scott was taken by the young worker and referred to him as "my boy Andy,"  hiring him as his private secretary and personal telegrapher at $35 a month.
"I couldn't imagine," Carnegie said many years later. "what I could ever do with so much money." Ever eager to take on new responsibilities, Carnegie worked his way up the ladder in Pennsylvania Railroad and succeeded Scott as superintendent of the Pittsburgh Division. At the outbreak of the Civil War, Scott was hired to supervise military transportation for the North and Carnegie worked as his right hand man.
The Civil War fueled the iron industry, and by the time the war was over, Carnegie saw the potential in the field and resigned from Pennsylvania Railroad. It was one of many bold moves that would typify Carnegie's life in industry and earn him his fortune. He then turned his attention to the Keystone Bridge Company, which worked to replace wooden bridges with stronger iron ones. In three years he had an annual income of $50,000.
However, Andrew expressed his uneasiness with the businessman's life. In a letter to himself at age 33, he wrote: "To continue much longer overwhelmed by business cares and with most of my thoughts wholly upon the way to make more money in the shortest time, must degrade me beyond hope of permanent recovery. I will resign business at thirty-five, but during the ensuing two years I wish to spend the afternoons in receiving instruction and in reading systematically."
Carnegie would continue making unparalleled amounts of money for the next 30 years. Two years after he wrote that letter Carnegie would embrace a new steel refining process being used by Englishman Henry Bessemer to convert huge batches of iron into steel, which was much more flexible than brittle iron. Carnegie threw his own money into the process and even borrowed heavily to build a new steel plant near Pittsburgh. Carnegie was ruthless in keeping down costs and managed by the motto "watch costs and the profits take care of themselves."
"I think Carnegie's genius was first of all, an ability to foresee how things were going to change," says historian John Ingram. "Once he saw that something was of potential benefit to him, he was willing to invest enormously in it."
Carnegie was unusual among the industrial captains of his day because he preached for the rights of laborers to unionize and to protect their jobs. However, Carnegie's actions did not always match his rhetoric. Carnegie's steel workers were often pushed to long hours and low wages. In the Homestead Strike of 1892, Carnegie threw his support behind plant manager Henry Frick, who locked out workers and hired Pinkerton thugs to intimidate strikers. Many were killed in the conflict, and it was an episode that would forever hurt Carnegie's reputation and haunt the man.
Still, Carnegie's steel juggernaut was unstoppable, and by 1900 Carnegie Steel produced more of the metal than all of Great Britain. That was also the year that financier J. P. Morgan mounted a major challenge to Carnegie's steel empire. While Carnegie believed he could beat Morgan in a battle lasting five, 10 or 15 years, the fight did not appeal to the 64-year old man eager to spend more time with his wife Louise, whom he had married in 1886, and their daughter, Margaret.
Carnegie wrote the asking price for his steel business on a piece of paper and had one of his managers deliver the offer to Morgan. Morgan accepted without hesitation, buying the company for $480 million. "Congratulations, Mr. Carnegie," Morgan said to Carnegie when they finalized the deal. "you are now the richest man in the world." 
Fond of saying that "the man who dies rich dies disgraced," Carnegie then turned his attention to giving away his fortune. He abhorred charity, and instead put his money to use helping others help themselves. That was the reason he spent much of his collected fortune on establishing over 2,500 public libraries as well as supporting institutions of higher learning. By the time Carnegie's life was over, he gave away 350 million dollars. 
Carnegie also was one of the first to call for a "league of nations" and he built a "a palace of peace" that would later evolve into the World Court. His hopes for a civilized world of peace were destroyed, though, with the onset of World War I in 1914. Louise said that with these hostilities her husband's "heart was broken." Carnegie lived for another five years, but the last entry in his autobiography was the day World War I began.
=======================================================
Andrew Carnegie (/kɑrˈneɪɡi/ kar-NAY-gee, but commonly /ˈkɑrnɨɡi/ KAR-nə-gee or /kɑrˈnɛɡi/ kar-NEG-ee;[1] November 25, 1835 – August 11, 1919) was a Scottish-American industrialist who led the enormous expansion of the American steel industry in the late 19th century. He was also one of the highest profile philanthropists of his era; his 1889 article proclaiming "The Gospel of Wealth" called on the rich to use their wealth to improve society, and stimulated a wave of philanthropy.
Carnegie was born in Dunfermline, Scotland, and emigrated to the United States with his very poor parents in 1848. Carnegie started as a telegrapher and by the 1860s had investments in railroads, railroad sleeping cars, bridges and oil derricks. He built further wealth as a bond salesman raising money for American enterprise in Europe. He built Pittsburgh's Carnegie Steel Company, which he sold to J.P. Morgan in 1901 for $480 million (the equivalent of approximately $13.6 billion in 2013), creating the U.S. Steel Corporation. Carnegie devoted the remainder of his life to large-scale philanthropy, with special emphasis on local libraries, world peace, education and scientific research. With the fortune he made from business, he built Carnegie Hall, and founded the Carnegie Corporation of New York, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Carnegie Institution for Science, Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland, Carnegie Hero Fund, Carnegie Mellon University and the Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh, among others. His life has often been referred to as a true "rags to riches" story.
Andrew Carnegie was born in Dunfermline, Scotland, in a typical weaver's cottage with only one main room, consisting of half the ground floor which was shared with the neighboring weaver's family.[2] The main room served as a living room, dining room and bedroom.[2] He was named after his legal grandfather.[2] In 1836, the family moved to a larger house in Edgar Street (opposite Reid's Park), following the demand for more heavy damask from which his father, William Carnegie, benefited.[2] His uncle, George Lauder, whom he referred to as "Dod", introduced him to the writings of Robert Burns and historical Scottish heroes such as Robert the Bruce, William Wallace, and Rob Roy. Falling on very hard times as a handloom weaver and with the country in starvation, William Carnegie decided to move with his family to Allegheny, Pennsylvania, in the United States in 1848 for the prospect of a better life.[3] Andrew's family had to borrow money in order to migrate. Allegheny was a very poor area. His first job at age 13 in 1848 was as a bobbin boy, changing spools of thread in a cotton mill 12 hours a day, 6 days a week in a Pittsburgh cotton factory. His starting wage was $1.20 per week.[4] Andrew's father, William Carnegie, started off working in a cotton mill but then would earn money weaving and peddling linens. His mother, Margaret Morrison Carnegie, earned money by binding shoes.
In 1850, Carnegie became a telegraph messenger boy in the Pittsburgh Office of the Ohio Telegraph Company, at $2.50 per week,[5] following the recommendation of his uncle. His new job gave him many benefits including free admission to the local theater. This made him appreciate Shakespeare's work. He was a very hard worker and would memorize all of the locations of Pittsburgh's businesses and the faces of important men. He made many connections this way. He also paid close attention to his work, and quickly learned to distinguish the differing sounds the incoming telegraph signals produced. He developed the ability to translate signals by ear, without having to write them down,[citation needed] and within a year was promoted as an operator. Carnegie's education and passion for reading was given a great boost by Colonel James Anderson, who opened his personal library of 400 volumes to working boys each Saturday night. Carnegie was a consistent borrower and a "self-made man" in both his economic development and his intellectual and cultural development. His capacity, his willingness for hard work, his perseverance, and his alertness soon brought forth opportunities.
Starting in 1853, Thomas A. Scott of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company employed Carnegie as a secretary/telegraph operator at a salary of $4.00 per week. At age 18, the precocious youth began a rapid advance through the company, becoming the superintendent of the Pittsburgh Division. His employment by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company would be vital to his later success. The railroads were the first big businesses in America, and the Pennsylvania was one of the largest of them all. Carnegie learned much about management and cost control during these years, and from Scott in particular.[6]
Scott also helped him with his first investments. Many of these were part of the corruption indulged in by Scott and the Pennsylvania's president, J. Edgar Thomson, which consisted of inside trading in companies that the railroad did business with, or payoffs made by contracting parties "as part of a quid pro quo".[7] In 1855, Scott made it possible for Carnegie to invest $500 in the Adams Express, which contracted with the Pennsylvania to carry its messengers. The money was secured by his mother's placing a $500 mortgage on the family's $700 home, but the opportunity was available only because of Carnegie's close relationship with Scott.[7][8] A few years later, he received a few shares in T.T. Woodruff's sleeping car company, as a reward for holding shares that Woodruff had given to Scott and Thomson, as a payoff. Reinvesting his returns in such inside investments in railroad-related industries: (iron, bridges, and rails), Carnegie slowly accumulated capital, the basis for his later success. Throughout his later career, he made use of his close connections to Thomson and Scott, as he established businesses that supplied rails and bridges to the railroad, offering the two men a stake in his enterprises.
Before the Civil War, Carnegie arranged a merger between Woodruff's company and that of George Pullman, the inventor of a sleeping car for first class travel which facilitated business travel at distances over 500 miles (800 km). The investment proved a great success and a source of profit for Woodruff and Carnegie. The young Carnegie continued to work for the Pennsylvania's Tom Scott, and introduced several improvements in the service.
In spring 1861, Carnegie was appointed by Scott, who was now Assistant Secretary of War in charge of military transportation, as Superintendent of the Military Railways and the Union Government's telegraph lines in the East. Carnegie helped open the rail lines into Washington D.C. that the rebels had cut; he rode the locomotive pulling the first brigade of Union troops to reach Washington D.C. Following the defeat of Union forces at Bull Run, he personally supervised the transportation of the defeated forces. Under his organization, the telegraph service rendered efficient service to the Union cause and significantly assisted in the eventual victory. Carnegie later joked that he was "the first casualty of the war" when he gained a scar on his cheek from freeing a trapped telegraph wire.
Defeat of the Confederacy required vast supplies of munitions, as well as railroads (and telegraph lines) to deliver the goods. The war demonstrated how integral the industries were to American success.
In 1864, Carnegie invested $40,000 in Story Farm on Oil Creek in Venango County, Pennsylvania. In one year, the farm yielded over $1,000,000 in cash dividends, and petroleum from oil wells on the property sold profitably. The demand for iron products, such as armor for gunboats, cannon, and shells, as well as a hundred other industrial products, made Pittsburgh a center of wartime production. Carnegie worked with others in establishing a steel rolling mill, and steel production and control of industry became the source of his fortune. Carnegie had some investments in the iron industry before the war.
After the war, Carnegie left the railroads to devote all his energies to the ironworks trade. Carnegie worked to develop several iron works, eventually forming The Keystone Bridge Works and the Union Ironworks, in Pittsburgh. Although he had left the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, he remained closely connected to its management, namely Thomas A. Scott and J. Edgar Thomson. He used his connection to the two men to acquire contracts for his Keystone Bridge Company and the rails produced by his ironworks. He also gave stock to Scott and Thomson in his businesses, and the Pennsylvania was his best customer. When he built his first steel plant, he made a point of naming it after Thomson. As well as having good business sense, Carnegie possessed charm and literary knowledge. He was invited to many important social functions—functions that Carnegie exploited to his own advantage.[9]
I propose to take an income no greater than $50,000 per annum! Beyond this I need ever earn, make no effort to increase my fortune, but spend the surplus each year for benevolent purposes! Let us cast aside business forever, except for others. Let us settle in Oxford and I shall get a thorough education, making the acquaintance of literary men. I figure that this will take three years active work. I shall pay especial attention to speaking in public. We can settle in London and I can purchase a controlling interest in some newspaper or live review and give the general management of it attention, taking part in public matters, especially those connected with education and improvement of the poorer classes. Man must have no idol and the amassing of wealth is one of the worst species of idolatry! No idol is more debasing than the worship of money! Whatever I engage in I must push inordinately; therefore should I be careful to choose that life which will be the most elevating in its character. To continue much longer overwhelmed by business cares and with most of my thoughts wholly upon the way to make more money in the shortest time, must degrade me beyond hope of permanent recovery. I will resign business at thirty-five, but during these ensuing two years I wish to spend the afternoons in receiving instruction and in reading systematically!
Carnegie's mother had not wanted him to get married.[10] After she died in 1886, Carnegie married Louise Whitfield,[10] who was more than 20 years his junior.[11] In 1897,[12] the couple had their only child, a daughter, whom they named after Carnegie's mother, Margaret.[13]
Carnegie made his fortune in the steel industry, controlling the most extensive integrated iron and steel operations ever owned by an individual in the United States. One of his two great innovations was in the cheap and efficient mass production of steel by adopting and adapting the Bessemer process for steel making. Sir Henry Bessemer had invented the furnace which allowed the high carbon content of pig iron to be burnt away in a controlled and rapid way. The steel price dropped as a direct result, and Bessemer steel was rapidly adopted for railway lines and girders for buildings and bridges. The second was in his vertical integration of all suppliers of raw materials. In the late 1880s, Carnegie Steel was the largest manufacturer of pig iron, steel rails, and coke in the world, with a capacity to produce approximately 2,000 tons of pig metal per day. In 1888, Carnegie bought the rival Homestead Steel Works, which included an extensive plant served by tributary coal and iron fields, a 425-mile (685 km) long railway, and a line of lake steamships. Carnegie combined his assets and those of his associates in 1892 with the launching of the Carnegie Steel Company.
By 1889, the U.S. output of steel exceeded that of the UK, and Carnegie owned a large part of it. Carnegie's empire grew to include the J. Edgar Thomson Steel Works, (named for John Edgar Thomson, Carnegie's former boss and president of the Pennsylvania Railroad), Pittsburgh Bessemer Steel Works, the Lucy Furnaces, the Union Iron Mills, the Union Mill (Wilson, Walker & County), the Keystone Bridge Works, the Hartman Steel Works, the Frick Coke Company, and the Scotia ore mines. Carnegie, through Keystone, supplied the steel for and owned shares in the landmark Eads Bridge project across the Mississippi River at St. Louis, Missouri (completed 1874). This project was an important proof-of-concept for steel technology, which marked the opening of a new steel market.
In 1901, Carnegie was 66 years of age and considering retirement. He reformed his enterprises into conventional joint stock corporations as preparation to this end. John Pierpont Morgan was a banker and perhaps America's most important financial deal maker. He had observed how efficiently Carnegie produced profit. He envisioned an integrated steel industry that would cut costs, lower prices to consumers, produce in greater quantities and raise wages to workers. To this end, he needed to buy out Carnegie and several other major producers and integrate them into one company, thereby eliminating duplication and waste. He concluded negotiations on March 2, 1901, and formed the United States Steel Corporation. It was the first corporation in the world with a market capitalization over $1 billion.
The buyout, secretly negotiated by Charles M. Schwab (no relation to Charles R. Schwab), was the largest such industrial takeover in United States history to date. The holdings were incorporated in the United States Steel Corporation, a trust organized by Morgan, and Carnegie retired from business. His steel enterprises were bought out at a figure equivalent to 12 times their annual earnings—$480 million[14] (presently, $13,607,040,000) which at the time was the largest ever personal commercial transaction.[citation needed]
Carnegie's share of this amounted to $225,639,000 (presently, $6,396,414,372), which was paid to Carnegie in the form of 5%, 50-year gold bonds. The letter agreeing to sell his share was signed on February 26, 1901. On March 2, the circular formally filing the organization and capitalization (at $1,400,000,000—4% of U.S. national wealth at the time) of the United States Steel Corporation actually completed the contract. The bonds were to be delivered within two weeks to the Hudson Trust Company of Hoboken, New Jersey, in trust to Robert A. Franks, Carnegie's business secretary. There, a special vault was built to house the physical bulk of nearly $230,000,000 worth of bonds. It was said that "...Carnegie never wanted to see or touch these bonds that represented the fruition of his business career. It was as if he feared that if he looked upon them they might vanish like the gossamer gold of the leprechaun. Let them lie safe in a vault in New Jersey, safe from the New York tax assessors, until he was ready to dispose of them..."[citation needed]
Carnegie continued his business career; some of his literary intentions were fulfilled. He befriended English poet Matthew Arnold, English philosopher Herbert Spencer, and American humorist Mark Twain, as well as being in correspondence and acquaintance with most of the U.S. Presidents,[15] statesmen, and notable writers.[16]
Carnegie constructed commodious swimming-baths for the people of his hometown in Dunfermline in 1879. In the following year, Carnegie gave $40,000 for the establishment of a free library in Dunfermline. In 1884, he gave $50,000 to Bellevue Hospital Medical College (now part of New York University Medical Center) to found a histological laboratory, now called the Carnegie Laboratory.
In 1881, Carnegie took his family, including his 70 year-old mother, on a trip to the United Kingdom. They toured Scotland by coach, and enjoyed several receptions en route. The highlight for them all was a triumphal return to Dunfermline, where Carnegie's mother laid the foundation stone of a Carnegie library for which he donated the money. Carnegie's criticism of British society did not mean dislike; on the contrary, one of Carnegie's ambitions was to act as a catalyst for a close association between the English-speaking peoples. To this end, in the early 1880s in partnership with Samuel Storey, he purchased numerous newspapers in England, all of which were to advocate the abolition of the monarchy and the establishment of "the British Republic". Carnegie's charm aided by his great wealth meant that he had many British friends, including Prime Minister William Ewart Gladstone.
In 1886, Carnegie's younger brother Thomas died at age 43. Success in the business continued, however. While owning steel works, Carnegie had purchased at low cost the most valuable of the iron ore fields around Lake Superior. The same year Carnegie became a figure of controversy. Following his tour of the UK, he wrote about his experiences in a book entitled An American Four-in-hand in Britain. Although still actively involved in running his many businesses, Carnegie had become a regular contributor to numerous magazines, most notably The Nineteenth Century, under the editorship of James Knowles, and the influential North American Review, led by editor Lloyd Bryce.
In 1886, Carnegie wrote his most radical work to date, entitled Triumphant Democracy. Liberal in its use of statistics to make its arguments, the book argued his view that the American republican system of government was superior to the British monarchical system. It gave a highly favorable and idealized view of American progress and criticized the British royal family. The cover depicted an upended royal crown and a broken scepter. The book created considerable controversy in the UK. The book made many Americans appreciate their country's economic progress and sold over 40,000 copies, mostly in the U.S.
In 1889, Carnegie published "Wealth" in the June issue of the North American Review. After reading it, Gladstone requested its publication in England, where it appeared as "The Gospel of Wealth" in the Pall Mall Gazette. The article was the subject of much discussion. Carnegie argued that the life of a wealthy industrialist should comprise two parts. The first part was the gathering and the accumulation of wealth. The second part was for the subsequent distribution of this wealth to benevolent causes. The philanthropy was key to making the life worthwhile.
While Carnegie did not comment on British imperialism, he very strongly opposed the idea of American colonies. He strongly opposed the annexation of the Philippines, almost to the point of supporting William Jennings Bryan against McKinley in 1900. In 1898, Carnegie tried to arrange for independence for the Philippines. As the end of the Spanish American War neared, the United States bought the Philippines from Spain for $20 million. To counter what he perceived as imperialism on the part of the United States, Carnegie personally offered $20 million to the Philippines so that the Filipino people could buy their independence from the United States.[18] However, nothing came of the offer. In 1898 Carnegie joined the American Anti-Imperialist League, in opposition to the U.S. annexation of the Philippines. Its membership included former presidents of the United States Grover Cleveland and Benjamin Harrison and literary figures like Mark Twain.[19][20][21]
Main articles: Carnegie library, Carnegie Corporation of New York, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Carnegie Institution for Science, Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland, Carnegie United Kingdom Trust, Carnegie Hero Fund, Carnegie Mellon University and Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh
Carnegie spent his last years as a philanthropist. From 1901 forward, public attention was turned from the shrewd business acumen which had enabled Carnegie to accumulate such a fortune, to the public-spirited way in which he devoted himself to utilizing it on philanthropic projects. He had written about his views on social subjects and the responsibilities of great wealth in Triumphant Democracy (1886) and Gospel of Wealth (1889). Carnegie bought Skibo Castle in Scotland, and made his home partly there and partly in New York. He then devoted his life to providing the capital for purposes of public interest and social and educational advancement.
He was a powerful supporter of the movement for spelling reform as a means of promoting the spread of the English language.
Among his many philanthropic efforts, the establishment of public libraries throughout the United States, Britain, Canada and other English-speaking countries was especially prominent. In this special driving interest and project of his he was inspired by a visit and tour he made with Mr. Enoch Pratt (1808-1896), formerly of Massachusetts but who made his fortune in Baltimore and ran his various mercantile and financial businesses very thriftily. Pratt in turn had been inspired and helped by his friend and fellow Bay Stater, George Peabody, (1795-1869) who also had made his fortune in the "Monumental City" of Baltimore before moving to New York and London to expand his empire as the richest man in America before the Civil War. Later he too endowed several institutions, schools, libraries and foundations in his home commonwealth, and also in Baltimore with his Peabody Institute in 1857, completed in 1866, with added library wings a decade later and several educational foundations throughout the Old South. Several decades later, Carnegie's visit with Mr. Pratt for several days; resting and dining in his city mansion, then touring, visiting and talking with staff and ordinary citizen patrons of the newly established Enoch Pratt Free Library (1886) impressed the Scotsman deeply and years later he was always heard to proclaim that "Pratt was my guide and inspiration". The first Carnegie library opened in 1883 in Dunfermline. His method was to build and equip, but only on condition that the local authority matched that by providing the land and a budget for operation and maintenance. To secure local interest, in 1885, he gave $500,000 to Pittsburgh for a public library, and in 1886, he gave $250,000 to Allegheny City for a music hall and library; and $250,000 to Edinburgh for a free library. In total Carnegie funded some 3,000 libraries, located in 47 US states, and also in Canada, the United Kingdom, what is now the Republic of Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, the West Indies, and Fiji. He also donated £50,000 to help set up the University of Birmingham in 1899.[22] In the early 20th Century, a decade after Mr. Pratt's death, when expansion and city revenues grew tight, Carnegie returned the favor and endowed a large sum to permit the building of many Carnegie Libraries in the Enoch Pratt system in Baltimore and enabled EPFL to expand through the next quarter-century to meet the needs of the growing city and supply neighborhood branches for its annexed suburbs.
As Van Slyck (1991) showed, the last years of the 19th century saw acceptance of the idea that free libraries should be available to the American public. But the design of the idealized free library was the subject of prolonged and heated debate. On one hand, the library profession called for designs that supported efficiency in administration and operation; on the other, wealthy philanthropists favored buildings that reinforced the paternalistic metaphor and enhanced civic pride. Between 1886 and 1917, Carnegie reformed both library philanthropy and library design, encouraging a closer correspondence between the two.[23]
He gave $2 million in 1900 to start the Carnegie Institute of Technology (CIT) at Pittsburgh and the same amount in 1902 to found the Carnegie Institution at Washington, D.C. He later contributed more to these and other schools. CIT is now known as Carnegie Mellon University after it merged with the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research. Carnegie also served on the Board of Cornell University.
In 1911, Carnegie became a sympathetic benefactor to George Ellery Hale, who was trying to build the 100 inches (2.5 m) Hooker Telescope at Mount Wilson, and donated an additional ten million dollars to the Carnegie Institution with the following suggestion to expedite the construction of the telescope: "I hope the work at Mount Wilson will be vigorously pushed, because I am so anxious to hear the expected results from it. I should like to be satisfied before I depart, that we are going to repay to the old land some part of the debt we owe them by revealing more clearly than ever to them the new heavens." The telescope saw first light on November 2, 1917, with Carnegie still alive.[24]
In Scotland, he gave $10 million in 1901 to establish the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland. It was created by a deed which he signed on June 7, 1901, and it was incorporated by Royal Charter on August 21, 1902. The Trust was funded by a gift of $10 million (a then unprecedented sum: at the time, total government assistance to all four Scottish universities was about £50,000 a year) and its aim was to improve and extend the opportunities for scientific research in the Scottish universities and to enable the deserving and qualified youth of Scotland to attend a university.[25] He was subsequently elected Lord Rector of University of St. Andrews in December 1901.[26] He also donated large sums of money to Dunfermline, the place of his birth. In addition to a library, Carnegie also bought the private estate which became Pittencrieff Park and opened it to all members of the public, establishing the Carnegie Dunfermline Trust[27] to benefit the people of Dunfermline. A statue of him stands there today. He gave a further $10 million in 1913 to endow the Carnegie United Kingdom Trust, a grant-making foundation.[28][29]
Carnegie with African-American leader Booker T. Washington (front row, center), seen here in 1906 while visiting Tuskegee Institute.
Carnegie also established large pension funds in 1901 for his former employees at Homestead and, in 1905, for American college professors. The latter fund evolved into TIAA-CREF. One critical requirement was that church-related schools had to sever their religious connections to get his money.
His interest in music led him to fund construction of 7,000 church organs. He built and owned Carnegie Hall in New York City.
Carnegie was a large benefactor of the Tuskegee Institute under Booker T. Washington for African-American education. He helped Washington create the National Negro Business League.
He founded the Carnegie Hero Fund for the United States and Canada in 1904 (a few years later also established in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark, and Germany) for the recognition of deeds of heroism. Carnegie contributed $1,500,000 in 1903 for the erection of the Peace Palace at The Hague; and he donated $150,000 for a Pan-American Palace in Washington as a home for the International Bureau of American Republics.
Carnegie was honored for his philanthropy and support of the arts by initiation as an honorary member of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity on October 14, 1917, at the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston, Massachusetts. The fraternity's mission reflects Carnegie's values by developing young men to share their talents to create harmony in the world.
By the standards of 19th century tycoons, Carnegie was not a particularly ruthless man but a humanitarian with enough acquisitiveness to go in the ruthless pursuit of money;[30] on the other hand, the contrast between his life and the lives of many of his own workers and of the poor, in general, was stark. "Maybe with the giving away of his money," commented biographer Joseph Wall, "he would justify what he had done to get that money."[31]
To some, Carnegie represents the idea of the American dream. He was an immigrant from Scotland who came to America and became successful. He is not only known for his successes but his enormous amounts of philanthropist works, not only to charities but also to promote democracy and independence to colonized countries.[32]
Carnegie died on August 11, 1919, in Lenox, Massachusetts, of bronchial pneumonia. He had already given away $350,695,653 (approximately $4.8 billion, adjusted to 2010 figures) of his wealth.[33] At his death, his last $30,000,000 was given to foundations, charities, and to pensioners.[34] He was buried at the Sleepy Hollow Cemetery in North Tarrytown, New York. The grave site is located on the Arcadia Hebron plot of land at the corner of Summit Avenue and Dingle Road. Carnegie is buried only a few yards away from union organizer Samuel Gompers, another important figure of industry in the Gilded Age.[35]
Carnegie was one of more than 50 members of the South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club, which has been blamed for the Johnstown Flood that killed 2,209 people in 1889.[36]
At the suggestion of his friend Benjamin Ruff, Carnegie's partner Henry Clay Frick had formed the exclusive South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club high above Johnstown, Pennsylvania. The sixty-odd club members were the leading business tycoons of Western Pennsylvania and included among their number Frick's best friend, Andrew Mellon, his attorneys Philander Knox and James Hay Reed, as well as Frick's business partner, Carnegie. High above the city, near the small town of South Fork, the South Fork Dam was originally built between 1838 and 1853 by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as part of a canal system to be used as a reservoir for a canal basin in Johnstown. With the coming-of-age of railroads superseding canal barge transport, the lake was abandoned by the Commonwealth, sold to the Pennsylvania Railroad, and sold again to private interests and eventually came to be owned by the South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club in 1881. Prior to the flood, speculators had purchased the abandoned reservoir, made less than well-engineered repairs to the old dam, raised the lake level, built cottages and a clubhouse, and created the South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club. Less than 20 miles downstream from the dam sat the city of Johnstown.
The dam was 72 feet (22 m) high and 931 feet (284 m) long. Between 1881 when the club was opened, and 1889, the dam frequently sprang leaks and was patched, mostly with mud and straw. Additionally, a previous owner removed and sold for scrap the 3 cast iron discharge pipes that previously allowed a controlled release of water. There had been some speculation as to the dam's integrity, and concerns had been raised by the head of the Cambria Iron Works downstream in Johnstown. Such repair work, a reduction in height, and unusually high snowmelt and heavy spring rains combined to cause the dam to give way on May 31, 1889 resulting in twenty million tons of water sweeping down the valley causing the Johnstown Flood.[37] When word of the dam's failure was telegraphed to Pittsburgh, Frick and other members of the South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club gathered to form the Pittsburgh Relief Committee for assistance to the flood victims as well as determining never to speak publicly about the club or the flood. This strategy was a success, and Knox and Reed were able to fend off all lawsuits that would have placed blame upon the club's members.
Although Cambria Iron and Steel's facilities were heavily damaged by the flood, they returned to full production within a year. After the flood, Carnegie built Johnstown a new library to replace the one built by Cambria's chief legal counsel Cyrus Elder, which was destroyed in the flood. The Carnegie-donated library is now owned by the Johnstown Area Heritage Association, and houses the Flood Museum.
The Homestead Strike was a bloody labor confrontation lasting 143 days in 1892, one of the most serious in U.S. history. The conflict was centered on Carnegie Steel's main plant in Homestead, Pennsylvania, and grew out of a dispute between the National Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers of the United States and the Carnegie Steel Company.
Carnegie left on a trip to Scotland before the unrest peaked. In doing so, Carnegie left mediation of the dispute in the hands of his associate and partner Henry Clay Frick. Frick was well known in industrial circles for maintaining staunch anti-union sensibilities.
After a recent increase in profits by 60%, the company refused to raise workers' pay by more than 30%. When some of the workers demanded the full 60%, management locked the union out. Workers considered the stoppage a "lockout" by management and not a "strike" by workers. As such, the workers would have been well within their rights to protest, and subsequent government action would have been a set of criminal procedures designed to crush what was seen as a pivotal demonstration of the growing labor rights movement, strongly opposed by management. Frick brought in thousands of strikebreakers to work the steel mills and Pinkerton agents to safeguard them.
On July 6, the arrival of a force of 300 Pinkerton agents from New York City and Chicago resulted in a fight in which 10 men—seven strikers and three Pinkertons—were killed and hundreds were injured. Pennsylvania Governor Robert Pattison ordered two brigades of state militia to the strike site. Then, allegedly in response to the fight between the striking workers and the Pinkertons, anarchist Alexander Berkman shot at Frick in an attempted assassination, wounding Frick. While not directly connected to the strike, Berkman was tied in for the assassination attempt. According to Berkman, "...with the elimination of Frick, responsibility for Homestead conditions would rest with Carnegie."[38][39] Afterwards, the company successfully resumed operations with non-union immigrant employees in place of the Homestead plant workers, and Carnegie returned to the United States. However, Carnegie's reputation was permanently damaged by the Homestead events.
In his final days, Carnegie suffered from bronchial pneumonia. Before his death on August 11, 1919, Carnegie had donated $350,695,654 for various causes. The "Andrew Carnegie Dictum" was:
Carnegie was involved in philanthropic causes, but he kept himself away from religious circles. He wanted to be identified by the world as a "positivist". He was highly influenced in public life by John Bright.
As early as 1868, at age 33, he drafted a memo to himself. He wrote: "...The amassing of wealth is one of the worse species of idolatry. No idol more debasing than the worship of money."[40] In order to avoid degrading himself, he wrote in the same memo he would retire at age 35 to pursue the practice of philanthropic giving for "...the man who dies thus rich dies disgraced." However, he did not begin his philanthropic work in all earnest until 1881, with the gift of a library to his hometown of Dunfermline, Scotland.[41]
Carnegie wrote "The Gospel of Wealth",[42] an article in which he stated his belief that the rich should use their wealth to help enrich society.
Man does not live by bread alone. I have known millionaires starving for lack of the nutriment which alone can sustain all that is human in man, and I know workmen, and many so-called poor men, who revel in luxuries beyond the power of those millionaires to reach. It is the mind that makes the body rich. There is no class so pitiably wretched as that which possesses money and nothing else. Money can only be the useful drudge of things immeasurably higher than itself. Exalted beyond this, as it sometimes is, it remains Caliban still and still plays the beast. My aspirations take a higher flight. Mine be it to have contributed to the enlightenment and the joys of the mind, to the things of the spirit, to all that tends to bring into the lives of the toilers of Pittsburgh sweetness and light. I hold this the noblest possible use of wealth.[43]
Carnegie claimed to be a champion of evolutionary thought particularly the work of Herbert Spencer, even declaring Spencer his teacher.[44] Though Carnegie claims to be a disciple of Spencer many of his actions went against the ideas espoused by Spencer.
Spencerian evolution was for individual rights and against government interference. Furthermore, Spencerian evolution held that those unfit to sustain themselves must be allowed to perish. Spencer believed that just as there were many varieties of beetles, respectively modified to existence in a particular place in nature, so too had human society “spontaneously fallen into division of labour”.[45] Individuals who survived to this, the latest and highest stage of evolutionary progress would be “those in whom the power of self-preservation is the greatest—are the select of their generation.”[46] Moreover, Spencer perceived governmental authority as borrowed from the people to perform the transitory aims of establishing social cohesion, insurance of rights, and security.[47][48] Spencerian ‘survival of the fittest’ firmly credits any provisions made to assist the weak, unskilled, poor and distressed to be an imprudent disservice to evolution.[49] Spencer insisted people should resist for the benefit of collective humanity as these severe fate singles out the weak, debauched, and disabled.[49]
Andrew Carnegie’s political and economic focus of during the late nineteenth and early twentieth century was the defense of laissez faire economics. Carnegie emphatically resisted government intrusion in commerce, as well as government-sponsored charities. Carnegie believed the concentration of capital was essential for societal progress and should be encouraged.[50] Carnegie was an ardent supporter of commercial “survival of the fittest” and sought to attain immunity from business challenges by dominating all phases of the steel manufacturing procedure.[51] Carnegie’s determination to lower costs included cutting labor expenses as well.[52] In a notably Spencerian manner, Carnegie argued that unions impeded the natural reduction of prices by pushing up costs, which blocked evolutionary progress.[53] Carnegie felt that unions represented the narrow interest of the few while his actions benefited the entire community.[51]
On the surface, Andrew Carnegie appears to be a strict laissez-faire capitalist and follower of Herbert Spencer, often referring to himself as a disciple of Spencer.[54] Conversely, Carnegie a titan of industry seems to embody all of the qualities of Spencerian survival of the fittest. The two men enjoyed a mutual respect for one another and maintained correspondence until Spencer’s death in 1903.[54] There are however, some major discrepancies between Spencer’s capitalist evolutionary conceptions and Andrew Carnegie’s capitalist practices.
Spencer wrote that in production the advantages of the superior individual is comparatively minor, and thus acceptable, yet the benefit that dominance provides those who control a large segment of production might be hazardous to competition. Spencer feared that an absence of “sympathetic self-restraint” of those with too much power could lead to the ruin of his competitors.[55] He did not think free market competition necessitated competitive warfare. Furthermore, Spencer argued that individuals with superior resources who deliberately used investment schemes to put competitor out of business were committing acts of “commercial murder”.[55] Carnegie built his wealth in the steel industry by maintaining an extensively integrated operating system. Carnegie also bought out some regional competitors, and merged with others, usually maintaining the majority shares in the companies. Over the course of twenty years, Carnegie’s steel properties grew to include the Edgar Thomson Steel Works, the Lucy Furnace Works, the Union Iron Mills, the Homestead Works, the Keystone Bridge Works, the Hartman Steel Works, the Frick Coke Company, and the Scotia ore mines among many other industry related assets.[56] Furthermore, Carnegie’s success was due to his convenient relationship with the railroad industries, which not only relied on steel for track, but were also making money from steel transport. The steel and railroad barons worked closely to negotiate prices instead of free market competition determinations.[57]
Besides Carnegie’s market manipulation, United States trade tariffs were also working in favor of the steel industry. Carnegie spent energy and resources lobbying congress for a continuation of favorable tariffs from which he earned millions of dollars a year.[58] Carnegie tried to keep this information concealed, but legal document released in 1900, during proceeding with the ex-chairman of Carnegie Steel Henry Clay Frick revealed how favorable the tariffs had been.[59] Herbert Spencer absolutely was against government interference in business in the form of regulatory limitation, taxes, and tariffs as well. Spencer saw tariffs as a form of taxation that levied against the majority in service to “the benefit of a small minority of manufacturers and artisans”.[60]
Despite Carnegie's personal dedication to Herbert Spencer as a friend, his adherence to Spencer’s political and economic ideas is more contentious. In particular, it appears Carnegie either misunderstood or intentionally misrepresented some of Spencer's principal arguments. Spencer remarked upon his first visit to Carnegie's steel mills in Pittsburgh, which Carnegie saw as the manifestation of Spencer's philosophy, "Six months' residence here would justify suicide."[61]
The conditions of human society create for this an imperious demand; the concentration of capital is a necessity for meeting the demands of our day, and as such should not be looked at askance, but be encouraged. There is nothing detrimental to human society in it, but much that is, or is bound soon to become, beneficial. It is an evolution from the heterogeneous to the homogeneous, and is clearly another step in the upward path of development.
On the subject of charity Andrew Carnegie's actions diverged in the most significant and complex manner from Herbert Spencer's philosophies. In his 1854 essay Manners and Fashion, Spencer referred to public education as “Old schemes”. He went on to declare that public schools and colleges, fill the heads of students with inept useless knowledge, which excludes useful knowledge. Spencer stated that he trusted no organization of any kind, “political, religious, literary, philanthropic”, and believed that as they expanded in influence so too did its regulations expand. In addition Spencer thought that as all institutions grow they become evermore corrupted by the influence of power and money. The institution eventually loses its “original spirit, and sinks into a lifeless mechanism”.[62] Spencer insisted that all forms of philanthropy uplift the poor and downtrodden were reckless and incompetent. Spencer thought any attempt to prevent “the really salutary sufferings” of the less fortunate “bequeath to posterity a continually increasing curse”.[63] Carnegie, a self-proclaimed devotee of Spencer, testified to Congress on February 5, 1915: "My business is to do as much good in the world as I can; I have retired from all other business."[64]
Carnegie held that societal progress relied on individuals who maintained moral obligations to themselves and to society.[65] Furthermore, he believed that charity supplied the means for those who wish to improve themselves to achieve their goals.[66] Carnegie urged other wealthy people to contribute to society in the form of parks, works of art, libraries and other endeavors that improve the community and contribute to the “lasting good.”[67] Carnegie also held a strong opinion against inherited wealth. Carnegie believed that the sons of prosperous businesspersons were rarely as talented as their fathers.[66] By leaving large sums of money to their children, wealthy business leaders were wasting resources that could be used to benefit society. Most notably, Carnegie believed that the future leaders of society would rise from the ranks the poor.[68] Carnegie strongly believed in this because he had risen from the bottom. He believed the poor possessed an advantage over the wealthy because they receive greater attention from their parents and are taught better work ethics.[68]
Witnessing sectarianism and strife in 19th century Scotland regarding religion and philosophy, Carnegie kept his distance from organized religion and theism.[69] Carnegie instead preferred to see things through naturalistic and scientific terms stating, "Not only had I got rid of the theology and the supernatural, but I had found the truth of evolution."[70]
Later in life, Carnegie's firm opposition to religion softened. For many years he was a member of Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, pastored from 1905 to 1926 by Social Gospel exponent Henry Sloane Coffin, while his wife and daughter belonged to the Brick Presbyterian Church.[71] He also prepared (but did not deliver) an address to St. Andrews[disambiguation needed] in which he professed a belief in "an Infinite and Eternal Energy from which all things proceed".[72]
Influenced by his "favorite living hero in public life", the British liberal, John Bright, Carnegie started his efforts in pursuit of world peace at a young age.[73] His motto, "All is well since all grows better", served not only as a good rationalization of his successful business career but also in his view of international relations.
Despite his love and efforts towards international peace, Carnegie faced many dilemmas on his quest for world peace. These dilemmas are often regarded as conflicts between his view on international relations and his other loyalties. Throughout the 1880s and 1890s, for example, Carnegie allowed his steel works to fill large orders of armor plate for the building of an enlarged and modernized United States Navy; while he opposed American oversea expansion.[74] He also wrote controversial criticisms of the British class structure which seemed to conflict with his promotion of Anglo-American friendship.[75]
On the matter of American annexation, Carnegie had always thought it is an unwise gesture for the United States. He did not oppose the annexation of the Hawaiian islands or Puerto Rico, but Carnegie opposed the annexation of the Philippines. Carnegie believed that the conquest of the islands is a denial of the fundamental democratic principle, and he also urged William McKinley to withdraw American troops and allow the Filipinos to live with their independence.[76] This act well impressed the other American anti-imperialists, who soon elected him vice-president of the Anti-Imperialist League.
After he sold his steel company in 1901, Carnegie was able to get fully involved into the acts for the peace cause, both financially and personally. He gave away most of his fortunes to various peace-keeping agencies in order to keep them growing. When his friend, the British publicist William T. Stead, asked him to create a new organization for the goal of a peace and arbitration society, his reply was as such:
I do not see that it is wise to devote our efforts to creating another organization. Of course I may be wrong in believing that, but I am certainly not wrong that if it were dependent on any millionaire's money it would begin as an object of pity and end as one of derision. I wonder that you do not see this. There is nothing that robs a righteous cause of its strength more than a millionaire's money. Its life is tainted thereby.[77]
Carnegie believed that it is the effort and will of the people, that maintains the peace in international relations. Money is just a push for the act. If world peace depended solely on financial support, it would not seem a goal, but more like an act of pity.
The creation of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in 1910 was regarded as a milestone on the road to the ultimate goal of abolition of war. Beyond a gift of $10 million for peace promotion, Carnegie also encouraged the "scientific" investigation of the various causes of war, and the adoption of judicial methods that should eventually eliminate them. He believed that the Endowment exists to promote information on the nations' rights and responsibilities under existing international law and to encourage other conferences to codify this law.[78]
In 1914, on the eve of the First World War, Carnegie founded the Church Peace Union (CPU), a group of leaders in religion, academia, and politics. Through the CPU, Carnegie hoped to mobilize the world's churches, religious organizations, and other spiritual and moral resources to join in promoting moral leadership to put an end to war forever. For its inaugural international event, the CPU sponsored a conference to be held on August 1, 1914, on the shores of Lake Constance in southern Germany. As the delegates made their way to the conference by train, Germany was invading Belgium.
Despite its inauspicious beginning, the CPU thrived. Today its focus is on ethics and it is known as the Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs, an independent, nonpartisan, nonprofit organization, whose mission is to be the voice for ethics in international affairs.
The outbreak of the First World War was clearly a shock to Carnegie and his optimistic view on world peace. Although his promotion of anti-imperialism and world peace had all failed, and the Carnegie Endowment had not fulfilled his expectations, his beliefs and ideas on international relations had helped build the foundation of the League of Nations after his death, which took world peace to another level.
Carnegie was a frequent contributor to periodicals on labor issues. In addition to Triumphant Democracy (1886), and The Gospel of Wealth (1889), he also wrote An American Four-in-hand in Britain (1883), Round the World (1884), The Empire of Business (1902), The Secret of Business is the Management of Men (1903),[79] James Watt (1905) in the Famous Scots Series, Problems of Today (1907), and his posthumously published autobiography Autobiography of Andrew Carnegie (1920).
Carnegie received the honorary Doctor of Laws (DLL) from the University of Glasgow in June 1901,[80] and received the Freedom of the City of Glasgow in recognition of his munificence later the same year.[81]
The dinosaur Diplodocus carnegiei (Hatcher) was named for Carnegie after he sponsored the expedition that discovered its remains in the Morrison Formation (Jurassic) of Utah. Carnegie was so proud of "Dippi" that he had casts made of the bones and plaster replicas of the whole skeleton donated to several museums in Europe and South America. The original fossil skeleton is assembled and stands in the Hall of Dinosaurs at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
After the Spanish American War, Carnegie offered to donate $20 million to the Philippines so they could buy their independence.
The Carnegie Medal for the best children's literature published in the UK was established in his name.
The Carnegie Faculty of Sport and Education, at Leeds Metropolitan University, UK, is named after him.
At the height of his career, Carnegie was the second-richest person in the world, behind only John D. Rockefeller of Standard Oil.
Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh was named after Carnegie, who founded the institution as the Carnegie Technical Schools.
Lauder College (named after his uncle who encouraged him to get an education) in the Halbeth area of Dunfermline was renamed Carnegie College in 2007.
A street in Belgrade (Serbia), next to the Belgrade University Library which is one of the Carnegie libraries, is named in his honor.
Carnegie's personal papers reside at the Library of Congress Manuscript Division. The Carnegie Collections of the Columbia University Rare Book and Manuscript Library consist of the archives of the following organizations founded by Carnegie: The Carnegie Corporation of New York (CCNY); The Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (CEIP); the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching (CFAT);The Carnegie Council on Ethics and International Affairs (CCEIA). These collections deal primarily with Carnegie philanthropy and have very little personal material related to Carnegie. Carnegie Mellon University and the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh jointly administer the Andrew Carnegie Collection of digitized archives on Carnegie's life.
Goldin, Milton. "Andrew Carnegie and the Robber Baron Myth". In Myth America: A Historical Anthology, Volume II. 1997. Gerster, Patrick, and Cords, Nicholas. (editors.) Brandywine Press, St. James, NY. ISBN 1-881089-97-5
Josephson; Matthew. (1938, 1987). The Robber Barons: The Great American Capitalists, 1861–1901 ISBN 99918-47-99-5
Lanier, Henry Wysham (April 1901). "The Many-Sided Andrew Carnegie: A Citizen of the Republic". The World's Work: A History of Our Time I: 618–630. Retrieved July 9, 2009. 
Lester, Robert M. (1941). Forty Years of Carnegie Giving: A Summary of the Benefactions of Andrew Carnegie and of the Work of the Philanthropic Trusts Which He Created. C. Scribner's Sons, New York.
Livesay, Harold C. (1999). Andrew Carnegie and the Rise of Big Business, 2nd Edition. ISBN 0-321-43287-8 (short biography)
Lorenzen, Michael. (1999). "Deconstructing the Carnegie Libraries: The Sociological Reasons Behind Carnegie's Millions to Public Libraries". Illinois Libraries 81 (2): 75–78. 
Morris, Charles R. (2005). The Tycoons: How Andrew Carnegie, John D. Rockefeller, Jay Gould, and J. P. Morgan Invented the American Supereconomy. Times Books. ISBN 0-8050-7599-2
Nasaw, David. (2005). Andrew Carnegie The Penguin Press, New York. (Along with Wall the most detailed scholarly biography)
Patterson, David S. "Andrew Carnegie's Quest for World Peace". Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society 114 (5): 371–383. 
Rees, Jonathan. (1997). "Homestead in Context: Andrew Carnegie and the Decline of the Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers." Pennsylvania History 64(4): 509–533. ISSN 0031-4528
VanSlyck, Abigail A. "'The Utmost Amount of Effective Accommodation': Andrew Carnegie and the Reform of the American Library." Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians 1991 50(4): 359–383. ISSN 0037-9808 (Fulltext: in Jstor)
Wall, Joseph Frazier. Andrew Carnegie (1989). ISBN 0-8229-5904-6 (Along with Nasaw the most detailed scholarly biography)
This audio file was created from a revision of the "Andrew Carnegie" article dated 2009-03-10, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help)
This audio file was created from a revision of the "Andrew Carnegie" article dated 2009-03-10, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help)
Carnegie, Andrew (1920). John Charles Van Dyke, ed. Autobiography of Andrew Carnegie. Houghton Mifflin company. ISBN 1-55553-000-1. Retrieved December 24, 2010. 
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Andrew_Carnegie&oldid=610386181"					
Categories: 1835 births1919 deathsAmerican billionairesAmerican Civil War industrialistsAmerican company foundersAmerican philanthropistsAmerican railway entrepreneursAmerican steel industry businesspeopleAndrew CarnegieBurials at Sleepy Hollow CemeteryCarnegie Mellon University peopleDeaths from bronchopneumoniaDeistsPeople from DunfermlinePeople from Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaProgressive Era in the United StatesRectors of the University of St AndrewsScottish emigrants to the United StatesScottish billionairesSpiritualistsU.S. SteelUniversity and college foundersHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from March 2013Wikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalismUse mdy dates from May 2012Infobox person using certain parameters when deadBiography with signatureArticles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2010Articles with unsourced statements from August 2013Articles with unsourced statements from February 2013Articles with links needing disambiguation from April 2014Spoken articlesArticles with hAudio microformatsWikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the Encyclopedia Americana with a Wikisource referenceWikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource referenceWikipedia articles incorporating a citation from Appleton's CyclopediaWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
RSS FeedAbout UsMission and VisionPresident’s CornerBoard of TrusteesStaffGovernance and PoliciesFinancesMedal of PhilanthropyAcademic Leadership AwardProgramsNational ProgramPathways to Education OpportunityPathways to Citizenship and Civic IntegrationInternational ProgramInternational Peace and SecurityHigher Education and Libraries in Africa Past Programs and InitiativesPublicationsSearch PublicationsCarnegie ReporterCarnegie ResultsCarnegie ReviewGrantee PublicationsAnnual ReportPresident's EssayBooksMultimedia ProjectsCarnegie PressGrantsGrantseekersGranteesGrants DatabaseNewsFrom The Desk Of...Press ReleasesGrantee NewsCarnegie Corporation in the NewsConversationsGrants in ActionRSS subscribe
Carnegie Corporation of New York has funded work to address a variety of important issues. Move your mouse over the letters below for a list of issues and links to corresponding content.
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to the Achievement Gap -- the gap in academic achievement that persists between minority and disadvantaged students and their white counterparts -- through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to, and occurring in Africa through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York has funded work to address issues related to biological weapons (bioweapons).  While this work is no longer considered part of our current strategic focus and no longer receives funding, you may want to review recent Carnegie Corporation publications related to bioweapons on our Publications page including: 
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to campaign finance reform through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to, and occurring in China through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to citizenship (U.S.) through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to civic education through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to Common Academic Standards through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to data-driven decision making through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to diplomacy through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to disarmament through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York has funded work to address issues related to Early Childhood Development.  While this work is no longer considered part of our current strategic focus and no longer receives funding, you may want to review past Carnegie Corporation publications related to Early Childhood Development.
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to education accountability through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to education reform through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to improving the use of educational data through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to electoral reform through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to, and occurring in Eurasia through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to evidence-based assessment through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to Foreign Affairs through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to Foreign Policy through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to, and occurring in the former Soviet Union through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to higher education through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to immigrants/immigration through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to journalism through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to libraries through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to math and science education through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to naturalization through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to new media through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to North Korea through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to nuclear power through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to nuclear weapons through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to peacebuilding through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to public intellectuals through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to public scholars through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to, and occurring in Russia through the following programs:
Nearly all of the work funded by Carnegie Corporation of New York supports scholarship at some level.
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to school design through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to student performance through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to teacher training through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to Track II diplomacy through the following programs:
Carnegie Corporation of New York addresses issues related to urban school reform through the following programs:
About UsMission and VisionFoundation HistoryFounding and Early YearsAbout Andrew CarnegieBiographic TimelineCarnegie for KidsAndrew Carnegie BiographyArchives: The Carnegie Collection at Columbia UniversityOther Carnegie OrganizationsTimelinePast PresidentsFrederick P. KeppelCharles DollardJohn W. GardnerAlan PiferDavid A. HamburgPresident’s CornerBoard of TrusteesStaffGovernance and PoliciesFinancesMedal of PhilanthropyAcademic Leadership Award
Celebrating Andrew CarnegieAndrew Carnegie (1835–1919) was among the most famous and wealthy industrialists of his day. Through the Carnegie Corporation of New York, the innovative philanthropic foundation he established in 1911, his fortune has since supported everything from the discovery of insulin and the dismantling of nuclear weapons, to the creation of Sesame Street and the Common Core Standards. Millions of people have benefited from his foresighted generosity—a legacy of real and permanent good. We invite you to learn more about this remarkable man’s life through an interactive timeline, historical documents, audio, video, and more.BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
Andrew Carnegie was born in Dunfermline, Scotland, on November 25, 1835. He was the first son of William Carnegie, a linen weaver and local leader of the Chartists (who sought to improve the conditions of working-class life in Great Britain), and of Margaret Carnegie, daughter of Thomas Morrison, a shoemaker and political and social reformer... READ MOREINTERACTIVE TIMELINE
Explore key dates in Andrew Carnegie’s journey from Scotland to America, from industrialist to philanthropist.
Hear Carnegie himself read from The Gospel of Wealth, the 1889 essay in which he boldly articulated his view that the rich are merely “trustees” of their wealth and are under a moral obligation to distribute it in ways that promote the welfare and happiness of the common man.HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS
View a selection of unique primary source materials, including Carnegie’s certificate of citizenship and an entry from his journal.
People pronounce Andrew Carnegie’s last name differently depending on where they live. Watch how people say it in New York and in Carnegie’s hometown of Dunfermline, Scotland. 
Celebrating President Vartan Gregorian’s stewardship of the Carnegie legacy, a road in Pittencrieff Park—located in Dunfermline, Scotland—was dedicated “Vartan’ Way” on October 14, 2013. 
 CARNEGIE LIBRARIES CARNEGIE CHURCH ORGANS THE GOSPEL OF WEALTH (PDF) ANDREW CARNEGIE’S LEGACY THE CREATION OF CARNEGIE CORPORATION A CENTURY OF PHILANTHROPY FURTHER READING 
=======================================================
Meet Andrew Carnegie and find out how the wealthiest man of his day ended up giving away his vast fortune.
Scottish-born Andrew Carnegie (1835-1919) was an American industrialist who amassed a fortune in the steel industry then became a major philanthropist. Carnegie worked in a Pittsburgh cotton factory as a boy before rising to the position of division superintendent of the Pennsylvania Railroad in 1859. While working for the railroad, he invested in various ventures, including iron and oil companies, and made his first fortune by the time he was in his early 30s. In the early 1870s, he entered the steel business, and over the next two decades became a dominant force in the industry. In 1901, he sold the Carnegie Steel Company to banker John Pierpont Morgan for $480 million. Carnegie then devoted himself to philanthropy, eventually giving away more than $350 million.
Andrew Carnegie, whose life became a rags-to-riches story, was born into modest circumstances on November 25, 1835, in Dunfermline, Scotland, the second of two sons of Will, a handloom weaver, and Margaret, who did sewing work for local shoemakers. In 1848, the Carnegie family (who pronounced their name “carNEgie”) moved to America in search of better economic opportunities and settled in Allegheny City (now part of Pittsburgh), Pennsylvania. Andrew Carnegie, whose formal education ended when he left Scotland, where he had no more than a few years’ schooling, soon found employment as a bobbin boy at a cotton factory, earning $1.20 a week.
Did You Know? During the U.S. Civil War, Andrew Carnegie was drafted for the Army; however, rather than serve, he paid another man $850 to report for duty in his place, a common practice at the time.Ambitious and hard-working, he went on to hold a series of jobs, including messenger in a telegraph office and secretary and telegraph operator for the superintendent of the Pittsburgh division of the Pennsylvania Railroad. In 1859, Carnegie succeeded his boss as railroad division superintendent. While in this position, he made profitable investments in a variety of businesses, including coal, iron and oil companies and a manufacturer of railroad sleeping cars.
After leaving his post with the railroad in 1865, Carnegie continued his ascent in the business world. With the U.S. railroad industry then entering a period of rapid growth, he expanded his railroad-related investments and founded such ventures as an iron bridge building company and a telegraph firm, often using his connections to win insider contracts. By the time he was in his early 30s, Carnegie had become a very wealthy man.
In the early 1870s, Carnegie co-founded his first steel company, near Pittsburgh. Over the next few decades, he created a steel empire, maximizing profits and minimizing inefficiencies through ownership of factories, raw materials and transportation infrastructure involved in steel-making. In 1892, his primary holdings were consolidated to form Carnegie Steel Company.
The steel magnate considered himself a champion of the working man; however, his reputation was marred by a violent labor strike in 1892 at his Homestead, Pennsylvania, steel mill. After union workers protested wage cuts, Carnegie Steel general manager Henry Clay Frick (1848-1919), who was determined to break the union, locked the workers out of the plant. Andrew Carnegie was on vacation in Scotland during the strike, but put his support in Frick, who called in some 300 Pinkerton armed guards to protect the plant. A bloody battle broke out between the striking workers and the Pinkertons, leaving at least 10 men dead. The state militia then was brought in to take control of the town, union leaders were arrested and Frick hired replacement workers for the plant. After five months, the strike ended with the union’s defeat. Additionally, the labor movement at Pittsburgh-area steel mills was crippled for the next four decades.
In 1901, banker John Pierpont Morgan (1837-1913) purchased Carnegie Steel for some $480 million, making Andrew Carnegie one of the world’s richest men. That same year, Morgan merged Carnegie Steel with a group of other steel businesses to form U.S. Steel, the world’s first billion-dollar corporation
After Carnegie sold his steel company, the diminutive titan, who stood 5’3”, retired from business and devoted himself full-time to philanthropy. In 1889, he had penned an essay, “The Gospel of Wealth,” in which he stated that the rich have “a moral obligation to distribute [their money] in ways that promote the welfare and happiness of the common man.” Carnegie also said that “The man who dies thus rich dies disgraced.”
Carnegie eventually gave away some $350 million (the equivalent of billions in today’s dollars), which represented the bulk of his wealth. Among his philanthropic activities, he funded the establishment of more than 2,500 public libraries around the globe, donated more than 7,600 organs to churches worldwide and endowed organizations (many still in existence today) dedicated to research in science, education, world peace and other causes. Among his gifts was the $1.1 million required for the land and construction costs of Carnegie Hall, the legendary New York City concert venue that opened in 1891.
Carnegie’s mother, who was a major influence in his life, lived with him until her death in 1886. The following year, the 51-year-old industrial baron married Louise Whitfield (1857-1946), who was two decades his junior and the daughter of a New York City merchant. The couple had one child, Margaret (1897-1990). The Carnegies lived in a Manhattan mansion and spent summers in Scotland, where they owned Skibo Castle, set on some 28,000 acres.
Carnegie died at age 83 on August 11, 1919, at Shadowbrook, his estate in Lenox, Massachusetts. He was buried at Sleepy Hollow Cemetery in North Tarrytown, New York.
Fact Check We strive for accuracy and fairness. But if you see something that doesn't look right, contact us!
=======================================================
HomeH2ShowsD-Day: The Soldiers' StoryAmerican DaredevilsVikingsModern MarvelsHow Sex Changed the WorldStorage WarsPawn StarsView AllScheduleTopicsHistory of D-DayHistory of WW2HIstory of LondonHistory of AmericaHistory of DeathHISTORY LocationsView AllFeaturesDid you know...?This day in historyBook ClubBehind the scenesBiosAdolf HItlerWinston ChurchillMahatma GandhiNelson MandelaEva PerónMuhammed AliView AllVideosGamesMankindDuck Dynasty: Teatime TakedownIRT: Ice ShowdownWarriorsMud Men: Mini GamesView AllShop 
 Andrew Carnegie, the most contradictory of the robber barons: he supported workers’ rights, but destroyed unions; and when he acquired the largest fortune in US history, he tried to give it away.
Andrew is born in Scotland in 1835. After steam power makes his textile worker father redundant, the family emigrate. He starts work aged 12, and soon his intelligence secures him a PA position to Pittsburgh rail road President, Tom Scott.
When his father dies, Andrew, now 20, becomes the main family breadwinner. Thankfully, he excels at work with innovations such as keeping the telegraph office open 24 hours a day. He’s promoted to manager and oversees railway expansion west.
Like many of the rich, he avoids fighting during the Civil War by paying a replacement to fight for him.
	In 1868, Carnegie employs James Eads, a designer with no bridge building experience, to span the Mississippi at St Louis, Missouri. It will need to be over a mile long, bigger than anything built before it. But if it succeeds, it will connect East and West like never before. One in four bridges built at the time fail. Carnegie invests everything. But the traditional metal, iron, wouldn’t have the tensile strength to withstand the weight of freight carried over the bridge. Steel, the strongest material ever produced (made by mixing iron with carbon at over 2,000 degrees) is however, difficult to mass produce and extremely expensive. At the time, it’s used in small quantities for designer items such as cutlery and jewellery.
Carnegie spends years searching for an answer and eventually finds an English inventor, Henry Bessemer, in Sheffield. With his mass-production solution the time it takes to make a single rail goes from two weeks to 15 minutes. Even so, Carnegie falls years behind schedule and is nearly buried in debt.
But in 1873, aged just 33, Carnegie unites America with the opening of the St Louis bridge. He still needs to convince people it’s safe to traverse and as there’s a myth that elephants won’t cross unstable structures, he has one walk across it on opening day.
Steel orders flood in as the railroad owners seek to replace their tracks with the stronger material. With his old mentor Tom Scott’s help, Carnegie raises $21m in today’s money and builds his first steel plant. The 100 acre steel mill is the country’s largest capable of producing 225 tonnes a day. But when Rockefeller moves his oil off the railroads, he bursts the bubble in the rail road industry. Carnegie suffers in the subsequent stock market crash, but not as much Tom Scott.
Disgruntled workers burn Scott’s business down and help to send him to an early grave. So when, in 1881, Carnegie buries his mentor on a rainy day in April, he blames Rockefeller for Scott’s demise and seeks revenge. He’s now producing 10,000 tons of steel a month and making $1.5 million profits per year.
	And Carnegie finds another massive market. Manhattan land is the most expensive in the world. The only way to expand is up, but materials and current technology mean few buildings exceed five floors. Steel solves this. The first Chicago skyscraper is built with Carnegie steel.
But despite his newfound wealth making him one of the richest men in America, Rockefeller is still worth seven times more than Carnegie. He hires Henry Frick, a self made millionaire by 30, one of the Midwest’s largest coal suppliers and a ruthless businessman. In two years, Frick doubles Carnegie’s profits.
	To celebrate, Frick sets up a resort for the super-rich: the South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club and his business partner is soon one of its members. It is in a superb location, situated near the South Fork dam. This dam holds 20 million tonnes of water. Fourteen miles downriver sits Johnstown. Frick orders the dam lowered (in order to make it possible for his carriage to travel along the top) and the reservoir water level to be raised. This, combined with one day’s heavy rainfall on 31 May 1899, that pushes the water level up by an inch every ten minutes, these actions prove fatal.
The dam bursts and more than 2,000 people are killed. One in three are so mutilated that they are never identified. 16,000 homes are destroyed and four square miles are levelled. The recently formed Red Cross is called. It’s the worst manmade disaster in American history, prior to 9/11.
Members of The South Fork are sued, unsuccessfully. But Carnegie feels responsible and donates millions to rebuild Johnstown. Despite Rockefeller still being worth three times more than Carnegie, the Scotsman donates ever increasing amounts of his fortune.
	Carnegie invests millions to turn around the Homestead Steel Works, a struggling steel mill outside Pittsburgh, to increase the production of structural steel. But to cut costs, Carnegie allows Frick to increase working hours and reduce wages. When the newly formed unions start opposing 12 hour days and six day weeks, and the subsequent workplace injuries and fatalities, Frick writes to Carnegie asking for permission to crush them. In the wake of the Johnstown tragedy, Carnegie has retreated to his homeland, Scotland, and essentially leaves it to Frick.
	Frick stockpiles steel in preparation for a strike. He brings in the Pinkerton Detectives, a private army willing to track down train robbers, guard the President and break strikes. In 1892, two thousand workers barricade themselves inside the Homestead plant, stopping steel production. In the escalating tension, The Pinkertons fire on the unarmed workers. Many are shot in the back as they run for their lives. Nine are killed. The strike is broken, but not until the state governor sends in the state militia. Frick, seen as the cause of the trouble, is shot and stabbed by an anarchist assassin. But three days after this attempted assassination, he’s back at work and moreover, hustling to take the steel plants away from Carnegie. He fails and Carnegie instructs his board to eject Frick.
	JP Morgan approaches Carnegie and asks him to sell. At a dinner party, Carnegie writes out four hundred and eighty million on a piece of paper. The equivalent today of four hundred billion dollars, or the entire budget of the US Federal Government. In modern terms Carnegie has amassed a personal fortune of over $310 billion. The largest private fortune the world has ever seen.
Carnegie spends the rest of his life giving away more than 350 million dollars, or 67 billion in today’s money. But despite his charitable efforts, the tragedies of Johnstown and Homestead were associated with his name until his death, from bronchial pneumonia, in 1919.
A business partner’s reply to a request for reconciliation“You can say to Andrew Carnegie that I will meet him in hell (where we are both going) but not before.” 
“People who are unable to motivate themselves must be content with mediocrity, no matter how impressive their other talents.”  
“I resolved to stop accumulating and begin the infinitely more serious and difficult task of wise distribution.”   
Carnegie and Rockefeller spent a decade exchanging Christmas presents such as a cheap cardboard waistcoat - a jab at Carnegie’s poor immigrant beginnings - and in return Carnegie would send Rockefeller - a devout Baptist who didn’t drink - a fine bottle of whiskey. 
Carnegie’s favourite cause was libraries and he created more than 2,500 ‘Carnegie Libraries’. 
Carnegie became one of the country’s first defence contractors by supplying steel to build new navy warships. The American Navy was becoming increasingly aggressive in this era as witnessed by the 1898 invasion of Cuba and in 1899 when a Philippines rebellion was crushed. The Americans use an early variation on water-boarding to torture rebels.
By the end of the 19th century, and thanks in large part to Carnegie’s steel railways and steel skyscrapers, America’s urban population increased by 87 times. In Chicago alone, in just ten years, they built 50 steel frame buildings and in just 20 years, its population more than doubled to almost 1.7m. From 1860 to 1900 the population of the US grew from 31m to 75m.
History of America From the first pilgrims to the first black president, explore the history of the United States.
Please selectUnited StatesAustraliaBrazilGermanyIsraelJapanLatin AmericaPolandPortugalRomaniaSouth AfricaSouth East AsiaSpain 
=======================================================
Andrew Carnegie was a famous businessman and one of the richest men in the history of the world. Read more about this philanthropic businessman in the following article.
place of death: Lenox epitaphs: "Here lies a man who knew how to enlist the service of better men than himself father: Will Carnegie mother: Margaret siblings: Thomas  Spouse: Louise Whitfield children: Margaret
Works & Achievements: Established Carnegie Steel Company which was the largest enterprise in the world before its merger into U.S Steel, Founded many philanthropic organizations like Carnegie Corporation of New York, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh.
Andrew Carnegie was a Scottish-American industrialist, businessman, entrepreneur and a major philanthropist. Carnegie earned the major part of his wealth in steel industry. He built the Carnegie Steel Company which in 1890s was the largest and most profitable industrial enterprise in the world. Later, he sold it to J.P. Morgan who created U.S. Steel. Carnegie, in the later part of his life, turned towards philanthropy and did significant work in the field of education and culture. He founded various organizations like Carnegie Corporation of New York, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Carnegie Mellon University and the Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh. Carnegie was considered as the second-richest man in history after John D. Rockefeller.
Andrew Carnegie was born on November 25, 1835 in Dunfermline, Fife, Scotland. His father’s name was William Carnegie. Following the hard times as a handloom weaver and being a victim of widespread starvation, his father decided to move his family to Allegheny, Pennsylvania in the United States in 1848. Andrew started as a bobbin boy at the age of thirteen, changing spools of thread in a cotton mill 12 hours a day, for 6 days a week. For this, he was paid a meagre wage of $1.20 per week. In 1850, he took the job of a telegraph messenger boy in the Pittsburgh Office of the Ohio Telegraph Company, at $2.50 per week. The new job had its benefits; Andrew now could enter the local theatre without paying any admission fee. Within a year, the young Andrew was promoted to the post of operator. In 1853, Andrew was employed by Thomas A. Scott of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company as a secretary/telegraph operator. At the age of eighteen, Andrew Carnegie became the superintendent of the Pittsburgh Division. His job at Pennsylvania Railroad Company proved to be immensely significant for his future growth. Railroad business was the biggest business in the America and provided Carnegie with the knowledge about the management and cost control.
His association with Scott grew who, in turn, helped Carnegie in his first investment. In 1855, Carnegie with the help of Scott invested 500$ in the Adams Express, which was contracted with the Pennsylvania to carry its messengers. Few years later, he received few shares in T.T. Woodruff's sleeping car company. Reinvesting his money in similar railroad investments, Carnegie accumulated considerable amount of capital for his future business. Carnegie helped in the merger of Woodruff's company and that of George M Pullman, who invented the sleeping car for first class travel. This merger proved to be great success for Woodruff and Carnegie. Carnegie continued his work at Pennsylvania Railroad Company under Thomas Scott and brought several improvements to the service. Civil War gave a golden opportunity to Carnegie, as he was appointed at the post of Superintendent of the Military Railways and the Union Government's telegraph lines in the East. He helped to open rail lines into Washington D.C. After the defeat of Union forces at Bull Run, he personally supervised the transportation of defeated troops. This war showed the importance of industries to the American success.
Seeing the vast opportunity in steel business, Carnegie invested $40,000 in Story Farm on Oil Creek in Venango County, Pennsylvania. Within a year, he received a return of $1,000,000 in cash dividends and considerable amount of profit in selling the petroleum from oil wells. During the Civil Wars, Pittsburgh had become the center of wartime production including iron products such as armor for gunboats, cannon, and shells. Carnegie collaborated with few others in establishing a steel rolling mill. His control over the industry and steel production became major part of his wealth. On completion of war, Carnegie left the railroad business and concentrated mainly on ironworks trade. Carnegie had already invested in iron business before the war. He looked for developing new iron works and eventually, formed the Keystone Bridge Works and the Union Ironworks, in Pittsburgh. Although he had left Pennsylvania Railroad Company, he remained close to the management especially to Thomas A. Scott and J. Edgar Thomson. With the help of his connections, Carnegie managed to get the contracts for his Keystone Bridge Company and the rails produced by his ironworks.
In 1881, Carnegie took his family to a trip to United Kingdom. Traveling to Scotland by coach, they visited their old home in Dunfermline, where Carnegie's mother laid the foundation stone of a Carnegie Library for which he donated money. His business kept booming during this period. Apart from owning steel works, Carnegie purchased the iron ore fields around Lake Superior at an unbelievably low cost in 1886. The same year, he also published his renowned book, “Triumphant Democracy”. This book received a favorable response in U.S. despite creating strong controversy in UK. Carnegie’s two main achievements included cheap and efficient mass production of steel rails for railroad lines and vertical integration of all suppliers of raw materials. In year 1888, he bought the rival Homestead Steel Works, which added an extensive plant with feeder coal and iron fields, a 425-mile long railway, and a line of lake steamships to his company. By 1889, Carnegie owned J. Edgar Thomson Steel Works, Pittsburgh Bessemer Steel Works, the Lucy Furnaces, the Union Iron Mills, the Union Mill, the Keystone Bridge Works, the Hartman Steel Works, the Frick Coke Company, and the Scotia ore mines. He combined all his assets and formed Carnegie Steel Company in 1892. With this, Carnegie Steel became the largest manufacturer of pig iron, steel rails, and coke in the world.
At the age of 66, in 1901, Carnegie was considering of retirement. As such, he converted his privately owned enterprises into joint stock corporations. John Pierpont Morgan, a banker and powerful financial deal maker of that time, had observed the growth of Carnegie Steel Company and envisioned an integrated steel industry. For the same, with the help of Charles M. Schwab, he bought the Carnegie Steel Company and other big steel producers to merge into a single company. Following the negotiations, United States Steel Corporation was formed on March 2, 1901. The main aim behind the formation of US Steel Corporation was cutting costs, lowering prices, producing in greater quantities and raising wages to workers. Also, one single enterprise would mean no duplication and waste. Carnegie spent his last years doing extensive philanthropy works. Following his benevolent works, Carnegie established a number of libraries throughout the United States, the United Kingdom, and other English-speaking countries. In total, he had funded around 3000 libraries in different countries. His other considerable donations included giving $2 million in 1901 to start the Carnegie Institute of Technology (CIT) at Pittsburgh, $10 million in 1901 to establish the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland and $10 million in 1913 to endow the Carnegie United Kingdom Trust, a grant-making foundation.
Andrew Carnegie died on August 11, 1919 in Lenox, Massachusetts due to bronchial pneumonia. He was buried at the Sleepy Hollow Cemetery in North Tarrytown, New York. 
 1850:  Took the job of a telegraph messenger boy in the Pittsburgh Office of the Ohio Telegraph Company.
 1886:  His younger brother Thomas died, purchased the iron ore fields around Lake Superior, Published his renowned book, “Triumphant Democracy”.
Napoleon Hill talks about his meeting with Andrew CarnegieViews: 590487 | Likes: 1859 | Dislikes: 30Andrew Carnegie - Top 10 QuotesViews: 48814 | Likes: 225 | Dislikes: 1Andrew Carnegie Interview - Part OneViews: 103603 | Likes: 150 | Dislikes: 26 
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesCash for College! 54 Scholarships Worth $10&#044;000 or MoreErikson's Psychosocial Stages Summary ChartHow to Control Carpenter BeesQuiz - What's Your Leadership Style? [About Psychology]College Interview Questions
Scottish-American industrialist Andrew Carnegie led the American steel industry at the turn of the century, eventually becoming the richest man in the world. Carnegie then turned around and gave most of his wealth away. Focusing on global education and world peace, Carnegie ultimately donated a staggering $350 million.
Andrew Carnegie was born in Dunfermline, Scotland, on November 25, 1835, to Margaret (nee Morrison) and William Carnegie, a handloom weaver. For extra family income, Margaret sewed soles on the bottoms of boots, having learned it from her father, who was a shoemaker. William had a kind nature and Margaret gave wise counsel to anyone coming by her door seeking advice. Carnegie claimed his lifelong optimistic nature came from his paternal grandfather, whom he was named after.
In 1840, Carnegie’s sister, Ann, was born; however, she died in infancy. In 1843, Carnegie’s brother, Thomas (Tom), was born. That same year, eight-year-old Carnegie attended Mr. Martin’s school, demonstrating an uncanny knack for memorization. He attributed his love of history to his uncle, George Lauder, who told him stories about the legendary Robert the Bruce and William Wallace.
With the introduction of steam-loom weaving in 1847, William’s handloom business declined and the family experienced a sharp economic downturn. Margaret wrote to her sister in Allegheny, Pennsylvania, to inquire if she could move her family there since her sister had a weaving business. The response was positive.
Money for the trip was loaned from Mrs. Henderson, a family friend in Dunfermline, and Uncle Lauder guaranteed the payback. Carnegie was 13 when his family sailed the seven-week-long voyage to America, which began on May 17, 1848, aboard the S.V. Wiscasset.
On the subsequent three-week journey from New York to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, which included a canal boat on Lake Eerie and a steamboat down the Ohio River, Carnegie witnessed men laying railroad track that would soon shorten the trip to only ten hours. This greatly impressed Carnegie as he arrived in “Slabtown,” an immigrant neighborhood in Allegheny.
When William failed to sell the tablecloths he had made, he went to work in a cotton factory; Margaret repaired shoes for extra family income. Carnegie, who did not attend school in the U.S., was paid $1.20 per week working full-time as a bobbin-boy in a cotton factory. Carnegie ran a steam engine that fired the boiler in the basement, helped out with the bookkeeping (having a keen mind for math), and bathed the new spools in vats of oil, the smell of which made him terribly nauseous.
In 1850, 15-year-old Andrew Carnegie acquired a job as a telegraph messenger for the Eastern Telegraph Line in Pittsburgh for $2.50 per week. With his uncanny knack for memorization, Carnegie quickly memorized the street names, the firms, and the businessmen in the Pittsburgh business district.
One of these businessmen was Colonel James Anderson, founder of free libraries in western Pennsylvania, who opened his 400-volume library to all the working boys. This made a major impression on Carnegie, who became an avid reader. About this time, Carnegie and his parents repaid Mrs. Henderson all the money she had loaned them for their trip to the U.S.
By age 17, Carnegie had learned the telegraph business well enough to be able to fill in for his boss and at other telegraph offices. He became a telegraph operator by sound rather than printing, a rare accomplishment, and was promoted from the messenger’s station to the operating room as an assistant operator at $25 per month.
In 1853, Andrew Carnegie, now age 18, was hired as the personal telegrapher and assistant to Thomas Scott, the superintendent of the Pennsylvania Railroad's western division in Altoona, Pennsylvania. Paid $35 per month, Carnegie learned the railroad industry. Two years later, Carnegie’s father died, leaving 20-year-old Carnegie as the family’s breadwinner.
After his father died, Carnegie branched out in the hopes of earning more money for his family. He took out a bank loan for $217.50 to invest in a new invention called sleeping cars by the Woodruff Sleeping Car Company. After two years, Carnegie received a return on investment (ROI) of $5,000 annually -- a hefty amount considering his annual income was less than a thousand dollars.
In 1859, when Thomas Scott was promoted to general superintendent, 24-year-old Carnegie was promoted to superintendent of the Pittsburgh Division. His brother Tom, who had also learned telegraphy, became Carnegie’s secretary.
In 1861, the Civil War brought challenges to the railroads. Thomas Scott, who was appointed Assistant Secretary of War in charge of military railroads and telegraphs, summoned Andrew Carnegie to Washington D.C. to once again be his assistant. Carnegie assisted Scott in supervising railroad line repairs, wrecks, sabotaged telegraph lines (President Lincoln was the first president to communicate with the battlefield via telegraph), and transporting wounded soldiers and supplies.
After one year, and no end in sight to the war, the military created the U.S. Military Telegraph Corps, and Scott and Carnegie returned to their former positions. Carnegie invested in the Piper and Schiffler Company, the Adams Express Company, and the Central Transportation Company. In 1863, Carnegie’s additional investments paid him over $13,000 annually.
In 1864, Carnegie was drafted into the Union Army; however, he opted to pay a substitute $850 to serve in his place, feeling that his patriotic duty had been satisfied. The Enrollment Act of 1863, which allowed Carnegie to do this, garnered public resentment and led to the slogan: ”rich man’s war, poor man’s fight.” The Act had another flaw-- many substitutes deserted, only to collect money from additional replacement finders and enlist again and again. The U.S. government eventually issued an amendment: reoccurring enlistees would lose their citizenship if caught.
Once back home, a neighbor of his, William Coleman, invited Carnegie to invest in his new oil company, which hoped to strike it rich within the newly emerging oil industry. After taking a personal tour of the oil region north of Pittsburgh, Carnegie agreed. Within three years, this investment would make him rich.
Looking for ways to reinvest this wealth and remembering the numerous wooden bridges that had been damaged during the Civil War, Carnegie retired from the railroad in 1865 and founded Keystone Bridge Works. The company (named for Pennsylvania, the Keystone State) built cast-iron bridges with the upper cord made of wrought iron. Iron bridges were safer and more permanent than wood ones, which could easily rot or burn.
Scott went in on the venture, so did the Piper and Schiffler Company, who were engineers and mechanics. The company was the first of its kind in the U.S., and the bridges proved extremely strong.
Two years later, in 1867, Carnegie founded another business – the Keystone Telegraph Company. Keystone soon merged with the Pacific and Atlantic Telegraph Company, allowing Keystone's investors to triple their ROIs.
Carnegie continued to invest and continued to make a lot of money. By the age of 33, Andrew Carnegie was a very wealthy man with a net worth of about $400,000 (about $75 million today).
In December 1868, 33-year-old Andrew Carnegie wrote himself a note that questioned his life as a businessman, worrying about falling into the trap of idolizing money.
In this note, Carnegie decided that he would work for two more years and then resign from business forever. He was determined to get an education at Oxford, something he felt he was lacking. He would live on an annual investment income of $50,000 and donate the surplus.
It was an interesting piece of introspection and a turning point in his life. Although Carnegie did not retire from business, he did broaden his life to include more books and education, and made philanthropy a huge part of his life.
Everything was going well for Carnegie, so much so that he decided to venture into an entirely new field – steel. Backed by his knowledge and experience with his Freedom Iron Company (created to supply iron for his bridges), Carnegie considered branching into stronger metals. When the U.S. government put a huge tariff on incoming steel, Carnegie seized the opportunity.
Due to the financial panic of 1873, Carnegie and his brother Tom did not open the first steel plant in the U.S. until 1874. When the plant opened, which they named the Edgar Thomson Steel Company Ltd. (in honor of the Pennsylvania Railroad president) the first order was for 2,000 steel rails to replace iron tracks for the Pennsylvania Railroad to accommodate heavier, faster trains.
In 1880, Carnegie met 21-year-old Louise Whitfield through a mutual friend. Louise was the daughter of a wealthy New York City merchant and a semi-invalid mother, whom she cared for. Carnegie called on Louise from time to time for the next seven years, but was urged by his mother not to marry Louise, saying no woman was good enough for her son. Carnegie, devoted to his mother, took her advice.
In 1881, Carnegie merged with Henry Clay Frick of the Frick Coke Company, his main supplier of coke coal, in order to maximize profits through ownership of raw materials. Two years later, Carnegie bought a rival steel mill, the Homestead Steel Works, making the tough Henry Clay Frick the general manager.
The Carnegie family experienced plenty of illness in 1886. Andrew Carnegie contracted typhoid fever, but recovered. However, Carnegie’s brother and mother were not so lucky -- both died of pneumonia that November. Tom left behind his wife Lucy and their nine children. Margaret left behind a lonely son who was now free to marry Louise.
Five months after the death of his mother, Andrew Carnegie married Louise Whitfield on April 22, 1887, in a small, private wedding at the Whitfield home. Carnegie was 51; Louise was 30.
Although it was reported that Margaret had been jealous of Louise, wanting her son all to herself, Louise named their only child Margaret, who was born March 30, 1897. The Carnegies then bought the dilapidated Skibo Castle in the northern highlands of Scotland, restoring it into a sporting estate with a golf course, where the couple entertained the captains of industry.
Publicly revealing his feelings about the idolization of money, Andrew Carnegie published "Wealth,” an article in an 1889 issue of North American Review. He stated in his essay that the wealthy were merely stewards of money with a moral obligation to better society; dying a rich man was a disgrace. He felt that the rich had made their money because of other people and in the end ought to reimburse the public to better civilization.
Despite Carnegie’s philanthropic feelings, Carnegie had become rich by driving down costs and underselling his competition. This made steel affordable, thus fueling the building of skyscrapers and bridges, but it also meant a hard and often dangerous life for his workers. Carnegie worked his steel workers 12-hours a day, seven days a week, amidst noise and flames for little pay. Many workmen lost limbs or were burned in accidents as a result.
In 1892, his workmen had had enough. While Carnegie was vacationing in Scotland, union workers protested his company’s wage cuts. In response, General Manager Henry Clay Frick locked the workers out and called in 300 Pinkerton armed guards to protect the plant. A bloody battle ensued and ten men died, seven of whom were steel workers. State militia eventually took control of the chaos, union leaders were arrested, and Frick hired replacement workers. The strike ended five months later with the union’s defeat, branding Frick a cold-hearted, relentless mercenary.
Frick was so disliked that shortly after the Homestead Strike he was shot and stabbed in an assassination attempt by an anarchist (Frick survived the attack). Carnegie’s role in the strike is still debated, but at the time he was engulfed in negative publicity from the incident. Frick and Carnegie's relationship soured because of the strike.
In 1899, Carnegie organized his several steel companies into Carnegie Steel, with an annual profit of $40 million. The U.S. now dominated the steel industry.
On December 5, 1899, Frick resigned from the board of Carnegie Steel, regaining control over his coke works, the largest in the world. Carnegie and Frick soon fought over the price of coke that Frick was again supplying to Carnegie Steel. In 1901, Carnegie, tired of partner quarrels and union disputes, sold his steel business to J.P. Morgan for $480 million, making 65-year-old Andrew Carnegie the richest man in the world.
Andrew Carnegie had always enjoyed giving back to Dunfermline, Scotland. In 1873, he had sent the town money to build a swimming pool -- his first major donation. In 1881, Carnegie had sent the town money to build Carnegie Library. However, after selling his steel company in 1901, Carnegie devoted himself to philanthropy and went on to build over 2,500 libraries throughout the world, remembering the generosity of Colonel James Anderson, who had opened his 400-volume library to all the working boys.
In 1891, Carnegie built Carnegie Hall, a concert hall in New York City. In 1902, he founded the Carnegie Institution to provide research for American colleges and universities. Carnegie endowed the Teachers’ Pension Fund with $10,000,000 in 1905. In 1910 he established the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and built the Central American Court of Justice in Costa Rica, which, unfortunately, was destroyed by an earthquake shortly afterward.
In 1911, Carnegie gave $125,000,000 to establish the Carnegie Corporation, which donated grant money to education and research. His philanthropy to global education and world peace was ultimately over $350 million (90% of his fortune).
In 1916, the Carnegies bought Shadow Brook, a 100-room mansion in Massachusetts; Carnegie lived there for the rest of his life. When he developed pneumonia, Carnegie summoned Henry Clay Frick to come to Shadow Brook so they could bury their differences. Frick sent a note back to Carnegie that he would see him in hell.
On August 11, 1919, Andrew Carnegie died from bronchial pneumonia at age 84. Unexpectedly, Frick died of a heart attack four months later at the age of 69.
Carnegie is buried in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery in Sleepy Hollow, New York. His gravestone is made of stone taken from Skibo Castle. The headstone merely reads: “Andrew Carnegie Born in Dunfermline, Scotland, 25 November 1835. Died in Lenox, Massachusetts, 11 August 1919.”
Louise died 27 years after her husband, at the age of 89. Skibo Castle is now a private members-only hotel and sporting paradise. Carnegie’s 5th Avenue mansion is now Cooper Hewitt Museum. Louise gave Shadow Brook to the Jesuits in 1922; it burned down in 1956.
Related ArticlesAndrew Carnegie | Biography of the Steel MagnateAndrew Carnegie - Biography of Industrialist & Philanthropist Andrew Carneg...20th Century History20th Century History20th Century History 
What Everyone Should Know About the Vietnam War34 Facts About Nazi Leader Adolf HitlerHistory Basics: What Everyone Should Know About...33 Facts You Should Know About the HolocaustThe 1960s at a Glance
Crimes & ScandalsDecade By DecadeDisasters & TragedyFads & FashionsImportant PeopleMedical Advances & IssuesPhotographsScientific DiscoveriesTimelinesWars & ConflictsBlog
20th Century HistoryAbout.comEducation20th Century HistoryImportant PeopleAndrew CarnegieAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
=======================================================
