=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Hugh Michael Jackman (born 12 October 1968)[1] is an Australian actor and producer who is involved in film, musical theatre, and television.
Jackman has won international recognition for his roles in major films, notably as superhero, period, and romance characters. He is known for his long-running role as Wolverine in the X-Men film series, as well as for his leads in Kate & Leopold, Van Helsing, The Prestige, Australia, Real Steel, Les Misérables, and Prisoners. His work in Les Misérables earned him his first Academy Award nomination for Best Actor and his first Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy in 2013. He is also a singer, dancer, and actor in stage musicals, and won a Tony Award for his role in The Boy from Oz.
A four-time host of the Tony Awards, winning an Emmy Award for one of these appearances, Jackman also hosted the 81st Academy Awards on 22 February 2009.
Jackman was born in Sydney, New South Wales, the son of Grace McNeil (née Greenwood) and Christopher John Jackman, a Cambridge-trained accountant.[2][3] His parents were English and had come to Australia in 1967 as part of the "Ten Pound Poms" immigration.[3] One of Jackman's paternal great-grandfathers was Greek.[4] His parents were devout Christians, having been converted by Evangelist Billy Graham after their marriage.[3] Jackman has four older siblings, and was the second of his parents' children to be born in Australia.[5] He also has a younger half-sister, from his mother's re-marriage.[6] His parents divorced when he was eight, and Jackman remained in Australia with his father and Jackman's two brothers, while his mother moved back to England with Jackman's two sisters.[3][7][8] As a child, Jackman liked the outdoors, spending a lot of time at the beach and on camping trips and vacations all over Australia. He wanted to see the world: "I used to spend nights looking at atlases. I decided I wanted to be a chef on a plane. Because I'd been on a plane and there was food on board, I presumed there was a chef. I thought that would be an ideal job."[9]
Jackman went to primary school at Pymble Public School and later attended the all-boys Knox Grammar School on Sydney's Upper North Shore, where he starred in its production of My Fair Lady in 1985, and became the captain (class president) of the school in 1986.[10] Following graduation, he spent a gap year working at Uppingham School in England.[11] On his return, he studied at the University of Technology, Sydney, graduating in 1991 with a BA in Communications.[12] In his final year of university, he took a drama course to make up additional credits. The class did Václav Havel's The Memorandum with Jackman as the lead.[5] He later commented, "In that week I felt more at home with those people than I did in the entire three years [at university]".[13]
After obtaining his BA, Jackman completed the one-year course "The Journey" at the Actors' Centre in Sydney.[5] About studying acting full-time, he stated, "It wasn't until I was 22 that I ever thought about my hobby being something I could make a living out of. As a boy, I'd always had an interest in theater. But the idea at my school was that drama and music were to round out the man. It wasn't what one did for a living. I got over that. I found the courage to stand up and say, 'I want to do it'."[9] After completing "The Journey", he was offered a role on the popular soap opera Neighbours but turned it down[14] to attend the Western Australian Academy of Performing Arts of Edith Cowan University in Perth, Western Australia, from which he graduated in 1994.[15]
Jackman has said he "always loved acting but when I started at drama school I was like the dunce of the class. It just wasn't coming right to me. Everyone was cooler, everyone seemed more likely to succeed, everyone seemed more natural at it and in retrospect I think that is good. I think it is good to come from behind as an actor. I think it is good to go into an audition thinking 'Man I've got to be at my best to get this gig.'"[16]
On the night of his final Academy graduation performance, Jackman received a phone call offering him a role on Correlli: "I was technically unemployed for thirteen seconds." Correlli, devised by Australian actress Denise Roberts, was a 10-part drama series on ABC, Jackman's first major professional job, and where he met his future wife Deborra-Lee Furness: "Meeting my wife was the greatest thing to come out of it."[9] The show lasted only one season.
After Correlli Jackman went on the stage in Melbourne. In 1996, Jackman played Gaston in the local Walt Disney production of Beauty and the Beast, and Joe Gillis in Sunset Boulevard.[5] During his stage musical career in Melbourne, he starred in the 1998 Midsumma festival cabaret production Summa Cabaret. He also hosted Melbourne's Carols by Candlelight and Sydney's Carols in the Domain.
Jackman's early film work includes Erskineville Kings and Paperback Hero (1999), and his television work includes Law of the Land, Halifax f.p., Blue Heelers, and Banjo Paterson's The Man from Snowy River.
Jackman became known outside Australia in 1998, when he played the leading role of Curly in the Royal National Theatre's acclaimed stage production of Oklahoma!, in London's West End.[5] The performance earned him an Olivier Award nomination for Best Actor in a Musical. Jackman said "I totally felt like it can't get any better than this. On some level that production will be one of the highlights of my career."[9] He also starred in the 1999 film version of the same stage musical, which has been screened in many countries.
In 1999, Jackman was cast as Wolverine in Bryan Singer's X-Men (2000), replacing Dougray Scott. His co-stars included Patrick Stewart, James Marsden, Famke Janssen, and Ian McKellen. According to a CBS interview in November 2006, Jackman's wife Deborra-Lee Furness told him not to take the role, a comment she later told him she was glad he ignored.[citation needed]
Wolverine was tough for Jackman to portray because he had few lines, but a lot of emotion to convey in them. To prepare, he watched Clint Eastwood in the Dirty Harry movies and Mel Gibson in Road Warrior. "Here were guys who had relatively little dialogue, like Wolverine had, but you knew and felt everything. I'm not normally one to copy, but I wanted to see how these guys achieved it."[9] Jackman was adamant about doing his own stunts for the movie. "We worked a lot on the movement style of Wolverine, and I studied some martial arts. I watched a lot of Mike Tyson fights, especially his early fights. There's something about his style, the animal rage, that seemed right for Wolverine. I kept saying to the writers, 'Don't give me long, choreographed fights for the sake of it. Don't make the fights pretty."[9]
Jackman also had to get used to wearing Wolverine's claws. "Every day in my living room, I'd just walk around with those claws, to get used to them. I've got scars on one leg, punctures straight through the cheek, on my forehead. I'm a bit clumsy. I'm lucky I didn't tell them that when I auditioned."[9]
Jackman, at 6 feet 2.5 inches (1.89 m),[17] stands a foot taller than Wolverine, who is said in the original comic book to be 5 feet 3 inches (1.60 m).[18] Hence, the filmmakers were frequently forced to shoot Jackman at unusual angles or only from the waist up to make him appear shorter than he actually is, and his co-stars wore platform soles. Jackman was also required to add a great deal of muscle for the role, and in preparing for the fourth film in the series, he bench-pressed over 300 pounds.[19]
Jackman reprised his role in 2003's X2: X-Men United, 2006's X-Men: The Last Stand, and the 2009 prequel X-Men Origins: Wolverine, although Troye Sivan played the younger version of James Howlett. He also cameoed as Wolverine in 2011's X-Men: First Class. He returned for the role of Wolverine again in 2013's The Wolverine, a stand-alone sequel taking place after the events of X-Men: The Last Stand, and reprised the character in the 2014 sequel X-Men: Days of Future Past.
Jackman starred as Leopold in the 2001 romantic comedy film Kate & Leopold, a role for which he received a Best Actor Golden Globe nomination.[5] Jackman plays a Victorian English duke who accidentally time-travels to 21st-century Manhattan, where he meets Kate (Meg Ryan), a cynical advertising executive. In 2001, Jackman also starred in the action/drama Swordfish with John Travolta and Halle Berry. This was the second time Jackman worked with Berry, and the two have worked together thrice more in the X-Men movies.
In 2002, Jackman sang the role of Billy Bigelow in the musical Carousel in a special concert performance at Carnegie Hall with the Orchestra of St. Luke's.
In 2004, Jackman won the Tony Award and the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Actor in a Musical for his 2003–2004 Broadway portrayal of Australian songwriter and performer Peter Allen in the hit musical The Boy from Oz, which he also performed in Australia in 2006.[5] In addition, Jackman hosted the Tony Awards in 2003, 2004, and 2005, garnering positive reviews. His hosting of the 2004 Tony Awards earned him an Emmy Award for Outstanding Individual Performer in a Variety, Musical or Comedy program.
Jackman co-starred with Daniel Craig on Broadway at the Schoenfeld Theatre in a limited engagement of the play A Steady Rain, which ran from 10 September 2009 to 6 December 2009.[21]
He returned to Broadway in a new show, Hugh Jackman, Back on Broadway at the Broadhurst Theatre, which began performances on 25 October 2011 and concluded on 1 January 2012.[22]
After 2003's X2: X-Men United, Jackman played the title role of monster killer Gabriel Van Helsing in the 2004 film Van Helsing.[5] Jackman and the film were noted in Bruce A. McClelland's book Slayers and Their Vampires: A Cultural History of Killing the Dead.
Jackman was one of the choices to play James Bond in 2006's Casino Royale, but eventually lost out to Daniel Craig.[23] Jackman starred in the 2006 film The Prestige, directed by Christopher Nolan and co-starring Christian Bale, Michael Caine, and Scarlett Johansson. As Robert Angier, Jackman portrayed a magician who built up a rivalry with contemporary Alfred Borden in attempt to one-up each other in the art of deception. Jackman stated that his main reason for doing The Prestige was to work with musician David Bowie, who played scientist Nikola Tesla.
Hugh Jackman and Ryan Reynolds (right) at the X-Men Origins: Wolverine premiere in Tempe, Arizona (2009)
Jackman portrayed three different characters in Darren Aronofsky's science-fiction film The Fountain: Tommy Creo, a neuroscientist, who is torn between his wife, Izzi (Rachel Weisz), who is dying of a brain tumor, and his work at trying to cure her; Captain Tomas Creo, a Spanish conquistador in 1532 Seville; and a future astronaut, Tom, travelling to a golden nebula in an eco-spacecraft seeking to be reunited with Izzi. Jackman said The Fountain was his most difficult film thus far due to the physical and emotional demands of the part.
Jackman also starred in Woody Allen's 2006 film Scoop opposite Scarlett Johansson. That year he also reprised the role of Wolverine in X-Men: The Last Stand. He rounded out 2006 with two animated films: Happy Feet, directed by George Miller, in which he voiced the part of Memphis, an emperor penguin; and Flushed Away, where Jackman supplied the voice of a rat named Roddy who ends up being flushed down a family's toilet into the London sewer system. Flushed Away co-starred Kate Winslet and Ian McKellen (Jackman's fourth time working with him).
In 2007, Jackman produced and guest-starred in the television musical-dramedy series Viva Laughlin, which was cancelled by CBS after two episodes. Jackman's 2008 movies included Deception (which he starred in and produced), Uncle Jonny, and Australia.
In 2008, director Baz Luhrmann cast Jackman to replace Russell Crowe as the male lead in his much-publicized epic film, Australia, which co-starred Nicole Kidman. The movie was released in late November 2008 in Australia and the U.S.
Jackman played a tough, independent cattle drover, who reluctantly helps an English noblewoman in her quest to save both her philandering husband's Australian cattle station and the mixed race Aboriginal child she finds there.
Of the movie, Jackman said, "This is pretty much one of those roles that had me pinching myself all the way through the shoot. I got to shoot a big-budget, shamelessly old-fashioned romantic epic set against one of the most turbulent times in my native country's history, while, at the same time, celebrating that country's natural beauty, its people, its cultures.... I'll die a happy man knowing I've got this film on my CV."[24]
Jackman has reprised his role as the Wolverine in X-Men spin-off films. Jackman starred in X-Men Origins: Wolverine which opened in 2009. Jackman starred again as Wolverine in 2013 in The Wolverine. Jackman made a cameo appearance as Wolverine in X-Men: First Class in 2012.
Jackman had a one-man show at the Curran Theatre in San Francisco from 3–15 May 2011.[25] The production was a mixture of his favourite Broadway and Hollywood musical numbers, backed by a 17-piece orchestra, from shows including Oklahoma and The Boy from Oz. The show had a run-time of approximately 100 minutes, and also included slide shows of Jackman's youth, family, and work, as well as some one-on-one interaction with the audience. Jackman was backed by fellow musical theatre veterans Merle Dandridge and Angel Reda.[26][27]
In a November 2012 release, Jackman voiced the role of E.Aster Bunnymund (the Easter Bunny) in the animated film Rise of the Guardians.[28]
Jackman starred as Jean Valjean in the film Les Misérables, an adaptation of the musical. The film opened on 25 December 2012.[29][30][31] For the role, he lost 15 pounds and later had to regain 30 pounds to mirror his character's newfound success.[32] He won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy in January 2013 for this performance.[33]
Jackman (along with actress Kristen Wiig) was featured on "You've Got The Look", a song by comedy hip hop group The Lonely Island on their third album, The Wack Album, released in June 2013.
Director Lee Daniels has confirmed Jackman has joined the cast of his upcoming film Selma, a film about Martin Luther King Jr. and Lyndon Baines Johnson and the civil rights marches.[35] Shooting of the movie has suffered repeated delays.
Jackman will feature in the film The Greatest Showman on Earth.[36] The part of Jenny Lind is being scripted for Anne Hathaway. Jackman and Hathaway teamed together for the Oscars ceremony in 2009, and played opposite each other in Les Misérables.
Jackman will play the villain Blackbeard in Joe Wright's 2015 film, Pan, which will revolve around the back-stories of J.M. Barrie's characters Peter Pan and Captain Hook.[37] Pan will centers on how Pan and the man who becomes Captain Hook start out as friends, with Hook working as a member of the crew on Blackbeard's pirate ship.[38]
Jackman is set to return to Broadway in the new play, The River, which is scheduled to run at the Circle in the Square Theatre from October 2014 to January 2015.[39]
In 2005, Jackman joined with longtime assistant John Palermo to form a production company, Seed Productions, whose first project was Viva Laughlin in 2007. Jackman's wife Deborra-Lee Furness is also involved in the company, and Palermo had three rings made with a "unity" inscription for himself, Furness, and Jackman.[40] Jackman said, "I'm very lucky in the partners I work with in my life, Deb and John Palermo. It really works. We all have different strengths. I love it. It's very exciting."[41]
The Fox-based Seed label has grown in size to include execs Amanda Schweitzer, Kathryn Tamblyn, Allan Mandelbaum and Joe Marino, with Alana Free operating the Sydney-based production office whose goal is to mount modest-budget films to harness local talent in Jackman's home country.
As a philanthropist, Jackman is a longtime proponent of microcredit – the extension of very small loans to prospective entrepreneurs in impoverished countries. He is a vocal supporter of Muhammad Yunus, microcredit pioneer and the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize winner.[42][43][44]
Jackman is a global advisor of the Global Poverty Project, for which he narrated a documentary;[45] and he and the project's founder Hugh Evans visited the UN for the cause in 2009.[46] Jackman hosted a preview of the Global Poverty Project Presentation in New York together with Donna Karan, Lisa Fox and his wife Deborra-Lee.[47] He is also a World Vision ambassador and participated in the climate week NYC ceremony on 21 September 2009.[48][49]
Jackman supports The Art of Elysium[50] and the MPTV Fund Foundation,[51] and he and his wife Deborra-Lee Furness are patrons of the Bone Marrow Institute in Australia.[52] Jackman also narrated the 2008 documentary about global warming, The Burning Season.[53]
Jackman also uses his Twitter account for charity. On 14 April 2009, Jackman posted on his Twitter page that he would donate $100,000 to one individual's favourite non-profit organisation.[54] On 21 April 2009 he revealed his decision to donate $50,000 to Charity:Water and $50,000 to Operation of Hope.[55][56]
Hugh Jackman and Daniel Craig made a unique place for themselves in the history of Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS fundraising 8 December 2009, when it was announced that they had raised $1,549,953 in the 21st annual Gypsy of the Year competition, from six weeks of curtain appeals at their hit Broadway drama, A Steady Rain.[57]
Jackman has shown keen interest in sports. In high school, he played rugby union and cricket, took part in high jumping and was on the swimming team.[5] He enjoys basketball and kayaking.[59] He has expressed an interest in football, committing his support to Norwich City FC.[60] In the United States, Jackman supports the Philadelphia Union of Major League Soccer, attending a game at PPL Park in June 2010.[61] On 22 June 2011, Jackman again attended a home Union match against Sporting KC, sitting in front of the Sons of Ben supporters section, nicknamed "The River End".
Jackman is a longtime fan and supporter of the Manly-Warringah Sea Eagles, a National Rugby League (NRL) club based in Sydney's north.[62] He sang the Australian national anthem at the 1999 NRL Grand Final.[63]
Jackman also guest starred on 19 September 2011 edition of WWE Monday Night Raw, assisting Zack Ryder in a win over WWE United States Champion Dolph Ziggler. Jackman helped "Long Island Iced Z" get the 3 count in a non-title match by punching the champion in the jaw whilst the referee was not looking.[64][65]
Jackman plays the piano,[66] does yoga,[67] and has been a member of the School of Practical Philosophy since 1992.[68]
Jackman has been an avid practitioner of Transcendental Meditation since the age of twenty. "Nothing has ever opened my eyes like Transcendental Meditation has. It makes me calm and happy, and, well, it gives me some peace and quiet in what's a pretty chaotic life!". He now helps the David Lynch Foundation to "bring meditation to everyone from PTSD sufferers to inner-city kids".[69][70]
Jackman married Deborra-Lee Furness on 11 April 1996 at St. John's in Toorak, Victoria, a suburb of Melbourne.[72] They met on the set of Australian TV show Correlli.[73] Jackman personally designed an engagement ring for Furness, and their wedding rings bore the Sanskrit inscription "Om paramar mainamar", translated as "we dedicate our union to a greater source".[74] Furness had two miscarriages,[75] following which she and Jackman adopted two children, Oscar Maximillian[76] and Ava Eliot.[77]
In November 2013, Jackman announced he had basal-cell carcinoma removed from his nose.[78] He had a second carcinoma removed from his nose in May 2014, telling Associated Press that he expects to have future recurrences.[79] This resulted in Jackman attending the various worldwide premieres of X-Men: Days of Future Past with a bandage on his nose, and urging his followers on photo-sharing platform Instagram to "wear sunscreen".[80]
In the ABC comedy-drama Scrubs, one of the more prominent running gags is Dr. Cox's (John C. McGinley) irrational hatred of Jackman.
In the 7th season of Punk'd, Jackman was led to believe that he had accidentally blown up director Brett Ratner's house.[83]
On the Season 6, Episode 13 of Will & Grace, which aired on 10 February 2004, the character Jack McFarland (Sean Hayes), mentions he is going to see The Boy From Oz, because he can not wait to see Hugh Jackman.[84] He later discusses wanting to sue Jackman for stealing some of his dance moves.
Larry Blyden / George S. Irving / Larry Kert / Carol Lawrence / Michele Lee / Bernadette Peters / Bobby Van (1975)
Categories: 1968 birthsAustralian expatriate male actors in the United StatesAustralian male film actorsAustralian male singersAustralian male musical theatre actorsAustralian people of English descentAustralian actors of Greek descentAustralian male stage actorsAustralian male television actorsAustralian television presentersAustralian male voice actorsPrimetime Emmy Award winnersLiving peoplePeople educated at Knox Grammar SchoolPeople from SydneyTony Award winnersUniversity of Technology, Sydney alumniMale actors from Sydney20th-century Australian male actors21st-century Australian male actorsBest Musical or Comedy Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersSkin cancer survivorsHidden categories: CS1 errors: datesAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from September 2010Articles with dead external links from November 2010Wikipedia semi-protected pagesUse dmy dates from March 2013Use Australian English from January 2013All Wikipedia articles written in Australian EnglishArticles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from October 2012Commons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Born in Sydney, to English parents, and the youngest of five children, Jackman has a communications degree with a journalism major from the University of Technology Sydney. After graduating, he pursued drama at the Western Australian Academy of Performing Arts, immediately after which he was offered a starring role in the ABC-TV prison drama Correlli (1995), opposite his future wife Deborra-Lee Furness. Several TV guest roles followed, as an actor and variety compere. An accomplished singer, Jackman has starred as Gaston in the Australian production of "Beauty and the Beast." He appeared as Joe Gillis in the Australian production of "Sunset Boulevard." In 1998, he was cast as Curly in the Royal National Theatre's production of Trevor Nunn's Oklahoma. Jackman has made two feature films, the second of which, Erskineville Kings (1999), garnered him an Australian Film Institute nomination for Best Actor in 1999. Recently, he won the part of Logan/Wolverine in the Bryan Singer- directed comic-book movie X-Men (2000). In his spare time, Jackman plays piano, golf, and guitar, and likes to windsurf.
      For Sunset Boulevard (as Joe Gillis), he won a Variety Club, a Mo and a Green Room Award as best male actor in a musical. He was nominated for a Laurence Olivier Award in 1998 as Curly in the Royal National Theatre's Oklahoma!.
      Met his wife, Deborra-Lee Furness, while co-starring in the Australian TV series Correlli (1995).
      Chosen as one of People magazine's "50 Most Beautiful People in the World" 5 years in a row, 2000-2004.
      He was one of the presenters at the 2002 Academy Awards, but says he'll think twice about attending again. He says, "I slept for about an hour and I'd have liked a little bit of sushi to come down. There'll be a lot of drunken parties back home and people betting and that's usually what I'm at, so getting up there in a suit and talking for a little bit is kind of bizarre."
      He sang "People Will Say We're in Love" from "Oklahoma!" with Shirley Jones, when they reprised their respective roles of Curly and Laurie, at the opening of Fox Studios in Sydney.
      He was a last-minute addition to the X-Men (2000) cast. Dougray Scott was originally cast as Wolverine, but Mission: Impossible II (2000) required two extra months of shooting.
      According to the comic books, Wolverine stands 5-feet-3-inches in height. Jackman, who plays Wolverine, stands a whole foot taller than his character.
      Has starred in four movies with Halle Berry: X-Men (2000), Swordfish (2001), X2 (2003), and X-Men: The Last Stand (2006).
      He was nominated for a 1999 Laurence Olivier Theatre Award for the 1998 season for Best Actor in a Musical for his role in "Oklahoma.".
      Was offered the role of "Captain William Gordon" in The Rising: Ballad of Mangal Pandey (2005).
      Named Best Actor in a Musical by Drama Desk in New York for his portrayal of Peter Allen in "The Boy From Oz" (April 2004).
      Won Broadway's 2004 Tony Award as Best Actor (Musical) for his portrayal of Australian singer/songwriter Peter Allen in "The Boy From Oz." Jackman also served as host for the televised ceremony for the American Theatre Wing's annual Antoinette Perry (aka Tony) Awards in 2003, 2004, and 2005.
      Before attending WAAPA (Western Australian Academy of Performing Arts), he did a year-long acting program called "The Journey" at the Actors Centre in Sydney.
      His parents separated when he was eight. His mother then moved back to England. His father, an accountant, brought up five children, by himself. The first 18 months of Hugh's life were spent with his godparents.
      In the X-Men movies, he plays Wolverine; in Van Helsing (2004), he goes after a monster called The Wolfman.
      He is terribly near-sighted and has extremely blurry vision when he isn't wearing contacts. Even when hosting the Tonys and Saturday Night Live (1975), Jackman memorized almost everything he had to say so he wouldn't have to struggle to read.
      Once said in an interview with Jay Leno that he is a fan of the "Friday The 13th" film series, and he became an actor because he wanted to play Jason in one.
      Due to his committment to Van Helsing (2004), had to decline the offer to play Frank Castle in The Punisher (2004). Both films ended up receiving a "BOMB" rating from film critic Leonard Maltin.
      Was listed as a potential nominee on the 2005 Razzie Award nominating ballot. He was listed as a suggestion in the Worst Actor category for his performance in the film Van Helsing (2004). However, he did not receive a nomination.
      Expressed great fondness for the comic book character Superman. Ironically, Superman is owned by DC Comics, the rival company of Marvel Comics, which owns X-Men and Wolverine.
      He admitted after X-Men (2000) that it was difficult to summon up the rage and darkness necessary for the character of Logan/Wolverine and it took weeks of work with Bryan Singer to find the right tone for the character. After that, however, it was relatively easy for him to play the angry character.
      Has started his own movie-production company, Seed Productions, with his friend John Palermo. The first films they will be producing with this company are X-Men: The Last Stand (2006) and the Wolverine spin-off.
      Was school captain during his final year of high school, a school also attended by Australian actors Adam Garcia, Andrew Johnston, Reg Livermore, and Hugo Weaving; writer Stuart Beattie; and radio host John Laws.
      His stunt double for Van Helsing (2004) and X-Men: The Last Stand (2006) was Richard Bradshaw, his brother-in-law (sister's husband).
      He had never seen an episode of Saturday Night Live (1975) until he agreed to host the show. The producers sent him tapes of episodes so he could understand the format of the show. He later said that his favorite was the one hosted by Conan O'Brien.
      Often his wife and, sometimes, members of his family stay with him while he is shooting on location.
      Hugh's parents were English immigrants to Australia. One of Hugh's paternal great-grandfathers, Nicholas Isidor Bellas, was Greek, while Hugh's mother is of part Scottish ancestry.
      Wants to produce and star in a film based on the life of The Incredible Hulk (1978) actor Bill Bixby.
      Frequently gets offered roles based on comic books. He was offered The Punisher (2004), Daredevil (2003), Hulk (2003), Iron Man (2008), Mr. Fantastic in Fantastic Four (2005), and Jonathan Kent in Superman Returns (2006).
      He and his wife, Deborra-Lee Furness, suffered through two miscarriages, which they point to as the most difficult point in their lives. Both of their children are adopted.
      Upon meeting Olivia Newton-John (John Travolta introduced the two while he and Jackman were filming Swordfish (2001)), he confessed to her that under his desk in elementary school, there was a poster with Newton-John on it, and he would kiss the poster every day.
      Has two older brothers, Ian and Ralph, and two older sisters, Sonya and Zoe. Also has a half-sister from his mother's side of the family.
      Had to shave off all of the hair on his head and chest for scenes in the last third of the movie The Fountain (2006).
      Was considered for the role of Harvey Dent/Two-Face in The Dark Knight (2008). The part went to Aaron Eckhart, instead.
      Hugh was cast straight out of drama school playing Kevin Jones in a 10-part drama series aired on Australia's ABC called Correlli (1995), which was the original creation of actress Denise Roberts, who is also the principal director and CEO of Screenwise, Australia's leading film & TV school for actors in Sydney, Australia.
      One of his lifelong goals is to play Pharaoh in either a Broadway production or a West End London theatre production of "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat.".
      Vacationed with his family in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, staying at the world-famous Copacabana Palace Hotel. [January 2010]
      His life goal as a young man was to be a international freelance journalist. He got a degree in journalism before turning to acting.
      He undergoes intense physical training each time he's played Wolverine. When in peak physical condition, he can bench press well more than 300 pounds.
      As of 2011, he holds the record for playing the same comic book character (Marvel Comics' "Wolverine") more times than any other actor, in this case, 5 films. Prior to that, the record was held by Christopher Reeve, who played DC Comics' "Superman" in 4 films.
      Was presented the 2,487th Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame accompanied by his wife and two children, as well as his Les Misérables (2012) director Tom Hooper and co-stars Anne Hathaway and Amanda Seyfried (December 13, 2012).
      Hugh credits his good friend Russell Crowe with catapulting his career into super stardom. After Crowe turned down the lead in X-Men (2000), he personally recommended Jackman to director Bryan Singer for the part.
      In April 2013, a woman Jackman had noticed hanging around outside his Manhattan apartment building ended up finding him at his Greenwich Village gym and throwing her electric razor at him, screaming "I love you!" The 47-year-old woman was arrested shortly thereafter.
      With his portrayal of Logan/Wolverine in X-Men: Days of Future Past (2014), he holds the record as the actor who has portrayed a comic book character in feature films the most times (seven). He's also the only actor to star in all chapters of the X-Men film series.
      In New York City performing "A Steady Rain", a 2-man dramatic play, opposite Daniel Craig (James Bond), through December 2009 [October 2009]
      New York, NY, USA: Reported that he had done a table reading of the late Nora Ephrons final Broadway work 'Lucky Guy', though lead role eventually reverted to Tom Hanks, who years before, had turned down the role when it was proposed as a film. [February 2013]
      On turning down the chance to play Richard Gere's character in the Harvey Weinstein-produced film Chicago (2002): I thought I was too young for the role. You have some 34-year-old guy up against Catherine Zeta-Jones and Renée Zellweger and it becomes a different movie. At one point, Harvey was telling me they were thinking of Kevin Spacey, and Ivtold him, 'That's exactly right. You should hire him.' Then I was in New York when the movie opened and the queue was around the block. I sat down and thought that I had probably made the biggest mistake. But I still honestly think that it was the right thing to do. I still think I was too young for that part.
      Now I meet people with full-color Wolverine tattoos on their backs. Thank God I did okay, because I think if I handn't, they'd spit on me in the street. - on his role of Wolverine.
      There is something very secretive about the way they cast that role. I've never had an official call asking: 'Are you interested or not?' but there's no guy I know who wouldn't want that role -- and that includes me. Anyone who says otherwise is lying. [on the now (Nov. 2004) opened spot for the next James Bond]
      [on comic books] I never read comics as a kid, and when I was slipped the comics under my trailer door, Bryan Singer didn't want us to read them. He was very frightened that we would come out with these 2-D characters, and I was amazed at how helpful they were, the images more than the story. The images, and how they capture emotion or an action sequence in just, say, three images. I have to say I used them as inspiration for some of the fighting stances or techniques. The way Wolverine stands and how he looks.
      [on Wolverine video game] I didn't do the motion-capture work; I didn't do any of that. I don't know if they've used my voice or not, they probably have.. I did a lot of recordings on the first movie for dolls and video games, so they probably just used the same stuff.
      [on his action figure] People can stick pins in it, put in the freezer. It's far more dangerous than a video game.
      [on playing Wolverine] The character I play is actually only 1.6 meters [5' 3"]. Before I had any kind of acting profile I was encouraged to lie about my height. I was told to say I was about six foot [1.83 meters] tall. I was worried about it when I first had my audition because pleasing fans of the franchise is important. My height was brought up on the Internet. They didn't think it was right. A lot of people who never met me think I'm very short. James Marsden (Cyclops), who's only 10 centimeters [4 inches] shorter than me, was put on boxes and platforms in our scenes together. You'll notice that every character in X-Men (2000) looks taller than me.
      I've always felt that if you back down from a fear, the ghost of that fear never goes away. It diminishes people. So I've always said yes to the thing I'm most scared about. The fear of letting myself down -- of saying no to something that I was afraid of and then sitting in my room later going, 'I wish I'd had the guts to say this or that' -- that galvanizes me more than anything.
      Acting is something I love. It's a great craft that I have a lot of respect for. But I don't think it's any greater challenge than teaching 8-year-olds or any other career. In my life, I try not to make it more important than it is and I just hope that rubs off on the people around me.
      Becoming a father, I think it inevitably changes your perspective of life. I don't get nearly enough sleep. And the simplest things in life are completely satisfying. I find you don't have to do as much, like you don't go on as many outings.
      I have shocking teeth. . . . I'm being a little facetious - I just went to the dentist the other day, and he looked at my teeth and went, "Oh, my God, you've got gray teeth."
      Joking about being selected 'most sexiest man' as People Magazine's annual choice, 2008: I think we ran a very strong campaign and I'm not proud of it -- I can admit it now. We're the first ones to run a negative campaign and we spent years bringing Clooney, Pitt, Damon, and McConaughey down to size. I was prepared to do absolutely anything.
      [on his 8-year-old adopted son Oscar] He said to me the other day, 'Dad, two o'clock, hot chick.' He walks over, and I heard him say, 'Hey, my dad's Wolverine.' That's his opening line! He brings them over and asks, 'Dad, can we have a few autographs for the girls?' I'm like, 'Am I pimping for my kids?'
      If ever there was any doubt about whether or not people wanted their comic book heroes dark and vulnerable, I think X-Men (2000) started this idea, and The Dark Knight (2008) last year really confirmed it. Audiences want to see that, they want to see the superhero's frailties, their doubts, and their battles.
      My idol was Olivia Newton-John...I had her poster and I would kiss it every day. I met her and told her that...and she was like, "Great".
      [on his father] He never took ones day off in his life. He had five kids he was bringing up on his own. If any one deserved a day off it was my old man, but he never did. I learned that from him.
      When I came out of drama school I was like, 'I'm going to do anything I can just to keep working'. In drama school you do Shakespeare to movement to circus skills to singing all in one morning. I know a lot of people hated it but I reveled in it. I loved it. It's weird how it evolved.
      I can look back on my life, where there have been moments where things might have gone the other way. Everything is like stepping stones, and I've seen people I admire falter. We're all vulnerable.
      I was at a Warner Bros. event and all the stars were lining up backstage. Sylvester Stallone was in front of me and [Clint Eastwood] was behind me and we were all embarrassingly close. I turned around before the line went off and said: 'Good day Mr. Eastwood, Hugh Jackman.' Clint replied: 'Yeah I know.' I continued: 'By the way, I know we've gotta go but I've been told I occasionally look like you in films.' Clint replied: 'You're holding up the line kid.' I'll never forget it. I went on stage bright red and never looked at him again. Clint has never asked me to be in any of his movies or have an audition.
      (on Father's Day gifts) The best is a hand written card. I don't know where some of my awards are, but I can tell you exactly where those cards are. I treasure them most.
      [on the look he wanted for X-Men Origins: Wolverine (2009)] I had this image in my head of De Niro in that remake of Cape Fear (1991). You were terrified of that character from the moment he took his shirt off and you saw all the tats; you know he was this coiled spring that would rip your head off, no matter how nonchalant he acted. That's who Wolverine is.
      The things that I really cherish are the everyday moments, like sitting around cooking pancakes together on Sunday morning, or getting home after a tough day and my kids come up and give me a hug and remind me what's really important.
      [on Les Misérables (2012)] Victor Hugo's novel is the greatest handbook any actor ever had for a job. But Annie [Anne Hathaway] brought research to it that went even further than Hugo - about what it meant to be a woman in that time period, what it meant to be a prisoner.
      When I come home, my daughter will run to the door and give me a big hug, and everything that's happened that day just melts away.
      As a teenager I was explosively angry. I think rugby saved me because that's just organized violence.
      Nine out of 10 characteristics of Wolverine I don't share, but aggression is a primal thing and needs to be exercised in some way. When I was younger I was very explosive. I used to let most of it out playing rugby. I'm not as explosive now but in a sense it's still there. It's in our DNA ... far better to have it in a controlled violent environment. So in a way playing Wolverine is good therapy.
      [on persistent rumors that he is gay despite being married to Deborra-Lee Furness for 17 years] If I was, I would be. I don't think - to me, it's not the most interesting thing about a person anyway, but I do get frustrated for Deb, because I see Deb go, 'Ah, this is crazy.' On some level it's a compliment, you know, because it only happens when you've got to a certain point in your career.
      [on Australians working in Hollywood] We dominate! We're the majority now! It's always good to be an Aussie wherever you are...it's because Hollywood accepts us. Aussies over there they just love them, they love the accent, they want to know everything about you, they really dig the Aussies. It's a good time to be an Aussie, I'm real proud of all the Aussies and real credit to how in Australia we train actors really well, and in general how Aussies will have a go and aren't afraid to pack up and have a crack.
      I understand at Marvel they've got The Avengers, they've got a lot of big things going on, but at some point I just find it almost impossible that there's not a way to bring Iron Man, all the Avengers characters, Wolverine, the X-Men characters, Spider-Man, and somehow get them in together.
      I just heard Oscar, my son who's thirteen, telling a friend, 'Enough about my dad, all right? The truth is he's nothing like Wolverine. He's not cool, he's not tough, he's nothing like that'.
      I'm a typical actor. Someone picks me up in the morning, they give me something to wear, tell me what to say, feed me and send me home.
      [on coping with the ultra-Scottish tradition of his Sydney school] I wasn't a bag-pipe guy, but I was a kilt guy - and had to endure endless ribbing on the train. Every Friday, if you were in the cadets, the school army - you had to wear the kilt. It wasn't traditional kilt-wearing: there was underwear involved. Just to clear that up for everybody.
      [on maintaining privacy in his life] With paparazzi, I'm constantly trying to see my kids' view of the situation - that if I start flipping the bird or throwing punches how frightening it would be for them. So I'm constantly sitting on it? Yeah. Would I like to handle it differently? Yes.
      [on casting challenges] The risk for me is constantly being considered Mr. Nice Guy, Mr. Wholesome. Labels are the enemy. I'm particularly drawn this character [Kelly Dover in 'Prisoners'], maybe as a parent. I love looking at how people react under almost melodramatically extreme situations. As an actor, that's the ultimate stretch.
      [on preparing to play "Keller Dover" in Prisoners (2013)] All the research I did was about sleep deprivation, because the movie takes place over eight or nine days. And when I read something from a father whose kid was gone, he said that the most maddening part of the whole thing is the powerlessness of the parent, knowing that the child is waiting for you and can't understand why you're not there, every second of every day. The idea of sleep or rest is impossible.
      working in Prisoners (2013) with director Denis Villeneuve] The common thing in cases like these is the ticking clock. Your hands start to shake, you forget things, you become unreasonable. [Villeneuve pushed us to] a place that is instinctive and primal. What he encouraged was a sense of abandon. It was ultimately very freeing.
Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) blew my mind. I had no idea movies could be that great and awesome. I was 12 years old, and that's when I remember thinking, 'Oh, I'd love to do that one day.'
      [on the Untitled Wolverine Sequel (2017)] If I did another one I'm 99.9% sure it would be the last, so that will inform what it is for me.
      [on his recurring bouts of skin cancer] I'm realistic about the future and it's more than likely that I'll have at least one more but probably many more, which is not uncommon for an Aussie particularly from English stock growing up in Australia where I don't remember ever being told to put sunscreen on. But the beauty of this is it's all preventable, it's just about getting proper check-ups. I can be typical man, a little lazy, I couldn't be bothered and now I'm not lazy at all.
      [on playing Wolverine] I love the character. I love the series. I would never take it for granted or do it for the hell of it. I have to feel like I really have something to offer and we're going to take Wolverine on a slightly different journey. Otherwise it'll be time to hand over the claws to someone else, and I'm sure there will be many lining up to do it.
      [on watching X-Men: Days of Future Past (2014) with his kids] It is actually really cool to watch it with them until you get to the moment where you're naked on screen and you forgot to warn your almost nine-year-old daughter. And she says, 'Dad, why aren't you wearing underwear?'
      [observation, 2012] I believe this is the 2,487th star on the Walk of Fame. However, apart from Lassie, I'm the only one who's got it for playing the same character in fifteen movies.
=======================================================
1976Father Knows BestGrace leaves her husband, Chris Jackman, an accountant, and their five children. Growing up, Hugh, the youngest, stages magic shows and dancing competitions for his four siblings. His sister Sonia describes her little brother as "determined to get the attention." By the 1990s, Hugh enrolls at the University of Technology Sydney as a journalism major, but it will be a senior year drama theory course that draws him to acting. He later enrolls at the Western Australia Academy of Performing Arts.1995Captured HeartJackman makes his onscreen debut as a vicious inmate in an Australian television prison drama. Acting opposite him is his future wife, Deborra-lee Furness, whom he weds in 1996. Jackman tells In Style in 2000 that he is "indecisive – except on big things like marriage. I was 100 percent certain about my wife, Deb."1998Oklahoma!Jackman stars in the leading role of Curly in the London revival of Rodgers and Hammerstein's Oklahoma! Says costar Maureen Lipman to PEOPLE, "Women, men, children and dogs completely went to pieces when Hugh took his shirt off." Beyond sex appeal, though, the leading man has acting chops. The following year, Jackman is nominated for an Olivier Award – the U.K.'s major theater honor – for his role in the musical. 2000A New AdditionJackman and Furness adopt Oscar Maximillian. The couple will also adopt a daughter, Ava Eliot, in 2005. The family man tells PEOPLE that adopting is "phenomenal, and there are so many kids in need. It's the greatest thing that's ever happened to us."   July 14The Triple X FactorWhen Dougray Scott backs out of playing Wolverine in the comic book epic, X-Men, Jackman dons the superhero claws. The film pulls in nearly $55 million in its opening weekend. In 2003, Jackman again sinks his claws in X2, which grosses a monstrous $215 million. In 2006, after starring in the final installment, X-Men: The Last Stand, Jackman nabs a Wolverine spin-off scheduled for 2008. 2001December 25The Time TravelerIn Kate & Leopold, Jackman plays a 19th-century duke who time-travels to modern-day New York and falls in love with Meg Ryan's contemporary workaholic. He receives a Golden Globe nod for his performance. 2003October 16A Wizard in OzJackman shines as ostentatious, openly gay songwriter/singer Peter Allen in The Boy from Oz on Broadway. Though the show receives mixed reviews, Jackman receives raves and a Tony nomination.  Entertainment Weekly writes, "This slim, loose-limbed Jackman bumps and grinds his way across the stage, winks flirtatiously at the balcony, and endlessly flashes his irresistible smile." The actor jokes to PEOPLE that to prepare for the role, "I just have a pina colada when I get to the theater and, bang, that's it. That's all you need to bring out your inner Peter Allen."2004May 07A Monster KillerJackman stars as a self-described "assassin sent to murder monsters" in the horror film Van Helsing inspired by Bram Stoker's Dracula. Writer-director Stephen Sommers tells EW, "I wrote Van Helsing with Jackman in mind. I'm not sure what I would have done if he had said no." The blockbuster, also starring Kate Beckinsale, brings in $52 million during its opening weekend. June 06Host with the MostJackman hosts the 58th Annual Tony Awards for the second time (he hosted in 2003 and will again in 2005) and brings Sean "Diddy" Combs onstage to sing "O, What a Beautiful Mornin'" from Oklahoma! Combs, who starred in the Broadway sensation Raisin in the Sun, doesn't know the words, but Jackman grabs his hand and asks the mogul to repeat the lyrics after him. Jackman takes a break from his hosting duties that night to pick up the leading actor award for The Boy from Oz.   2006July 28What's the Scoop?Jackman costars with Scarlett Johansson in Woody Allen's comedic mystery Scoop. Jackman plays a debonair businessman who charms Johansson's character, a college journalist, as she struggles to solve a puzzling murder mystery.  
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING CORPORATION; LDP IMAGES; 20TH CENTURY FOX/EVERETT; Miramax/Everett; SNAPPER MEDIA/BAUER-GRIFFIN; Everett Collection; JEFF CHRISTENSEN/Reuters/Landov; CLIVE COOTE/FOCUS FEATURES 
									Oscar Maximillian Jackman, adopted son (5/17/2000)Ava Eliot Jackman, adopted daughter (7/10/2005) 
   Sep 28, 2013 VOTE OF CONFIDENCE  Another day, another country: Prisoners star Hugh Jackman stays in a cheery mood as he promotes his thriller… See Photo   Sep 28, 2013 DOING TIME  And the crowd goes wild! Continuing the worldwide promotional tour of his crime thriller, Prisoners,… See Photo
=======================================================
 1992 - Offered a part in the Australian series 'Neighbours' but turned it down to attend Western Australian Academy of Performing Arts.
 1995 - Starred in Australian TV show 'Correlli'; met future wife, Deborra-Lee Furness; starred in Australian stage production of Disney's 'Beauty and the Beast'.
 1998 - Performed as Curly in the Royal National Theatre's stage production of 'Oklahoma!' in London's West End.
 1999 - Played an Australian outback truck driver who writes a romance novel in the comedy 'Paperback Hero' and starred in the low-budget Australian drama, 'Erskinville Kings'.
 2001 - Co-starred in the action film, 'Swordfish' along with John Travolta and Halle Berry. Played first romantic lead opposite Meg Ryan in 'Kate & Leopold'.
 2002 -  Golden Globe nomination for  performance in 2001's 'Kate & Leopold'. Acted in the short film 'Standing Room Only', the directorial debut of wife, Deborra-Lee Furness. 
 2003 - Starred in the Broadway musical 'The Boy From Oz' and on the big screen in 'X2: X-Men United'.
 2004 - Won Tony and Drama Desk awards for portrayal of Peter Allen in 'The Boy From Oz'. Starred in the film 'Van Helsing'.
 2004 - Won the Tony Award for Best Leading Actor in a Musical, also hosted that year's Tony Awards ceremony.
            for hosting the 2004 Tonys; hosted the 58th Annual Tony Awards ceremony. Adopted a girl, Ava Eliot Jackman, born July 15, 2005.
 2007 - Produced and starred in the CBS musical-dramedy 'Viva Laughlin,' which was canceled after two episodes.
 2009 - Hosted the 81st Annual Academy Awards; produced and starred in 'X-Men Origins: Wolverine; co-starred with Daniel Craig in Broadway's 'A Steady Rain'. 
 2010 - Co-starred in the comedy 'Butter' along with Jennifer  Garner and Oliva Wilde. Performed  lead role in the futuristic film 'Real Steel'.
 2011 - Returned to the stage in  highly praised one man shows, ‘Hugh  Jackman, In Performance’ and 'Hugh Jackman, Back on Broadway'. Launched charity  brand 'Laughing Man Worldwide'.
2013 - won the  Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for his performance in Les Misérables.
A stage and screen actor of remarkable  versatility, Australian Hugh Jackman had the unusual honor of being named one  of People magazine’s "Sexiest  Men Alive," while also maintaining fandom among legions of comic book enthusiast by portraying the muscular superhero, Wolverine, in the X-Men film series.  Audiences swooned over him in  Baz Luhrman’s sweeping period drama Australia (2008), and honored him with a Tony Award for his portrayal of ostentatious  songwriter Peter Allen in the Broadway musical, The Boy from Oz.  To top  it all, he was asked to host the 81st Academy Awards on February 22, 2009, the  most entertaining Oscar show for years, largely due to Jackman’s wit and  showmanship.  Such a diverse following is testament to Hugh  Jackman’s unaffected charm, leading man good looks, and classical stage training  that equipped him to alternate between great displays of theatricality and the calculated  reserve of his dramatic roles.  
Hugh Michael Jackman was born on October 12, 1968, in  Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.  The year before his birth, in 1968, his English parents migrated to  Australia as 'Ten Pound Poms’ (under the Australian government’s scheme to  encourage skilled migration).  His father, Chris, knuckled down as a hard-working accountant but his mother, Grace, did not adapt so well.  Hugh did  not live with his mother for the first 18 months of his life and his parent’s marriage finally dissolved when Hugh was eight years old and his mother moved back to England, leaving him and  his four older siblings to be raised by their father.  Years later, his mother remarried and Hugh  has a half-sister from that marriage.
"My mother was not well," Jackman says. "She probably  was suffering from postpartum depression. It may not have been diagnosed. I’m  not sure. But she was going through a tough time. I spent my first 18 months  with my godparents." -- Hugh Jackman: Parade, May 14, 2006
Hugh  first went to primary school at Pymble Public in Sydney and then later attended  the high-achieving all-boys school, Knox Grammar, where he  was an all-rounder who became a school captain and excelled in sports and drama (he starred in the school's production of the musical My Fair Lady in 1985).
 During his youth, Jackman drew great  strength from his father, a devout Christian who brought up five children  single-handedly through discipline and hand-me-downs. 
"I’ve never heard Dad say a bad word about anybody including my mum. I  love that quality about him." – Hugh Jackman
 After receiving his B.A. degree in Communications  and Journalism at Sydney’s University of Technology, Jackman switched to acting  in 1991, turning down a role on the popular Australian soap opera Neighbours, to study at the Western  Australian Academy of Performing Arts in Perth from which he graduated in 1994. 
"Those three years were 'probably one of the happiest times of my  life,” he says. “We’d do Shakespeare, then circus skills and singing and  dancing.  It is a quality that seems to  tap into my surname, Jack of all trades." – Hugh Jackman
During those early lean years Jackman  made his living as a clown at children’s parties, and worked in restaurants and  gas stations, before receiving his first television break in 1995, in Correlli, a popular Australian prison  drama.  Hugh played the role of violent  and manipulative – but insidiously attractive – prison inmate Kevin Jones who  falls for his counselor played by his future wife Deborrah-lee Furness. Corrielli  was centered on her character, he was 26 and it was his first big job; Furness,  then 34, was a celebrated actress in Australia. 
"When you're married to someone,  as you know, who loves you for who you are – and someone who I met before any  of this happened – I met her on my first job.  I was a shmuck actor. Really, trust me, only $1,200 a week on an ABC  TV Series in Australia.  There was  nothing about me that was saying, ‘Hey, this is a good bet here.’  And when you know that you're loved completely  for who you are, no matter what comes and goes – and by the way, this went  through my mind when I walked out on stage at the Oscars." – Hugh Jackman:  Dark Horizons, April 28, 2009
 The success of the series, combined with  Jackman’s good acting skills helped him win a recurring role the following year  in another television series, Snowy  River: The McGregor Saga.  His  relaxed and natural presence was soon tapped for hosting duties on the pop  culture show In Fashion (Foxtel, 1997) and the 1997 Australian Film Institute Awards.
On stage in 1996, Jackman was hailed as  one of the most promising newcomers in musical theater when he was cast in a  Melbourne production of Walt Disney's Beauty and the Beast, essaying the supporting part of macho villain, Gaston.  The tall and muscular Jackman  still had to wear prosthetic pieces to pull off the exaggerated build of the  character, but even with this added padding, his spot-on portrayal – complete  with appropriate pomp and swagger – shone through.  
 Jackman followed up by playing hack  screenwriter Joe Gillis in Trevor Nunn's Melbourne production of Sunset Boulevard, easily making the  transition from his previously larger-than-life boaster to the Hollywood-fueled  broken man cynicism of Gillis.  His good  acting handed him a Variety Club award for Musical Theater Performer of the  Year and a Mo for Musical Theater Performer of the Year in 1997.  
Trevor Nunn was so impressed with  Jackman's work he invited him to audition at London's National Theatre, and it  was as Curly in the acclaimed West End production of Oklahoma! where his strong and energetic performance earned  excellent notices and a nomination for the country’s top theatrical honor, an Olivier  Award.  Jackman also starred in the 1999  film version of Oklahoma! which has  been screened in many countries around the world. 
 Following his successful stage  performances, Jackman made a move to the wide screen in 1999 when he made his  film debut in the little-seen Australian production Erskinville Kings(1999), a drama examining failing relationships.  This was an emotional and challenging role  for an actor so new to the art of film.   For his performance he won the 2000 Film Critics Circle Australia (FCCA)  award for Best Male Actor, and was also nominated for the 1999 Best Actor by  the Australian Film Institute. 
 He soon reached a much wider audience  with his starring role in Antony J. Bowman's amiable comedy Paperback Hero (1999), where Jackman  portrayed an outback trucker who writes a sappy romance novel in his spare time  and submits it to a publisher under a female pseudonym. The role was perfectly  suited for the open and unpretentious actor, and Paperback Hero earned Jackman acclaim and exposed him to an  international art-house audience. 
Months later, Jackman broke into  the big time, when Scottish heartthrob Dougray Scott backed out of his  commitment to play the Logan / Wolverine character in the first X-Men movie.  Jackman was selected by the  film’s director, Bryan Singer, as a last-minute replacement for the role that  would ultimately make Jackman a world-wide star. 
 According to  the comic books, Wolverine stands 5-feet-3-inches in height. Jackman, who plays  Wolverine, stands almost a foot taller than his characte at 6' 2".
"The  character I play is actually only 1.6 meters [5' 3"]. Before I had any kind  of acting profile I was encouraged to lie about my height. I was told to say I  was about six foot [1.83m] tall. I was worried about it when I first had my  audition because pleasing fans of the franchise is important. My height was  brought up on the Internet. They didn't think it was right. A lot of people who  never met me think I'm very short. Jimmy Marsden (Cyclops), who's only 10cm [4  inches] shorter than me, was put on boxes and platforms in our scenes together.  You'll notice that every character in X-men looks taller than me." -- Hugh  Jackman on Logan/Wolverine
 Jackman’s performance as Wolverine in X-Men gained positive reviews from  critics and handed him a Saturn Award for Best Actor in 2001. The film was also a  large success at the box-office and became one of the biggest hits of the year.   With that huge triumph, Hugh Jackman was  made an instant star.  
 Jackman cemented his position as a movie  star when he was hired to star in three silver screen films during 2001. He  first costarred with Ashley Judd and Greg Kinnear in the romantic comedy Someone Like You.  He then tackled the role of a computer hacker  forced to participate in a major heist in the action thriller, Swordfish opposite John Travolta and his X-Men co-star Halle Berry. Jackman then starred as Leopold, opposite Meg  Ryan, in the 2001 romantic comedy film Kate & Leopold, a role for  which he received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Actor, Motion Picture  Musical or Comedy.  
 On the small screen, Jackman hosted an episode of "Saturday Night Live" in 2001,  and in 2002, sang the role of Billy Bigelow in the musical Carousel in a special concert  performance at Carnegie Hall.  Off screen, Jackman was listed as one of People magazine’s 50 Most Beautiful People in the World for five years in a  row, from 2000 through 2004.  On May 15,  2000, Hugh and his wife were present at the birth of their adopted son, Oscar Maximilian Jackman. 
 Hugh Jackman again donned the sideburns  and claws of Wolverine for X2: X-Men United (2003),  the superior sequel to X-Men in which  his character, Wolverine, stood out amidst the rest of the terrific ensemble  cast as bits and pieces of Wolverine's mysterious origins were at last  revealed. Like its predecessor, the action film was also a smash hit.
Now an international movie star, Jackman  returned to his love of musical theater and debuted on Broadway in 2003 in The Boy from Oz.  He starred as Peter Allen, the flamboyant  showman best known for pop songs like "Don’t Cry Out Loud," who died  of AIDS-related cancer in 1992. Jackman received a highly coveted Tony Award for Best Actor in a Musical, and the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding  Actor in a Musical in 2004.  He also performed in the musical throughout Australia  in 2006.
 Jackman  hosted the glitzy Tony Awards in 2003, 2004, and 2005, garnering positive  reviews.  His hosting of the 2004 Tony  Awards earned him an Emmy win for Outstanding Individual Performer in a  Variety, Musical or Comedy program in 2005.  
 Back in another pulpy turn on the big  screen, Jackman played Count Dracula's old nemesis Dr. Abraham Van Helsing in  the ultra-big budget monster thriller, Van  Helsing (2004), which pitted the good doctor against an unholy union of his  old foe, Frankenstein's Monster and the Wolfman. 
 Jackman also found time to appear in the  short film (his wife’s directorial debut) Standing  Room Only (2004), and made a cameo appearance in the television film Making the Grade (2004).  On the home front, Hugh  and Deborra-Lee’s second  adopted child, Ava  Eliot Jackman, was born on July 10, 2005. 
 In 2006, Jackman revived Wolverine for  the third installment of the series, X-Men: The Last Stand (2006), directed  by Brett Ratner.  This time, the mutants  faced a peculiar choice after a cure for mutations is found — retain their  uniqueness and remain isolated from society, or give up their strange powers to  become human.
In a further display of Jackman’s  versatility, he turned around to play a charming British playboy suspected of  being an infamous killer terrorizing London in Scoop(2006), Woody Allen’s comedy starring Scarlett Johansson as a  journalist who poses as a wealthy American to sniff him out.  In Christopher Nolan’s period thriller The Prestige (2006), Jackman sparkled as  a brash showman caught up  in a deadly rival with a brilliant trickster (Christian  Bale). He then lightened the mood considerably with his next project, lending his  voice to the hit animated children’s adventure, Happy Feet (2006), about a tap dancing penguin. 
 Jackman played three characters in Darren  Aronofsky’s The Fountain (2006).  Spanning  almost a millennium, he plays a conquistador, research scientist and astronaut  at different points of human history – all in search of the secret of life.  Jackman said The Fountain was his most  difficult film thus far, due to the physical and emotional demands of the part.
 In 2007, Jackman co-produced and guest-starred in  the television musical-dramedy series Viva Laughlin, which was canceled  by CBS after just two episodes. 
"We wanted [Gabriele Muccino] to do  the pilot of ‘Viva Laughlin,’ which he did. The show was picked up and was  quite spectacularly dumped after two or three episodes on air.  Not that it was his fault.  It just wasn’t a success.  As my wife says, ‘If you’re going to fail, you  might as well fail spectacularly.’"   -- Hugh Jackman: The Examiner, May 2, 2009
 Jackman's 2008 movies included Deception (which  he starred in and produced) and Uncle Jonny.  Also in  2008, director Baz Luhrmann cast Jackman to replace Russell Crowe as the male  lead in his much-publicized epic film, Australia, which co-starred  Nicole Kidman.  In the film, Jackman  played a tough Australian cattle Drover who reluctantly helps an English  noblewoman in her quest to save both her philandering husband's Australian  cattle station and the half-caste Aboriginal child she finds there.
Of the movie, Jackman said, "This is pretty much one of those  roles that had me pinching myself all the way through the shoot. I got to shoot  a big-budget, shamelessly old-fashioned romantic epic set against one of the  most turbulent times in my native country's history, while, at the same time, celebrating that country's natural beauty, its people, its cultures.... I'll  die a happy man knowing I've got this film on my curriculum vitae." -- The  Evening Herald, December 11, 2008
 Adding icing to the cake, the film’s  release coincided with People  magazine’s annual declaration that for 2008, Hugh Jackman was the "Sexiest Man  Alive."
When asked how  his wife reacted, Hugh responded, "She said, ‘I could've told them that years  ago.’ And then she said, ‘Obviously, Brad wasn't available this year.’ I said,  you’re kidding, right?  But Deb is the  most unfazed person in the world." – Hugh Jackman: Mail On Sundays, April 29,  2009
In April 2009, Hugh Jackman sank his hands and feet into the famous Hollywood Boulevard cement outside Grauman’s Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles.  After an introduction by Jay Leno, Jackman told the crowd that he’d first visited the landmark when he originally arrived in L.A. a dozen years ago. 
"It’s a very humbling moment as an actor to be here. You look down at the names, from   Fred Astaire to Cary Grant, Clint Eastwood, Al Pacino, Steve McQueen, John Wayne, and to think that those people have been immortalized and pretty soon   I’ll be putting my hands in wet cement." -- Hugh Jackman: Entertainment Weekly, April 22, 2009
 Jackman  reprised his role as  Wolverine in X-Men Origins: Wolverine which  was released May 1, 2009. Prior to the release of X-Men Origins, Jackman hosted the 81st Academy Awards on Feb. 22, 2009, which garnered good reviews and increased viewer ratings from previous  years.
"My dad was about strict bedtimes but he let us stay up to watch [The Academy Awards].  Then at drama school, our biggest party of the year was on Oscar night and there were drinks involved. It's a very common drinking game in Australia:  Whenever anyone thanks or mentions God or their parents, you have to 'skull' (Translation:  chug a drink)." – Hugh Jackman: People Magazine, February 21, 2009
 Jackman finished out the year by  co-starring with Daniel Craig on Broadway at the Schoenfeld  Theatre in a limited engagement of the play A Steady Rain, opening in previews on September 10, 2009 and  closing on December 6, 2009. Later, A Steady Rain came in at #2 on TIME Magazine's list of top 10 plays of 2009 - 2010.
In early 2010 Hugh Jackman co-starred in the comedy Butter along with Jennifer  Garner and Oliva Wilde. Later in the year Jackman performed  the lead role in the futuristic film Real Steel.
Hugh Jackman, Back on Broadway, opened to rave reviews in November 2011 at the Broadhurst Theatre in NYC.  The one-man song-and-dance spectacular found Jackman fronting an 18-piece orchestra and performing an array of songs from across the musical spectrum — Rodgers and Hammerstein, American Songbook classics, movie medleys, Peter Allen pop hits. There was even a surprise musical nod to his native Australia.   After a record-breaking 10-week run, Jackman was off to to shoot a big-screen version of  Les Misérables.
For his stellar performance as Jean Valjean in Les Misérables Hugh Jackman won the 2013 Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy and was nominated for several other awards including the Academy Award for Best Actor.
2013 continued to be a busy year with the release of the thriller Prisoners which brought Hugh praise for his dramatic portrayal of Keller Dover, a man whose daughter has gone missing. The next Wolverine installment titled The Wolverine was also released that same year.
During the 66th Annual Tony Awards Hugh was presented with the Special Tony Award for Extraordinary Contribution to the Theatre Community, and the surprise presenter was his wife  Deborrah-lee Furness.
Jackman will return to the Great White Way in 2015 as the lead in The River, a play from London by Jez Butterworth. The Broadway play will be a spiritually searching drama about a loner in a remote cabin and two of the women in his life.
Before he takes to the stage again, Jackman has a number of other projects on his plate, including the 2014 installment of X-Men, titled X-Men: Days Of Future Past. Scheduled for release in 2015 are the films Pan where Hugh will play the baddie Blackbeard,  and a science fiction black comedy titled Chappie.
"I’ve always felt that if you back down from a fear, the ghost of that fear never goes away. It diminishes people. So I’ve always said ‘yes’ to the thing I’m most scared about. 
 Copyright © 2014 All About Jackman.com.  All rights reserved.  Designed by Web Development Artistry.     Disclaimer | Privacy Policy
=======================================================
                Hugh Michael Jackman’s daredevil grin has lit up silver screens the world over, but his lesser-known work in theatre and musicals has earned him widespread respect as an actor, singer and all-round performer. He may have cavorted with the biggest names in Hollywood, but he has also received plaudits for his choice of roles in theatre.Jackman was born in Sydney to English-born parents, the youngest of five children. His father Chris was a strict person with inflexible English views on manners, and the children’s friends would often stay away. In spite of this, Hugh discovered acting at a very early age, appearing in ‘Camelot’ at the age of five and a string of musicals and plays. When he was eight, his mother Grace returned to England, leaving Chris to bring up their five children. He did so with particular emphasis on their education – Jackman was given extra school tuition as well as music classes on violin, guitar and piano. Jackman attended the prestigious Knox Grammar School in Sydney, and later Sydney University of Technology, earning a BA in Communications. Although he trained as a journalist, he went through a number of jobs (including being a “crappy” clown and a marathon running marsupial) en route to the Western Australian Academy of Performing Arts of Edith Cowan University in Perth, where he acquired an all round theatre education. He says of his catholic education, “When I trained at acting school you do fencing, Shakespeare class, modern dance, circus school, all before lunch.” Upon graduation in 1994, he played Gaston in the Australian production of ‘The Beauty of the Beast’. After this successful stint, he turned to the world of Australian soap operas and miniseries. He appeared in episodes of ‘Blue Heelers’ and ‘Correlli’, where he met his future wife Deborra-Lee Furness, a successful Australian actress eight years Jackman’s senior. They married in February 1996, adopting a son (Oscar Maximilian) in 2000 and a daughter (Ava Eliot) in 2005.In 1996, Jackman also made appearances (as Duncan Jones) in five episodes of the fourth season of ‘Banjo Paterson's: The Man from Snowy River’ [‘Snowy River: The McGregor Saga’ (US and UK)], a hugely popular Australian show revolving around the hardships of the McGregor family in the late 1800s. Venturing back into musical theatre, Jackman took on the Australian production of ‘Sunset Boulevard’. Directed by Trevor Nunn, he played Joe Gillis, a young screenwriter charged with reviving the fading career of the silent film star Norma Desmond (played by Debra Byrne). For this performance, he received the prestigious ‘MO’ Award for Male Musical Theatre Performer for 1998. Teaming up with Trevor Nunn again in 1998, Jackman took the lead role in the UK production of ‘Oklahoma!’ at London’s National Theatre. He played Curly McLain, a role he would later reprise in a 1999 TV version of ‘Oklahoma!’. For the stage role, he received a nomination for an Olivier Award. 1999 was the year Jackman turned full attention to movies. First was ‘Paperback Hero’ (1999), where he played Jack Willis, a macho train driver hiding an embarrassing secret – he has just become the author of a best-selling romance novel! ‘Erskineville Kings’ saw Jackman play one half of a pair of brothers suffering under their abusive and drunkard father. Jackman’s character Wace reacts badly when his brother Barky returns after their father’s death, having run away leaving Wace to look after the old man and suffer his wrath daily. This was an emotional and challenging role for an actor so new to the art of film. For this performance he won the 2000 Film Critics Circle Australia (FCCA) award for Best Male Actor, and was also nominated for the 1999 Best Actor by the Australian Film Institute. The new millennium saw Jackman break into the big time. Dougray Scott was originally signed to play Logan/Wolverine in ‘X-Men’ (2000), but was forced to cancel his appearance as ‘Mission: Impossible II’ (2000) had over-run by two months. Bryan Singer, director of the big budget adaptation of the popular comic book, was forced to look for someone to play Wolverine, the feral, hot-headed mutant with an adamantium skeleton, razor claws and a confused passion for the beautiful Jean Grey (Famke Janssen).After lengthy auditions, the unknown Jackman landed the role, bringing a smouldering temperament and confused sensitivity to the complex character of Wolverine. He was amply rewarded with an extended fight scene with Mystique, played by Rebecca Romijn-Stamos in her birthday suit. ‘X-Men’, starring big names like Sir Ian McKellen, Patrick Stewart, Halle Berry and Ray Park, did extremely well at the box office. Jackman wisely wanted to avoid being typecast into the Wolverine-type action hero roles that were inevitably rolling in after his strong performance in ‘X-Men’. He took on the role of an incorrigible womaniser in ‘Someone Like You’ (2001), starring alongside Greg Kinnear and Ashley Judd. Jackman then reunited with Berry once more in the hacker heist movie ‘Swordfish’ (2001). He played a jaded super-hacker who is recruited by a criminal genius (John Travolta) to write a program that would steal 9.5 billion dollars from the US Government. Falling for the sexy Ginger (Berry) was inevitable, especially with the much-publicised baring of her breasts in the movie. Despite such star power, the movie did poorly at the box office and critics panned the over-the-top pyro-happy direction of Dominic Sena. Jackman escaped major criticism, putting in a solid performance. Another solid performance followed in ‘Kate & Leopold’ (2001). Stuart Besser (Liev Schreiber) finds a gap in the space/time continuum, leading him back to 1870s New York. There, he finds Leopold (Jackman), an impoverished English baron who follows Besser back to modern day New York where he meets the shallow and self-obsessed Kate (Meg Ryan). His charming English manners and upright moral stance create both romance and tension alike. For his performance, Jackman received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture (Musical or Comedy).In June 2002, Jackman briefly returned to the stage. He sang the role of Billy Bigelow in a special concert performance of ‘Carousel’ at Carnegie Hall, opposite Audra McDonald. His star would have shone more brightly had he accepted the role of Billy Flynn in the movie adaptation of the musical ‘Chicago’ (2002); the role eventually went to Richard Gere, and the movie snatched six Academy Awards. Jackman maintained, and still maintains, that he was too young for that role. Jackman reprised his role as Wolverine in ‘X2’ (2003), leading a coalition of mutants against the mutant-hating General Stryker (Brian Cox) in a spectacular ending showdown. Next came his Broadway debut in ‘The Boy from Oz’ between 2003 and 2004, where he won a Tony Award (2004, Best Leading Actor in a Musical) for his sensitive and flamboyant portrayal of Peter Allen, Liza Minnelli’s first ex-husband who eventually died of throat cancer. Jackman also found time to appear in a short film directed by his wife, ‘Standing Room Only’ (2004), which also starred Sir Michael Gambon, Sophie Dahl, Joanne Lumley, Mary Ann Mastrantonio and Andy Serkis. Jackman took the lead role in ‘Van Helsing’ (2004), playing the famous vampire hunter, and pairing up with the exquisite Kate Beckinsale to fight against an assortment of fictional monsters. This was not one of Jackman’s finest hours, as the poor writing, silly plot, overuse of (poorly done) special effects and lack of chemistry with Beckinsale undermined his talent. Having adopted his second child Ava Eliot in 2005 and being considered for the next James Bond (which eventually went to Daniel Craig), Jackman returned to his now-familiar role of Wolverine in ‘X-Men: The Last Stand’ (2006), taking on Vinnie Jones’ Juggernaut in a Team Professor X vs. Team Magneto battle royale. He then appeared in Woody Allen's ‘Scoop’ (2006), a dark and fantastical comedy/thriller. This film was almost universally panned by the critics, and as of 1st September 2008, its Rotten Tomatoes rating stood at 38%.His next film was Jackman’s most challenging yet, playing three characters in Darren Aronofsky’s ‘The Fountain’ (2006). Spanning almost a millennium, he plays a conquistador, research scientist and astronaut at different points of human history – all in search of the secret of life. Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett were originally supposed to star, but Pitt left after major creative differences between himself and Aronofsky. Aronofsky, on a smaller budget, then cast Jackman and Rachel Weisz. The ending to a prolific year for Jackman was a major role in ‘The Prestige’ (2006), telling the story of the rivalry between a pair of magicians obsessed with performing the ultimate trick. Jackman stole the show in a quality cast including co-star Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Scarlett Johansson, David Bowie and Andy Serkis. Just to enhance his reputation as an all-rounder, Jackman lent his voice to two animated films: ‘Happy Feet’ (2006) and ‘Flushed Away’ (2006) which also starred Sir Ian McKellen, Jean Reno, Bill Nighy, Kate Winslet and Andy Serkis (a favourite of Jackman’s it would seem). In 2007 Jackman produced and guest starred in the “mystery drama musical” ‘Viva Laughlin’. It was cancelled after only two episodes were aired on CBS, while Australia’s Nine Network cancelled it after only a single episode. He co-starred with Ewan McGregor in ‘Deception’ (2008), a dark thriller that barely stays on the right side of soft pornography. Jonathan McQuarry (McGregor) is an accountant with no life, until he meets the mysterious and dashing Wyatt Bose (Jackman). Suddenly, strange women start calling him to set up casual encounters for meaningless sex, no emotions, no strings attached. Reactions to the film were lacklustre and generally apathetic. Following the disappointing turnout of the movie, Jackman went on to team up with fellow Aussie Nicole Kidman in director Baz Luhrmann’s romantic blockbuster ‘Australia’ (2008), which landed him a Teen Choice Award nomination. Although the movie received mixed reviews, it was a commercial success and went on to become the second-highest grossing Australian film of all time after 1986 outback comedy ‘Crocodile Dundee’. Even greater box office success was achieved with Jackman’s next movie, ‘X-Men Origins: Wolverine’, which also starred Liev Schreiber, Will.i.am and Ryan Reynolds. He was a producer for the film, which was the fourth in the X-Men series and served as a prequel to the tale, going back to Marvel Comics’ fictional character Wolverine’s beginning. Jackman’s status among Hollywood’s A-listers means he is a sought after actor, a fact that is highlighted by the number of films he is due to appear in over 2011 and 2012. These include ‘Real Steel’, ‘Snow Flower and the Secret Fan’, ‘Butter’ and ‘The Wolverine’, a continuation of the X-Men series in which his character travels to Japan to train with a samurai warrior.
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
Acting was the last thing on Hugh Jackman's mind. Born in Sydney, Australia of English parentage, the youngest of 
"During my third year of a university journalism course in I990, I suddenly learned that I had to do two more 
units in order to graduate. I was in the uni canteen with a friend, looking through the course list, and he 
was chosen as the lead. At first he found the part daunting. 'I said to the teacher: "I really can't manage 
to play that part - but I'm happy to be involved backstage."' The teacher wouldn't have it. As Jackman 
After obtaining his Bachelor of Arts (Communications), Jackman went on in 1991 to complete the one year 
course "The Journey" at the Actors' Center in Sydney. He then graduated from the Western Australian Academy 
At WAAPA, Jackman played many and various roles including Romeo in Romeo and Juliet directed by Wayne 
In May 1996, Jackman completed twelve months playing the lead role of Gaston in the Australian Premiere Production 
Best Actor in a Musical. He appeared as Joe Gillis in the Australian production of Sunset Boulevard. 
Jackman earned an Australian Film Institute nomination for Best Actor in 1999 for Erskineville Kings. In 1998, he starred in the Aussie film, Paperback Hero, a romantic comedy. And in 2000, Jackman landed his first big budgeted film, the sci-fi summer sizzler, X-Men, playing the comic's most popular character, Wolverine/Logan, a short, quick healing Canuck with a set of strong metal claws who will take on anyone who ticks him off. In 2005, he won an Emmy Award for hosting The 58th Annual Tony Awards. He's also won a 2009 Teen Choice Award for Choice Movie Actor: Action Adventure
In Kate & Leopold (2001), Jackman showed his versatility as the romantic lead opposite Meg Ryan. He went on to make his Broadway debut playing Peter Allen in The Boy From Oz, for which he won a 2004 Tony Award. He reprised his Wolverine role in X2: X-Men United and X-Men: The Last Stand (2006). He has since provided the voice of the Easter Bunny in the animated feature Rise of the Guardians (2012) and for his role as Jean Valjean in the big-screen adptation of the stage production Les MisÃ©rables (2012), he received a 2013 Academy Award nomination as in the Best Actor category.  
 He recently starred in  Movie 43 (2013). Fans then saw Jackman in the action-packed X-Men series,  The Wolverine(2013). He most recently appeared in Prisoners (2013)starring alongside Jake Gyllenhaal, Viola Davis and Melissa Leo.
Jackman and his wife have one son, Oscar, whom they adopted as a baby in May 2000 and a daughter, Ava Eliot Jackman, adopted in July 2005. In 2006 he was chosen as Male Star of the Year at the ShoWest Convention. He's also been chosen as one of People magazine's "50 Most Beautiful People in the World" five years in a row and in 2008, was named People Magazine's "Sexiest Man Alive."
Paperback Hero (1999)FilmographyActorX-Men: Days of Future Past (2014)ActorX-Men: Days of Future Past 3D (2014)ActorMovie 43 (2013)ActorPrisoners (2013)ActorThe Wolverine 3D (2013)ActorThe Wolverine (2013)ActorButter (2012)ActorLes Misérables (2012)ActorRise of the Guardians (2012)ActorRise of the Guardians 3D (2012)ActorRise of the Guardians: An IMAX 3D Experience (2012)ActorReal Steel (2011)ActorReal Steel: The IMAX Experience (2011)ActorAvon Man (2010)ActorX-Men Origins: Wolverine (2009)ProducerX-Men Origins: Wolverine (2009)ActorAustralia (2008)ActorDeception (2008)ActorFlushed Away (2006)ActorThe Fountain (2006)ActorHappy Feet (2006)ActorHappy Feet: The IMAX Experience (2006)ActorThe Prestige (2006)ActorScoop (2006)ActorX-Men: The Last Stand (2006)ActorVan Helsing (2004)ActorX2: X-Men United (2003)ActorKate & Leopold (2001)ActorSomeone Like You (2001)ActorSwordfish (2001)ActorX-Men (2000)ActorRatropolis (0)
=======================================================
.broadway-buzz .cities-header, .tony-awards-2014 .cities-header, .tony-awards-2013 .cities-header, .tony-awards-2012 .cities-header, .tony-awards-2011 .cities-header, .tony-awards-2010 .cities-header {background-color: white;}
    background: url('https://d3rm69wky8vagu.cloudfront.net/mediaspot/1.7316.png') top left repeat-x #041a35;
An international movie star who got his start in Australian theater, Hugh Jackman is best known as Wolverine in the X-Men films. Jackman earned a Tony for his Broadway debut in The Boy From Oz in 2004, the same year he first hosted the Tony ceremony. He returned to Broadway in the 2009 hit A Steady Rain opposite Daniel Craig, followed by the solo concert Hugh Jackman, Back on Broadway in 2011. Upcoming films include Les Miserables, as Jean Valjean.
Anne Hathaway and Barbra Streisand May Join Geoffrey Rush & Hugh Jackman in The Drowsy Chaperone Movie
