=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Jennifer Ann "Jenny" McCarthy (born November 1, 1972)[1][2] is an American model, television host, comedic actress, author, and anti-vaccine activist. She began her career in 1993 as a nude model for Playboy magazine and was later named their Playmate of the Year. McCarthy then parlayed her Playboy fame into a television and film acting career. She is currently a co-host on the ABC talk show The View.
McCarthy has written books about parenting, and has become an activist promoting research into environmental causes and alternative medical treatments for autism. She has claimed that vaccines cause autism[3] and that chelation therapy helped cure her son of autism.[4][5] Both claims are unsupported by the mainstream medical consensus, and her son's autism diagnosis has been questioned.[5][6]
McCarthy was born in Evergreen Park, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago, to a working-class Catholic family, and has Irish, German, and Polish ancestry.[7] She lived in the West Elsdon neighborhood of Chicago.[8][9] She is the second of four daughters; her sisters are named Lynette, Joanne and Amy. Melissa McCarthy is her cousin.[10][11] McCarthy's mother, Linda, was a housewife and courtroom custodian, and her father, Dan McCarthy, was a steel mill foreman.[12][13]
As a teenager, McCarthy attended Mother McAuley Liberal Arts High School (whose school sweater she donned in the pages of Playboy) and was a cheerleader at both Brother Rice High School and St. Laurence High Schools,[14] although she has referred to herself as an "outcast" at her school[15] and has described how she was repeatedly bullied by classmates.[16]
In 1993, Playboy magazine offered McCarthy $20,000 ($32,651 in 2014 currency) to pose for its October issue. McCarthy became the Playmate of the Month for October 1993. Playboy publisher Hugh Hefner cites McCarthy's "wholesome Catholic girl" persona as the unique quality for which she was selected out of 10,000 applicants.[17][18] Her layout emphasized her Catholic upbringing with a schoolgirl theme. According to McCarthy, the pictorial caused an uproar in her Catholic neighborhood, and resulted in her house being pelted with eggs, her sisters being taunted at school, and McCarthy, who counted Catholic nuns among her aunts, being lectured about her future damnation by those close to her.[17] McCarthy was later made the Playmate of the Year, and was paid a $100,000 salary.[17][18] In 1994, because of her newfound public attention, McCarthy moved to Los Angeles and, for a time, hosted Hot Rocks, a Playboy TV show featuring uncensored music videos.
In 1995, when MTV chose McCarthy to be the host of a new dating show called Singled Out, she left Hot Rocks. Her job as a host was a success, and Playboy wanted her to do more modeling. That same year, she also appeared at World Wrestling Federation (WWF) pay-per-view event WrestleMania XI as a guest valet for villain Shawn Michaels, who faced heroic WWF Champion, Diesel. She left after the match with the victor, Diesel. McCarthy returned to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE, formerly the WWF) on the August 2, 2008 edition of Saturday Night's Main Event to thank the fans for supporting Generation Rescue, an autism advocacy organization. In 1996, she landed a small part in the comedy The Stupids. In 1997, McCarthy launched two shows. The first one was an MTV sketch comedy show The Jenny McCarthy Show, which was sufficiently popular for NBC to sign her for an eponymous sitcom later that year, Jenny. Also in 1997, she appeared on one of two covers for the September issue of Playboy (the other cover featured Pamela Anderson). McCarthy also released an autobiography: Jen-X: Jenny McCarthy's Open Book.[19]
In 1998, McCarthy's first major movie role was alongside Trey Parker and Matt Stone in the comedy BASEketball. The following year, she starred in Diamonds, a movie which was directed by her then-husband John Mallory Asher. In 2000, she had a role in the horror movie Scream 3, and three years later she parodied that role in horror film spoof Scary Movie 3 along with fellow Playmate and actress Pamela Anderson. In 2005, McCarthy produced, wrote, and starred in the movie Dirty Love, where she was again directed by her husband at the time, John Asher. In March 2006, she was given Razzie Awards for "Worst Actress", "Worst Screenplay", and "Worst Picture" for her work on Dirty Love, which also earned Asher a Razzie for "Worst Director."[20]
In addition to her early TV fame on MTV and her short-lived, self-titled NBC sitcom, McCarthy has guest starred in a variety of other television shows including Stacked, Charmed, The Drew Carey Show, Wings, Fastlane, Two and a Half Men and Just Shoot Me!.[citation needed] She was the voice of Six in the third season of Canadian computer-animated science fiction cartoon Tripping the Rift. In 2005, McCarthy hosted a show on E! called Party at the Palms. The reality show, which was filmed at The Palms Hotel in Las Vegas, featured hotel guests, party goers, and celebrities.[21]
McCarthy has continued her work with Playboy over the years, both as a model and in other capacities. She appeared on the cover of the magazine's January 2005 issue wearing a leopard skin version of the company's iconic "bunny suit" and was featured in a pictorial shot at Elvis Presley's Graceland mansion in that same issue. She was the second woman (following Carmen Electra) and first former Playmate to become a celebrity photographer for the Playboy Cyber Club, where she photographed model Jennifer Madden.[citation needed]
Jenny's younger sister Amy has also posed for Playboy. She was Cyber Girl of the Week for September 27, 2004, and Cyber Girl of the Month for January, 2005.[22]
In 2007, McCarthy starred in a five-episode online series, called In the Motherhood, along with Chelsea Handler and Leah Remini.[23] The show aired on MSN and was based on being a mother where users could submit their stories to have it made into real webisodes.
She has also appeared in two video games: playing the role of Agent Tanya in the video game Command and Conquer: Red Alert 3, replacing Kari Wührer, and the fitness video game Your Shape Featuring Jenny McCarthy.[24]
On December 31, 2010, McCarthy was a correspondent in Times Square for ABC's Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve.[25] She also appeared in the 40th anniversary of ABC's New Year celebration where she kissed a nearby New York City cop.[26] She appeared in the December 31, 2012 edition of New Year's Rockin' Eve and kissed a midshipman of the United States Merchant Marine Academy.[27]
She appeared again in Playboy in the August 2012 issue, and on the cover, after saying she wanted to pose for it again before her 40th birthday.[29]
After 17 guest appearances, in July 2013 McCarthy was announced as a new co-host on ABC's The View, replacing former co-host Elisabeth Hasselbeck. Barbara Walters praised McCarthy's intelligence, warmth, humor and fresh point of view, and calling her a great addition to the show.[30][31] She debuted as a co-host on September 9, 2013.
McCarthy once modeled for Candie's, a shoe company. In one magazine ad, McCarthy posed on a toilet seat with her underwear near her ankles. Cultural scholar Collin Gifford Brooke wrote that the ad's "taboo nature" brought it attention, while noting that the ad itself helped to weaken that taboo.[32] Another Candie's ad depicted McCarthy passing wind in a crowded elevator.[33][34]
McCarthy dated manager Ray Manzella from 1994 until 1998. McCarthy began dating actor/director John Mallory Asher late in 1998.[35] The couple became engaged in January 1999, and married on September 11 of that year. They have a son, Evan Joseph, born on May 18, 2002, who was diagnosed with autism on May 10, 2005.[5][36] McCarthy and Asher divorced in September 2005.[37]
In December 2005, McCarthy began dating actor Jim Carrey. They did not make their relationship public until June 2006. She announced on The Ellen DeGeneres Show on April 2, 2008 that she and Carrey were living together, but had no plans to marry, as they did not need a "piece of paper."[38] Carrey almost made a mock proposal to McCarthy as a promotion to the film Yes Man for Ellen's Twelve Days of Holidays. McCarthy and Carrey announced that they had split up in April 2010.[39]
As of July 2013, she is currently dating Donnie Wahlberg.[40] On April 16, 2014 McCarthy announced live on The View that she and Wahlberg are engaged.[41]
In May 2007, McCarthy announced that her son Evan was diagnosed with autism in 2005. Before claiming that her son's autism was caused by vaccination, McCarthy wrote that he was gifted, a "crystal child", and she an "indigo mom".[42] Evan's disorder began with seizures and his improvement occurred after the seizures were treated, symptoms experts have noted are more consistent with Landau–Kleffner syndrome, often misdiagnosed as autism.[5][6] She has denied that her son was misdiagnosed.[43] McCarthy served as a spokesperson for Talk About Curing Autism (TACA) from June 2007 until October 2008.[44] She participated in fundraisers, online chats, and other activities for the non-profit organization to help families affected by autism spectrum disorders. Her first fundraiser for TACA, Ante Up for Autism,[45] was held on October 20, 2007, in Irvine, California. She is a prominent spokesperson and activist for the Generation Rescue foundation,[46] and serves on its Board of Directors as of January 2011.[47]
McCarthy's book on the subject, Louder than Words: A Mother's Journey in Healing Autism, was published September 17, 2007. She stated both in her book and during her appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show that her husband was unable to deal with their son's autism, which led to their divorce. In 2008, she appeared on a Larry King Live special dedicated to the subject, and argued that vaccines can trigger autism.[48][49] In an April 27, 2010 PBS Frontline documentary, she was interviewed about the controversy between vaccine opponents and public health experts.[50][51]
In addition to conventional, intensive Applied Behavioral Analysis (ABA) therapy, McCarthy tried a gluten-free and casein-free diet, hyperbaric oxygen chambers, chelation, aromatherapies, electromagnetics, spoons rubbed on his body, multivitamin therapy, B-12 shots and numerous prescription drugs. "Try everything," she advises parents, "It was amazing to watch, over the course of doing this, how certain therapies work for certain kids and they completely don't work for others ... When something didn't work for Evan, I didn't stop. I stopped that treatment, but I didn't stop."[5] McCarthy has stated on talk shows and at rallies that chelation therapy helped her son recover from autism.[4] The underlying rationale for chelation, the speculation that mercury in vaccines causes autism, has been roundly rejected by scientific studies, with the National Institute of Mental Health concluding that children with autism are unlikely to receive any benefit to balance the risks of heart attack, stroke and cardiac arrest posed by the chelating agents used in the treatment.[52]
McCarthy's public presence, and vocal activism on the vaccination-autism controversy, led, in 2008, to her being awarded The James Randi Educational Foundation's Pigasus Award, which is a tongue-in-cheek award granted for contributions to pseudoscience, for the 'Performer Who Has Fooled The Greatest Number of People with The Least Amount of Effort'. Randi stated in a video on the JREF's website that he did sympathize with the plight of McCarthy and her child, but admonished her for using her public presence in a way that may discourage parents from having their own children vaccinated.[53]
McCarthy's claims that vaccines cause autism are not supported by any medical evidence, and the original paper by Andrew Wakefield that formed the basis for the claims (and for whose book McCarthy wrote a foreword)[54] has been shown to be based on manipulated data and fraudulent research.[55][56][57][58] The BMJ published a 2011 article by journalist Brian Deer, based on information uncovered by Freedom of Information legislation after the British General Medical Council (GMC) inquiry into allegations of misconduct against Wakefield that led to him being struck-off from the medical register (unable to practice medicine in the UK) and his articles retracted, stating that Wakefield had planned a venture to profit from the MMR vaccine scare.[59][60][61][62]
Generation Rescue issued a statement that the "media circus" following the revelation of fraud and manipulation of data was "much ado about nothing",[63] which led USA Today to report that McCarthy had "taken a beating on Twitter".[64] Salon.com responded to Generation Rescue's statement with this:[65]
"It's high time the woman who once said that 'I do believe sadly it's going to take some diseases coming back to realize that we need to change and develop vaccines that are safe' took a step back and reconsidered the merits of that increasingly crackpot stance. And it's time she acknowledged that clinging to research that's been deemed patently fraudulent does not make one a 'mother warrior.' It makes her a menace."
In January 2011, McCarthy defended Wakefield, saying that he had listened to parents, reported what they said, and recommended further investigation. "Since when is repeating the words of parents and recommending further investigation a crime? As I've learned, the answer is whenever someone questions the safety of any vaccines. For some reason, parents aren't being told that this "new" information about Dr. Wakefield isn't a medical report, but merely the allegations of a single British journalist named Brian Deer", she said of the controversy.[66]
In early 2013, the Ottawa Regional Cancer Foundation dropped their plans to have McCarthy headline[67] their "Bust a Move" charity fundraiser[68] because of criticisms[69][70] of her using her celebrity status to promote views "considered dangerous by most of the medical establishment".[71] While McCarthy posted on Twitter that she had to "pull out" due to a "taping conflict", the event organiser Linda Eagen stated in an interview[71] that they had to "negotiate a financial settlement with her [McCarthy's] representatives to get out of the deal".
"It's been three years now since I've even talked about autism or vaccines — I was taken aback when people freaked out that I was going to come on The View and preach.... I will clarify my stance, which is still the same: That parents are in charge. Space it out, slow it down and do your homework. But I am not at all against vaccines."[72]
McCarthy's appointment to The View called forth many protests. Amy Pisani of Every Child By Two stated of McCarthy's anti-vaccination stance in a letter to The View's Barbara Walters and Bill Geddie, that McCarthy's "unfounded claims that vaccines cause autism have been one of the greatest impediments to public health in recent decades," and that McCarthy's assertions "[have] spread fear among young parents, which has led to an increased number of children who have not received life-saving vaccines."[73]
James Poniewozik, a television critic for Time magazine, criticized McCarthy's addition to the series, and Walters' endorsement of McCarthy, arguing that The View is largely aimed at parents, on whom the public health system is dependent, and that the credibility that McCarthy's hiring will give her will endanger the public. Poniewozik argued that McCarthy's views, which might be brought up in discussions with the other hosts, would have the effect of framing the issue of whether vaccines cause autism as a matter of opinion, rather than a firmly refuted idea.[74] David Freeman, senior science editor for The Huffington Post, wrote about the concerns of Bill Nye, who stated: "I believe Ms. McCarthy's views will be discredited."[75] Alex Pareene also protested and published a letter to ABC in Salon Magazine entitled "Anti-vaccine conspiracist and "View" co-host Jenny McCarthy isn't just quirky—she spreads lies that hurt people."[76]
"Jenny McCarthy...will be the show’s first co-host whose dangerous views on childhood vaccination may—if only indirectly—have contributed to the sickness and death of people throughout the Western world. McCarthy, who is savvy, telegenic, and pulchritudinous, is also the person most visibly associated with the deadly and authoritatively discredited anti-vaccine movement in the United States."[77]
"ABC’s announcement yesterday that actress/comedian Jenny McCarthy will become a co-host of The View brought forth a torrent of condemnation from doctors, science journalists, opinion writers, and even entertainment commentators who oppose giving the anti-vaccine activist a high-profile platform to spread misinformation." After an extensive review of news coverage of the hiring, he concluded that "[t]here is no perfect way to cover McCarthy’s hiring, of course, but giving “balanced” coverage to fringe beliefs is the worst approach to covering misinformation."[78]
Toronto Public Health officially denounced the appointment and "launched a Twitter campaign to get model and actress Jenny McCarthy fired from the ABC show The View":
"'Jenny McCarthy’s anti-vaccine views = misinformation. Please ask The View to change their mind,' the department wrote on Twitter. 'Jenny McCarthy cites fraudulent research on vaccines & it's irresponsible to provide her with The View platform.'"[79]
Katrina vanden Heuvel, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and Editor of The Nation, objected to the appointment and wrote about "Jenny McCarthy's Vaccination Fear-Mongering and the Cult of False Equivalence":
"One of the most prominent promoters of this falsehood ["Wakefield’s falsified claims"] is actress Jenny McCarthy, who was recently named as Elisabeth Hasselbeck’s replacement on ABC’s hit daytime talk-show, The View. Once she’s on air, it will be difficult to prevent her from advocating for the anti-vaccine movement. And the mere act of hiring her would seem to credit her as a reliable source....By giving science deniers a public forum, media outlets implicitly condone their claims as legitimate....False equivalency is one of journalism’s great pitfalls, and in an effort to achieve “balance,” reporters often obscure the truth. What’s the merit in “he said, she said” reporting when he says the world is round and she insists it is flat. Indeed, there is an enormous cost to society when the truth could save lives."[80]
McCarthy responded to the criticism during her media tour to promote "The View". Appearing on The Howard Stern Show where she was praised by Stern for landing such a legitimate job, McCarthy explained that she is not anti-vaccine, but rather she opposes too many vaccines in one sitting because that, she said, causes immune disregulation, which she said can cause autism.[81]
Jen-X: Jenny McCarthy's Open Book, an autobiography (Harpercollins November 1997, ISBN 978-0-06-039233-8).
Belly Laughs: The Naked Truth about Pregnancy and Childbirth (DaCapo Press, December 13, 2005, ISBN 978-0-7382-0949-4)
Baby Laughs: The Naked Truth about the First Year of Mommyhood (Plume, April 4, 2006, ISBN 978-0-525-94883-4)
Life Laughs: The Naked Truth about Motherhood, Marriage, and Moving On (Plume, March 27, 2007, ISBN 978-0-525-94947-3)
Louder than Words: A Mother's Journey in Healing Autism Plume, September 17, 2007, (ISBN 978-0-525-95011-0)
Mother Warriors: A Nation of Parents Healing Autism Against All Odds (Plume, September 23, 2008, ISBN 978-0-525-95069-1)
Healing and Preventing Autism Co-written with Dr. Jerry Kartzinel. (Dutton Adult, March 31, 2009, ISBN 978-0-525-95103-2)
Love, Lust & Faking It: The Naked Truth About Sex, Lies, and True Romance (Harper, September 28, 2010, ISBN 978-0062012982)
Wild Wild West – Jim Thomas, John Thomas, S. S. Wilson, Brent Maddock, Jeffrey Price and Peter S. Seaman (1999)
Movie 43 - Steve Baker, Ricky Blitt, Will Carlough, Tobias Carlson, Jacob Fleisher, Patrik Forsberg, Will Graham, James Gunn, Claes Kjellstrom, Jack Kukoda, Bob Odenkirk, Bill O'Malley, Matthew Alec Portenoy, Greg Pritikin, Rocky Russo, Olle Sarri, Elizabeth Wright Shapiro, Jeremy Sosenko, Jonathan van Tulleken and Jonas Wittenmark (2013)
Categories: 1972 births20th-century American actresses21st-century American actresses20th-century American writers21st-century American writers20th-century women writers21st-century women writersActresses from Chicago, IllinoisAmerican female modelsAmerican film actressesAmerican game show hostsAmerican health activistsAmerican memoiristsAmerican people of German descentAmerican people of Irish descentAmerican people of Polish descentAmerican television actressesAmerican women activistsAmerican women writersAnti-vaccination activistsAutism activistsLiving peopleMMR vaccine controversyPlayboy Playmates (1990–1999)Playboy Playmates of the YearAmerican women comediansPeople from Evergreen Park, IllinoisParticipants in American reality television seriesWriters from Chicago, IllinoisHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from August 2010Articles with dead external links from July 2011Articles with dead external links from September 2011Wikipedia pending changes protected pages (level 1)Wikipedia protected pages without expiryArticles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2011Commons category template with no category setCommons category with page title same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersVIAF different on Wikidata 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Jenny McCarthy grew up in Chicago, Illinois, the second oldest daughter of Linda (Loheit) and Dan McCarthy, a steel mill foreman. She has three sisters. McCarthy was educated at Mother McAuley Liberal Arts High School, before going on to Southern Illinois University to study nursing and psychology. However, a lack of funds meant she had to drop out. To earn some money, McCarthy landed a chance to model for Playboy magazine and was Miss October 1993. She was eventually named 1994 Playmate of the Year. Following a relocation to Los Angeles, California, McCarthy landed some television host roles and also began picking up acting parts. Roles followed in various projects including BASEketball (1998), Scream 3 (2000), Scary Movie 3 (2003), The Drew Carey Show (1995) and her own sitcom Jenny (1997). She also continued modeling.McCarthy has one son, Evan Joseph, from her marriage to John Asher. In 2005, Evan was diagnosed with autism and McCarthy has become a high-profile activist in this field. She is also an author, writing successful books on pregnancy and motherhood.She has served as President of the Generation Rescue Foundation since 2008 and is also a member of its Board of Directors. She believes that vaccines cause autism in children and, as a result, has encouraged parental resistance to mandatory vaccination, especially against measles and whooping cough. As a leading spokesperson in the anti-vaccination movement, she has become a controversial public figure in recent years.
      Auditioned for the role of Natalie Cook in Charlie's Angels (2000), which went to Cameron Diaz.
      Along with her ex-boyfriend Jim Carrey, she was among the guests at Tom Cruise's and Katie Holmes' wedding ceremony in Italy.
      Gave birth to her 1st child at age 29, a son Evan Joseph Asher on May 18, 2002. Child's father is her now ex-husband, John Asher.
      She has Irish ancestry on her father's side, and German and Polish ancestry on her mother's side.
      She currently lives in Upper Saddle River New Jersey, amongst many other celebrities including Mary Higgins Clark, Burt Reynolds and Barbara Walters. She splits her time between New Jersey and California as her career is largely based in West Coast studios. [April 2007]
      Writing a book called "Louder Than Words: A Mother's Journey in Healing Autism". Her son, Evan, is autistic. [April 2007]
      Release of her book, "Louder Than Words: A Mother's Journey in Healing Autism". [September 2007]
      Sarah wants respect, and she's not getting it. I like her because she's got spirit and spunk. - on the character she plays in Scream 3 (2000)
      I don't sleep in anything. I have to be nude, and if I'm not, I end up ripping my clothes off in the middle of the night.
      "I think the whole computer geek thing is totally attractive...I mean, like all I'd get is total obedience." On finding Mr. Right.
      There was a problem with studios how to write for me. It's a complex kind of character I am, because I'm built like a bunny but I talk like a dude.
      There's this place in Chicago called Giordano's, which has the best deep dish pizza in the world. It's my therapist, my best friend, and my boyfriend on Friday nights.
=======================================================
1990sChicago GirlThe second of four daughters born to a steel-company foreman and a hairdresser, McCarthy, 19, drops out of nursing school in Chicago's South Side. While pursuing modeling, she's rejected by several agencies, but perseveres. "Mom always said, 'Be like Vanna White,'" she recalls to PEOPLE in 1995. And so, in Vanna's footsteps, she approaches Playboy's Chicago headquarters in August 1993.1993OctoberBunny HopMcCarthy takes it off for the pages of Playboy, and, is later named 1994's Playmate of the Year. "It was the only way, maybe my only chance to get to Hollywood and in front of a camera," McCarthy wrote in her 1997 memoir JEN-X: Jenny McCarthy's Open Book. "It had to be a stepping stone."1995SeptemberThe Dating GameMcCarthy, 22, gets her big break as co-host of the MTV Gen-X dating game show, Singled Out. "If you smack them around a little bit, there's never a problem," she tells PEOPLE of controlling the mosh-pit of male contestants. Co-host Chris Hardwick adds, "Some guys stand in the front row just to be hit by Jenny." In 1997, she leaves the show, passing the torch to fellow centerfold Carmen Electra.1996The Year of JennyAfter nabbing her own MTV variety show, an NBC sitcom (the short-lived Jenny) and a spot on PEOPLE's Most Beautiful list, McCarthy lands the June cover of Rolling Stone. "When I look at myself, I don't see an abundance of talent," she says. "But you look at me and you can tell I'm having the time of my life."1999The Married LifeMcCarthy meets director John Asher on the set of the Kirk Douglas drama Diamonds, and the pair marry that September. In 2002, they welcome their first child, a boy named Evan Joseph Asher. "Life isn't about you as much anymore," she tells PEOPLE of motherhood, before calling it quits with Asher in 2005.2004Mommyhood!From hormonal rage to hemorrhoids and stretch marks, McCarthy lets it all hang out for her first book on pregnancy and motherhood, Belly Laughs. In 2006, she follows up her best-selling memoir with two other books, Baby Laughs and Life Laughs. "The most fulfilling thing in my career, though, has been my books," she tells Redbook. "I go on Amazon.com to read the reviews, and it's so fun to know that I made someone preggers feel good!"2006SummerJenny & JimMcCarthy, 33, begins dating comedic actor Jim Carrey, 44. "Our dynamic is great. I'm very, very happy," she tells PEOPLE. "It's a lot of laughing." While the two stars are committed to their relationship, they both vow never to walk down the aisle. 2007OctoberFighting AutismIn her best-selling memoir, Louder Than Words, McCarthy documents life with her 5-year-old son Evan – who was first diagnosed at age 3 with having autism. "I don't want to come across like a preacher," she says. "All I'm doing is showing there are things you can do to ease autism."2009MayTeam OprahMcCarthy joins forces with Oprah Winfrey, signing a multiplatform deal with the queen of all media's production company. McCarthy, a frequent guest on Oprah, is developing her own talk show with the talk-show host's production company, Harpo.2010April 06Surprise SplitAfter more than four years together, McCarthy and Carey announce their breakup on Twitter. "Im so grateful for the years Jim and I had together," writes McCarthy – who soon moves on with new beau Jason Toohey. "[I] will always keep Jim as a leading man in my heart." 
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): Everet; Axelle Woussen/Bauer-Griffin; amazon.com; Bauer-Griffin; INF, Peter Kramer/AP; Goff/INF 
									Donnie Wahlberg, fiancé (2013 to present) Brian Urlacher, ex-boyfriend (May to Aug. 2012) Paul Krepelka, ex-boyfriend (Dec. 2010 to 2011) Jason Toohey, ex-boyfriend (Aug. to Dec. 2010) Jim Carrey, ex-boyfriend (June 2006 to April 2010) John Asher, ex-husband (1999 to 2005) Ray Manzella, ex-boyfriend (1995 to 1998)  
   Aug 26, 2013 WHAT A LOOKER!  Jenny McCarthy only has eyes for new beau Donnie Wahlberg, who joins his girlfriend for Saturday's Dancing… See Photo   May 03, 2013 FEATHER BRAIN  Jenny McCarthy gets flighty Thursday, smooching a faux bird while shooting a segment on her self-named… See Photo
=======================================================
'This tiny sliver of land... changed the course of human history':The Queen and Obama lead tributes to D-Day heroes as world leaders join veterans for emotional return to Normandy beaches
        Surrounded by thousands of war graves Her Majesty bowed as she laid a wreath during a poignant service of remembrance in Bayeux, the first town in Normandy to be freed from Hitler's grip after the invasion on June 6 1944. Ten miles away U.S. President Barack Obama spoke at the American War Cemetery in Colleville-sur-Mer where almost 10,000 U.S troops who died in the Second World War are buried. Flanked by veterans, President Obama said they and their comrades 'turned the tide in that common struggle for freedom' on D-Day. At dawn those who stormed the beaches of Normandy exactly 70 years ago saluted the English Channel to mark the moment the D-Day assault started.
Samantha Cameron wears 1940s-inspired suit as she joins Prime Minister at D-Day service of remembrance in France
      The Prime Minister's wife looked chic and smart in a grey suit and cream blouse as she arrived hand-in-hand with David at the Bayeux Cathedral.
'Everything is proceeding according to plan. And what a plan!' How Churchill told MPs of the most ambitious operation ever launched as the D-Day landings were still underway
A royal salute for the fallen heroes of D-Day: Charles and Camilla join the Queen to pay their respects
      The Queen laid a wreath during a ceremony at the Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery in Bayeux where 4.144 soldiers are buried.
The British people's greatest day: Cynics will say it's time to move on. But today raise a glass to the sheer ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
Mother left in tears after two customers called her a 'slut' for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
      Rhea Holley, of Faversham in Kent, pictured left with son Arthur, was at a Costa Coffee, pictured right, in Purley in south London, when two customers in their 60s started verbally abusing her for breast-feeding. The pair started calling her a 'slut' and telling her she was 'disgusting' and that her feeding the baby in public was 'offensive'. Costa Coffee workers then 'reprimanded the couple' telling them breast-feeding was allowed in public.
Mother in tears after being called a 'slut' by two customers for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
Police searching for Madeleine McCann 'carry out DNA tests on scraps of clothing they found in a concealed pit close to the area where she went missing'
      Forensic experts drafted in from the UK are said to be carrying out analysis of the 'non organic' material, which was found near a hole in the ground on wasteland in Portugal's Praia de Luz resort.
Flood warnings issued as Britain faces a weekend soaking with a fortnight's rain forecast to fall in just an hour... so enjoy today's sunshine while you can
      The Met Office said thundery rain is expected to start falling across Britain early tomorrow morning, with showers unlikely to ease off until the evening.
      Studies show the optimum amount is 3-4mg of caffeine per kilogram of bodyweight one hour prior to exercise.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
      Julie Matthias, 49, of Chatham, Kent, has been diagnosed with Foreign Accent Syndrome - which affects just 60 people worldwide.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
Putin and Charles set to meet at Sword beach for the first time since Prince said Russia was acting like Hitler
      Amid tensions over Russian aggression towards Ukraine, the two men are attending commemorations marking 70 years since the D-Day landings.
Parents held after son, 11, reaches 15 STONE: Couple arrested on suspicion of child cruelty after 'doctors became concerned about boy's wellbeing
      The parents, from King’s Lynn, Norfolk, claim their son's weight gain is genetic and they have tried to keep his size under control.
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she'd been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida - ending a 20-year scam in which she stole £144,000
       Janet Curtis, 64, top right, from Clacton, Essex, said her rheumatoid arthritis meant she could barely walk more than a few yards, and left her needing 24-hour live-in care. But fraud investigators found video footage showing her water-skiing on holiday in Florida, left, walking round theme parks and swimming. Curtis, pictured outside Ipswich Crown Court yesterday, bottom right, admitted nine benefits fraud charges and was ordered to repay the money, and given a curfew and 18-month suspended prison sentence.
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she'd been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida ending 20 year scam in which she stole £144,000
'Fraudsters hijacked our phone line and then stole £41,000 when we called the bank': Customers scammed and then left stranded by their banks
      In two separate cases investigated customers with Lloyds Bank and Nationwide Building Society lost a total of almost £60,000 to the scam.
Fears government agencies can listen in to private mobile phone calls at the ‘flick of a switch’ after Vodafone reveals authorities use secret wires across its entire network which stretches to 29 countries
      Vodafone said direct-access wires were connected to its network, allowing authorities in 29 countries - including Italy, Malta and Spain - to monitor conversations.
New obesity jab could be available within two years after scientists discover hormone that helps the body burn fat
      Researchers at Havard Medical School and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in the U.S. have found a new hormone, they believe could provide the key to treating obesity and diabetes.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
      Researchers from London's University of Westminster asked 124 men - half of whom were hungry and half well-fed - to rate different women by attractiveness.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
'I wasn't even hungry': Russian cannibal is FREED from court despite admitting he ate his fisherman friend - as victim's distraught wife says all she is left with is his foot
       Her husband, Andrei Kurochkin was eaten by his close friends who were fishermen after they were lost for months during an expedition in frozen Siberia. Olga Korochkin, 38, spoke out after hearing confirmation that cannibalised human remains found were those of her husband.
Outrage as actors dressed as Nazis takeover West Sussex airport 24 hours before 70th anniversary of D-Day to film scenes for Ryan Reynolds film
      Stars of new Second World War film Woman in Gold, starring Helen Mirren and Ryan Reynolds, arrived at Shoreham Airport today dressed in full Nazi uniform.
‘Rape? Sometimes it's RIGHT': Indian state minister says offence is only a crime if the woman reports it to police - days after murderous gang-rape of two sisters
      'This is a social crime which depends on men and women. Sometimes it's right, sometimes it's wrong,' said Babulal Gaur, minister for Madhya Pradesh.
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left three Canadian Mounties dead and put city on day-long lock-down
      Justin Bourque, 24, was taken into custody early Friday morning after a deadly shootout in Moncton, New Brunswick, that left three police officers dead.
Suffocated baby's twin returned to parents after judge clears father of accidentally killing her as they slept on sofa, saying the couple 'deserve to be believed'
      The middle class father came under suspicion from Lancashire County Council following the death of his daughter, but judge Mr Justice Peter Jackson (pictured) cleared him of blame.
'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richman poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
       Former Man V. Food host Adam Richman is celebrating is 70lb weight loss with a naked spread in Cosmopolitan UK's July issue. Mr Richman, 40, poses lying down with a soccer ball precariously covering his genitals. He wears soccer cleats and knee socks and is surrounded by a smattering of soccer balls that read 'USA', in reference to this summer's World Cup.
Use leftover Melba toast... and other money-saving tips by aristocratic politician who lives in a 13-bed manor
      Tory peer Baroness Rawlings, who is married to a multi-millionaire, suggested people reuse their linen and use a bath to warm the room.
      Labour MP Stella Creasy says women will have to ‘breed for Britain’ if immigration is restricted - and she has a point, writes RICHARD LITTLEJOHN.
      As 94-year old grandmother Bertha Guymer, pictured, lay dying on a hospital bed in Essex, a thief stole her wedding rings, her family has claimed.
'Can't catch me': Fugitive, 20, who taunted police on Facebook weeps in the dock as he is jailed for stealing thousands from his grandparents and assaulting his mother
      Joe Barlow, from Laindon, Essex, was jailed for five separate offences at Basildon Crown Court, including stealing £8,500 from his grandparents’ savings to pay for drugs.
'The job isn't finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite triumph over Farage in Newark by-election
       The Conservative candidate Robert Jenrick (top right) attracted 17,431 votes - a comfortable majority over Ukip's Roger Helmer (pictured left with Nigel Farage), who received 10,028. The Prime Minister warned the Conservatives had to keep hammering home key messages on the economy, tax cuts and jobs.
'Everything is proceeding according to plan. And what a plan!' How Churchill told MPs of the most ambitious operation ever launched as the D-Day landings were still underway
      MPs applauded after the wartime Prime Minister described the start of the 'most complicated and difficult' operation ever launched.
The British people's greatest day: Today, raise a glass to the ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
      If I had to single out one moment of the struggle which represented the zenith of our national achievement, then it must be D-Day, writes MAX HASTINGS.
The British people's greatest day: Cynics will say it's time to move on. But today raise a glass to the sheer ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
The average woman wants to meet ‘the one’ aged 24, have a child at 27 and reach the top of their career by 34
      Nearly two-thirds of those studied had a detailed life plan they try to follow – with targets such as passing their driving test by 19, living healthily by 24 and getting engaged at 26.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
      Vincent Walsh, professor of human brain research at University College London, also proposed they should be allowed to set their own work times, arriving whenever they want.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
Does the amount of make-up you wear affect how people treat you? Student tries three different looks to find out
       Brinton Parker, a 21-year-old student at the University of California, was inspired to conduct her experiment after noticing how her peers critiqued people's looks. So during a single week, she went to school wearing three very different make-up looks - bare-faced, moderate and heavy - in a bid to measure the ways it altered how people treated her.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
      Scientists secretly gave 2,051 babies and children in homes thought to include Sean Ross Abbey, Co. Tipperary, pictured, a diphtheria vaccine without their consent.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
Former Crimewatch presenter Sue Cook tells Rolf Harris trial she too forgot a game show appearance in Cambridge in 1970s and the star 'shouldn't be accused of lying'
      Sue Cook, 65, told the jury at Southwark Crown Court in London that she had forgotten 'loads' of events she had been to over the years.
Why Tetris is so addictive: Playing the game is like 'scratching an itch' and appeals to our brain's desire to tidy up
      A psychologist from the University of Sheffield has revealed that Tetris appeals to our brain's desire to solve mini tasks, while being tantalised by more problems.
      People who match with each other on the app can now send pictures visible for 24 hours to each other.
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Ferry captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his boat in a storm
      Steve Kingston, who runs a river ferry company in King's Lynn, Norfolk, refused to take the council's advice to leave his ship. In response the authorities sent in police to carry out the heavy-handed arrest.
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his ferry in a storm
Four generations of depravity: Court orders 'incest family' who lived in remote Australian bush to provide DNA samples to help police unravel decades of sexual abuse
       Two members of a NSW family accused of mass incest have been DNA swabbed following a court order. 'Raylene Colt' and 'Betty Colt' (the legal pseudonyms given to them) were ordered to report to a Sydney police station on Friday to provide samples. The family was discovered in regional NSW in 2012 living in squalid conditions and have been the subject of a child abuse investigation since.
      Researchers at the University of Rochester, in the U.S., say male brains are affected more significantly than female brains.
Give me my pocket money or I'll jump: Chinese boy, 10, holds parents to ransom over late payment of his 50p
      When ten-year-old Xiao Wei's father was late in paying him his weekly 50p stipend in Shangsi, China, the stubborn youngster took matters into his own hands.
Father jailed for stabbing his partner six times during vicious attack in front of their children after she called police to report him
      Nicholas Robinson, pictured, broke down in tears at Leeds Crown Court after he received the 11-year sentence for the attempted murder of Claire Chambers.
      Dr Viren Swami from the University of Westminster said those in love also tend to think their partner is better looking than themselves.
Is this the street in which Jack the Ripper lived? Geographic profiling pinpoints exact address of Victorian serial killer
       A former Canadian police officer ,who pioneered the use of geographical profiling, thinks the Ripper lived on Flower and Dean Street in Whitechapel, East London (pictured in 1902). The street was destroyed in the Blitz but in Victorian times was part of a slum area. In 1888, detectives conducted door-to-door inquiries along the street, hinting that they were close to catching the killer. Dr Kim Rossmo used the murder locations, a scrap of bloody clothing and an algorithm to calculate the Ripper's likely routes on the days of the murders.
School at centre of alleged Islamist 'Trojan Horse' takeover plot rejects Ofsted report saying it is failing to protect pupils from extremism
      The report - made public yesterday but leaked to the Mail on Monday - said Golden Hillock school in Birmingham (pictured), was doing too little to keep students safe from extremist views.
Sales executives whose boss 'spoke to their breasts not their face' in line for five-figure pay out after tribunal finds he was 'fixated'
      Darren Scott, 55, was obsessed with Diane Nicholl-Pierson’s breasts and regularly spoke to them instead of her face, an employment tribunal found.
Still clutching their rosaries after hundreds of years, eerie photographs show mummies buried in a Czech underground crypt
       A monastery in the Czech Republic has a ghoulish secret for those willing to venture underground - two dozen corpses clutching rosaries are on display. The bodies in the Capuchin Crypt of the Holy Cross Church, in Brno, date back hundreds of years, but they were only recently rediscovered and opened to public viewing.
      Not everyone who has terminal cancer can find it in themselves to be so valiant and heroic, to face death with such dignified equanimity.
      In a bitter attack on the UK, Jean-Claude Juncker also condemned what he described as a British campaign against his presidency.
It's one in a mill-ion! Stunning riverside home with its own working water mill and vintage car museum could be yours (for £700,000)
       The secluded estate is set in 67 acres of woodland near South Molton, between the picturesque Dartmoor and Exmoor national parks in Devon, and features a water mill with exposed mechanics and a huge millstone. The magnificent building also features a spectacular 13,000 sq ft vintage car museum, riverside terrace and floodlit weir.
'Chaos and mass delays' as power failure grounds flights at Bristol Airport and passengers are told to wait outside terminal
      Passengers have taken to Twitter to voice their frustration as flights are delayed and the terminal fills with grounded passengers.
Sales of widescreen TVs boom ahead of World Cup as Tesco gears up for the big event by getting extra nuts in
      Tesco said TV sales have almost doubled ahead of the event, while John Lewis reported a 47 per cent jump in sales in its vision department.
Shot twice, stuffed in a sack and dumped in a canal... but Pakistani girl, 18, SURVIVES botched 'honour killing' carried out by her own family for marrying the man she loved
       Saba Maqsood (pictured) was attacked by her father, uncle, brother and aunt before she was tossed into the canal, said Ali Akbar, a spokesman for police in Hafizabad, Punjab province. It comes just a week-and-a-half after the broad daylight 'honour killing' of another woman in a city centre drew worldwide condemnation. Mr Akbar told Reuters that the most recent case was also 'an honour-related incident'. 'The victim, Saba ... married her neighbour Muhammad Qaiser for love five days ago against the wishes of her family,' he said.
          Nigella Lawson lets her hair down at charity dinner... as her production company makes £2.5 million profit in a year
          Cara Delevingne shows off her supermodel style in plunging printed silk jumpsuit as she attends Stella McCartney party with pal Jourdan Dunn
          Pregnant Claire Sweeney displays growing bump in two tone mini dress as she treats herself to restaurant meal
          It's over: Jennifer Lopez and dancer boyfriend Casper Smart 'call it quits'... amid transsexual sexting scandal
          Katherine Jenkins ditches her usual glamorous make-up for a more natural look as she showcases her slim frame in navy mini dress
          One Direction's Louis Tomlinson to become co-chairman of Doncaster Rovers Football Club after 'finalising multi-million pound takeover deal'
          BGT 2014's final will be a huge TV event... and a mindless, cynical circus: JIM SHELLEY's 12 reasons for hating Britain's Got Talent
          Prison food went down well then! Chris Brown shows off a fuller physique as he arrives at 'get out of jail free' party thrown by lover Karrueche Tran
          Earning her fashion stripes: Pregnant Holly Willoughby wears comfortable T-shirt and jeans as she leaves Soho restaurant
          Samantha Cameron walks hand-in-hand with veteran's family member at service to mark the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings
          Now where did I put those Daisy Dukes? Jessica Simpson parades her slimmer figure in semi-sheer dress as she prepares for summer wedding
          Only the best for his wife-to-be! George Clooney 'on the hunt for French love nest' with fiancee Amal Alamuddin... as he 'plans move into politics'
          Lara Stone shows off her cleavage and slim pins as she is joined by husband David Walliams at Terrence Higgins Trust event
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney enters the Big Brother house... and claims she has been celibate for a year
          Sienna Miller and fiancé Tom Sturridge lead the way during ANOTHER celebrity-packed night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Lo(han) and behold... she's out again! Flame-haired Lindsay rocks a grungy leather jacket and skirt combo as she enjoys another night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Moss be having fun! Kate looks worse for wear in clashing prints as she hits Prince gig and Chiltern Firehouse with Nick Grimshaw
          Don't mind us! Michael Sheen and Sarah Silverman make a discreet exit after late night out at celebrity haunt Chiltern Firehouse
          Millie Mackintosh highlights her slender frame in snakeskin jumpsuit at Smirnoff Mix It campaign launch
          Another celebrity convert: Amber Le Bon models the world's first in-flight onesie (but don't expect to look as good as her at 30,000ft)
          Simply bellissimo! Chloe Green opts for effortless Italian glamour in pale pink tie- up shirt and leather skirt as she kicks off charity road trip in Venice
          Fit for Hollywood royalty! Sandra Bullock looks regal in side-split blue gown as she speaks at Jane Fonda Tribute
          Lovely in lace! Kate Beckinsale steals the show in strapless white dress at Macbeth opening night bash
          She must've Heard it was a fashion event! Amber steals the limelight as she displays her pins in fetching red minidress at Stella McCartney presentation
          Now that's Fancy! Shipshape Iggy Azalea slips into green bikini for luxury yacht holiday to celebrate 24th birthday
          Team green! Brooke Vincent's 22nd birthday celebrations continue as she hits Manchester in sexy jumpsuit flanked by pals
          Fancy meeting you here! Kim Kardashian and Hilary Duff bring their children to same parenting class in Beverly Hills
          'He's struggling!' Kris Jenner opens up about Rob Kardashian's issues, but does not deny daughter Kourtney is pregnant with third child
          Maggie Gyllenhaal wows in colourful boho chic as she holds her own at Stella McCartney's Spring 2015 presentation
          Crazy Stupid Stomach! Cheryl Cole reveals her washboard abs in low- cut crop top in stills from video for new single
          Meet first 10 Big Brother 2014 contestants: A former prostitute, a strict catholic and a one-hit wonder amongst those first in house
          Here come the girls! Daisy Lowe sports cropped blouse and flared dress trousers for night out at Scott's with fellow fashionista Alexa Chung
          Emma Roberts cuts a striking figure in a fetching red dress as she receives Maui Film Festival Shining Star Award alongside fiance Evan Peters
          When in Ibiza! TOWIE's Mario Falcone puts his washboard abs on display as he greets topless fans during stag do holiday
          They love the nightlife! Aussie star Guy Pearce plays tour guide as he takes actor  Robert Pattinson and his blonde lady friend on a trip to Sydney's top hotspots
          Doesn't she get a day off? Alesha Dixon shows off her super flat stomach as she dresses up again for UK premiere of Belle
          Kourtney Kardashian covers up 'baby bump' in baggy black sweater as she and Scott Disick grab lunch in The Hamptons
          That's better! Bradley Cooper trades questionably tight shorts for baggy cargo pants as he takes a break from the set of American Sniper
          TOWIE's Gemma Collins wears white skinny jeans with confidence after losing nearly two stone ahead of Marbella special
          'He's lost... but he's no racist': Rapper 50 Cent defends Justin Bieber following N-word storm... as singer 'takes responsibility for his actions'
          Still selfie obsessed! Kendall and Kylie Jenner pucker up for picture... despite being mobbed by fans at book signing
          'She has the perfect body!' Kris Jenner says daughter Kendall's topless modelling shots 'comes with the territory'
          Jumping into action! Emma Willis wins the viewers votes as she kicks off Big Brother 2014 in flattering white all-in-one
          Big Brother 2014 Launch: Pauline Bennet goes on a 'power trip' as a playboy bunny and devout Catholic are amongst first stars to enter the house
          Big Brother reveals first twist of the series as Pauline Bennet is told to pick who wins £5,000 and which housemate is excluded on first night
          He's scored! Phil Neville can't resist kissing bikini-clad wife Julie as family holiday in Barbados continues
          You gotta fight for your copyright! Beastie Boys awarded $1.7million after suing drink firm which used their music in commercials
          George RR Martin makes fundraising appeal to Game Of Thrones fans to name a character he will kill in upcoming novel
          Time to update the wardrobe! Chantelle Houghton wears her favourite white blazer as she goes shopping with Dolly
          Together again! Eva Longoria reunites with Desperate Housewives co-star Felicity Huffman at Jane Fonda Tribute
          Orange is the new black: Ashley Tisdale shows off her tanned and toned legs in tiny bright shorts as she enjoys shopping trip
          The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
          Rolling Stones stars Mick Jagger, Ronnie Wood and Charlie Watts visit Jerusalem's Western Wall before first ever Israel concert
          Look, I can do streetwise too! J-Lo is just Jenny From The Block as she steps out in denim after being branded a 'sell out' at Bronx homecoming 
          Diary of BGT's ditziest finalist: Lettice on auditioning hungover, her outrageous stage costumes and being loaned a £1.5million violin to perform
          The Queen lights up the Champs-Élysées: Her Majesty - in her FOURTH chic outfit of the day - has red carpet rolled out for her in Paris ahead of D-Day
          Pastel perfection: Lindsay Lohan reveals very slim pins in pale blue skinny jeans and jumper as she steps out to lunch
          Catherine Zeta-Jones and Morgan Freeman share a friendly kiss gone wrong... as she and Michael Douglas arrive at Hollywood event together
          Pins on parade! Jessica Seinfeld and Liv Tyler wear revealing short summer dresses at Stella McCartney presentation
          'She's celestial... I was born into her': Keith Urban on his divine connection with Nicole Kidman... and how her drug intervention saved him
          She's still got it! Jane Fonda, 76, wows as she accepts lifetime achievement award... days after giving sex tips on Conan O'Brien
          Return Of The Jedi! Mark Hamill, 62, shows he can still handle a Lightsaber during visit to Disney World 37 years after first playing Luke Skywalker
          'You don't always have to be naked!' TLC slam Rihanna for using sex to sell records saying it's the easy way to get to the top in the music industry
          Justin Bieber has been 'non-stop crying' after two videos surface showing him singing vile racial slurs at the age of 14
          Escorted by her Goodfella! Robert De Niro's wife Grace Hightower shines in blue dress at documentary premiere in New York
          A cause close to her heart: Demi Lovato speaks about her own personal struggles during mental health event
          Pregnant Jessica-Jane Clement shows off her growing baby bump as she takes her dogs for a leisurely walk
          'People don't want them here': Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian continue to annoy Hamptons locals with 'outrageous filming demands'
          Lupita Nyong'o to star in and produce big screen adaptation of award-winning novel Americanah
          I'll be back... after my cigar break: Arnold Schwarzenegger takes things slowly as he has a sly puff on set of Terminator: Genesis
          Jaime King parades her pins in sporty cardigan and matching mini-skirt at the McDonald's World Cup party in NYC
          'I am not an opportunist!' Fan who bought Whitney Houston's mansion for $1.5m insists he will NOT open it to the public
          Christie Brinkley, 60, proves you're never too old for leather trousers as she stuns on lunch date with her son Jack
          Showing off her street style! Emmy Rossum awaits Stella McCartney presentation on the sidewalk in chic fringe dress
          Orange Is The New White! Taylor Schilling shows off toned pins in pearl-coloured dress at TheWrap's Emmy Celebration
          'Ready to rumble!' Pretty Little Liars star Tammin Sursok puckers up for the camera as she celebrates returning to work after giving birth seven months ago
          Did she use those scissors on her skirt? LeAnn Rimes sizzles in slinky white dress with thigh-high slit as she cuts ribbon to kick off CMA Music Festival
          Over already? Jennifer Lopez parties in NY with handsome rapper T.I.... as 'cheating' toy boy Casper Smart is nowhere to be seen
          Carey Mulligan and Helena Bonham Carter chant at a Votes for Women rally in first still from upcoming film Suffragette
          Are those clothes from the Thrift Shop? Macklemore and Ryan Lewis make a cool arrival in dapper attire to Sin City nightclub
          Happy to get his kit off! Robbie Williams gets help to change into his football top during preparations for SoccerAid
          One big happy family! Hilary Swank shows her maternal side as she gives her boyfriend's little girl a kiss at French Open
          'I've had a lot of therapy': Katy Perry talks about getting over exes John Mayer and Russell Brand... and how long she's gone without sex in new interview
          Ricky Gervais and longtime partner Jane Fallon attend Derek event after visiting their Muppet pals on Sesame Street
          Date night! Twilight star Ashley Greene stuns in tiny black playsuit at she takes boyfriend Paul Khoury to glitzy event in West Hollywood
          While they were teaching! Sandra Bullock makes a surprise visit to her son Louis' school as she donates goodies to the faculty
          What will Rita think? Calvin Harris parties with ANOTHER mystery woman on a night out as girlfriend Ora enjoys Mexican getaway
          Evan Rachel Wood sued for $30M after bailing on film 10 Things I Hate About Life... as rep slams lawsuit as 'preposterous' and a 'bullying tactic'
          'With you I will go': Kanye West beams as Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli serenades Kim Kardashian at their lavish Florence wedding
          Newlywed Kim Kardashian to spend up to a month shooting KUWTK spin-off in The Hamptons... but Kanye West isn't sure if he wants to join her
          Deja blue: Rosario Dawson is back in her favorite colour after wowing in that revealing gown at the Cannes Film Festival
          'I'm Sporty Spice!' Gisele Bundchen shows off washboard stomach in a bikini for cover shoot as she admits she loves to exercise
          That's her secret! Jordana Brewster shows off svelte arms pushing her son Julian along in his stroller
          The fight for $50m: Bowling For Columbine filmmaker Michael Moore claims wife of 22 years spent recklessly as they prepare for divorce trial
          She's no shrinking violet! Lorde wears purple lipstick from her new Mac collection during bewitching performance in London
          Looking scarily good! Camilla Belle wears a skull print T-shirt as she arrives at LAX after South America trip
          You'll never take King's Landing with THAT! Game Of Thrones star Kit Harington poses with plastic dragon at Universal Studios
          'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richmand poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
Sword-wielding Sikhs clash at India's Golden Temple during prayers to mark the deadly 1984 military assault at Amritsar
       At least six people were injured as dozens of Sikh radicals clashed with supporters of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC) at the Golden Temple, in Amritsar. It is understood the scuffle erupted over who would speak first at the service, held to remember victims of government offensive Operation Blue Star that left hundreds dead on June 6, 1984.
Lansley had all the urgency of a snail crossing a hosta leaf: QUENTIN LETTS on Yesterday in Parliament
      Andrew Lansley uses thousands of words to say almost nothing, moving at the speed cold honey drips from a teaspoon.
TOM UTLEY: Yes, I risk a lynching by feminists, but why on earth is a 'family friendly' government paying mums to dump children in nurseries?
      The Queen's Speech contained details about a Childcare Payments Bill, which would offer subsidies of up to £2,000 a year to mothers.
TOM UTLEY: Yes, I risk a lynching by feminists, but why on earth is a 'family friendly' government paying mums to dump children in nurseries?
Newborn who died from contaminated hospital drip was just nine days old it emerges as total number of babies seriously ill from the rogue batch has risen to 18
      The baby boy who died from a suspected contaminated drip in London's St Thomas' hospital was today named as nine-day-old Yousef Al-Kharboush
Has plain cigarette packaging backfired? Australian figures show 59 million MORE cigarettes were sold during first year of ban on branded packs
      Plain packaging laws came into effect in December 2012 under Labor health minister Nicola Roxon, as part of an attempt to discourage smoking, which claims 15,000 lives each year.
'A battle for life or death is in progress': Read the first breaking news report of D-Day as it happened 70-years ago
      The first breaking news report of D-Day as it happened 70-years-ago has been re-released to mark the anniversary of the beginning of the liberation of Europe.
That'll definitely help: U.S. Secret Service buys special software that can detect SARCASM on Twitter
      The tender calls for a social media analytics software tool that can analyse Twitter data in real-time, identify statistical patterns and present complex data in a clear, concise way.
'I thought we were crashing': British holidaymakers' terror as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes dramatic emergency landing after losing cabin pressure
       The Jet 2 flight LS516 (inset, file picture) started to rapidly descend just an hour after departing from Paphos, Cyprus, to Newcastle last night. The plane dropped thousands of feet in minutes, while oxygen masks were deployed for passengers (top). The aircraft was forced to divert to Sofia Airport in Bulgaria, where emergency crews were waiting on the tarmac (bottom). Today, British passengers told of their terror after the plane made an emergency landing due to loss of cabin pressure
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
      Eddie Davenport managed to get himself out of his sickbed to present an award at last Monday’s London Club & Bar Awards at the Intercontinental Hotel.
      Grayson Perry and his wife Philippa turned up at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition party on Wednesday in what looked like mix ’n’ match wardrobes.
From Londoners praying to New Yorkers using smartphones on the loo: Ikea survey reveals morning habits of major cities
      The Swedish furniture giant has published a new study called Life At Home which looks at the morning habits of residents in Berlin, London, Moscow, Mumbai, New York, Shanghai and Stockholm.
'It's time for the people to speak': Aunt of Spain’s new Queen Letizia tweets her followers calling for a Republic
      Henar Ortiz Alvarez, the aunt of future queen Letizia Ortiz, made her feelings known on Twitter tweeting: It's time for the people to speak...'
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: How unconventional 25-year marriage to first wife inspired world's greatest living scientist... and a movie
       Eddie Redmayne had books on Albert Einstein in his dressing room when he took on the part of Professor Stephen Hawking for a film about the physicist's 25-year love affair with his first wife Jane (the actor with Felicity Jones in the film, left, and the Hawkings in the 1960s, right). The actor, who shot to stardom in the movie musical Les Miserables, explained that Einstein and Dean were brilliant in their fields and idols to women. Redmayne grinned and said of Hawking (inset): 'Women flock to him, too. He loves women; women love him.'
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
      But researchers at the University of Pittsburgh found a man's consumption of alcohol had no influence on their daughter's drinking habits.
Conman jailed for posing as Britain's Steven Spielberg to trick animation companies into giving him £800,000
      David Griffiths, 50, (pictured) from Oreton in Shropshire, conned investors by pretending to be a multi-millionnaire owner of a successful production company with close links to animation giants Pixar.
Conman jailed for posing as Britain's Steven Spielberg to trick animation companies into giving him £800,000
Restaurant rage: Living in an area with lots of fast food stores can make you impatient and unable to savour things, researchers warn
      Toronto researchers say just the presence of the chains was enough to cause people to struggle to slow down and savour things.
The transforming desk that moves up and down to keep you fit - and can even track how much exercise you get at the office
      The $3,900 Stir Kinect desk has a motor to raise and lower itself, converting it into a standing desk or a traditional desk.
Scaffolding company fined £5,000 after worker was caught dangling his legs over the edge five floors up with no safety barrier
      JOS Scaffolding Ltd pleaded guilty to breaking safety laws after pictures of its precariously-perched workers on a busy London street were sent to the Health and Safety Executive.
'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die': New book reveals Roman Polanski's private memories of wife Sharon Tate, slaughtered by Charles Manson's 'Family' when she was pregnant
      Sharon Tate's sister Debra has compiled a book of exclusive photographs and memories dedicated to the actress from her husband Roman Polanski.
Girlfriend of Mark Shand leads tributes to him at fundraiser for endangered elephants held in his memory
       More than 600 guests attended the evening in London hosted by Mr Shand's nephew Ben Ellio, Elephant Family’s CEO and Mr Shand's former girlfriend Ruth Powys (both pictured left) as well as Sotheby’s Chairman Henry Wyndham. Guests included the Prince and Princess Michael of Kent (right), Joseph Fiennes (centre), Sir Evelyn de Rothschild, Richard Caring and Bianca Jagger who gathered to celebrate Mr Shand's life and legacy. The evening launched a new campaign which was also Mr Shand's final wish - to raise money to create a series of much needed lifeline elephant corridors in Assam in North East India which could save the future for 1,700 wild, endangered elephants. Mr Shand (inset), who was 62, suffered a head injury when he slipped and fell on the pavement on a night out in Manhattan, New York, in April.
'Stabby, stab, stab': Two US girls, 12, who knifed schoolmate 19 times used code words to plan horrific 'Slender Man' attack
      A police document compiled soon after the stabbing in Waukesha, Wisconsin, revealed that when Morgan Geyser and Anissa Weier discussed the attack, they would use the word 'cracker' to describe a knife or killing.
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at US university, killing one and wounding three
      Students at Seattle Pacific University say Jon Meis saved countless lives when he sprang into action as the shooter stopped to reload his weapon.
Extravagant hen dos now cost guests so much they rival the amount spent on attending the actual wedding!
      Gone are the days of a knees-up down the pub as the average cost of attending a hen do has rocketed and often involves a trip abroad.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
      Mr Justice Saunders told the jury a private detective working for the tabloid had accessed the 13-year-old’s phone - but had not deliberately deleted the voicemails.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
This is how you catfight, son! Father teaches his kittens the best way to pack a punch when he sees how terrible they are at brawling
       A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video shot in an unknown location that proves boys will be boys no matter the species. The YouTube clip from user kamzer opens with two very young kitten siblings wrestling on a kitchen counter. Suddenly their papa cat peeps up from the floor below and before they can purr 'TKO,' their dad is in the mix teaching them a proper left hook.
Jurassic Park actor arrested and charged with kidnap and rape of 13-year-old girl he met for acting classes
      Cameron Thor, 54, is accused of sexually assaulting the girl over the course of a year by police in Los Angeles, California, who say he took her to a secluded area.
Now that's a randy rodent! Male guinea pig at animal sanctuary breaks free from his cage and makes 100 females pregnant
      The two-year-old rodent - nicknamed Randy - managed to get all of the female guinea pigs at Hatton Country World, Warwickshire, pregnant before staff cottoned on to his antics.
Weak pound and high cost of living: Why retiring abroad is now branded 'a luxury' with some popular destinations even pricier than UK
      Experts warned moving abroad is 'no longer an option for the average British person' according to experts, due to rising prices in Europe.
Britons' favourite drive is the A470 through Snowdonia National Park and the Brecon Beacons (and everyone hates the M25)
      Wales and Scotland topped the poll for the best UK roads, followed by the north of England, but the south has most of the worst roads in Britain.
Submarines on Titan and giant nets to capture asteroids: Nasa unveils futuristic designs that could help explore new worlds
       Nasa has unveiled 12 proposals for next-gen exploration technologies in Washington, including a mission to bag an asteroid (illustration left), a submarine in Titan's largest sea (top right) and a spacecraft that could travel from the sun to Neptune in a year (bottom right). These will each receive $100,000 of funding for study over 18 months.
      A new report by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau has confirmed that the original search area along the 'seventh arc' of the southern Indian Ocean for MH370 is the right place to be looking for the missing jet.
Masked rapist, 67, who attacked 100 women over 30 years is finally caught after woman fights him off in Moscow park
      Valery Makarenkov prowled the streets and parks of capital Moscow preying on women in a reign of terror that spanned more than 30 years.
Diabetic put her life at risk to lose weight: Mother stopped taking her insulin injections after ballooning to 19 stone
      Hayleigh Juggins, 20, from Bedfordshire, ignored doctors' advice to take insulin after the birth of her daughter, Angel.
Would YOU eat it? Seaside parlour creates battered fish and chip flavoured ice cream - complete with mushy peas
      Teare Wood's Ice Cream Parlour, in Whitby, North Yorkshire, has combined the traditional holiday tastes to tempt tourists.
Thalidomide survivors launch a fresh legal bid against manufacturers of controversial morning sickness pill
      Papers have been filed at the High Court on behalf of eight people whose mothers took the anti-morning sickness drug when pregnant in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
      Research published in the journal The Obstetrician and Gynaecologist shows a small percentage of headaches were caused by potentially life-threatening neurological conditions.
       Wheeling in on horses and carts, thousands of travellers have pitched up on a privately owned golf course in the small market town of Appleby, Cumbria, for the largest event of its kind in Europe. The week-long Appleby Horse Fair attracts members of the gypsy community from around the world, and has previously been featured in popular Channel 4 show My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding.
Flight of a lifetime! 130 tickets go on sale to fly alongside Lancaster bomber that's in UK for last time - but it will set you back £2,150
      The Lancaster will be in the UK, flying from Canada to England, for four days, arriving on August 8, making the 18-hour trip for the first and final time.
House price bubble threatens to derail economy, warns IMF - and Chancellor says Bank of England 'should not hesitate' to rein in market if necessary
      The International Monetary Fund called for 'targeted and timely' measures to clamp down on risky mortgage lending.
Two people rescued by police after barricading themselves in a bedroom because they were scared of their dog Fluffy
      The dog owners blocked themselves in their home in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, after becoming frightened of their Staffordshire bull terrier, Fluffy (pictured).
Motorcyclist rushed to hospital and bystanders injured by flying debris after crash with a police car
      The motorcyclist suffered left head and leg injuries in the crash at around 1.20pm on the Cotton Street junction with Poplar High Street, in Poplar, east London.
Daughter 'had elderly parents shot dead and buried in their garden after mother admitted sleeping with son-in-law... and then she tricked relatives for 15 years into believing they were still alive'
       Susan and Christopher Edwards (right) 'lied to everybody' for 15 years to cover up the killings of Patricia and William Wycherley, (left) from Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, and diverted a total of £245,000 into their own accounts, Nottingham Crown Court was told. Mr Wycherley, 85, and his 63-year-old wife were both shot twice with a revolver over bank holiday weekend in May 1998 and were buried in the garden (centre) prosecutor Peter Joyce QC said.
World's biggest tumour weighing 30lbs and the size of a watermelon is removed from the uterus of Indian woman
      WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT: Surgeons in the city of Chennai spent three-and-a-half hours removing the giant uterine tumour, which could have been growing for two years.
      When hungry, people were found to find a wider range of body shapes attractive and were more likely to be attracted to bigger people.
      After pinpointing three types of stem cells in umbilical cords, Melbourne researchers could be on the verge of a major breakthrough in preventing cerebral palsy.
Woman, 22, seriously hurt in acid attack outside restaurant as 48-year-old female suspect is arrested
      A 48-year-old woman has been arrested on suspicion of causing grievous bodily harm in the attack, which happened in Sandown on the Isle of Wight in the early hours of yesterday.
Woman, 22, seriously hurt in acid attack outside restaurant as 48-year-old female suspect is arrested
Dying for a tan: Man, 32, diagnosed with terminal skin cancer after spending £7,000 on sunbed sessions over eight years
       Damien Platt, from Greater Manchester, was diagnosed with melanoma after using a sunbed up to four times a week for nine minutes at a time 'to make hi self feel good'. He said: 'To find out I had melanoma was the worst feeling in the world. I felt completely numb and found it very hard to function properly for days, people would try talking to me but nothing would register. Now I'm just trying to be as happy as possible with the time I've got left.' Image ( bottom right) shows the scar on his leg where the mole was removed and (top right) shows him with a tan.
Forget passwords, the future of security is SQUIGGLY LINES: How free-form gestures may replace PINs and grids on phones
      During tests, Rutgers University in New Jersey's free-form gestures (pictured) could not be stolen by hackers.
The end of mouldy bread? Edible film made from oils could extend the life of an everyday loaf by more than two weeks
      Scientists at the Federal University of Viçosa in Brazil used essential oils found in clove and oregano to prolong the life of sliced bread (stock image).
Man and women die from ‘overpowering fumes’ after jumping into cesspit to retrieve ‘expensive phone’
      The woman had dropped her device – worth 2,000 yuan (£190) – in the open-pit toilet, reported Dahe, a website run by the Henan provincial government.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
      The MEP strolled to his hotel with tourism executive Ande Soteri at 3.42am after a gala dinner, with conference delegates reportedly 'gossiping' that they left the party together in capital Valletta.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
You will be happy! Thai junta offers free haircuts and puddings to the masses as part of charm offensive after seizing power in military coup
      Army bosses, who seized power in Bangkok just weeks ago, say cheering up the country is a top priority and want to reinstate Thailand as the ‘Land of Smiles’.
You will be happy! Thai junta offers free haircuts and puddings to the masses as part of charm offensive after seizing power in military coup
      Jobless Andrew Boyce won the money and a Porsche Boxster GTS after he snapped up 50 tickets for a draw at the Westfield shopping centre in Stratford, east London
Filthy fish and chip shop shut down after dead mice were found rotting while staff cooked meals and droppings were found in spice mix
       Health inspectors investigating an Oldham takeaway discovered rotting mice decaying on a glue trap, left, with a deep fat frying covered in grease and fat, top right, and work surfaces used for preparing food covered in mouse droppings, a court has heard. Owner Sarfaz Rouf told magistrates that he did not have a 'vast knowledge' of food hygiene. Him and Iram Bibi were fined just £250 each and the business has now closed.
      Brand Fatyo from Japan has ditched the traditional size labels in its garments in favour of more literal descriptions such as - titch, skinny, fat and jumbo.
Zoo worker in gorilla suit shot with tranquiliser dart during 'escape drill' because no-one told the vet it wasn't real
      The 35-year-old zoo employee was shot on Monday at Tenerife's Loro Parque Zoo. Staff were taking part in a drill designed to ensure they had an emergency plan in place in case one of the gorillas escaped.
Builder hired to renovate Oxford Street store stole £30,000 of designer goods including sunglasses and perfume during his first shift
      A builder helped himself to £30,000 of designer goods on his first shift when he was hired to renovate Boots on Oxford Street, London.
Don't REIN on my parade! Moment horse bolted from Whitehall procession throwing off its rider (who still got up and saluted the Queen as she came past seconds later)
      As the Queen made her way from Buckingham Palace, Musaqaleh had other plans, bolting off towards Horse Guards Parade.
Versace, Gucci... il Duce? Wardrobe where Mussolini's corpse was kept for 11 years up for auction on eBay
      The wardrobe itself is worthless but, having been the hiding place for the dictator’s corpse between 1946 and 1957, it has ghoulish value for collectors of fascist memorabilia.
How the moon was made: Researchers reveal new evidence Earth was hit by giant object as big as Mars 4.5 billion years ago
      German researchers say their analysis of Apollo moon rocks rocks show Earth was hit by a huge object called 'Theta' which led to the moon's formation.
Did HUMANS wipe out the woolly mammoth? Study finds a direct link between hunting and the extinction of large Ice Age animals
      Researchers at Aarhus University in Denmark came to the conclusion after looking at the pattern of extinctions for 177 species between 132,000 years and 1,000 years ago.
Sky-high WiFi will soon be available across Europe: Passengers on British Airways flights to get internet within three years
      Internet will be soon be available on British Airways flights (pictured) across Europe. The service will be provided by London-based satellite operator Inmarsat.
Thor, god of the lie-in! 'Talking' puppy growls 'no' at his owner as he's told to get out of bed at 3:30am
       Thor the dog from Birmingham, Michigan, is seen in a video peacefully lying in bed before being woken up at 3.30am. But showing that it's not just humans who struggle in the morning, the little pup repeatedly growls what sounds like 'no' as he refuses to get up.
William Hague condemns Assad's election victory as 'an insult to Syrians' that bore 'no relation to genuine democracy'
      Tens of thousands took to the streets in government-held areas even before the results were announced on Wednesday evening, waving portraits of Assad and the official Syrian flag.
Tasty Terracotta Army! Food artist makes China's iconic warriors with PIZZA dough (but they won't last thousands of years)
      Annabel de Vetten created the scaled-down warriors to celebrate the opening of Pizza Express' 500th restaurant... in Beijing.
Trans-cending preconceptions: Thought-provoking new photo series celebrates the lives of trans-identified and gender nonconformist individuals
      Rhys Harper, who is based in Syracuse, New York, is hoping his project will help to shift people's perspective on the subject.
      Revellers at the rented student house in Fallowfield, Manchester, were plunged into the basement after the floor fell through. Nobody was hurt.
      Ben Baldwin, 22, from Barnsley, has cerebral palsy, severe epilepsy and learning difficulties and is often too ill to go outside, so Tiger visits him in his bed.
An eggs-traordinary find! Ancient reptile fossils shed light on how mysterious Pterosaurs nested like modern-day birds
      The five intact eggs were found in the Xinjiang province, China and all belonged to a previously unknown pterosaur species, Hamipterus tianshanensis.
You appear to have an ad-blocker running which will prevent this page from functioning as intended. Please disable your ad-blocker or set an exception for this page.Today's hottestfashion findsSee moreRihannaWow like Rihanna in an embellished sheer dressRead more ›KarruecheWork a simple white dress into your summer wardrobeRead more ›JenniferStep up your cool style with a pair of fresh sneakersRead more ›KourtneyGo back to black in monochrome Nike trainersRead more ›
          Shane Warne caught kissing and sharing intimate embrace with Playboy cover girl Emily Scott... but he STILL insists he's single
          Boho babe: Alessandra Ambrosio forgoes make-up as she runs errands in LA clad in a pretty lilac tie-dye maxi-dress
          King Kevin rules supreme: Spacey is magnificent in one-man show Clarence Darrow, writes QUENTIN LETTS
          BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Let's hear it for the Scottsboro Boys! Brandon Victor Dixon to star in West End production of extraordinary show
          Poetic, haunting... these D-Day letters moved me to tears: CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV
          A hit and miss comedy: There are funny moments, but Jump Street's daft cops fail to reach the hilarious heights of their first film
          This won't do Grace any favours: BRIAN VINER reviews Nicole Kidman's latest film Grace of Monaco
          'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die:' Roman Polanski shares private memories of wife Sharon Tate in new book on pregnant beauty's tragic life
          Hollywood's $800 facial: The secret to Angelina Jolie's glowing skin combines microdermabrasion, laser and a peel
          It's DJ Delta! The Voice Kids coach Goodrem jets home from Hollywood with an edgy new look complete with ripped jeans and shiny headphones
          She's certainly a good advertisement! US TV presenter Maria Menounos promotes her diet and fitness book in shiny black shorts in New York City
          'I gave him every bit of advice but now it's up to him': Usher opens up about his friend Justin Bieber's spiral out of control
          It's ON Again! Spring Breakers star Ashley Benson steps out with her beau Ryan Good wearing a bright playsuit
          Put away the bowl! Cindy Crawford reveals her stunning mane of hair was not always her crowning glory in cute flashback photo
          'I almost killed Tom Cruise!' Emily Blunt recalls terrifying moment she nearly crashed a car while shooting scenes for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Still a sex symbol! Raquel Welch, 73, looks decades younger in white jeans and yellow jacket while out to dinner
          Her own best ad! Kate Hudson displays her washboard abs as she models for fitness line... and shares her workout motivation
          Angela Simmons displays toned physique in sexy summery outfit as she hints at new venture following power lunch with her 'fitness gurus'
          The Devil Wears...white! Meryl Streep goes sinister as the Chief Elder of a dystopian society in The Giver
          Nature girl! Vanessa Hudgens shows off her toned tummy in black crop top and shorts during a vigorous hillside hike
          'I'd be open to doing more True Detective': Matthew McConaughey expresses interest in reprising Rust Cohle TV role
          Pretty as a picture! Jessica Alba shows her passion for prints while leaving the studio with takeout lunch
          That's where she gets it from! Leggy Gigi Hadid is chic in short metallic frock while out with her stylish mother Yolanda Foster
          Natalie Portman is fresh-faced and flawless as she touches down at LAX with husband Benjamin Millepied and their adorable son Aleph
          Good news for Miley Cyrus as police 'arrest two people in their 20s' in connection with star's stolen $100k Maserati
          Hot mama! Country singer Jessie James shows off her trim post-baby body at CMT Awards... just three months after giving birth
          Don't mention the outfit! Even Lena Dunham has 'no comment' over her unflattering ensemble as she enjoys a stroll in New York
          'Superhero workout!' Arrow's Stephen Amell shows off his impressive 'parkour' skills on military inspired obstacle course
          Strong sensitive types! Insurgent's Theo James brings Fault In Their Stars book to the gym while Miles Teller pumps some iron
          Farrah Abraham reveals she's writing a Christian parenting book... despite admitting she needs 'space' from her four-year-old and waxes child's eyebrows
          She's glowing: Holly Willoughby shows off growing bump in navy skater dress as she films This Morning segment
          She's anything but PLANE! Carol Vorderman shows off her pins in hot pink and black dress at photocall after jetting herself back from awards show
          'We've got a Christmas bun in the oven! Coronation Street's Paula Lane announces first pregnancy with childhood sweetheart Tom Shaw on Twitter
          'I'm going to get stick for this': Amy Willerton posts bikini selfie... but worries about how her fans will react
          'Squats are the key! Even 10 make me feel better': Victoria's Secret Angel Candice Swanepoel reveals secrets behind that body
          The lady is a vamp! Rihanna unleashes her rock chick side in a skimpy leather two-piece and fierce lace-up heels for Paris charity event
          Explicit content! Lindsay Lohan can't even manage a supporting role in sheer logo top... but at least gives parental advisory warning
          A leggy Lily Allen makes rare appearance with husband Sam Cooper for date night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Think pink! Alex Gerrard shows off her toned figure and glowing tan in bubblegum-hued workout gear
          She's well-heeled: BGT star Lettice Rowbotham whips off her shoes as she heads to BBC studios
          Russell Brand DEFENDS Justin Bieber for making vile racial slurs at the age of 14... claiming he should be 'let off' because it was 'ages ago'
          Whatever the leather: New mum Caprice shows off her post-pregnancy figure in skin-tight leather skirt and top
          Welcome to the strip: Danielle Lloyd and husband Jamie O'Hara jet into Vegas for a holiday with friends
          Not a bad consolation prize! Michael Carrick puts World Cup woes behind him as he and wife Lisa strip to their swimwear to top up their tans in Ibiza
          Graham Norton saves Amanda Holden from revealing more than she intended while doing a handstand in LBD
          It's a very Vogue birthday: Model Bambi Norwood-Blyth celebrates by shooting for fashion magazine with designer husband Dan Single
          J-Wow! Jennifer Lopez doesn't leave much to the imagination as she strips down to sexy latex stockings and suspenders to play first-ever hometown gig
          J.Lo revisits the Bronx and THAT Versace dress for homecoming show... after transsexual bikini model linked to Casper Smart speaks out
          Feeling like a million dollars! Matchmaker Patti Stanger, 53, wears plunging swimsuit as she celebrates her birthday with toyboy fiancé
          Do Ya Thang! Rihanna is sexy in a silky black miniskirt and matching tuxedo jacket as she goes for dinner in Paris
          Here comes the bride! Adam Levine to marry model Behati Prinsloo in 'intimate Mexican ceremony' on July 19
          Politics is the new black: AnnaLynne McCord votes for her spiritual guru as congressional candidate... but she comes in fourth
          She can't resist her man in uniform! Suki Waterhouse gets to grips with Bradley Cooper on set of American Sniper
          Million dollar smile! Victoria Justice beams in an unusual wrap dress at the Spent: Looking For Change premiere
          Strong after 22 years! Woody Allen strolls through Central Park with Soon-Yi Previn... as he prepares to shoot Emma Stone movie in Rhode Island
          Mama June doesn't let her 'forklift foot' get in the way of a family pool day as she goes swimming in socks
          Ramona Singer holds hands with husband Mario on romantic movie date... after firing off legal warning to his mistress over 'lewd messages'
          'Millie Mackintosh and Abbey Clancy already have their eyes on a few pieces': Julien Macdonald unveils glamorous beachwear range for Matalan
          She's stopping traffic: Elsa Pataky wears striking lime green reptilian dress to take over the streets of Madrid for fashion shoot
          Ivana Trump sells her Palm Beach mansion for $18 million - more than FOUR TIMES what she paid for it in 1994
          Table for three! Pregnant Julia Carey displays subtle baby bump as she steps out for dinner with James Corden at Chiltern Firehouse
          Beyonce shows off her amazing legs in pink mini dress as she has a date night with Jay Z in New York
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney set to reveal sex secrets in Big Brother house
          Watch your tan-line! Abbey Clancy wows in a daring cut-out panel swimsuit as she holidays in Hawaii with Peter Crouch
          Now that's a game plan! Gisele Bundchen and Tom Brady's sprawling new Boston mansion takes shape
          Your slip is showing! Leggy Chrissy Teigen heats up New York in black lace lingerie and white knit sweater while heading to dinner
          Looking slinky! Casey Batchelor struts in shiny snakeskin leggings and low-cut top as she models her new fashion collection
          She's got it! Eliza Doolittle is a triumph in plunging leather crop-top and sporty silk trousers at The Other Ball
          'There's quite a bit of blood': The 911 call made after The Brady Bunch housekeeper Ann B Davis has fatal fall is released
          Does she EVER stay in? As Princess Beatrice dines at Roka, we bring you the hotspot-hopping royal's guide to London's smartest restaurants
          From Iceland to ice cool: Sexiest Woman of All Time Rachel Stevens swaps supermarket chic for a semi-sheer top and smart tailoring
          Hawaii-five-WHOAH!! Emma Roberts bares her toned tum in daring crop top... while Lupita Nyong'o is a vision in green at the Maui Film Festival opening 
          Is this Jen 2.0? Meet the 2014 Miss Universe Australia finalist who works as Jennifer Hawkins' body double - and she's from her home town!
          'No more marriages': Pregnant Katie Price vows to never wed again after third husband Kieran Hayler cheated on her
          He's leaving Home! Summer Bay's resident  hottie Lincoln Younes swaps surfing for the 1960s as he takes a new role in Love Child
          Supporting her man! Khloe Kardashian opts for cleavage-baring top as she watches French Montana at J-Lo Bronx show
          Kanye West to take 'drastic measures' to beef up daughter North's security as he 'fears for her safety'
          True Blood star Jim Parrack to divorce wife of six years Ciera... as he 'moves on' with Hunger Games actress Leven Rambin
          Hats you win! Racing fan Jodie Kidd smoulders as she strikes a pose in glamorous headgear ahead of the Derby
          He's clearly nutritious! TOWIE's Gemma Collins can barely keep her lips off mystery new boyfriend as she debuts him on health shop trip
          Belle-y of the ball: Miley stands out in crop top and ripped jeans as she leaves hotel after Copenhagen concert
          He still has the big house! OJ Simpson's Florida home sold for $655,000 in foreclosure auction
          'It's given me a chance to give something back': Cambridge medical student wins swimsuit round of the Miss England
          I got fired for being pregnant: Lara Stone says she was axed for modelling job because she was too fat
          Are they dating? Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Meryl Davis reunite for cosy night on the town two weeks after DWTS win
          Mother of three Elsa Pataky, 37, dazzles in black mini skirt as she unveils her new fitness book and her rock hard abs
          Alessandra Ambrosio shows off her toned tum in black crop top and displays perfect pins in thigh-split skirt as she attends event with fiance Jamie Mazur
          Cashmere from Tesco. Undies from Asda. Posh frocks from Sainsbury's: The ultimate guide to summer style at the supermarket!
          Her faiery tale life! Sam Faiers puts her cleavage on display in plunging dress for Alice In Wonderland themed magazine photo shoot
          Cara Santana puts on a brave face as she hits the gym in midriff baring vest after boyfriend Jesse Metcalfe's ex slammed his bedroom prowess
          'She's being tormented and harassed': Kardashians rent store in The Hamptons and landlord gets 'slammed on internet' and 'snide comments' for doing it
          Kendall Jenner continues to take the plunge as she dons low-cut black number while promoting new sci-fi book with Kylie
          Sheer daring! Pregnant Rebecca Ferguson looks radiant in black gown as she shows off her baby bump ahead of performance at Parkinson's event
          Something to get off your chest? Lily Allen's deep pink hair is overshadowed by keyhole black dress featuring centre split at The Other Ball
          It's there in black and white: Jessica Wright wears chic backless jumpsuit... while Diana Vickers thrills in mini at Parkinson's event
          Former Beverly Hills, 90210 star Rebecca Gayheart goes dotty in see- through shirt as she takes adorable daughter Billie Dane out for the day
          That's why the Sexiest Woman Of All Time goes to Iceland! Rachel Stevens is far cry from title as she goes make-up free in frozen food store
          'Some guys prefer blondes, some brunettes - I like old ladies': 'Extreme toyboy', 31, takes 91-year-old girlfriend home to meet his mother
          'I need to step up and own what I did': Bieber apologises after fresh clip of singer 'changing song lyrics to joke about killing a n****** and joining Ku Klux Klan'
          Getting to grips with the wildlife! Ellie Goulding posts cute Instagram snap cuddling a koala while on tour in Australia
          Let the pageant begin! Miss USA 2014 contestants strut their stuff at the preliminary competition in Louisiana
          Demi Lovato steals the spotlight in a statement black and yellow frock as she picks up Fun Fearless Latina Of The Year Award
          Robin Wright and Mel B prove simplicity is best in elegant black ensembles at magazine bash
          Let's bounce! Hugh Jackman is jumping for joy in a mysterious new video that says shows him hopping around the world
          'I invented the international press tour': Tom Cruise makes claim after whirlwind three-country première feat for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Ooh la la! Kirsten Dunst goes topless for Madame Figaro magazine as she reveals she feels more appreciated in France
          If you don't answer that, I will! Kevin Spacey halts new play on opening night to snap at audience member whose phone went off
          Battle of the busts! LeAnn Rimes and Kristen Bell compete for the most plunging gown at CMT Music Awards... and LeAnn just edges it
          She's got a lot of front! Carrie Underwood wears a revealing halter neck summer dress as she takes top prize at CMT Music Awards
          It's a boy! Offspring star Matthew Le Nevez announces the name and sex of his newborn and reveals he misses playing dreamy Dr Patrick
Is that an Old Master painting - or Beyonce’s Master Cleanse? Photographer recreates celebrity diets as still lifes
       Italian Dan Bannino reproduced the diets of Gwyneth Paltrow, Kate Moss, Beyonce Knowles, Simon Cowell, Bill Clinton, Lord Byron, and even King Henry VIII. 'My aim was to capture the beauty that lies in this terrible constriction of diets and deprivation', explains Mr Bannino. 'To show how this weirdness hasn’t changed even since the 15th century.'
Fizzy drinks 'loaded with harmful sugars could increase the risk of developing diabetes, cardiovascular and liver disease'
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say the drinks contain more fructose, which is converted to fat in the liver, than people realise.
      Crowds screamed out as the boy, thought to be about three years old, appeared to cling to the ledge of an apartment block in Vila Velha, Brazil.
       The rhino was part of a relocation programme in the Zululand region of South Africa, which aims to keep the animals safe. The images of its dramatic airlift, which was carried out by KZN Wildlife Game Capture, were taken by photographer Em Gatland, who described witnessing the transfer as surreal and a mixture of emotion.
China may have banned Tiananmen Square memorial but the rest of Asia remembers: From Hong Kong to Taiwan thousands hold vigil on 25th anniversary of Beijing massacre
Dont come back, next time you wont get out alive: Talibans taunt as they released deserter POW Bowe revealed in propaganda video
Pictured: Grinning father of famous model moments after he executed his neighbour and minutes before he 'swallowed the gun' in dramatic standoff with Chinese SAS
Suicidal Chinese mother leaps from third floor balcony after her daughter refused to break up with 'lazy' boyfriend (but miraculously survives)
Hundreds of pro-Russian rebels killed in fierce attack by Ukrainian forces as Obama tells Nato allies 'you'll never be alone'
Thousands of anti-monarchist protesters take to streets of Spain calling for a republic after King Juan Carlos abdicates after 39 years
Woolly jumpers, wide collared jackets and unflattering skirts ... the medal for worst Commonwealth Games uniforms goes to Australia
King Juan Carlos of Spain in shock abdication after 40 years as his son and glamourous ex-newsreader wife take on challenge of leading Spain out of the doldrums
Spain harbours highest number of expat benefit cheats with more than 700 believed to be scamming the system while soaking up the sun
Mother of British backpacker missing in Malaysian jungle for six days arrives in country 'to be here when they find him'
Come here you big BULLy! Chinese wrestlers get to grips with giant calves in man over beast competition
China disgust at woman who beheads cat and posts image online - and then blames 'alcohol and domestic misfortune'
Bodies of five French soldiers from WWI found alongside their wallets, rifles and a figurine of the Virgin Mary in French wood 100 years after they were killed
'The job isn't finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite...
Obama pleads with Scotland to vote 'No' to independence AND for Britain to stay in the European Union
My Big Fat Gypsy horse fair: Traditional gathering begins in Appleby - and is already hit by row over...
Brother of Sudanese woman facing death penalty for ‘abandoning her Islamic faith’ by marrying a Christian says...
Home of the free! Father paints his house with stars and stripes in protest at local officials who tried to...
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left...
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at Seattle Pacific...
Another shabby day for the marshmallow President: As his Taliban hostage swap sours, why Obama is a pygmy...
A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video, that proves boys will be boys no...
Amid urban squalor, Nature's glory takes wing: Just why is this dazzling blue kingfisher slumming it among shopping trolleys in South London?
       These kingfishers, captured by photographer Tomos Brangwyn on the River Wandle, are a tribute to the amazing turn-around in the fortunes of Britain’s urban rivers over the past 50 years.
Amid urban squalor, Nature's glory takes wing: Just why is this dazzling blue kingfisher slumming it among shopping trolleys in South London?
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say fasting could be particularly beneficial for people whose immune systems have been damaged by chemotherapy.
Couples that sleep together, stay together: Spouses are more likely to slumber in sync if the wife is satisfied with their marriage
      New study showS that overall synchrony in sleep-wake schedules among couples was higher when the woman was happier in the relationship.
Who left the hand-brake off? Investigation under way after Ryanair plane rolls backwards and crashes into airport building, destroying tail wing
      The force of the impact tore apart the rear stabiliser of the £72m Boeing 737 at Rome Ciampino Airport yesterday.
Malaysian police refuse to rule out foul play in case of missing backpacker Gareth Huntley as his family await autopsy to determine whether shirtless body found in Malaysian jungle pond is him
      Mr Huntley's mother Janet Southwell, who arrived in Malaysia on Monday was pictured this morning outside Tengku Ampuan Afzan Hospital in Kuantan with his girlfriend Kit Natariga.
Shocking moment one-armed Russian motorist starts furious road rage punch-up with car behind... but then ends up getting badly beaten
       A one-armed Russian man (circled, top left) has been filmed starting a road rage fight in Moscow, but quickly has the tables turned on him as he is kicked in the head and has his false arm pulled off (bottom right). Nikita Korolev, 43, and Kiril Stepanov, 45, started punching and kicking the occupants of a car behind them through the open windows after the driver refused to back up, but ended up being beaten themselves.
          The Azzurri hit a hiccup ahead of the World Cup when they realised their plane was too small
          Aston Villa have sounded out Rio Ferdinand over a possible move to Villa Park - but the defender is thought to favour Spurs
          Rooney rage: England star raps Scholes for saying he faces axe... and Moyes insists his former player can light up World Cup in Brazil
          Luiz Felipe Scolari has projected that Argentina will be the most likely opponent if the hosts make it through
          Jose Mourinho has admitted Chelsea are interested in signing the former Arsenal captain from Barcelona 
          Countdown to World Cup hots up as brainbox Riley crunches the numbers to predict winning team
          NICO ROSBERG COLUMN: When there are awkward moments, Lewis and I discuss them and we move on...
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/loading-indicator._V192185253_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif');
        background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/buttons._V243643239_.gif')
    background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/traffic/s9m/alert-small._V195630253_.gif");
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/donsbeak-sm-up._V197474569_.png) no-repeat 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite-mini.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
Jenny McCarthy is the author of the New York Times bestsellers Belly Laughs, Baby Laughs, and Louder Than Words, among others. The former host of MTV's hugely popular dating show Singled Out, McCarthy began her career as a Playboy model, before launching a high-profile comedic television and film career. She has been featured everywhere, from Time magazine to the cover of Rolling Stone; has appeared on virtually every television talk show, from Larry King Live to Howard Stern; and is a frequent guest on the Oprah Winfrey Show. She has also served as a spokesperson for Weight Watchers.In addition to her work in the world of healing and preventing autism, she is the co-creator, with practicing speech/language pathologist Sarah Clifford Scheflen, of Teach2Talk, a series of DVDs for children.Born in Chicago, McCarthy currently resides in Los Angeles, California, with her son, Evan. You can… Read more(please enable JavaScript to read more)
Jenny McCarthy is the author of the New York Times bestsellers Belly Laughs, Baby Laughs, and Louder Than Words, among others. The former host of MTV's hugely popular dating show Singled Out, McCarthy began her career as a Playboy model, before launching a high-profile comedic television and film career. She has been featured everywhere, from Time magazine to the cover of Rolling Stone; has appeared on virtually every television talk show, from Larry King Live to Howard Stern; and is a frequent guest on the Oprah Winfrey Show. She has also served as a spokesperson for Weight Watchers.In addition to her work in the world of healing and preventing autism, she is the co-creator, with practicing speech/language pathologist Sarah Clifford Scheflen, of Teach2Talk, a series of DVDs for children.Born in Chicago, McCarthy currently resides in Los Angeles, California, with her son, Evan. You can follow her on Twitter @JennyMcCarthy.
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/tile-blue-bg._V46870869_.gif)
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tl._V192184760_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tm._V192184721_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tr._V192184429_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bl._V192184824_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bm._V192184603_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-br._V192545463_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tl2._V192545542_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tr2._V192545537_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-bl._V192545543_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-br._V192545543_.gif);
Help us improve our Author Pages by updating your bibliography and submitting a new or current image and biography.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
ul.multicol2,ul.multicol3 {float:left;width:100%;margin:0;padding:0;list-style:none;text-align:center}
Jenny McCarthyActor / ModelBorn: 1 November 1972Birthplace: Chicago, IllinoisBest known as: Host of MTV's Singled Out and ABC's The ViewJenny McCarthy is the former Playboy model who was added to the cast of the TV show The View in 2013. Jenny McCarthy got her start posing nude for Playboy magazine in 1993, and ended up becoming the magazine's 1994 Playmate of the Year. She parlayed that fame into a breakthrough role hosting the MTV dating show Singled Out. A buxom blonde with a wicked jaw and a goofball bearing, McCarthy was soon being hyped as a Lucille Ball-Marilyn Monroe hybrid. That led to her own sketch comedy show on MTV, The Jenny McCarthy Show, and an NBC sitcom Jenny (1997), as well as film roles. Her movie credits include BASEketball (1998), Scream 3 (2000), Scary Movie 3 (2003, with Pamela Anderson Lee) and John Tucker Must Die (2006). She dated comedian Jim Carrey from 2005-2010, and together they founded Generation Rescue, a resource for parents of autistic children. McCarthy became controversial for her insistence that vaccines administered to infants can trigger autism. (The New York Times described it as a "widely disproved theory [that] has led to unnecessary illnesses in children, according to child health experts.") Nonetheless, McCarthy became a regular guest on the daytime TV talk show The View, and in July of 2013, she was named a permanent member of the show's five-woman lineup, with her first show mber 9th.Extra credit: Jenny McCarthy joined The View shortly after cast members Joy Behar and Elisabeth Hasselbeck left the show... She was married to actor and filmmaker John Mallory Asher from 1999-2005; their son, Evan Asher, was born in 2002... Evan Asher was diagnosed with autism in 2005, which led McCarthy to found Generation Rescue. Copyright © 1998-2014			by Who2?, LLC. All rights reserved.More on Jenny McCarthy from Infoplease:
Jenny McCarthy - Biography of Jenny McCarthy, Host of MTV's Singled Out and ABC's The ViewJenny McCarthy - Jenny McCarthy personality, actress, model Born: 11/1/1972 Birthplace: Chicago Actress, model and ...Scream 3 - Scream 3 Director: Wes Craven Writer: Ehren Kruger Dimension Films; R; 116 minutes Release: 2/00 ...September 1999 - September 1999 6 Allen Funt, creator and host of Candid Camera, dies of complications of a 1993 ...Dirty Love - Starring Jenny McCarthy, Carmen Electra, Eddie Kaye Thomas, Kam Heskin, Victor Webster
Warning: fsockopen(): php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
Warning: fsockopen(): unable to connect to :3128 (php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo failed: Name or service not known) in /site/html/include/amazon.php on line 71
=======================================================
Birth Name: Jennifer McCarthyBirth Place: Chicago, Illinois, United StatesDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 11/01/1972, ScorpioProfession: Actor; model; TV host
VIDEO: The View: Thu, Jun 5, 2014Jun 6, 2014 03:46 AMThe View: Thu, Jun 5, 2014Subscription | Hulu PlusAired: 6/5/2014"Last Comic Standing" judge Roseanne Barr guest co-hosts. watchVIDEO: The View 6/4Jun 5, 2014 04:18 AMThe View 6/4Free | ABCLength: 37:18Aired: 6/4/2014Guest co-host Jesse Palmer of ESPN. watchVIDEO: The View: Wed, Jun 4, 2014Jun 5, 2014 03:46 AMThe View: Wed, Jun 4, 2014Subscription | Hulu PlusAired: 6/4/2014Guest co-host Jesse Palmer of ESPN; Katherine Schwarzenegger (author, "I Just Graduated…Now What?"). watch
Jenny McCarthy gets the late night party started with drinks, music and no bs talks with your favorite stars.
Jenny McCarthy gets the late night party started with drinks, music and no b.s. talks with your favorite stars.
Jenny McCarthy gets the late night party started with drinks, music and no bs talks with your favorite stars.
Jenny McCarthy gets the late night party started with drinks, music and no bs talks with your favorite stars.
Larry the Cable Guy returns for another comic misadventure as a small town sheriff who unwittingly gets involved in a high profile FBI case. During a routine day spent patrolling his small town, Larry witnesses a beautiful, high-class woman, Madeleine, being held against her will by four mysterious, black-suited men. Recognizing the opportunity to save the day, Larry "kidnaps" her, only to learn that Madeleine is actually a key witness in a high-stakes Chicago crime case and her captors are FBI agents assigned to protect her. Madeleine is furious. But Larry, who rightly suspects the agents are crooked and Madeleine is in danger, forces her on a harebrained trip to Chicago to solve the case himself. Together, the hilariously mismatched duo must grapple with angry FBI agents, quack doctors and Chicago high society in his funniest, most unpredictable adventure yet.
When a small-town sheriff (Larry the Cable Guy) witnesses what he believes to be an attempted kidnapping, his effort to save the beautiful damsel in distress sets him down a wild path of comic mishap.
When a small-town sheriff (Larry the Cable Guy) witnesses what he believes to be an attempted kidnapping, his effort to save the beautiful damsel in distress sets him down a wild path of comic mishap.
                                                                                                 TV Listings
All 11 past and current co-hosts of The View reunited Thursday to wish Barbara Walters well in retirement.
All of The View's co-hosts, past and present, will unite for a special episode live on Thursday, May 15, ABC announced Wednesday. The 11 women will gather to celebrate the show's creator Barbara Walters, who will depart the show the following day.
He's been nominated for two Academy Awards. He's had a No. 1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. His latest movie opened to $37 million earlier this month. So why would Mark Wahlberg want to star in a reality show?
"I thought kind of the same thing," executive producer Rasha Drachkovitch tells TVGuide.com.  "It definitely helps that the subject matter is his family and the family business."
That family business, the Hingham, Mass., restaurant Wahlburgers, is the focus of the new A&E reality show of the same name. Premiering Wednesday at 10:30/9:30c, the docu-series follows Wahlberg, along with his two brothers, singer and Blue Bloods star Donnie and chef Paul Wahlberg, in their adventures running a restaurant together.
After first reading about the fast-casual burger spot two years ago, Drachkovitch reached out to Mark about the reality show idea. He soon traveled to Hingham to meet ...
On Sunday's Golden Globes, Jim Carrey poked fun at the former Disney star by saying, "Dying is easy. Comedy is hard...I believe it was Shia LaBeouf who said that." LaBeouf has been the butt of quite a few jokes after plagiarizing his 2012 short film HowardCantour.com from Daniel Clowes' comic Justin M. Damiano and then hiring a plane to skywrite an apology to Clowes. LaBeouf, who announced he was retiring from all public life last week, responded to Carrey's jab when he posted a YouTube video of Carrey's daughter's band and called Carrey out for his parenting skills.
    div.watchlist-sm blockquote:before, div.watchlist-sm blockquote:after, div.watchlist-sm q:before, div.watchlist-sm q:after
"I'm always fascinated [by] people that work that hard and go under those types of conditions to feed rich people! I realize that they love fishing and they love what they're doing. So be it."
=======================================================
"All those girls who were mean to me [in high school], I pay them back by going through the drive-through window and asking for my burger. That feels really great." - Jenny McCarthy
                Jenny McCarthy began her career as Playboy's 1994 Playmate of the Year. Since her sexy pictorial, the busty blonde has hosted MTV's Singled Out and appeared in such comedies as BASEketball (1998), Scream 3 (2000) and Scary Movie 3 (2003) with Pamela Anderson. She's also the voice of Agent Tanya in the video game Command and Conquer: Red Alert 3.  In addition to her celebrity, Jenny McCarthy became the spokesperson for Talk About Curing Autism after learning that her son, Evan, had been diagnosed with the disease in 2005. Her subsequent book, Louder than Words: A Mother's Journey in Healing Autism was published in 2007, despite much controversy regarding her stance on the disease.  
                Jenny McCarthy isn' t afraid to breach boundaries, posing for Playboy on six different occasions. Although the buxom tomboy has starred in several movies and television shows, she owes most of her notoriety to Hugh Hefner's publication. At the age of 39, this voluptuous blonde proves that age has no boundaries on her new Playboy cover.            
                Since posing for Playboy for the first time in 1993, Jenny's stardom has extended from pictorials into television and film. Moving to L.A. in 1994, she started hosting Hot Rocks on Playboy TV, and in 1995, she hosted Singled Out on MTV. These stints catapulted her career, leading to Jenny McCarthy's own sitcom called The Jenny McCarthy Show. She later appeared in films like BASEketball, Scream 3 and Scary Movie 3. Jenny McCarthy recently made the cover of Playboy at the age of 39, proving that she's only improved with age. Jenny McCarthy also received publicity for her book Louder than Words: A Mother's Journey in Healing Autism, becoming the spokesperson for Talk About Curing Autism, after her son was diagnosed. Her publication has since been the subject of much controversy in associated medical fields.            
                Jennifer McCarthy was born on November 1, 1972, in Chicago, Illinois, to a middle-class Irish Catholic family. She is the second of four daughters. Her mother, Linda, was a hairdresser, while her father, Dan, was a steel mill foreman.  In 1992, Jenny McCarthy was scrambling for money to pay for her second year of nursing studies at Southern Illinois University. Deciding that her talents would be better spend modelling, she sent her photo to Playboy and was accepted to model for the magazine in October of 1993.Jenny McCarthy in PlayboyJenny McCarthy posed for the October issue of the magazine and was paid $20,000 for the job. Her modeling career took off when she was named Playmate of the Month, and then Playmate of the Year in 1994. Her salary was elevated to $100,000.  In 1994, Jenny McCarthy decided to leave her hometown of Chicago in search of stardom, landing in Los Angeles.Jenny McCarthy Hosts Singled OutJenny McCarty had difficulty finding work in Hollywood after her move. Ray Manzella, Jenny McCarthy's live-in boyfriend and manager at the time, was incessant on her behalf. She finally got an interview at MTV and landed a co-hosting position on the network's Singled Out. She was an immediate success, handling hungry contestants with a vulgar and playfully violent attitude.She later became a full-fledged VJ, earning an impressive $500,000 for the year. Jenny McCarthy decided to leave Singled Out in 1997 and focus her efforts on creating a new MTV sketch-variety series, The Jenny McCarthy Show.  Also in 1997, Playboy banked on Jenny McCarthy's success by putting her on the cover of their magazine. In 2005, Jenny McCarthy returned to her hosting roots for a show on E! called Party at the Palms. The reality show was filmed at The Palms Hotel in Las Vegas and featured hotel guests and celebrities partying with Jenny McCarthy.  Although Jenny McCarthy's career escalated, she has led a tumultuous love life. Filing from divorce from Asher in 2005, she began dating funnyman Jim Carrey later that year. These days, Jenny McCarthy has been linked to NFLer Brian Urlacher. Jenny McCarthy on FilmJenny McCarthy decided to move her TV success to the big screen, appearing in 1998 in the movie BASEketball with Trey Parker and Matt Stone.  In January 1999, shortly after breaking up with Manzella, she began dating film director John Asher. The two married on September 11th of that year. In 2000, Jenny McCarthy continued her stint on the big screen with a role in Scream 3 alongside David Arquette and Neve Campbell. She later appeared in Scary Movie 3 with fellow Playmate Pamela Anderson. In May of that same year, Jenny McCarthy gave birth to her son, Evan Joseph.  In 2005, Jenny McCarthy tried her hand at producing and writing with the film Dirty Love, which also starred Carmen Electra, who originally took over Jenny McCarthy's role on Singled Out. Jenny McCarthy also appeared in John Tucker Must Die alongside Brittany Snow and Sophia Bush. In addition, she is known for her work on the online show In The Motherhood, costarring Chelsea Handler and Leah Remini.Jenny McCarthy as an AuthorJenny McCarthy published a book called Louder Than Words: A Mother's Journey in Healing Autism. It explores Jenny's journey with her son since his autism diagnosis in 2005. She also became the spokesperson for Talk About Curing Autism.            
Uber-sexy, incredibly adorable, very vivacious... Carmen Electra is all good things wrapped up in one hot little package.
Chelsea Handler is newly single, which is good news for guys who like girlfriends who mock them in public. 
2014 marks the first time B&W audio will be available in a mid-level priced auto and the first time they will be featuring tweeter-on-top technology in a car.
                                Don't be left in the dark ages, wearing dad jeans and going to the wrong bars. AskMen's
