=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Alfredo James "Al" Pacino (/pəˈtʃiːnoʊ/; born April 25, 1940) is an American film and stage actor and director. He is well known for playing mobsters, including Michael Corleone in The Godfather trilogy and Tony Montana in Scarface, and often appeared on the other side of the law—as a police officer, a detective and lawyer.
Pacino won the Academy Award for Best Actor at the 65th Academy Awards in 1992 for his performance as Frank Slade in Scent of a Woman. Prior to his win he had received seven Oscar nominations, including one that same year.
He made his feature film debut in 1969 in the film Me, Natalie in a minor supporting role, before playing the lead role in the 1971 drama The Panic in Needle Park. Pacino’s major breakthrough came in 1972 with the role of Michael Corleone in The Godfather, which earned him an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor. His other Oscar nominations for Best Supporting Actor were for Dick Tracy and Glengarry Glen Ross. Oscar nominations for Best Actor include The Godfather Part II, Serpico, Dog Day Afternoon and ...And Justice for All.
In addition to a career in film, he has enjoyed a successful career on stage, winning Tony Awards for Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie? and The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel. A longtime fan of Shakespeare, he made his directorial debut with Looking for Richard, a quasi-documentary on the play Richard III. Pacino has received numerous lifetime achievement awards, including one from the American Film Institute. He is a method actor, taught mainly by Lee Strasberg and Charles Laughton at the Actors Studio in New York.
Although he has never married, Pacino has had several relationships with actresses and has three children.
Pacino was born in East Harlem, New York City, to Italian American parents Salvatore Pacino and Rose, who divorced when he was two years old.[1] When he was two, his mother moved near the Bronx Zoo to live with her parents, Kate and James Gelardi, who came from Corleone, Sicily.[2] His father Salvatore (whose father Alfio came from San Fratello, Sicily[3]) moved to Covina, California, and worked as an insurance salesman and restaurateur.[1]
In his teen years "Sonny", as he was known to his friends, aimed to become a baseball player, and was also nicknamed "The Actor".[4] Pacino dropped out of many classes, but not English. He dropped out of school at age 17. His mother disagreed with his decision; they argued and he left home. He worked at low-paying jobs, messenger, busboy, janitor, and postal clerk, to finance his acting studies.[1] He once worked in the mail room for Commentary magazine.[5]
He began smoking at age nine, and drinking, and took up casual marijuana use at age thirteen, but never used hard drugs.[6] His two closest friends died from drug abuse at the ages of 19 and 30.[7] Growing up in The Bronx, he got into occasional fights and was considered something of a troublemaker at school.[8]
He acted in basement plays in New York's theatrical underground but was rejected for the Actors Studio while a teenager.[4] Pacino then joined the Herbert Berghof Studio (HB Studio), where he met acting teacher Charlie Laughton (not to be confused with the British actor Charles Laughton), who became his mentor and best friend.[4] In this period, he was often unemployed and homeless, and sometimes slept on the street, in theaters, or at friends' houses.[2][9]
In 1962, his mother died at the age of 43.[10] The following year, his grandfather, James Gelardi, one of the most influential people in his life, also died.[1]
After four years at HB Studio, Pacino successfully auditioned for the Actors Studio.[4] The Actors Studio is a membership organization of professional actors, theatre directors and playwrights in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan in New York City.[11] Pacino studied "method acting"[1] under acting coach Lee Strasberg, who later appeared with Pacino in the films The Godfather Part II and in ...And Justice for All.[2]
During later interviews he spoke about Strasberg and the Studio's effect on his career. "The Actors Studio meant so much to me in my life. Lee Strasberg hasn't been given the credit he deserves ... Next to Charlie, it sort of launched me. It really did. That was a remarkable turning point in my life. It was directly responsible for getting me to quit all those jobs and just stay acting."[12]
In another interview he added, "It was exciting to work for him [Lee Strasberg] because he was so interesting when he talked about a scene or talked about people. One would just want to hear him talk, because things he would say, you'd never heard before ... He had such a great understanding ... he loved actors so much."[13]
Pacino is currently co-president, along with Ellen Burstyn and Harvey Keitel, of the Actors Studio.[11]
In 1967, Pacino spent a season at the Charles Playhouse in Boston, performing in Clifford Odets' Awake and Sing! (his first major paycheck: $125 a week); and in Jean-Claude Van Itallie's America, Hurrah, where he met actress Jill Clayburgh on this play. They had a five-year romance and moved together back to New York City.[14]
In 1968, Pacino starred in Israel Horovitz's The Indian Wants the Bronx at the Astor Place Theater, playing Murph, a street punk. The play opened January 17, 1968, and ran for 177 performances; it was staged in a double bill with Horovitz's It's Called the Sugar Plum, starring Clayburgh. Pacino won an Obie Award for Best Actor for his role, with John Cazale winning for Best Supporting actor and Horowitz for Best New Play.[15] Martin Bregman saw the play and became Pacino's manager, a partnership that became fruitful in the years to come, as Bregman encouraged Pacino to do The Godfather, Serpico and Dog Day Afternoon.[16] “Martin Bregman discovered me off Broadway. I was 26, 25. And he discovered me and became my manager. And that's why I'm here. I owe it to Marty, I really do,” Pacino himself has recently stated about his own career.[17]
Pacino and this production of The Indian Wants the Bronx traveled to Italy for a performance at the Festival dei Due Mondi in Spoleto. It was Pacino's first journey to Italy; he later recalled that "performing for an Italian audience was a marvelous experience".[14] Pacino and Clayburgh were cast in "Deadly Circle of Violence", an episode of the ABC television series N.Y.P.D., premiering November 12, 1968. Clayburgh at the time was also appearing on the soap opera Search for Tomorrow, playing the role of Grace Bolton. Her father would send the couple money each month to help.[18]
On February 25, 1969, Pacino made his Broadway debut in Don Petersen's Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie? at the Belasco Theater produced by A&P Heir Huntington Hartford. It closed after 39 performances on March 29, 1969, but Pacino received rave reviews and won the Tony Award on April 20, 1969.[14] Pacino continued performing onstage in the 1970s, winning a second Tony Award for The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel and performing the title role in Richard III.[1] In the 1980s, Pacino again achieved critical success on stage while appearing in David Mamet's American Buffalo, for which Pacino was nominated for a Drama Desk Award.[1] Since 1990, Pacino's stage work has included revivals of Eugene O'Neill's Hughie, Oscar Wilde's Salome and in 2005 Lyle Kessler's Orphans.[19]
Pacino made his return to the stage in summer 2010, as Shylock in a Shakespeare in the Park production of The Merchant of Venice.[20] The acclaimed production moved to Broadway at the Broadhurst Theatre in October, earning US$1 million at the box office in its first week.[21][22] The performance also garnered him a Tony Award nomination for Best Leading Actor in a Play.[23] Pacino returned to Broadway in October 2012 to star in the 30th anniversary revival of David Mamet's classic play, Glengarry Glen Ross, which ran through January 20, 2013.[24]
Pacino found acting enjoyable and realized he had a gift for it while studying at The Actors Studio. However, his early work was not financially rewarding.[2] After his success on stage, Pacino made his movie debut in 1969 with a brief appearance in Me, Natalie, an independent film starring Patty Duke.[25] In 1970, Pacino signed with the talent agency Creative Management Associates (CMA).[14]
It was the 1971 film The Panic in Needle Park, in which he played a heroin addict, that brought Pacino to the attention of director Francis Ford Coppola, who cast him as Michael Corleone in the blockbuster Mafia film The Godfather (1972). Although several established actors—including Robert Redford, Warren Beatty, and little-known Robert De Niro—also tried out for the part, Coppola selected the relatively unknown Pacino, to the dismay of studio executives.[2]
Pacino was teased on the set because of his short stature. Pacino's performance earned him an Academy Award nomination, and offered a prime example of his early acting style, described by Halliwell's Film Guide as "intense" and "tightly clenched". Pacino boycotted the Academy Award ceremony, insulted at being nominated for the Supporting Acting award, noting that he had more screen time than costar and Best Actor winner Marlon Brando—who also boycotted the awards, but for unrelated reasons.[26]
In 1973, he co-starred in Scarecrow, with Gene Hackman, and won the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival. That same year, Pacino was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor after starring in Serpico, based on the true story of New York City policeman Frank Serpico, who went undercover to expose the corruption of fellow officers.[26] In 1974, Pacino reprised his role as Michael Corleone in the sequel The Godfather Part II, which was the first sequel to win the Best Picture Oscar; Pacino, meanwhile, was nominated for his third Oscar.[26]
Newsweek has described his performance in The Godfather Part II as "arguably cinema's greatest portrayal of the hardening of a heart".[27] In 1975, he enjoyed further success with the release of Dog Day Afternoon, based on the true story of bank robber John Wojtowicz.[2] It was directed by Sidney Lumet, who had directed him in Serpico a few years earlier, and Pacino was again nominated for Best Actor.[28]
In 1977, Pacino starred as a race-car driver in Bobby Deerfield, directed by Sydney Pollack, and received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Actor – Motion Picture Drama for his portrayal of the title role. His next film was the courtroom drama ...And Justice for All, which again saw Pacino lauded by critics for his wide range of acting abilities, and nominated for the Best Actor Oscar for a fourth time.[28] However he lost out that year to Dustin Hoffman in Kramer vs. Kramer—a role that Pacino had declined.[28]
During the 1970s, Pacino had four Oscar nominations for Best Actor, for his performances in Serpico, The Godfather Part II, Dog Day Afternoon, and ...And Justice for All.[2]
Pacino's career slumped in the early 1980s; his appearances in the controversial Cruising, a film that provoked protests from New York's gay community,[29] and the comedy-drama Author! Author!, were critically panned.[1] However, 1983's Scarface, directed by Brian De Palma, proved to be a career highlight and a defining role.[2] Upon its initial release, the film was critically panned due to violent content, but later received critical acclaim.[30] The film did well at the box office, grossing over US $45 million domestically.[31] Pacino earned a Golden Globe nomination for his role as Cuban drug lord Tony Montana.[32]
In 1985, Pacino worked on his personal project, The Local Stigmatic, a 1969 Off Broadway play by the English writer Heathcote Williams. He starred in the play, remounting it with director David Wheeler and the Theater Company of Boston in a 50-minute film version. The film was not released theatrically, but was later released as part of the Pacino: An Actor's Vision box set in 2007.[2]
His 1985 film Revolution about a fur trapper during the American Revolutionary War, was a commercial and critical failure, which Pacino blamed on a rushed production,[33] resulting in a four-year hiatus from films. At this time Pacino returned to the stage. He mounted workshop productions of Crystal Clear, National Anthems and other plays; he appeared in Julius Caesar in 1988 in producer Joseph Papp's New York Shakespeare Festival. Pacino remarked on his hiatus from film: "I remember back when everything was happening, '74, '75, doing The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui on stage and reading that the reason I'd gone back to the stage was that my movie career was waning! That's been the kind of ethos, the way in which theater's perceived, unfortunately."[34] Pacino returned to film in 1989's Sea of Love,[2] when he portrayed a detective hunting a serial killer who finds victims through the singles column in a newspaper. The film earned solid reviews.[35]
Pacino received an Academy Award nomination for playing Big Boy Caprice in the box office hit Dick Tracy in 1990, of which critic Roger Ebert described Pacino as "the scene-stealer".[36] Later in the year he followed this up in a return to one of his most famous characters, Michael Corleone, in The Godfather Part III (1990).[2] The film received mixed reviews, and had problems in pre-production due to script rewrites and the withdrawal of actors shortly before production.
In 1991, Pacino starred in Frankie and Johnny with Michelle Pfeiffer, who co-starred with Pacino in Scarface. Pacino portrays a recently paroled cook who begins a relationship with a waitress (Pfeiffer) in the diner where they work. It was adapted by Terrence McNally from his own Off-Broadway play Frankie and Johnny in the Clair de Lune (1987), that featured Kenneth Welsh and Kathy Bates. The film received mixed reviews, although Pacino later said he enjoyed playing the part.[37] Janet Maslin in The New York Times wrote, "Mr. Pacino has not been this uncomplicatedly appealing since his "Dog Day Afternoon" days, and he makes Johnny's endless enterprise in wooing Frankie a delight. His scenes alone with Ms. Pfeiffer have a precision and honesty that keep the film's maudlin aspects at bay."[38]
In 1992, Pacino won the Academy Award for Best Actor, for his portrayal of the blind U.S. Army Lieutenant Colonel Frank Slade in Martin Brest's Scent of a Woman.[2] That year, he was also nominated for Best Supporting Actor for Glengarry Glen Ross, making Pacino the first male actor ever to receive two acting nominations for two movies in the same year, and to win for the lead role.[2]
Pacino starred alongside Sean Penn in the crime drama Carlito's Way in 1993, in which he portrayed a gangster released from prison with the help of his lawyer (Penn) and vows to go straight. Pacino starred in Michael Mann's Heat (1995), in which he and Robert De Niro appeared on-screen together for the first time (though both Pacino and De Niro starred in The Godfather Part II, they did not share any scenes).[2]
In 1996, Pacino starred in his theatrical docudrama Looking for Richard, a performance of selected scenes of Shakespeare's Richard III and a broader examination of Shakespeare's continuing role and relevance in popular culture. The cast brought together for the performance included Alec Baldwin, Kevin Spacey, and Winona Ryder. Pacino played Satan in the supernatural thriller The Devil's Advocate (1997) which co-starred Keanu Reeves. The film was a success at the box office, taking US $150 million worldwide.[39] Roger Ebert wrote in the Chicago Sun-Times, "The satanic character is played by Pacino with relish bordering on glee."[40]
In Donnie Brasco, Pacino played mafia gangster "Lefty", the true story of undercover FBI agent Donnie Brasco (Johnny Depp) and his work in bringing down the mafia from the inside. Pacino also starred as real life 60 Minutes producer Lowell Bergman in the multi-Oscar nominated The Insider opposite Russell Crowe, before starring in Oliver Stone's Any Given Sunday in 1999.
Pacino has not received another Academy Award since Scent of a Woman, but won two Golden Globes since the year 2000, the first being the Cecil B. DeMille Award in 2001 for lifetime achievement in motion pictures.[41]
In 2000, Pacino released a low-budget film adaptation of Ira Lewis' play Chinese Coffee to film festivals.[42] Shot almost exclusively as a one-on-one conversation between two main characters, the project took nearly three years to complete and was funded entirely by Pacino.[42] Chinese Coffee was included with Pacino's two other rare films he was involved in producing, The Local Stigmatic and Looking for Richard, on a special DVD box set titled Pacino: An Actor's Vision, which was released in 2007. Pacino produced prologues and epilogues for the discs containing the films.[43]
Pacino turned down an offer to reprise his role as Michael Corleone in the computer game version of The Godfather. As a result, Electronic Arts was not permitted to use Pacino's likeness or voice in the game, although his character does appear in it. He did allow his likeness to appear in the video game adaptation of 1983's Scarface, quasi-sequel titled Scarface: The World is Yours.[44]
Director Christopher Nolan worked with Pacino on Insomnia, a remake of the Norwegian film of the same name, co-starring Robin Williams. Newsweek stated that "he [Pacino] can play small as rivetingly as he can play big, that he can implode as well as explode".[45] The film and Pacino's performance were well received, gaining a favorable rating of 93 percent on the review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes.[46] The film did moderately well at the box office, taking in $113 million worldwide.[47] His next film, S1m0ne, did not gain much critical praise or box office success.[48]
He played a publicist in People I Know, a small film that received little attention despite Pacino's well-received performance.[49] Rarely taking a supporting role since his commercial breakthrough, he accepted a small part in the box office flop Gigli, in 2003, as a favor to director Martin Brest.[49] The Recruit, released in 2003, featured Pacino as a CIA recruiter and co-stars Colin Farrell. The film received mostly negative reviews,[50] described by Pacino as something he "personally couldn't follow".[49] Pacino next starred as lawyer Roy Cohn in the 2003 HBO miniseries Angels in America, an adaptation of Tony Kushner's Pulitzer Prize winning play of the same name.[2] For this performance, Pacino won his third Golden Globe, for Best Performance by an Actor, in 2004.[51]
Pacino starred as Shylock in Michael Radford's 2004 film adaptation of The Merchant of Venice, choosing to bring compassion and depth to a character traditionally played as a villainous caricature.[52] In Two for the Money, Pacino portrays a sports gambling agent and mentor for Matthew McConaughey, alongside Rene Russo. The film was released on October 8, 2005, to mixed reviews.[53] Desson Thomson wrote in The Washington Post, "Al Pacino has played the mentor so many times, he ought to get a kingmaker's award ... the fight between good and evil feels fixed in favor of Hollywood redemption."[54]
On October 20, 2006, the American Film Institute named Pacino the recipient of the 35th AFI Life Achievement Award.[55] On November 22, 2006, the University Philosophical Society of Trinity College, Dublin awarded Pacino the Honorary Patronage of the Society.[56]
Pacino played a spoof role in Steven Soderbergh's Ocean's Thirteen, alongside George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Elliott Gould and Andy García, as the villain Willy Bank, a casino tycoon targeted by Danny Ocean and his crew. The film received generally favorable reviews.[57]
88 Minutes was released on April 18, 2008, in the United States, after having been released in various other countries in 2007. The film co-starred Alicia Witt and was critically panned,[58] although critics found fault with the plot, and not Pacino's acting.[59] In Righteous Kill, Pacino and Robert De Niro co-star as New York detectives searching for a serial killer. The film was released to theaters on September 12, 2008. While it was an anticipated return for the two stars, it was not well received by critics.[60] Lou Lumenick of the New York Post gave Righteous Kill one star out of four, saying: "Al Pacino and Robert De Niro collect bloated paychecks with intent to bore in Righteous Kill, a slow-moving, ridiculous police thriller that would have been shipped straight to the remainder bin at Blockbuster if it starred anyone else."[61]
Pacino played Dr. Jack Kevorkian in an HBO Films biopic entitled You Don't Know Jack, which premiered April 2010. The film is about the life and work of the physician-assisted suicide advocate. The performance earned Pacino his second Emmy Award[62] for lead actor[63] and his fourth Golden Globe award.[32]
It was announced in May 2011 that Pacino was to be honored with the "Glory to the Film-maker" award at the 68th Venice International Film Festival.[64] The award was presented ahead of the premiere of his film Wilde Salome, the third film Pacino has directed.[64] Pacino, who plays the role of Herod in the film, describes it as his "most personal project ever".[64]
The United States premiere of Wilde Salomé took place on the evening of March 21, 2012, before a full house at the 1,400-seat Castro Theatre in San Francisco's Castro District. Marking the 130th anniversary of Oscar Wilde's visit to San Francisco, the event was a benefit for the GLBT Historical Society.[65][66][67]
Pacino most recently starred in a 2013 HBO biographical picture about record producer Phil Spector's murder trial, titled Phil Spector.[68]
Pacino and Robert De Niro are reportedly set to star in the upcoming project The Irishman, to be directed by Martin Scorsese and co-star Joe Pesci.[69] It was announced in January 2013 that Pacino will play the late former Penn State University football coach Joe Paterno in the movie tentatively titled Happy Valley and based on a 2012 biography of Paterno by sportswriter Joe Posnanski.[70]
Although he has never married, Pacino has three children. The eldest, Julie Marie (born 1989), is his daughter with acting coach Jan Tarrant. He also has twins, son Anton James and daughter Olivia Rose (born January 25, 2001), with actress Beverly D'Angelo, with whom he had a relationship from 1996 until 2003.[71][72] Pacino had a relationship with Diane Keaton, his co-star in the Godfather trilogy. The on-again, off-again relationship ended following the filming of The Godfather Part III.[73] He has had relationships with Tuesday Weld, Jill Clayburgh, Marthe Keller, Kathleen Quinlan and Lyndall Hobbs.[43]
The Internal Revenue Service filed a tax lien against Pacino, claiming he owes the government a total of $188,000 for 2008 and 2009. A representative for Pacino blamed his former business manager Kenneth Starr for the discrepancy.[74]
Pacino has been nominated and has won many awards during his acting career, including eight Oscar nominations (winning one), 15 Golden Globe nominations (winning four), five BAFTA nominations (winning two), two Primetime Emmy Awards for his work on television, and two Tony Awards for his stage work. In 2007, the American Film Institute awarded Pacino with a lifetime achievement award and, in 2003, British television viewers voted Pacino as the greatest film star of all time in a poll for Channel 4.[75]
Grobel, Lawrence (2006). Al Pacino: The Authorized Biography. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-7432-9497-1. 
Categories: 1940 births20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsMale actors from New York CityActors Studio membersAmerican male film actorsAmerican film directorsAmerican people of Italian descentAmerican people of Sicilian descentAmerican male stage actorsBAFTA winners (people)Best Actor Academy Award winnersBest Actor BAFTA Award winnersBest Drama Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Miniseries or Television Movie Actor Golden Globe winnersCecil B. DeMille Award Golden Globe winnersDavid di Donatello winnersDrama Desk Award winnersFilm directors from New York CityFiorello H. LaGuardia High School alumniLiving peopleObie Award recipientsOutstanding Performance by a Lead Actor in a Miniseries or Movie Primetime Emmy Award winnersOutstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Miniseries or Television Movie Screen Actors Guild Award winnersPeople from HarlemPeople from the BronxTony Award winnersUnited States National Medal of Arts recipientsMale actors of Italian descentHidden categories: Wikipedia pending changes protected pages (level 1)Wikipedia protected pages without expiryUse mdy dates from June 2014Articles with hCardsCommons category template with no category setCommons category with page title same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiersGood articles 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Known for his forceful dramatic presentation, Al Pacino is most closely associated with the roles of Michael Corleone in The Godfather (1972) trilogy, as well as Tony Montana of the legendary gangster film Scarface (1983). But it was his performance as Frank Slade, a blind, retired Lt. Colonel, in Scent of a Woman (1992) that won him the Academy Award for Best Actor in 1993. This came after seven previous Oscar nominations, including a supporting actor nomination in the same year for Glengarry Glen Ross (1992).A native of New York's Bronx, Pacino was born on April 25, 1940. In 1966 he enrolled in the Actors Studio to study under Lee Strasberg. Following a period of award-winning successes on the stage, he made his feature film debut in Me, Natalie (1969). But the role of Michael Corleone in The Godfather (1972) - Pacino's third film - transformed his career. Director Francis Ford Coppola had his heart set on the unknown Pacino although the studio and producers reportedly didn't want him, and such renowned actors as Robert Redford, Warren Beatty, Jack Nicholson, Ryan O'Neal and Robert De Niro were said to be contenders for the role. Nevertheless, Pacino's portrayal earned him his first Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor. He went on to star in such films as Serpico (1973) and Dog Day Afternoon (1975), and received three consecutive Academy Award nominations for best actor in 1974, 1975 and 1976. The second role most associated with Pacino, the vicious Tony Montana, was followed by the forgettable Revolution (1985) and period of self-imposed screen exile that ended in Sea of Love (1989). In the '90s, Pacino's career was resurgent, with roles as varied as The Godfather: Part III (1990), Dick Tracy (1990), and Glengarry Glen Ross (1992). Several films that hearkened to Pacino's most iconic roles followed, including Carlito's Way (1993), Heat (1995) and Donnie Brasco (1997), and noteworthy performances in The Insider (1999) and Any Given Sunday (1999). In the 2000s, Pacino starred in a number of theatrical blockbusters, including _Ocean's Thirteen (2007)_, but his choice in television roles - the vicious Roy Cohn in HBO's miniseries Angels in America (2003) and his sensitive portrayal of Jack Kevorkian, in the television movie You Don't Know Jack (2010) - are reminiscent of the bolder choices of his early career. Each TV project garnered him an Emmy for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Miniseries or a Movie.Pacino has never abandoned his love for the theater, and Shakespeare in particular, having directed the Shakespeare adaptation Looking for Richard (1996) and played Shylock in The Merchant of Venice (2004). He will portray King Lear in King Lear, in addition to playing Phil Spector in a made-for-TV movie.
          One of the greatest actors in all of film history, Al Pacino established himself during one of film's greatest decades, the 1970s, and has become an enduring and iconic figure in the world of American movies. Born on April 25, 1940, in the Bronx, New York, Pacino's parents (Salvatore and Rose) divorced when he was young. His mother moved them into his grandparents' house. Pacino found himself often repeating the plots and voices of characters he had seen in the movies, one of his favorite activities. Bored and unmotivated in school, the young Al Pacino found a haven in school plays, and his interest soon blossomed into a full-time career. Starting on the stage, he went through a lengthy period of depression and poverty, sometimes having to borrow bus fare to make it to auditions. He made it into the prestigious Actors Studio in 1966, studying under legendary acting coach Lee Strasberg, creator of the Method Approach that would become the trademark of many '70s-era actors. After appearing in a string of plays in supporting roles, he finally hit it big with "The Indian Wants the Bronx", winning an Obie award for the 1966-67 season. That was followed by a Tony Award for "Does the Tiger Wear a Necktie?". His first feature films made little departure from the gritty realistic stage performances that earned him respect: he played a junkie in The Panic in Needle Park (1971) after his film debut in Me, Natalie (1969). What came next would change his life forever. The role of Michael Corleone in The Godfather (1972) was one of the most sought-after of the time: Robert Redford, Warren Beatty, Jack Nicholson, Ryan O'Neal, Robert De Niro and a host of others either wanted it or were mentioned for it, but director Francis Ford Coppola had his heart set on the unknown Italian Pacino for the role, although pretty much everyone else--from the studio to the producers to some of the cast members--didn't want him. Though Coppola won out through slick persuasion, Pacino was in constant fear of being fired during the hellish shoot. Much to his (and Coppola's) relief, the film was a monster hit that did wonders for everyone's career, including Pacino's, and earned him his first Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor. Instead of taking on easier projects for the big money he could now command, however, Pacino threw his support behind what he considered tough but important films, such as the true-life crime drama Serpico (1973) and the tragic real-life bank robbery film Dog Day Afternoon (1975). He opened eyes around the film world for his brave choice of roles, and he was nominated three consecutive years for the "Best Actor" Academy Award. He faltered slightly with Bobby Deerfield (1977), but regained his stride with ...And Justice for All. (1979), for which he received another Academy Award nomination for Best Actor. This would, unfortunately, signal the beginning of a decline in his career, which produced such critical and commercial flops as Cruising (1980) and Author! Author! (1982). He took on another vicious gangster role and cemented his legendary status in the ultra-violent cult hit Scarface (1983), but a monumental mistake was about to follow. Revolution (1985) endured an endless and seemingly cursed shoot in which equipment was destroyed, weather was terrible, and Pacino became terribly ill with pneumonia. Constant changes in the script also further derailed a project that seemed doomed from the start anyway. The Revolutionary War film is considered one of the worst films ever, not to mention one of the worst of his career, resulted in his first truly awful reviews and kept him off the screen for the next four years. Returning to the stage, Pacino has done much to give back and contribute to the theatre, which he considers his first love. He directed a film, The Local Stigmatic (1990), but it remains unreleased. He lifted his self-imposed exile with the striking Sea of Love (1989) as a hard-drinking cop. It marked the second phase of Pacino's career, being the first to feature his now famous dark, owl eyes and hoarse, gravelly voice. Returning to the Corleones, he made The Godfather: Part III (1990) and earned raves for his first comedic role in the colorful Dick Tracy (1990). This earned him another Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor, and two years later he was nominated for Glengarry Glen Ross (1992). He went into romantic mode for Frankie and Johnny (1991). In 1992 he finally won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his amazing performance in Scent of a Woman (1992). A mixture of technical perfection (he plays a blind man) and charisma, the role was tailor-made for him, and remains a classic. The next few years would see Pacino becoming more comfortable with acting and movies as a business, turning out great roles in great films with more frequency and less of the demanding personal involvement of his wilder days. Carlito's Way (1993) proved another gangster classic, as did the epic crime drama Heat (1995) directed by Michael Mann and co-starring Robert De Niro, although they only had a few scenes together. He returned to the director's chair for the highly acclaimed and quirky Shakespeare adaptation Looking for Richard (1996). City Hall (1996), Donnie Brasco (1997) and The Devil's Advocate (1997) all came out in this period. Reteaming with Mann and then Oliver Stone, he gave two commanding performances in The Insider (1999) and Any Given Sunday (1999). In his personal life, Pacino is one of Hollywood's most enduring and notorious bachelors, having never been married. He has a daughter, Julie Marie, with acting teacher Jan Tarrant, and a new set of twins with longtime girlfriend Beverly D'Angelo. His romantic history includes a long-time romance with "Godfather" co-star Diane Keaton. With his intense and gritty performances, Pacino was an original in the acting profession. His Method approach would become the process of many actors throughout time, and his unbeatable number of classic roles has already made him a legend among film buffs and all aspiring actors and directors. His commitment to acting as a profession and his constant screen dominance has established him as one of the movies' true legends.
      Originally asked for $7 million for The Godfather: Part III (1990), a figure that so enraged director Francis Ford Coppola that he threatened to write a new script that opened with Michael Corleone's funeral. Pacino settled for $5 million.
      His maternal grandparents originate from Corleone, Sicily. His paternal grandparents originate from San Fratello, Sicily.
      Was frequently refered to as "that midget Pacino" by producers of The Godfather (1972) who didn't want him for the part of Michael Corleone.
Francis Ford Coppola asked Pacino to play Captain Willard in his film Apocalypse Now (1979). Pacino politely turned down the offer, saying he'd "do anything" for Francis but he "woudn't go to war with him!"
      1994: Stopped a two-pack-a-day smoking habit to protect his voice. In the mid-1980s he had been smoking four packs of cigarettes a day. He now only occasionally smokes herbal cigarettes.
      Al was so much into character (playing a plain-clothes NYC cop) while filming Serpico (1973) he actually pulled over and threatened to arrest a truck driver for exhaust pollution.
Larry King considers Pacino's appearance on his show Larry King Live (1985) in November 1996 as one of his personal all-time favorite interviews.
      Despite the fact that he starred in "The Resistable Rise of Arturo Ui" for Off- Broadway scale pay (the minimum salary allowed by Actor's Equity), the production had the highest ticket price in Off-Broadway history at $100 per ticket.
      He is one of the eleven elite thespians to have been nominated for both a Supporting and Lead Acting Academy Award in the same year. The other ten are Barry Fitzgerald Fay Bainter, Teresa Wright, Jessica Lange, Sigourney Weaver, Emma Thompson, Holly Hunter, Julianne Moore, Jamie Foxx and Cate Blanchett. Pacino was the second male actor, after Fitzgerald, to have been nominated for both a Best Supporting Actor and a Best Actor Oscar in the same year; the third is Foxx, who was nominated for Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor in 2005.
      Won two Tony Awards: in 1969 as Best Supporting or Featured Actor (Dramatic) for "Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie?" and in 1977 as Best. Actor (Play) for "The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel."
      He and Chris Sarandon improvised their scene on the phone in the film Dog Day Afternoon (1975).
      For a short while, he was the only actor to be in the #1 Best and Worst Movie on IMDb: The Godfather (1972) and Gigli (2003).
      In a "Playboy" magazine interview, he claimed that he was fired from his job as a movie theater usher while walking down the staircase and admiring himself in the mirrored wall.
      In 2004 he became the 18th performer to win the Triple Crown of Acting. Oscar: Best Actor, Scent of a Woman (1992); Tony: Best Supporting Actor-Play "Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie?: (1969) and Best Actor-Play "The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel" (1977); and Emmy: Best Actor-Miniseries/Movie, Angels in America (2003).
      Read for Chazz Palminteri's part in The Usual Suspects (1995). Source: Director Bryan Singer, "Pursuing The Usual Suspects" documentary from UK DVD.
      He was rejected repeatedly by studio heads while auditioning for the role of Michael in The Godfather (1972) but Francis Ford Coppola fought for him. This film was shot briskly because both the director and the leading actor were in constant fear of being fired. Ironically, it turned out to be a breakthrough for both.
      He has four sisters: Josette, a teacher, twins Roberta Pacino and Paula, and a younger sister named Desiree, whom Pacino's father adopted whilst married to his fourth wife.
      Was a longtime member of David Wheeler's Theatre Company of Boston, for which he performed in "Richard III" in Boston from Dec. 1972 to Jan. 1973 and at the Cort Theater in New York City from June 10 to July 15, 1979. He also appeared in their productions of Bertolt Brecht's "Aurturo Ui" at the Charles Theater in Boston in 1975 and later in New York and London, and in David Rabe's "The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel" at the Longacre Theater in New York in 1977, for which Pacino won a Tony Award. Wheeler also directed Pacino in Heathcote Williams' "The Local Stigmatic" for Joseph Papp's Public Theater in New York City in 1976. Pacino appeared in a 1989 film of "Stigmatic" (The Local Stigmatic (1990)) directed by Wheeler that was presented at the Cinémathèque in Los Angeles.
      Won the Best Actor Obie (awarded for the best Off-Broadway performances) for "The Indian Wants The Bronx" in 1968. Was also nominated for a Best Actor Obie for "Why Is A Crooked Letter" in 1966.
      His performance in the Broadway play "Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie?" won him a Tony Award for Best Dramatic Supporting Actor, and a Drama Desk Award and Theatre World Award for Best Supporting Actor in 1969.
      While Paramount brass dithered over whether to cast him as Michael Corleone in The Godfather (1972), the role that would make him a star, a frustrated Pacino signed up for the role of Mario Trantino in The Gang That Couldn't Shoot Straight (1971). When Paramount finally decided to offer him the role in "The Godfather", it had to buy him out of his contract with MGM. Ironically, the role went to Robert De Niro, whom The Godfather: Part II (1974) would make a star.
      He and Jamie Foxx are two out of the only three actors to be nominated for an Academy Award for both Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor in the same year. (Barry Fitzgerald did it first in 1945) Pacino was nominated in 1993 for Scent of a Woman (1992) and Glengarry Glen Ross (1992) / Foxx in 2005 for Ray (2004) and Collateral (2004). Both men won the Best Actor award, and they both played blind men in their roles: Pacino as Frank Slade and Foxx as Ray Charles.
      2005: Premiere Magazine ranked him as #37 on a list of the Greatest Movie Stars of All Time in their Stars in Our Constellation feature.
      Has a production company called Chal Productions. The "Ch" is in tribute his friend "Charlie Laughton" (not the actor Charles Laughton) while the "Al" is for himself.
      Early in his acting career, he considered changing his name to "Sonny Scott" to avoid being typecast by his Italian name. "Sonny" was his childhood nickname.
Alec Baldwin, who co-starred with Pacino in Glengarry Glen Ross (1992) and Looking for Richard (1996), wrote a 65-page final thesis on Pacino and method acting for his degree at NYU.
      Had been friends with John Cazale since they were teenagers. They starred together in Dog Day Afternoon (1975), The Godfather: Part II (1974) and The Godfather (1972).
      He is one of only five actors to be nominated for an Oscar twice for playing the same role in two separate films. He was nominated as for The Godfather (1972) and The Godfather: Part II (1974). The others are Paul Newman as Fast Eddie Felson in The Hustler (1961) and The Color of Money (1986), Bing Crosby as Father O'Malley in Going My Way (1944) and The Bells of St. Mary's (1945), Peter O'Toole as Henry II in Becket (1964) and The Lion in Winter (1968) and Cate Blanchett as Elizabeth I in Elizabeth (1998) and Elizabeth: The Golden Age (2007).
      During the making of The Recruit (2003), he met and became close friends with Colin Farrell. He went on to call Farrell the most talented actor of his generation.
      Turned down the role of Richard Sherman for a remake of The Seven Year Itch (1955) which was never filmed.
      2006: His performance as Sonny Wortzik in Dog Day Afternoon (1975) is ranked #4 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time.
      2006: His performance as Michael Corleone in The Godfather: Part II (1974) is ranked #20 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time.
      His performance as Tony Montana in Scarface (1983) is ranked #74 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time.
      His performance as "Michael Corleone" in The Godfather: Part II (1974) is ranked #11 on the American Film Institute's 100 Heroes & Villains.
      His performance as Frank Serpico in Serpico (1973) is ranked #40 on the American Film Institute's 100 Heroes & Villains.
      Was director Bryan Singer's first choice for the role of "Dave Kujan" in The Usual Suspects (1995). Pacino passed on the role and has since stated that that is the role he regrets passing on the most.
      Stated in an interview that the movie he most wanted to be in but couldn't get the role was Slap Shot (1977). Director George Roy Hill opted not to go with Pacino because he could not ice skate.
      Revealed to James Lipton on Inside the Actors Studio (1994) for the first time ever that his maternal grandfather was born in Corleone, Sicily.
      At one point, David Cronenberg was in line to direct the film The Singing Detective (2003), with Pacino in the lead.
      Over the end credits of A Cock and Bull Story (2005) the two stars, Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon compete at doing Pacino impressions.
      Oscar-winning director John Schlesinger envisioned a cast of Pacino, Julie Christie and Laurence Olivier for Marathon Man (1976). Pacino has said that the only actress he had ever wanted to work with was Christie, who he claimed was "the most poetic of actresses." Producer Robert Evans, who disparaged the vertically challenged Pacino as "The Midget" when Francis Ford Coppola wanted him for The Godfather (1972) and had thought of firing him during the early shooting of the now-classic film, vetoed Pacino for the lead. Instead, Evans insisted on the casting of the even shorter Dustin Hoffman! On her part, Christie -- who was notoriously finicky about accepting parts, even in prestigious, sure-fire material -- turned down the female lead, which was then taken by Marthe Keller (who, ironically, became Pacino's lover after co-starring with him in Bobby Deerfield (1977)). Of his dream cast, Schlesinger only got Olivier, who was nominated for a Best Supporting Actor Oscar. Pacino has yet to co-star with Christie.
      His Oscar nomination for The Godfather (1972) marked his first of 4 consecutive nominations, a feat he shares with Jennifer Jones (1943-1946), Thelma Ritter (1950-1953), Marlon Brando (1951-1954) and Elizabeth Taylor (1957-1960).
      He has been a friend of HRH Prince Charles, The Prince of Wales, for several years, and has stayed as his guest at Highgrove House.
      (Summer 1992) Starred on Broadway alongside Sheryl Lee in Oscar Wilde's "Salome", in the Circle in the Square Theatre, under the direction of Robert Allan Ackerman. The play costarred Suzanne Bertish, Arnold Vosloo and Esai Morales.
      When asked by the AFI, he named L'albero degli zoccoli (1978) and Singin' in the Rain (1952) as his favorite films.
      Got Kevin Spacey his first major role in a film. Pacino saw Spacey performing on Broadway and suggested him to the director of Glengarry Glen Ross (1992) for the role of "John Williamson".
      Lifetime Member of the prestigious Actors Studio. He was accepted into the studio in 1966, studying under legendary acting coach Lee Strasberg.
      The voice of Moe the Bartender from The Simpsons was based on Pacino in Dog Day Afternoon (1975).
      Spoke three of the American Film Institute's 100 Movie Quotes: "Keep your friends close, but your enemies closer." from The Godfather: Part II (1974) at #58, "Say 'hello' to my little friend!" from Scarface (1983) at #61 and "Attica! Attica!" from Dog Day Afternoon (1975) at #86.
      Before becoming a professional actor he held a number of jobs including a messenger, shoe salesman, supermarket checker, shoe shiner, furniture mover, office boy, fresh-fruit polisher, and a newsboy.
      He was awarded the 2011 American National Medal of the Arts for his services to drama on February 13, 2012 at the White House in Washington D.C.
      Starred as King Herod in Oscar Wilde's "Salomé" on Broadway in 1992 opposite Sheryl Lee (directed by Robert Allan Ackerman), and in 2003 opposite Marisa Tomei (directed by Estelle Parsons). He reprised the role opposite Jessica Chastain in 2006 in Los Angeles and in the documentary-drama film Wilde Salomé (2011) that he also wrote and directed.
      Is one of 9 actors to have won the Triple Crown of Acting (an Oscar, Emmy and Tony); the others in chronological order are Thomas Mitchell, Melvyn Douglas, Paul Scofield, Jack Albertson, Jason Robards, Jeremy Irons, Geoffrey Rush and Christopher Plummer.
      One of the few Razzie Award winners to have won an acting award for playing himself. He won Worst Supporting Actor for Jack and Jill (2011).
      Became a father for the 1st time at age 49 when his [now ex] partner Jan Tarrant gave birth to their daughter Julie Marie Pacino, aka Julie Pacino, on October 16, 1989.
      Became a father for the 2nd and 3rd time at age 61 when his [now ex] partner Beverly D'Angelo gave birth to their twins Anton and Olivia Pacino on January 25, 2001.
      Performing on Broadway in "Salome" alongside Sheryl Lee, in the Circle in the Square Theatre, New York, USA. [June 1992]
      During the early 80s Pacino tried unsuccessfully to develop a biographical film on Amedeo Modigliani.
      As of 2014, has appeared in six films that were nominated for the Best Picture Oscar: The Godfather (1972), The Godfather: Part II (1974), Dog Day Afternoon (1975), The Godfather: Part III (1990), Scent of a Woman (1992) and The Insider (1999). Of those, The Godfather (1972) and The Godfather: Part II (1974) are winners in the category.
      The problem with me is, I guess, the way I express myself, you have to be with me 50 years before you can get a sense of what I'm talking about.
      I can't say I've been sober though. I don't like that word. What does it mean? 'Sober! He's very sober'.
      There are times when I have a temperament. Yes, my temperament is there ... but I hope I'm gentle. Yes, I think I am.
      When I try to explain anything I always end up trying to be right usually, but not truthful necessarily. Trying to give the right answer or what I think is the right answer. It's a human instinct. You try to be as clever as you can be. You're trying to come off like you really know what the hell's going on, when you don't!
      I'm single and I don't particularly like it. I'm certainly the kind of person who prefers ... it ... it ... It's good to have someone in your life that you're going through this thing with. It's good. That's a thing in life that I aspire to.
      I like what Norman Mailer said about alcohol: 'Drink has killed a lot of my brain cells and I think I would have been a better writer without it, but it would be one less way to relax.'
      I'll tell you something. And this is a fact. When I was doing Scarface (1983), I remember being in love at that time. One of the few times in my life. And I was so glad it was at that time. I would come home and she would tell me about her life that day and all her problems and I remember saying to her, 'Look, you really got me through this picture', because I would shed everything when I came home.
      That's right! That's right! We know the best feeling in the world is the one between the second and third martini. That was my deal. I just enjoyed who I became when I was drinking, so that was something hard to break. I became much quieter, and funny. I must say, that kind of thing came out.
      I'm constantly striving to break through to something new. You try to maintain a neutral approach to your work, and not be too hard on yourself.
      I guess you find yourself repeating certain motifs. But at the heart of it all, I'm an actor, always looking for a role. And then you try to make things fresh.
      One hopes to find out about the [movie] you're in while you're doing it, not several years later, which is usually when I find out. I'm like, 'Wow, that was a dud! I didn't know, nobody would tell me!' I've done things for certain reasons, but it [comes from] thinking on your feet... Sometimes actors do things not because we have a great desire [for it], but because it's work, and I'm starting to wonder about that.
      But I was just lucky. People like [Francis Ford Coppola] were making films, and I got opportunities.
       by Robert Osborne in "Academy Awards 1974 Oscar Annual"] I couldn't exist just doing films. But on the other hand, there is the fame that comes with it, and the money. My problem is I still want to play Hamlet in some little theater somewhere, and time is running out.
      [Presenting the Lifetime of Achievement Award to director Sidney Lumet at the 2005 Academy Awards] As an old village poet put it to me in the 1960s. [If you dig it, it's yours]. I dug Sidney Lumet back then. I dig him now because what he had to give, I took and made it mine. I'm forever grateful along with all the other actors and writers who have benefited from Sidney's genius.
      [on his friend and Heat (1995) co-star Robert De Niro] We know each other's minds. We have shared some things that are personal to us, such as our roles. I know Bobby through his roles. But, then, I don't think we actually talked about the actual work of actors.
      [on his friend and Heat (1995) co-star Robert De Niro] I remember seeing things that Bob had done in the past, and very recent times, and have been taken with the work so much that I even wrote [him] about it. Some of his great work -- which is plenty -- I was staggered by the subtlety of his portrayal and the warmth, which is what we often talk about with Bob among us actors who admire him so. It is the warmth and the way he approaches things.
      [on doing Scarecrow (1973) with Gene Hackman] Gene and I are two people not very similar. We had to play a very close relationship, but I just didn't think we were as connected as we should have been. We seemed apart. We didn't have altercations, we didn't hate each other. But we didn't communicate, didn't think in the same terms. Gene and I were thrown together, but under ordinary circumstances we'd never cavort or be friends. It was two worlds - but I have to say that I was as much responsible as he was.
      [on whether or not acting is still challenging for him] The challenge? It's always a challenge of a sort. It's a challenge to get up and go and leave your family and go out there in all different parts of the world and do a picture and try to make it come alive . . . You're still challenged for that. I mean, it's the same story. It's just not changed. It seems to be the same thing it always was. It's this effort. If you get excited about a thing then things are generally a little easier. If you get enthusiastic and you want to do something and you feel you are into something then things start to come. But usually to find the enthusiasm and the appetite, that's the challenge.
      [on why his film Chinese Coffee (2000) has yet to be released] 'Coffee' is done, I got a couple of little important things to do about it, like little tiny things, and THEN I will unveil it. It's not a movie that you put in a . . . it needs a certain environment to flourish in. It's just the way it is. It doesn't make it better or worse than the picture. It's just the way it is, the nature of it.
      I've always believed, I always hoped . . . I don't think I know what I'm saying when I say this, but I was hoping that we could have a museum where we had films. That there was a museum where films were, like, hung. Like paintings. And you went to the museum. I got the movie The Local Stigmatic (1990) that I made. It's 52 minutes and everybody has seen it now because I've personally got them in to see it, to show it to them and I paid them for it, too. But it's over at the Museum of Modern Art and I love saying . . . This is really pretentious of me, this is what I really like. I love to say: 'Oh, it's at the Museum of Modern Art. Isn't that great?' 'Have you released it?' 'No, I never did.' I love saying that, you know? 'How come?' 'Because I didn't feel like it.' It's fun to do that.
      My first language was shy. It's only by having been thrust into the limelight that I have learned to cope with my shyness.
      I don't understand the hatred and fear of gays and bisexuals and lesbians...it's a concept I honestly cannot grasp. To me, it's not who you love...a man, a woman, what have you...it's the fact THAT you love. That is all that truly matters.
      [When asked what romantic character he would want to be] [Pablo Picasso]. I love the idea that he used to just sit and stare at an empty canvas for as long as 12 hours straight. If you keep staring at the canvas, the hope is that something or someone will come to mind. That's a romantic notion in itself.
      [When asked what a movie of his life would be called and who would play him] It would be called 'The Dustin Hoffman Story'. When we were starting out, [Robert De Niro], me and Hoffman were always sort of mixed up. People mistook us for each other.
      In America most everybody who's Italian is half Italian. Except me. I'm all Italian. I'm mostly Sicilian, and I have a little bit of Neapolitan in me. You get your full dose with me.
      [on The Godfather: Part III (1990)] You know what the problem with that film is? The real problem? Nobody wants to see Michael have retribution and feel guilty. That's not who he is. In the other scripts, in Michael's mind he is avenging his family and saving them. Michael never thinks of himself as a gangster - not as a child, not while he is one and not afterward. That is not the image he has of himself. He's not a part of the Goodfellas (1990) thing. Michael has this code; he lives by something that makes audiences respond. But once he goes away from that and starts crying over coffins, making confessions and feeling remorse, it isn't right. I applaud [Francis Ford Coppola] for trying to get to that, but Michael is so frozen in that image. There is in him a deep feeling of having betrayed his mother by killing his brother. That was a mistake. And we are ruled by these mistakes in life as time goes on. He was wrong. Like in Scarface (1983) when Tony kills Manny - that is wrong, and he pays for it. And in his way, Michael pays for it.
      My dad was in the army. World War II. He got his college education from the army. After World War II he became an insurance salesman. Really, I didn't know my dad very well.
      The only problem is, I don't have the appetite to make my own pictures. I don't want to direct. So I'm always in a kind of passive position, waiting for someone to come to me with a project... That I sort of don't like.
      [on Heat (1995)] I remember chasing Bobby De Niro around at 3 a.m. I didn't warm up and boom, there went my hamstring. I was like, "Great, I feel like old Al." Then I realized, "I AM old Al." I guess I have to keep in shape as I get older. But I don't like to work out. Whenever I get the urge to exercise, I lie down until it passes.
      [on Jack Lemmon] Jack was the most selfless actor I've ever worked with. He was the most considerate and the most generous. He cared a great deal about what he was doing. He was a complete actor who gave 150 percent. But the remarkable thing about Jack was that he kept growing. So his best work was his latest work.
      [on making The Godfather (1972)] Every time I'd run into Marlon Brando on set, my face would turn red and I'd start laughing...have you any idea what it was like to do a scene with Brando? I sat in movie houses when I was a kid watching Brando in A Streetcar Named Desire (1951) and Viva Zapata! (1952). Now I'm playing a scene with him. He's God, man!
      It surprised me, the feeling I got when I won the Oscar for Scent of a Woman (1992). It was a new feeling. I'd never felt it. I don't see my Oscar much now. But when I first got it, there was a feeling for weeks afterward that I guess is akin to winning a gold medal in the Olympics. It's like you've won a race and everybody knows you won. It's a wonderful feeling, a complete feeling.
      After every movie, Humphrey Bogart -- even at the end -- was very worried he'd never get another part. If you don't get the job, there's no work, there's no outlet, there's no expression, there's no painting. You just live and hope that another day will come with a role that will serve as a canvas for you.
Gary Cooper was kind of a phenomenon - his ability to take something and elevate it, give it such dignity. One of the great presences. Charles Laughton was my favorite. Jack Nicholson has that kind of persona; he's also a fine actor. Robert Mitchum's great. Lee Marvin, too. These guys are terrific actors.
      I am a dancer, but I don't think I would be on Dancing with the Stars (2005) mainly because I would be too shy.
      The most popular movie I've ever made is Scarface (1983), all over the world. It's amazing to me. It's wonderful. We sometimes forget that it was Oliver Stone who wrote it. He is a political creature, and I think that is an undercurrent in the movie. And the combination of him and Brian De Palma made for this kind of fusion or explosion. It worked.
      (1979, on Marlon Brando) There's no doubt every time I see Brando that I'm looking at a great actor. Whether he's doing great acting or not, you're seeing somebody who is in the tradition of a great actor. What he does with it, that's something else, but he's got it all. The talent, the instrument is there, that's why he has endured. I remember when I first saw On the Waterfront. I had to see it again, right there. I couldn't move, I couldn't leave the theater. I had never seen the likes of it. I couldn't believe it.
      (1979, Playboy Magazine) Bang the Drum Slowly is my all-time-favorite film. I saw that three or four times. I'd like to go see it again. The baseball motif, the quality of the relationship between Moriarty and De Niro, is beautiful. Maybe I relate to it because I wanted to be a baseball player. For some reason, people don't talk about that movie.
      (1979 quote on his first time at the Oscars) I was at the Oscars once, for Serpico. That was the second time I was nominated. I was sitting in the third or fourth row with Diane Keaton. Jeff Bridges was there with his girl. No one expected me to come. I was a little high. Somebody had done something to my hair, blew it or something, and I looked like I had a bird's nest on my head, a real mess. I sat there and tried to look indifferent because I was so nervous. Any time I'm nervous, I try to put on an indifferent or a cold look. At one point, I turned to Jeff Bridges and said, "Hey, looks like there won't be time to get to the Best Actor awards." He gave me a strange look. He said, "Oh, really?" I said, "It's over, the hour is up." He said, "It's three hours long." I thought it was an hour TV show, can you imagine that? And I had to pee-bad. So I popped a Valium. Actually, I was eating Valium like they were candy. Chewed on them. Finally came the Best Actor. Can you imagine the shape I was in? I couldn't have made it to the stage. I was praying, "Please don't let it be me. Please." And I hear . . . "Jack Lemmon." I was just so happy I didn't have to get up, because I never would have made it.
      [1979, Playboy Magazine] I wanted to be a baseball player, naturally, but I wasn't good enough. I didn't know what I was going to do with my life. I just had a kind of energy, I was a fairly happy kid, although I had problems in school. In the eighth grade, the drama teacher wrote my mother a letter saying she should encourage me. I used to recite The Rime of the Ancient Mariner. And I would read the Bible in the auditorium. That was the first time I heard of Marlon Brando. I was in a play and they said, "Hey, Marlon Brando - this guy acts like Marlon Brando." Isn't that weird? I was about 12. I guess it was because I was supposed to get sick onstage and I really did get sick every time we did this play. Actually, the person I related to was James Dean. I grew up with the Dean thing. Rebel Without a Cause (1955) had a very powerful effect on me.
      (1979, on his beginning as an actor at the High School of Performing Arts) I was never very happy with performing; it didn't turn me on much. If I made a catch at third base, I'd do a double somersault and sprawl out on the ground. I was acting-overacting. They taught Stanislavsky at Performing Arts. That whole thing about the Method and serious acting, having to feel it, I thought it was crazy. What was going on? Where was the fun? So I was kind of bored with it.
      (1979, on his pre-fame job as a building superintendent) I was about 26. My friend told me about this job with a rent-free apartment and $14 a week. So I went down and got a boiler's permit and came back and I was a super. It was my first real place that was not a rooming house or sharing with a girl-I had lived with a girl before that. Now I had my own little home. I had no money, hardly anything to eat, but I had a roof over my head. I was a super for 11 months. I drank, actually, but I hung in there and came out of it. It was a very fruitful time and, at the same time, it was the lowest time in my life. I used to hang an 8 x 10 glossy of me on the door.
      [on people considering him a legend] I'm very flattered to hear that, that compliment. I don't think of myself as anything but an actor struggling to find the next role and when I do get the role to try and see if I can find any way into it.
      With young actors I learn from them, just as hopefully I always will. If I were to advise them in some way, I would say this is a craft that you just have to keep doing. Do it whenever you can and you shouldn't spend too much time dealing with the fact that there's a world out there with a lot of competition. You have to educate yourself. You have to read. You have to see things that are inspiring to you.
      [on the casting of Michael Corleone in The Godfather (1972)] Francis [Ford Coppola] knew I could do the part, and so did I. But he kept asking me to test again and again. I didn't want to go. I don't go where I'm not wanted. Once I got the role, I was waking up at four or five in the morning and going into the kitchen to brood over [it].
      [on preparing to play the character of Tony Montana in Scarface (1983)] I worked with an expert in knife combat, with a physical education guy who helped me get the kind of body I wanted for the part. I used the boxer Roberto Durán a little bit. There was an aspect of Durán , a certain lion in him that I responded to in this character. And I was very inspired by Meryl Streep's work in Sophie's Choice (1982). I thought that her way of involving herself in playing someone who is from another country and another world was particularly fine and committed and... courageous.
      I'm the same now as I've always been - sort of a recluse. People resent me for remaining myself when they think I should be acting like a superstar. I never wanted to be an actor and I don't particularly enjoy it. I have to act. There just isn't anything else for me.
      [on being in Dublin, Ireland] I always feel so at home here, it's great. In fact, I just want to do a movie here so then I could really stay for a while, get around and see it, and be a part of it.
      [on the tough neighborhood he grew up in] They used to call it Fort Apache - the 41st Precinct. But that was the start of the heroin thing. Around 1948 that's when the drugs came into New York. That's when the trouble started. Of all my dearest, closest friends from that time, none of them survived.
      [on his acting teacher Lee Strasberg] Someone said to him: 'Oh, I know you.' He replied: 'You know my name. You don't know me'.
      [on being offered the part of Michael Corleone in The Godfather (1972)] Naturally my first thought was: 'I can't play that. It's a really hard part. Can't I play Sonny? That's a good part.' Then all this screen testing began. It was the Scarlett O'Hara of its day. Francis put that cast together and they okayed everybody except for me and Marlon Brando. Finally, they okayed Marlon. 'But this kid? No way!'
      [on working with Marlon Brando in The Godfather (1972)] I loved him. He was such a sensitive person. He saw the difficulties I was having and I think he saw a little of himself when he was young. I was in awe. I remember once he came up behind me and gave me a little massage. 'You okay?' he'd say.
      Something happened in the 1980s that is hard to define. It had something to do with the movies that Steven Spielberg and George Lucas - both very close friends of Francis Ford Coppola - started to make. I met them when they were kids. I saw them as real film people. I got no feeling of theatre from them. They are geniuses. But they set the standard for a new kind of movie. You also can't discount the impact of television. It's a complex story. Those socially concerned movies like Serpico (1973) or Dog Day Afternoon (1975) or Taxi Driver (1976) were no longer as doable. Those films became independent film. They were no longer launched as brassy marquee features. That's exactly right. You look at The Panic in Needle Park (1971): a film about two drug addicts in the city. That was made by Fox. They could never get that made today.
      [on Scarface (1983)] We couldn't show our faces after it opened. I was at a party after a screening at Sardi's. I walked in and the faces looked like those in a wax museum. People were sitting so still. Liza Minnelli was there. She hadn't seen the movie. She came up to me and said: 'What did you do to these people?' And yet it survived.
      [on rejecting the role of John McClane in Die Hard (1988)] I gave that boy [Bruce Willis] a career.
      I was smoking at nine and smoking a pipe by 12... well, I was dramatic. The cop on the beat used to buy us booze when I was 13 and 14. He was a great guy. He would say, 'Have a little of this', and he would keep a watch on us. I don't know that it would be politically correct but he is not working anymore and is long retired.
      [on turning down the part of Han Solo in Star Wars (1977)] That role was mine for the taking but I couldn't understand the script.
      I asked God for a bike, but I know God doesn't work that way. So I stole a bike and asked for forgiveness.
      [on directing] I have worked with many great film directors and seen that there is a level of film-making that I can never get to so I don't even bother. I just enjoy engaging in film as an amateur. I don't have the pressure of having to deliver. I am off the hook.
      [on being off-screen from 1985 to 1989] I poured my own money into my own film, The Local Stigmatic (1990). Which I never released. I did some plays. All of a sudden the years passed and suddenly I owed some back taxes and the mortgage was due and I was broke. But you know what really hit me? I was walking through Central Park and this guy comes up to me - didn't know him at all - and he says, 'Hey, what happened to you? We don't see you, man.' I said, 'Well, I... uh... uh...' and he said, 'C'mon Al, I want to see you up there.' And I recognized that I was lucky to have what I've been given. You gotta use it.
=======================================================
Alfredo James Pacino was born into a family of Italian immigrants in East Harlem, New York City, shortly after his grandparents had emigrated to the States from Sicily.
Pacino's father was called Salvatore, and he worked as an insurance agent in New York; his mother was called Rose. Pacino's parents split up when he was just two years old, and his mother then moved to live with her parents in a very run-down area of New York, in the South Bronx. He saw little of his father whilst he was growing up, as Salvatore went to live in California, and opened a restaurant called Pacino’s in Covina.
He was an only child, and both his mother and his grandparents were so highly protective of him that he was scarcely allowed to leave the house until the age of seven. Money was very tight when Pacino was growing up, but as an occasional treat, his mother would take him to the cinema, and he would act out the storylines for his grandmother when he got home.
Pacino was an extremely shy and introverted little boy, and used to weave stories of a fictional past for his classmates, regaling them with tales of how he’d really been raised in Texas!
Acting didn’t figure highly among Pacino’s priorities when he was a schoolboy. In fact, it wasn’t until he was 14, when he went to see a performance of Chekhov’s 'The Seagull' at the Elsmere Theatre in the South Bronx, that he was bitten by the acting bug. He was offered a place at the renowned High School of the Performing Arts, but flunked nearly all of his classes except English, and he dropped out of school at the age of 17.
Despite his failure to graduate from High School, his ambition to act grew stronger day by day. He worked ceaselessly at a string of low-grade jobs, including messenger boy, busboy, janitor and postal clerk, in order to finance his acting studies. He gained valuable experience by acting in basement plays in New York‘s theatrical underground, and then joined the Herbert Berghof Studio, where he worked with the legendary actor Charles Laughton. Then, when he was only 21 years old, fate struck a cruel blow, and his mother passed away. Pacino was totally devastated by the loss.
In 1966, he enrolled for lessons at the Actor’s Institute under the world-famous coach Lee Strasberg, where he got to grips with the technique known as Method Acting. Strasberg later acted alongside his pupil, appearing as Hyman Roth in 'The Godfather, part II'. But Pacino served a tough apprenticeship in acting on the various stages of New York. He worked at the Children’s Theatre, then made his off-Broadway debut in 'Hello Out There' by William Saroyan, which was directed by Charles Laughton. At times he was both penniless and homeless - but by the end of the 1960s, he had won an Obie award for stage work in 'The Indian Wants The Bronx', and a Tony award for Best Supporting Actor in the Broadway play, 'Does The Tiger Wear A Necktie?'.
Pacino’s TV debut came in 1968, when he landed a part in 'NYPD', playing a racist Southerner. However, it was his ability to portray the gritty realities of street life that won him his first major movie role in 1971, in a movie called 'The Panic In Needle Park'. In this film, Pacino played a heroin addict, and his outstanding performance brought the young actor to the attention of director Francis Ford Coppola, who promptly offered him the part of Michael Corleone in 'The Godfather'. This movie became the blockbuster movie of 1972. Although several well-known actors, including Robert Redford, Warren Beatty and the young Robert de Niro were also competing for the role of Michael Corleone, Coppola insisted that Pacino be given the part, despite the fact that he was relatively unknown, much to the disapproval of the studio producers and bosses. But Coppola’s confidence was fully justified, for Pacino’s performance in 'The Godfather' earned him an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor, and firmly established him as a leading Hollywood actor.
Pacino’s next film was a movie called 'Serpico'. This was swiftly followed by 'The Godfather Part II', which critics applauded as being every bit as good as the original. Pacino went from strength to strength during the Seventies, and also won rave reviews for his next film, 'Dog Day Afternoon', which told the true story of bank robber John Wojtowicz, a bi-sexual man who instigated a disastrous bank robbery in order to pay for his lover‘s sex-change operation. All told, Pacino received no less than four Academy Award nominations for Best Actor during the 1970s - for Serpico, The Godfather Part II, Dog Day Afternoon and '..And Justice For All'. It was a far cry from his days as a struggling actor in the South Bronx! Astonishingly, Pacino also found time for his first love, theatre acting, and won his second Tony Award for 'The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel' during this period, as well as performing the title role in 'Richard III'.
Pacino’s movie career then hit something of a plateau during the early Eighties, and he was slated for his roles in the controversial 'Cruising' and 'Author! Author!' But he bounced back in 1983 when Brian DePalma cast him in 'Scarface'. This movie was initially panned by the critics, but fared far better at the box office, taking over $45 million in America alone. When his movie career hit the doldrums again during the mid-Eighties, Pacino returned to stage acting. He appeared in 'Julius Caesar' in 1988, and then mounted a very personal project called 'The Local Stigmatic' with director David Wheeler and the Theatre Company of Boston. He achieved a resounding stage success with David Mamet’s 'American Buffalo', which earned him a Drama Desk award nomination.
Pacino resumed his movie acting career in 1989, with 'Sea of Love', playing opposite Ellen Barkin. He then received an Oscar nomination for his portrayal of Big Boy Caprice in the high-earning movie, 'Dick Tracy' in 1990. Academy Award success eluded him, however, until 1992, when he finally, and most deservedly won the Oscar for Best Actor for his portrayal of the depressed, bad-tempered and suicidal blind Lieutenant Colonel Frank Slade in 'Scent Of A Woman'. The same year, he was also nominated for an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor for his role in 'Glengarry Glen Ross'. This astonishing achievement made him the first male actor ever to receive two such nominations for two different films in the same year.
Now firmly established at the pinnacle of Hollywood fame, Pacino became famous as much for the films he turned down as for his performances in the parts he accepted. Indeed, he is renowned for choosing only the most controversial and emotionally intense roles that are offered to him. The films he has turned down include 'Batman', 'Kramer vs. Kramer', 'Born on the 4th of July', 'Pretty Woman', and the role of Han Solo in 'Star Wars'. But his choice of roles is astute, as evidenced by his great performances in films like 'Donnie Brasco' (1997) and the multi-Oscar-nominated 'The Insider' (1999).
Pacino has not received an Oscar since his award for Best Actor in 1992, but he won two Golden Globes since the year 2000: the first was a Cecil B. de Mille award for lifetime acheivement in motion pictures, and the second was awarded for his role in the widely acclaimed HBO mini-series, 'Angels in America'. But he continued to flourish on the New York stage, and was named co-president of the Actor’s Institute in 2000, alongside Harvey Keitel and Ellen Burstyn. Pacino’s more recent stage successes include revivals of Eugene O’Neill’s 'Hughie' and Oscar Wilde’s 'Salome'. He also directed his own film-festival movie called 'Chinese Coffee', a film version of a theatrical production.
This was followed by a role in 'Insomnia', a 2002 psychological thriller directed by Christopher Nolan. Starring Robin Williams and Hilary Swank, the film continued Pacino’s habit of choosing haunting and emotional roles and performed well at the box office. The next three years saw him thrill his fans in 'S1m0ne', 'People I Know', 'The Recruit' and 'Gigli'.
A role as Shylock the Jew in 'The Merchant of Venice' (2004) took the talented star to new heights as he delved into the world of English playwright William Shakespeare. The movie, which also featured Jeremy Irons, Joseph Fiennes and Lynn Collins, was praised by critics who were particularly enamoured with the interpretation of the character of Shylock.
Following his appearance in 2005 film 'Two for the Money', alongside Matthew McConaughey and Rene Russo, the movie industry decided to honour the venerable star. On 20 October 2006, the American Film Institute named Al Pacino the recipient of the 35th AFI Lifetime Achievement Award, one of the highest accolades the motion picture industry can offer.
Pacino went on to step into Steven Soderbergh's star studded crime comedy 'Ocean’s Thirteen' in 2007. Coming after the 2001 film 'Ocean's Eleven' and 2004 sequel 'Ocean's Twelve', the movie featured an ensemble cast including George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Don Cheadle and Andy Garcia.
Received with mostly positive reviews, the film paved the way for one of the most eagerly awaited collaborations, that of Pacino and Robert De Niro in 'Righteous Kill' (2008). The film was not well received by critics, but Pacino moved on swiftly from this minor setback to appear in 'You Don't Know Jack', a television film that earned him an Emmy Award. He is due to appear in a number of upcoming movies including 'The Son of No One', 'Jack and Jill' and 'Mary Mother of Christ', all of which are scheduled for release in 2011.
In his private life, Pacino has remained a lifelong bachelor, and is noted for his various high-profile love affairs. He had a long relationship with actress Diane Keaton, a brief liaison with Australian actress Linda Hobbs, and an even briefer one with Penelope Anne Miller, with whom he starred in 'Carlito’s Way'. Then he appeared to settle down for a while with fellow actress Beverly D’Angelo (of National Lampoon fame), and the tabloids buzzed with rumours that maybe Beverly was Ms Right for Pacino. The couple conceived twins via IVF treatment, and Beverly gave birth to a son and a daughter, called Anton and Olivia, in the year 2001. But the next year, the relationship broke down, amid much acrimony (she wanted to move to L.A. with the two children, and Pacino was totally opposed to the idea). The break-up garnered Pacino many, many gossip column inches in the press, and served to underline his unwavering status as a bachelor. For despite the fact that Pacino has fathered three children (he also has a daughter, Julie Marie, whose mother is his former acting coach, Jan Tarrant), he has never married.
Al Pacino’s personal life has had some major ups and downs, but as far as his film and theatre acting is concerned, he continues to be regarded as one of the most outstanding actors of our time and possibly of all time too.
Al Pacino Box SetFour-disc DVD collection featuring some of Pacino's finest films, including Scarface and Scent of A Woman. 
Al Pacino: The Authorized BiographyFor the first time, Al Pacino offers a deeply personal and revealing window into everything from his growing up in the South Bronx to his fabled studies with Charles Laughton and Lee Strasberg. This is an intensely personal look at a creative genius at the peak of his powers who, after all these years, still longs to learn more about his art. And for now, it's a close to a memoir as we are likely to get.
=======================================================
  .mwst, .mwst a{ font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; background-color: white; color: blue;}
AL PACINO was born April 25 1940 in East Harlem, New York, and was raised in the Bronx. It wasn't that long before Pacino discovered his acting
now had a bit of a film streak. In 1992 and 1993, he gave his two great performances in "Scent of a Woman" and "Carlito's Way". He won his first OSCAR for his leading role in "Scent of a Woman". He's been starring in much more
=======================================================
From All Movie Guide: Brooding and intense, Al Pacino has remained one of Hollywood's premier actors throughout his lengthy career, a popular and critical favorite whose list of credits includes many of the finest films of his era. Pacino was born April 25, 1940, in East Harlem, NY. Raised in the Bronx, he attended the legendary High School for Performing Arts, but dropped out at the age of 17. He spent the next several years drifting from job to job, continuing to study acting and occasionally appearing in off-off-Broadway productions. In 1966, Pacino was accepted to train at the Actors' Studio, and after working with James Earl Jones in {+The Peace Creeps}, he starred as a brutal street youth in the off-Broadway social drama {+The Indian Wants the Bronx}, earning an Obie Award as Best Actor for the 1967-1968 theatrical season. A year later, he made his Broadway debut in {+Does the Tiger Wear a Necktie?} Although the play itself closed after less than 40 performances, Pacino was universally praised for his potent portrayal of a sociopathic drug addict, and he won a Tony Award for his performance. Pacino made his film debut in the 1969 flop Me, Natalie. After making his theatrical directorial debut with 1970's {+Rats}, he returned to the screen a year later in Panic in Needle Park, again appearing as a junkie. (To prepare for the role, he and co-star Kitty Winn conducted extensive research in known drug-dealer haunts as well as methadone clinics.) While the picture was not a success, Pacino again earned critical raves. Next came Francis Ford Coppola's 1972 Mafia epic The Godfather. As Michael Corleone, the son of an infamous crime lord reluctantly thrust into the family business, Pacino shot to stardom, earning a Best Supporting Actor Oscar nomination for his soulful performance. While the follow-up, 1973's Scarecrow, was received far less warmly, the police drama Serpico was a smash, as was 1974's The Godfather Part II for which he earned his third Academy Award nomination. The 1975 fact-based Dog Day Afternoon, in which Pacino starred as a robber attempting to stick up a bank in order to finance his gay lover's sex-change operation, was yet another staggering success.The 1977 auto-racing drama Bobby Deerfield, on the other hand, was a disaster. Pacino then retreated to Broadway, winning a second Tony for his performance in the title role in {+The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel}. Upon returning to Hollywood, he starred in ...And Justice for All, which did not appease reviewers but restored him to moviegoers' good graces. Pacino next starred in William Friedkin's controversial Cruising, portraying a New York City cop on the trail of a serial killer targeting homosexuals; it was not a hit, nor was the 1982 comedy Author! Author! Brian DePalma's violent 1983 remake of Scarface followed; while moderately successful during its initial release, the movie later became a major cult favorite. Still, its lukewarm initial reception further tarnished Pacino's star. However, no one was fully prepared for the fate which befell 1985's historical epic Revolution; made for over $28 million, the film failed to gross even $1 million dollars at the box office. Pacino subsequently vanished from the public eye, directing his own film, The Local Stigmatic, which outside of a handful of 1990 showings at the Museum of Modern Art was never screened publicly. While his name was attached to a number of projects during this time period, none came to fruition, and he disappeared from cinema for over four years. Finally, in 1989, Pacino returned with the stylish thriller Sea of Love; the picture was a hit, and suddenly he was a star all over again. A virtually unrecognizable turn as a garish gangster in 1990's Dick Tracy earned him a sixth Oscar nomination, but The Godfather Part III was not the financial blockbuster many anticipated it to be. The 1991 romantic comedy Frankie and Johnny was a success, however, and a year later Pacino starred in the highly regarded Glengarry Glen Ross as well as Scent of a Woman, at last earning an Oscar for his performance in the latter film. He reunited with DePalma for 1993's stylish crime drama Carlito's Way, to which he'd first been slated to star in several years prior. Remaining in the underworld, he starred as a cop opposite master thief Robert De Niro in 1995's superb Heat, written and directed by Michael Mann. Pacino next starred in the 1996 political drama City Hall, but earned more notice that year for writing, directing, producing, and starring in Looking for Richard, a documentary exploration of Shakespeare's {+Richard III} shot with an all-star cast. In 1997, he appeared with two of Hollywood's most notable young stars, first shooting Donnie Brasco opposite Johnny Depp, and then acting alongside Keanu Reeves in The Devil's Advocate. Following roles in The Insider and Any Given Sunday two-years later, Pacino would appear in the film version of the stage play Chinese Coffee (2000) before a two-year periods in which the actor was curiously absent from the screen. Any speculation on the workhorse actor's slowing down ended when in 2002 Pacino returned with the quadruple-threat of Insomnia, Simone, People I Know and The Recruit. With roles ranging from that of a troubled detective investigating a murder in the land of the midnight sun, to a film producer who builds the worlds first virtual actress, Pacino reenforced his image as a versatile, energetic and adventurous an actor. The films struck uneven chords, however; Insomnia hit a zenith, critically and commercially, while Pacino scraped bottom with Simone. Pacino fared better at the box and in the press with Michael Radford's December 2004 Merchant of Venice but dodged critical bullets with the D.J. Caruso-helmed 2005 gambling drama Two for the Money. Circa 2006, Pacino starred as Jack Gramm in 88 Minutes, the gripping tale of a college prof who moonlights as a forensics expert for the feds. He also announced plans, that year, to join the cast of Steven Soderbergh's Ocean's Thirteen and a remake of Jules Dassin's seminal Rififi, to reunite him with City Hall helmer Harold Becker. 
Institution - Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Performing Arts			Location - New York, NY												
Institution - Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Performing Arts			Location - New York , New York												
© 2010 All Media Guide, LLC Portions of content provided by All Movie Guide ®, a trademark of All Media Guide, LLC
=======================================================
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold; text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; } 
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline; }
div#rightcolhidden { clear:right;}div#center1, div#centercol, div#centerrightspancol { overflow: hidden; }
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; } 
.amabot_right .amabot_widget { padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px; padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px; border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4; border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4; border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4; border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; } 
.amabot_left .amabot_widget { padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px; border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4; border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4; border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial, sans-serif; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; } 
.tigerbox { padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4; border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; } 
.hr-leftbrowse { border-top-width: 1px;	border-right-width: 1px;	border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dashed; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; margin-top: 10px; margin-right: 5px; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 5px; } 
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold;}
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; } 
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_Center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; } 
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; } 
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; } 
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; } 
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; } 
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border:1px solid #C9E1F4; padding:8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.left_nav { font-family: Arial, sans-serif; font-size:100%; margin:0; line-height:1.05em; width:100%; border:1px solid #C9E1F4; padding-bottom:10px; } 
div.left_nav h2 { margin:0 0 0 0; color:#000000; font-weight:bold; line-height:1.25em; font-size:100%; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding: 3px 6px; background-color:#EAF3FE; } 
div.left_nav h3 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0.5em 0 0.4em 0.5em; color:#E47911; font-weight:bold; line-height:1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; } 
div.left_nav hr { margin:1em 0.5em; border-top:0; border-left:0; border-right:0; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.left_nav a:link, div.left_nav a:visited { color:#003399; text-decoration:none; font-family:Arial, sans-serif; } 
div.left_nav p.seeMore { padding-left:0.9em; text-indent:-0.9em; margin-top:0.35em; margin-bottom:1em; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    BODY { background-color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; }
    .tinyprice { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color: #990000; font-size: x-small; } 
    .highlight { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color: #990000; font-size: small; } 
  #priceBlock, #priceBlock table td, #primaryUsedAndNew, #primaryClubPrice, #secondaryUsedAndNew, #secondaryClubPrice, #adultWarning, #violenceWarning { font-size: small; }
  table.offersAndRebates th { font-size: small; font-weight: bold; text-align: right; padding-left: 8px; }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-body .wl-pop-left { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_left._V232086925_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-body .wl-pop-right { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_right._V232086925_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-header .wl-pop-left { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_topleft._V232086925_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-header .wl-pop-right { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_topright._V232086925_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-header .wl-pop-middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_top._V232086927_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-footer .wl-pop-left { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_bottomleft._V232086925_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-footer .wl-pop-right { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_bottomright._V232086924_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-footer .wl-pop-middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_bottom._V156433860_.png); }
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite_buybox_drop_sides._V234864356_.png);
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite_wladd_drop_corners._V156421607_.png);
div.nvff_highlight   { font-size:0.9em; margin-top:8px; margin-bottom:10px; padding:7px; border:1px solid #DDDAC0; background:#FFFFDD; }
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprite/wl_bb_sprite_box._V152890262_.png);
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprite/wl_bb_sprite_box._V152890262_.png);
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprite/wl_bb_sprite_box._V152890262_.png);
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprite/wl_bb_sprite_box._V152890262_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite_box_bb._V156421490_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite_box_bb._V156421490_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite_box_bb._V156421490_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite_box_bb._V156421490_.png);
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/down-arrow-shadow-v2-buybox._V134456205_.png) center top no-repeat;
  _background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/down-arrow-v2-buybox._V134458798_.png);
  background-image:url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite-cbox._V152889588_.png); 
     background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/btn_add-to-cart._V149608925_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_gb/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_gb/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_gb/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339352782_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192252891_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192252891_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite.png);
.prime-pBoxBL, .prime-pBoxBR { position:absolute; width:10px; height:10px; z-index:1; bottom:-1px; background-image:url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/x-locale/common/sprite-all-corners._V192561933_.gif); background-repeat:no-repeat; }
    background-image:url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kitchen/scheduled-delivery/sd_bkgd_sprite2._V156428020_.png');
    background-image:url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kitchen/scheduled-delivery/sd_bkgd_sprite2._V156428020_.png'); 
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V388868132_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kindle/rentals/rent-book-promo-image._V152239283_.png');
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kindle/gifting/box-top-left.jpg");
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kindle/gifting/box-top-right.jpg");
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kindle/gifting/box-bottom-left.jpg");
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/kindle/gifting/box-bottom-right.jpg");
    #main-image-widget .thumbs .video-alt div { font-size: 10px; border: 1px solid #CCC; border-top: none; }
    #main-image-unavailable .wrapper.not-buyable { border:1px solid #AA0000; height:83px; _height:84px;}
    #main-image-widget .holder.video.hide { top: 0; left: -1px; width: 1px !important; height: 1px !important; }
    #main-image-widget.noflash #main-image{ opacity:0.4; -moz-opacity:0.4; filter:alpha(opacity=40); }
    #recommendations h2 { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size:13px; font-weight: bold; color: #C60; }
    #recommendations li .item { text-align:left; margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;position:relative;padding-right: 10px;}
    #recommendations .item .title { font-family:arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size:11px; }
    background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #fee6b0), color-stop(100%, #eeba37));
    filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#fee6b0', endColorstr='#eeba37',GradientType=0);
    background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #fede97), color-stop(100%, #ecb21f));
    filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#fede97', endColorstr='#ecb21f',GradientType=0);
    background:url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V146303782_.png) no-repeat;
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192237547_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192197121_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V188036086_.gif');
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V211514269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V211514269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V211514269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V211514269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
    background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V211514269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192196091_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V369777521_.png);
.SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:link, #A9AdsMiddleBoxTop .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:link, #SponsoredLinksCustomerMediaPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:link, #SponsoredLinksTagPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:link {
.SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:hover,  #A9AdsMiddleBoxTop .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:hover, #SponsoredLinksCustomerMediaPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:hover, #SponsoredLinksTagPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:hover {
.SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:visited, #A9AdsMiddleBoxTop .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:visited, #SponsoredLinksCustomerMediaPage .SponsoredLinkDescritionUrlLink:visited, #SponsoredLinksTagPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:visited {
div.mp3Enabled a.mp3Asin { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; height: 20px; width: 20px; cursor: pointer; margin: 0; vertical-align: middle; overflow: hidden;
		background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/zeitgeist/mp3player/sprites._V192561915_.gif') repeat-x scroll 0 0; }
.mp3DurationPopover { border: 1px solid black; background-color: #FFFFE1; font-size: 0.8em; padding: 1px 5px 1px 5px; text-align: center}
All DepartmentsAmazon Instant VideoApps for AndroidBabyBeautyBooksCar & MotorbikeClassicalClothingComputers & AccessoriesDIY & ToolsDVD & Blu-rayElectronics & PhotoGarden & OutdoorsGift CardsGroceryHealth & Personal CareJewelleryKindle StoreKitchen & HomeLarge AppliancesLightingLOVEFiLM by PostLuggageMP3 MusicMusicMusical Instruments & DJPC & Video GamesPet SuppliesShoes & BagsSoftwareSports & OutdoorsStationery & Office SuppliesToys & GamesVHSWatches
BooksAdvanced SearchBrowse GenresBest SellersNew & Future ReleasesPaperbacksSeasonal OffersStudy BooksAudiobooksSell Your Books 
Important: Your credit card will NOT be charged when you start your free trial or if you cancel during the trial period. If you're happy with Amazon Prime, do nothing. At the end of the free trial, your membership will automatically upgrade to a full year for £79.
Comment: Used Good condition book may have signs of cover wear and/or marks on corners and page edges.  Inside pages may have highlighting, writing and underlining. All purchases eligible for Amazon customer service and a 30-day return policy.
o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o
 Did you know you can use your mobile to trade in your unwanted books for an Amazon.co.uk Gift Card to spend on the things you want? Visit the Books Trade-In Store for more details or check out the          Trade-In Amazon Mobile App Guidelines on how to trade in using a smartphone. Learn more. 
Not only is Al Pacino known as 'one of the greatest actors in all of film history', he is also considered 'one of Hollywood's most notorious bachelors' (imdb.com) as well as being one of the most enigmatic and private celebrities in the world. For the first time, AL PACINO offers a deeply personal and revealing window into everything from his growing up in the South Bronx, where he shared three rooms with nine people, to his fabled studies with Charles Laughton and Lee Strasberg, his father's absence, his mother's early death, and how he bounced through a series of odd jobs until his first paid role at the age of 26. He reveals his childhood dream of becoming a professional baseball player, describes his first drink at 13, and admits his once ate Valium like popcorn at the Academy Awards. Though he has been involved with women like Diane Keaton and Beverly D'Angelo, the mother of his three children, he has never married and here reveals why, and how his feelings have changed. Through it all, he has delivered some of the most seminal performances in film and theatre history and worked with most of its biggest stars. He was nominated for seven Academy Awards before winning Best Actor Oscar for Scent of a Woman. AL PACINO is an intensely personal look at a creative genius at the peak of his powers who, after all these years, still longs to learn more about his art. And for now, it's a close to a memoir as we are likely to get.
Not only is Al Pacino known as 'one of the greatest actors in all of film history', he is also considered 'one of Hollywood's most notorious bachelors' (imdb.com) as well as being one of the most enigmatic and private celebrities in the world. For the first time, AL PACINO offers a deeply personal and revealing window into everything from his growing up in the South Bronx, where he shared three rooms with nine people, to his fabled studies with Charles Laughton and Lee Strasberg, his father's absence, his mother's early death, and how he bounced through a series of odd jobs until his first paid role at the age of 26. He reveals his childhood dream of becoming a professional baseball player, describes his first drink at 13, and admits his once ate Valium like popcorn at the Academy Awards. Though he has been involved with women like Diane Keaton and Beverly D'Angelo, the mother of his three children, he has never married and here reveals why, and how his feelings have changed. Through it all, he has delivered some of the most seminal performances in film and theatre history and worked with most of its biggest stars. He was nominated for seven Academy Awards before winning Best Actor Oscar for Scent of a Woman. AL PACINO is an intensely personal look at a creative genius at the peak of his powers who, after all these years, still longs to learn more about his art. And for now, it's a close to a memoir as we are likely to get.
{"currencyCode":"GBP","itemData":[{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":7.99,"ASIN":"1416522875","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":6.1,"ASIN":"0006532306","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":7.97,"ASIN":"0753509997","isPreorder":0}],"shippingId":"1416522875::Q6tM3D42Wp4gfC5PXmyX%2FfoILP%2FJX1Yo7SQaG0rrdz7UfcNFPOPf72wq9SE8bnYQaR%2BvGT0qcEUJyKG0qJPMeDglqtxXVB1Z,0006532306::r21cIX54cV29lkDBxhVQfhCo%2BCu6lzXHX44ZOYd2tNnAK9KeS3AcVAJbG%2BKEJ7vjjO1sfkiu6mQGIodXDWWo2V97YeU1ZbUz,0753509997::hPelNvPeOXSHWWhh%2FbSyqSfrsgMzOL0JJTx3MNgM8r6H8KHsJ3aXjAOmxCzm4VDYEj0IitSwKBvygWsEnImn8yjeSeyZI8b8","sprites":{"addToWishlist":["wl_one","wl_two","wl_three"],"addToCart":["s_addToCart","s_addBothToCart","s_add3ToCart"],"preorder":["s_preorderThis","s_preorderBoth","s_preorderAll3"]},"shippingDetails":{"xz":"same","yz":"same","xy":"same","xyz":"same"},"tags":["x","y","z"],"strings":{"addToWishlist":[null,null,null],"addToCart":["Add to Basket","Add both to Basket","Add all three to Basket"],"showDetailsDefault":"Show availability and delivery details","shippingError":"An error occurred, please try again","hideDetailsDefault":"Hide availability and delivery details","priceLabel":["Price:","Price For Both:","Price For All Three:"],"preorder":["Pre-order this item","Pre-order both items","Pre-order all three items"]}}
0006532306,B0042D83OG,0753509997,1560254696,B0001NIXYQ,B00004CX8B,B0006OR0YY,B00005UPNU,B00005UPNR,B000FTJ6S8,B0006OR0Y4,184454639X,B00004WCM4,0007360703,B007AJGI1O,B005BRSGPS,1843583534,B0078Q3OY8,B00004U8NG,B00DY1V29A,3836508567,B009HVCQYG,B00004D37I,0747544212,B0000AE7CJ,1743335105,B00006AGHA,1845135873,B00006AGHD,0307888371,1844545466,B00004CZQV,B000053W4O,B0001IMCRK,1847398987,B00GWJSZX2,B0015N2VXK,B00004D35X,B0002W1AKU,1493729993,B00FRDYQBE,B00000JP1J,000274080X,B005JS1M6O,B00075HULA,B0001P1B2K,0099528126,B000KCIBNQ,1857826051,0140239243,B00004D00J,0553819488,1847377521,0316818704,1848420056
       Lawrence Grobel has written for Rolling Stone, New York Times and many others. His previous books include THE ART OF THE INTERVIEW, CONVERSATIONS WITH BRANDO and CONVERSATIONS WITH CAPOTE.
Al Pacino - And Justice For All/Scent Of A Woman/Carlito's Way/Sea Of Love/Scarface/Two For The Money  
  Having avoided any previous book on Pacino - I was intrigued that this was the first one to have his full authorization. Notoriously press shy and as much an enigma as many of the varied characters he has immortalised on screen - this book is something of a gem. The writer - a long time friend and collaborator of Al - is candid and interested in the introduction which serves as a simple but definitive biography of the man's life and more deeply his career. After that the bulk of the book becomes more an 'in conversation with...' style as nearly 30 years of recorded interviews between the writer and subject are edited as themed conversations. For many this may not appeal, but as someone who likes the style it makes an incredibly easy and enjoyable read - very often showcasing a verbal wit and sardonic side to Pacino that escapes even his wittiest screen personas. As an avid admirer of Pacino the actor from stage to screen, I may be biased, but this 'authorized' biography offers a simple, interested, challenged and detailed look at the man behind Corleone. Recommended.
  Having followed Al Pacino's career so far, I was intrigued by the fact that he had given his authorisation to this book. I have read many books on Al Pacino, he is after all a very talented artistical styled actor, but not many went into real depth on the man, on his achievements, success's, failures. Until I read this book that is.  For the most part he bulk of the book becomes  more conversational including many years of recorded interviews between the writer and Al. This may not be appealing to many. Usually I don't enjoy parts like these either but as an avid Al Pacino enthusiast, I saw through this and became quite interested in what he had to say. None the less, this biography is very enjoyable, simple, that will have you reading for hours. Who wouldn't want to learn about this man, after all, he paved the way for some of the great actors you see today. Highly Reccommended
  I just finished reading this book, and I loved it! I'm so glad that Al Pacino allowed this book to go ahead.  It was a revelation to me to find out how thoughtful, intuitive and smart this really fabulous actor is.  Because the book is made up mostly of his words, you get a real sense of his personality.  And how wonderful to read what HE actually thought of Michael Corleone, Tony Montana, Frank Serpico. If you want an insight into one of the major influences on film in the last 30 years, read this book.
  The first 20 pages told you everything you could want to know.  The remainder of the interview was 'one to one' question and answer. It was like the interviewer had a list of questions, and not that much to do with Pacino himself but more like he was remembering different occasions. I never finished the book lost interest. Even though as a actor he's right near the top for me. The book was good value for money. The content rubbish !!!
  Larry and Al speak together like old friends in this excellent biography.It's obvious this shy and reticent person is only comfortable in someone else's skin; and only examines his career as one would an old painting by the masters - with wonderment and detachment.You should watch all of Al Pacino's films, listen to Beethoven, drink some wine; and reach for this great book while you fall asleep.
  I won't go into much detail, but basically the book is a collection of one-to-one interviews over a period of 30 years.Pacino is my favourite actor and he reveals very personal and interesting trivia about himself, opinions and inspirations on his career as well as proving he is an absolute pro, a true actor. You can see how close the author and Al have become over the years and it is very touching.Verdict: 5/5
  Extended interviews with the great man himself over a 40 year period. Incisive, entertaining, thought-provoking, eloquent, subtle, stylish, challenging, sound
  Al pacino is the best actor of his generation.He has started to take over since the godfather he got better and better and he's stage work has been a big help to him too.
  The book is more an interview with or a script of a radio or tv show - so the style can be disconcerting rather than revealing and energetic.
  I have read many biographies over the years inc. sports personalities, Film and TV personalities etc. This is by far the worst one I have read. Read more
  Terrible reading material. It's is only for Pacino to read .It's a shallow conversation between one or two " Newyonkers , sorry I mean New Yorkers"......
  An honest biography. Al Pacino is also very respectful of any woman he has ever dated in his life. He gives you a little piece of information, but never too much. Read more
Amazon Instant VideoAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
MP3s & Cloud PlayerMP3 Music StoreShop 30 million songsCloud Player for WebPlay from any browserCloud Player for AndroidFor Android phones, and tabletsCloud Player for iOSFor iPhone, iPad and iPod touch
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageGet the Desktop AppFor Windows and MacCloud Drive Photos for AndroidFor Android phones and tabletsCloud Drive Photos for iPhoneFor iPhone and iPod touchLearn More About Cloud Drive
Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe ultimate device for readingKindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle device owners read for freeKindle Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Kindle
Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HDAn HD tablet at a breakthrough priceKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Astonishingly light, large HDX displayKindle Fire HDX 4G LTE Tablets
Kindle Fire HDX 4G LTE7" HDX display with ultra-fast 4G LTE technologyKindle Fire HDX 8.9" 4G LTELarge HDX display with ultra-fast 4G LTE technologyKindle AccessoriesCovers, chargers, stylus, audio and more
Appstore for AndroidAppstoreGamesAmazon AppsKindle, mobile shopping, MP3, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
Digital Games & SoftwareDigital GamesFor PC and MacFree-to-Play GamesFor PC and MacDigital SoftwareFor PC and MacYour Games & Software Library
Audible AudiobooksAudible MembershipFirst book free when you try AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreBestsellersNew ReleasesListener Favourites
Movies, TV, Music, GamesAmazon Instant VideoDVD & Blu-rayLOVEFiLM By PostMusicMP3 DownloadsMusical Instruments & DJPC & Video GamesTrade In Your Games & Consoles
ElectronicsCamera & PhotoTV & Home CinemaAudio & HiFiSat Nav & Car ElectronicsPhonesElectronics AccessoriesPC & Video GamesAll Electronics
Computers & OfficeLaptopsTabletsComputer AccessoriesComputer ComponentsSoftwarePrinters & InkAll Computers & AccessoriesStationery & Office Supplies
Home & GardenGarden & OutdoorsHomeware & FurnitureKitchen & DiningKitchen & Home AppliancesLarge AppliancesLightingAll Home & Garden
Toys, Children & BabyToys & GamesBabyBaby Wish ListAmazon Family20% off nappies, delivery benefits and more
Sports & OutdoorsFitnessCamping & HikingCyclingAthletic & Outdoor ClothingWinter SportsGolfWater SportsAll Sports & Outdoors
Health & BeautyAll BeautyLuxury BeautyHealth & Personal CareMen's GroomingGroceryGroceryBeer, Wine & SpiritsSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free delivery and more
Car & MotorbikeCar Accessories & PartsTools & EquipmentSat Nav & Car ElectronicsMotorbike Accessories & Parts
Amazon Instant VideoMP3s & Cloud Player30 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageKindleAppstore for AndroidGet a paid app for free every dayDigital Games & SoftwareAudible AudiobooksBooksMovies, TV, Music, GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden, Pets & DIYToys, Children & BabyClothes, Shoes & JewellerySports & OutdoorsBeauty, Health & GroceryCar & Motorbike›Full Shop Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your KindleYour Cloud PlayerPlay from any browserYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Rental ListYour Games and Software LibraryYour Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish ListWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding ListBaby Wish List
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/02/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V370545378_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityMake Money with UsSell on AmazonAssociates ProgrammeFulfilment by AmazonAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment MethodsAmazon Money StoreGift CardsAmazon Currency ConverterPayment Methods HelpLet Us Help YouTrack Packages or View OrdersDelivery Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns Are EasyManage Your KindleHelp
Conditions of Use & SalePrivacy NoticeCookies & Internet Advertising© 1996-2014, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates
=======================================================
(born April 25, 1940, New York, N.Y., U.S.) U.S. actor. He began his career as a stage actor, winning Tony Awards for Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie? (1969) and later for The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel (1977). He played Michael Corleone in The Godfather (1972) and its sequels (1974, 1990). Known for his intense, explosive acting style, he also starred in Serpico (1973), Dog Day Afternoon (1975), And Justice for All (1979), Scarface (1983), Scent of a Woman (1992, Academy Award), The Insider (1999), and Insomnia (2002).
Pacino, Al (b. 1940), actor. The brooding, dynamic movie star who specializes in playing antiheroes began in the New York theatre and has returned much more often than most film stars of his stature. A native New Yorker, he briefly attended the High School of the Performing Arts before studying at the Herbert Berghof Studio and at the Actors Studio, then made a provocative debut Off Broadway in 1968 as the drunk prankster Murph in The Indian Wants the Bronx. He was further praised the next year for his Broadway performance as the drug addict Bickham in Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie? (1969). Pacino's film career began in 1971, but he managed to find time for such riveting stage performances as the boxing champ Kilroy in Camino Real (1970); the gullible, doomed recruit Hummel in The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel (1977); a fierce  Richard III (1979); the small‐time crook Walter Cole with a big‐time ego in  American Buffalo (1981); the talkative salesman Erie Smith in Hughie (1996); and the Hitler‐like gangster Arturo Ui in The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui (2002).
Al Pacino (born 1940) has been called one of the best actors in film history. He established himself as a Hollywood icon when he burst onto the scene in "The Godfather" and followed that critically acclaimed performance with eight Academy Award nominations and more than 20 movies over 30 years. Through it all, Pacino stayed grounded in his first love: theater. But despite three decades of fame and success, the man behind the actor, who cherished his privacy, remained something of a mystery.The Young ActorPacino was born April 25, 1940, in New York City to Salvatore and Rose Pacino. Pacino's father left the family when Al was a baby and although Pacino visited his father in East Harlem, he was raised by his mother and maternal grandparents in a bilingual Italian American three-room household. Rose Pacino was ill throughout his childhood, as well as mentally troubled and poor, and died of a heart attack when Pacino was 22. He was under strict rule at home but had a happy, sheltered childhood. He was bored and unmotivated in school. He found his place in school plays and dreamed of a career in acting.Pacino's first acting lessons were at the Dover Theater, where he would go with his mother or grandmother to watch movies. After imitating the action on the screen for his grandmother, he was often asked to do the "looking for the bottle scene" from The Lost Weekend. Pacino found he could get positive attention with his acting antics. He won admission into Manhattan's prestigious High School of the Performing Arts but dropped out at age 17. As a teenager, Pacino took acting lessons from Charlie Laughton, who became a friend. Pacino held odd jobs to support the family.BroadwayPacino moved to Greenwich Village and started to audition. Once on the theater scene, Pacino entered a period of depression and poverty. There were days when he could not afford bus fare or even lunch. He lived for awhile off the pay of his soap-opera-actor girlfriend and future movie star, Jill Clayburgh. He found work where he could, in a coffeehouse, a workshop, a mailroom, a theater, and elsewhere.Finally, in 1966, he entered the prestigious Actors Studio and studied under Lee Strasberg, known for his Method Approach to acting. In 1967, Pacino won an Obie for his performance in The Indian Wants the Bronx, an off-Broadway, one-act play that ran for 204 performances. In 1969, he won the Antoinette Perry (Tony) Award for the Broadway play Does the Tiger Wear a Necktie? The play had only a brief run, but Pacino's work in Tiger got him noticed by film director Dominick Dunne.Hit It Big with GodfatherIn 1969 Pacino debuted on screen in Me, Natalie. But he felt awkward away from the stage and had such a bad experience that he did not return to film for a couple of years. He said to Jimmy Breslin of Esquire, "I was used to working on a tightrope onstage. A movie is just a line painted on the floor." In 1971 he played a junkie in Panic in Needle Park, directed by Dunne.In the early 1970s, such actors as Robert Redford, Warren Beatty, Jack Nicholson, and Robert De Niro sought the role of Michael Corleone in Francis Ford Coppola's The Godfather. But Coppola wanted Pacino, who had given solid performances in Panic in Needle Park and on Broadway. After a series of disastrous screen tests, no one - from the producers to fellow actors - wanted Pacino in the film, except for Coppola. Coppola stuck to his guns, and Pacino earned his first Academy Award nomination.Pacino decided not to ride a wave of Hollywood success into lightweight blockbusters. Instead, he took a series of difficult, important film roles that highlighted his genuine acting abilities. 1973's Serpico was a crime drama spotlighting the mental struggles of a New York cop. Pacino was nominated for an Oscar for Serpico and for his portrayal of Michael Corleone in The Godfather II in 1974. In 1975, Pacino was nominated for an Oscar for his role in Dog Day Afternoon, the story of a man trying to get money for his gay lover's sex change operation by holding up a bank and taking hostages. In 1977, Bobby Deerfield foreshadowed a downturn in his career, but Pacino received another Oscar nomination for best actor for the hard-hitting legal drama … And Justice for All.A Decade Without a BlockbusterPacino's career turned south with the controversial Cruising, a look at the gay netherworld, in 1980, and Author! Author! in 1982. 1983's Scarface met with some criticism, partially for Pacino's Cuban accent and incessant cursing, but it would later become a cult classic.Revolution - an epic war movie on the Revolutionary War released in 1985 - has been called by some critics the worst film of all time. Pacino was in the starring role. Revolution had a cursed shoot full of rewrites, Pacino became sick with pneumonia, and upon release the film was savagely attacked by critics. They were Pacino's first truly awful reviews, and he was criticized again for his accent. He stayed out of Hollywood for the next several years.Caught the Limelight AgainPacino's return to Hollywood came in the film Sea of Love in 1989, an erotic-romantic film that cast him as a hard-drinking cop. In 1990, Pacino reprised his role of Michael Corleone in The Godfather: Part III, earning praise for his acting amid mixed reviews for the film. Dick Tracy was also released in 1990, and Pacino got rave reviews for his comedic spoof on a gangster, a type of character he usually played seriously. He was nominated for another Oscar for best supporting actor for Dick Tracy.Pacino teamed up with Michelle Pfieffer for a romantic role in Frankie and Johnny in 1991. Two years later, Pacino was nominated for Oscars for two roles: a shark-like real estate agent in Glengary Glen Ross and a bitter, blind former army colonel in Scent of a Woman. Pacino was awarded a best actor Oscar for Scent of a Woman. In subsequent years, Pacino turned out many films that were box-office successes. Between 1993 and 2003, Pacino appeared in such hits as Carlito's Way, Heat, City Hall, Donnie Brasco, Devil's Advocate, The Insider, Any Given Sunday, Insomnia, and The Recruit. As of 2002, his average salary was $10 million a picture.Theatre Always His First LoveEven as Pacino's star was rising in Hollywood, he continued to act in the theater. In 1970 he appeared in Camino Real, and in 1972 he began playing the lead in The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel in Boston. That story of a Vietnam War recruit began a stint in New York in 1977, with Pacino in the lead, and he won his second Tony.During his self-imposed exile from film in the 1980s, Pacino immersed himself in theater. According to Breslin, "He stepped back and went to where he always felt at home - three flights up in a drafty place where they can put down enough chairs to call it a theater." He performed in Julius Caesar and gave readings at colleges and small theaters. He directed The Local Stigmatic and filmed it starring himself. It remains unreleased to the public. Stigmatic is a movie adaptation of a Heathcote Williams play that Pacino performed during his early days on the stage in 1968. In the 1990s, Pacino produced, directed, and starred in Looking for Richard, a marriage of theater (William Shakespeare's Richard III ) and film documentary that Pacino devoted himself and his money to for over four years. More than one reporter noted that while Pacino remained characteristically tight-lipped about most of his movies and his private life, he would enthusiastically talk about Looking for Richard.Pacino often turned down potential hit movies to do theater, he took long breaks between films, and he was constantly involved in independent ventures. Breslin points out, "There is no other recorded case like this in the history of American movie stars. Sure, some big movie actor or actress will occasionally find a spare week or two to throw at Shakespeare… . But no movie star has ever created his own work of artistic obsession, let alone two of them. Only this guy." In 2000, he became involved in the Actors Studio in New York's Oedipus Rex. In 2002, Pacino was off-Broadway with The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui and in Oscar Wilde's Salome opposite Marissa Tomei.The Personal PacinoPacino was an enduring bachelor, one of the few Hollywood men never to marry despite romances with Diane Keaton and other high-profile actresses. Despite his aversion to matrimony, Pacino had a daughter, Julie Marie, by acting teacher Jan Tarrant, and a set of twins-Anton and Olivia-with long-time girlfriend Beverly D'Angelo. Breslin wrote, "Pacino is famous mostly because of his extreme, unique, and undeniable talents as an actor and movie star during the past twenty-five of his fifty-five years. But he is also well-known for being hard to figure… . He is reluctant to talk to reporters, for example." Pacino has never been comfortable with fame.When he attained fame in his early 30s, he was un-equipped to handle it. He started drinking heavily and became reclusive and unstable. But his friends convinced him to join Alcoholics Anonymous, and in two years he quit both drinking and smoking.Pacino is a living legend. He "can play small as rivetingly as he can play big… . he can implode as well as explode," according to Jeff Giles in Newsweek. Pacino told Bronwen Hruska of Entertainment Weekly, "For me it's always been the character - 'the play's the thing' - not my personality. When one overshadows the other, you become more a celebrity than an actor. I hope the perception is that I'm an act."BooksAmerican Decades, Gale Research, 1998.Complete Marquis Who's Who, Marquis Who's Who, 2001.Contemporary Theatre, Film and Television, Volume 23, Gale Group, 1999.International Dictionary of Films and Filmmakers, Volume 3: Actors and Actresses, St. James Press, 1996.Newsmakers 1993, Issue 4, Gale Research, 1993.St. James Encyclopedia of Popular Culture, St. James Press, 2000.PeriodicalsDaily Variety, October 30, 2002; January 8, 2003.Entertainment Weekly, November 12, 1993.Esquire, February 1996.Newsweek, June 3, 2002.Rolling Stone, February 2, 1984.US Weekly, January 29, 2001.Online"Pacino's Biography," http://www.fortunecity.com/lavender/exorcist/665/biography.htm. (February 10, 2003). 
Brooding and intense, Al Pacino has remained one of Hollywood's premier actors throughout his lengthy career, a popular and critical favorite whose list of credits includes many of the finest films of his era. Pacino was born April 25, 1940, in East Harlem, NY. Raised in the Bronx, he attended the legendary High School for Performing Arts, but dropped out at the age of 17. He spent the next several years drifting from job to job, continuing to study acting and occasionally appearing in off-off-Broadway productions. In 1966, Pacino was accepted to train at the Actors' Studio, and after working with James Earl Jones in The Peace Creeps, he starred as a brutal street youth in the off-Broadway social drama The Indian Wants the Bronx, earning an Obie Award as Best Actor for the 1967-1968 theatrical season. A year later, he made his Broadway debut in Does the Tiger Wear a Necktie? Although the play itself closed after less than 40 performances, Pacino was universally praised for his potent portrayal of a sociopathic drug addict, and he won a Tony Award for his performance. 
Pacino made his film debut in the 1969 flop Me, Natalie. After making his theatrical directorial debut with 1970's Rats, he returned to the screen a year later in Panic in Needle Park, again appearing as a junkie. (To prepare for the role, he and co-star Kitty Winn conducted extensive research in known drug-dealer haunts as well as methadone clinics.) While the picture was not a success, Pacino again earned critical raves. Next came Francis Ford Coppola's 1972 Mafia epic The Godfather. As Michael Corleone, the son of an infamous crime lord reluctantly thrust into the family business, Pacino shot to stardom, earning a Best Supporting Actor Oscar nomination for his soulful performance. While the follow-up, 1973's Scarecrow, was received far less warmly, the police drama Serpico was a smash, as was 1974's The Godfather Part II for which he earned his third Academy Award nomination. The 1975 fact-based Dog Day Afternoon, in which Pacino starred as a robber attempting to stick up a bank in order to finance his gay lover's sex-change operation, was yet another staggering success.
The 1977 auto-racing drama Bobby Deerfield, on the other hand, was a disaster. Pacino then retreated to Broadway, winning a second Tony for his performance in the title role in The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel. Upon returning to Hollywood, he starred in ...And Justice for All, which did not appease reviewers but restored him to moviegoers' good graces. Pacino next starred in William Friedkin's controversial Cruising, portraying a New York City cop on the trail of a serial killer targeting homosexuals; it was not a hit, nor was the 1982 comedy Author! Author! Brian DePalma's violent 1983 remake of Scarface followed; while moderately successful during its initial release, the movie later became a major cult favorite. Still, its lukewarm initial reception further tarnished Pacino's star. However, no one was fully prepared for the fate which befell 1985's historical epic Revolution; made for over $28 million, the film failed to gross even $1 million dollars at the box office. Pacino subsequently vanished from the public eye, directing his own film, The Local Stigmatic, which outside of a handful of 1990 showings at the Museum of Modern Art was never screened publicly. While his name was attached to a number of projects during this time period, none came to fruition, and he disappeared from cinema for over four years. 
Finally, in 1989, Pacino returned with the stylish thriller Sea of Love; the picture was a hit, and suddenly he was a star all over again. A virtually unrecognizable turn as a garish gangster in 1990's Dick Tracy earned him a sixth Oscar nomination, but The Godfather Part III was not the financial blockbuster many anticipated it to be. The 1991 romantic comedy Frankie and Johnny was a success, however, and a year later Pacino starred in the highly regarded Glengarry Glen Ross as well as Scent of a Woman, at last earning an Oscar for his performance in the latter film. He reunited with DePalma for 1993's stylish crime drama Carlito's Way, to which he'd first been slated to star in several years prior. Remaining in the underworld, he starred as a cop opposite master thief Robert De Niro in 1995's superb Heat, written and directed by Michael Mann. Pacino next starred in the 1996 political drama City Hall, but earned more notice that year for writing, directing, producing, and starring in Looking for Richard, a documentary exploration of Shakespeare's Richard III shot with an all-star cast. In 1997, he appeared with two of Hollywood's most notable young stars, first shooting Donnie Brasco opposite Johnny Depp, and then acting alongside Keanu Reeves in The Devil's Advocate. Following roles in The Insider and Any Given Sunday two-years later, Pacino would appear in the film version of the stage play Chinese Coffee (2000) before a two-year periods in which the actor was curiously absent from the screen. 
Any speculation on the workhorse actor's slowing down ended when in 2002 Pacino returned with the quadruple-threat of Insomnia, Simone, People I Know and The Recruit. With roles ranging from that of a troubled detective investigating a murder in the land of the midnight sun, to a film producer who builds the worlds first virtual actress, Pacino reenforced his image as a versatile, energetic and adventurous an actor. The films struck uneven chords, however; Insomnia hit a zenith, critically and commercially, while Pacino scraped bottom with Simone. 
Pacino fared better at the box and in the press with Michael Radford's December 2004 Merchant of Venice but dodged critical bullets with the D.J. Caruso-helmed 2005 gambling drama Two for the Money. Circa 2006, Pacino starred as Jack Gramm in 88 Minutes, the gripping tale of a college prof who moonlights as a forensics expert for the feds. He also announced plans, that year, to join the cast of Steven Soderbergh's Ocean's Thirteen and a remake of Jules Dassin's seminal Rififi, to reunite him with City Hall helmer Harold Becker. 
Alfredo James "Al" Pacino (/pəˈtʃiːnɵ/; born April 25, 1940) is an American film and stage actor and director. He is famous for playing mobsters, including Michael Corleone in The Godfather trilogy and Tony Montana in Scarface, though he has also appeared several times on the other side of the law—as a police officer, a detective and a lawyer. For his performance as Frank Slade in Scent of a Woman he won the Academy Award for Best Actor in 1992. He had received seven previous Oscar nominations, including one in that same year.
He made his feature film debut in the 1969 film Me, Natalie in a minor supporting role, before playing the leading role in the 1971 drama The Panic in Needle Park. Pacino made his major breakthrough when he was given the role of Michael Corleone in The Godfather in 1972, which earned him an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor. Other Oscar nominations for Best Supporting Actor were for Dick Tracy and Glengarry Glen Ross. Oscar nominations for Best Actor include The Godfather Part II, Serpico, Dog Day Afternoon, ...And Justice for All and Scent of a Woman.
In addition to a career in film, he has also enjoyed a successful career on stage, winning Tony Awards for Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie? and The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel. A longtime fan of Shakespeare, he made his directorial debut with Looking for Richard, a quasi-documentary on the play Richard III. Pacino has received numerous lifetime achievement awards, including one from the American Film Institute. He is a method actor, taught mainly by Lee Strasberg and Charles Laughton at the Actors Studio in New York.
Although he has never married, Pacino has had several relationships with actresses and has three children.
Pacino was born in East Harlem, New York City, to Italian American parents Salvatore Pacino and Rose, who divorced when he was two years old.[1] When he was two, his mother moved to a neighborhood in the Bronx near the Bronx Zoo, to live with her parents, Kate and James Gelardi, who originally came from Corleone, Sicily.[2] During his teenage years "Sonny", as he was known to his friends, aimed to become a baseball player, though he was also nicknamed "The Actor".[3] Pacino flunked nearly all of his classes except English and dropped out of school at 17. His mother disagreed with his decision; they had an argument and he left home. He worked at a string of low-paying jobs, including messenger, busboy, janitor, and postal clerk, in order to finance his acting studies.[1]
He started smoking at age nine, drinking, and casual marijuana use at age thirteen, but never took hard drugs.[4] His two closest friends died young of drug abuse at the ages of 19 and 30.[5] Growing up in the Bronx, he got into occasional fights and was something of a troublemaker at school.[6]
He acted in basement plays in New York's theatrical underground but was rejected for the Actors Studio while still a teenager.[3] Pacino then joined the Herbert Berghof Studio (HB Studio), where he met teacher of acting Charlie Laughton—not the actor Charles Laughton—who became his mentor and best friend.[3] During this period, he was frequently unemployed and homeless, and sometimes had to sleep on the street, in theaters, or at friends' houses.[2][7]
In 1962, his mother died at the age of 43.[8] The following year, his grandfather, James Gelardi, one of the most influential people in his life, also died.[1]
After having spent four years at HB Studio, Pacino successfully auditioned for the Actors Studio.[3] The Actors Studio is a membership organization for professional actors, theatre directors and playwrights in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan in New York City.[9] Pacino studied "method acting"[1] under acting coach Lee Strasberg, who later appeared with Pacino in the films The Godfather Part II and in ...And Justice for All.[2]
During later interviews he spoke about Strasberg and the Studio's effect on his career. "The Actors Studio meant so much to me in my life. Lee Strasberg hasn’t been given the credit he deserves ... Next to Charlie, it sort of launched me. It really did. That was a remarkable turning point in my life. It was directly responsible for getting me to quit all those jobs and just stay acting."[10]
During another interview he added, "It was exciting to work for him [Lee Strasberg] because he was so interesting when he talked about a scene or talked about people. One would just want to hear him talk, because things he would say, you’d never heard before ... He had such a great understanding... he loved actors so much."[11]
Pacino is currently co-president, along with Ellen Burstyn and Harvey Keitel, of the Actors Studio.[9]
In 1967, Pacino spent a season at the Charles Playhouse in Boston, performing in Clifford Odets' Awake and Sing! (his first major paycheck: $125 a week); and in Jean-Claude Van Itallie's America, Hurrah, where he met actress Jill Clayburgh while working on this play. They went on to have a five-year romance and moved together back to New York City.[12]
In 1968, Pacino starred in Israel Horovitz's The Indian Wants the Bronx at the Astor Place Theater, playing Murph, a street punk. The play opened January 17, 1968, and ran for 177 performances; it was staged in a double bill with Horovitz's It's Called the Sugar Plum, starring Clayburgh. Pacino won an Obie Award for Best Actor for his role, with John Cazale winning for Best Supporting actor and Horowitz for Best New Play.[13] Martin Bregman saw the play and offered to be Pacino's manager, a partnership that became fruitful in the years to come, as Bregman encouraged Pacino to do The Godfather, Serpico and Dog Day Afternoon.[14]
Pacino and this production of The Indian Wants the Bronx traveled to Italy for a performance at the Festival dei Due Mondi in Spoleto. It was Pacino's first journey to Italy; he later recalled that "performing for an Italian audience was a marvelous experience".[12] Pacino and Clayburgh were cast in "Deadly Circle of Violence", an episode of the ABC television series N.Y.P.D., premiering November 12, 1968. Clayburgh at the time was also appearing on the soap opera Search for Tomorrow, playing the role of Grace Bolton. Her father would send the couple money each month to help.[15]
On February 25, 1969, Pacino made his Broadway debut in Don Petersen's Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie? at the Belasco Theater produced by A&P Heir Huntington Hartford. It closed after 39 performances on March 29, 1969, but Pacino received rave reviews and won the Tony Award on April 20, 1969.[12] Pacino continued performing onstage in the 1970s, winning a second Tony Award for The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel and performing the title role in Richard III.[1] In 1980s Pacino again achieved critical success on the stage while appearing in David Mamet's American Buffalo, for which Pacino was nominated for a Drama Desk Award.[1] Since 1990 Pacino's stage work has included revivals of Eugene O'Neill's Hughie, Oscar Wilde's Salome and in 2005 Lyle Kessler's Orphans.[16]
Pacino made his return to the stage in summer 2010, as Shylock in a Shakespeare in the Park production of The Merchant of Venice.[17] The acclaimed production transferred to Broadway at the Broadhurst Theatre in October, earning US$1 million at the box office in its first week.[18][19] The performance also garnered him a Tony Award nomination for Best Leading Actor in a Play.[20] On October 25, 2012, it was announced that he is all set to return to Broadway in November to star in David Mamet's classic play, Glengarry Glen Ross.[21]
Pacino found acting to be enjoyable and realized he had a gift for it while studying at The Actors Studio. However, his early work was not financially rewarding.[2] After his success on stage, Pacino made his movie debut in 1969 with a brief screen appearance in Me, Natalie, an independent film starring Patty Duke.[22] In 1970, Pacino signed with the talent agency Creative Management Associates (CMA).[12]
It was the 1971 film The Panic in Needle Park, in which he played a heroin addict, that brought Pacino to the attention of director Francis Ford Coppola, who cast him as Michael Corleone in the blockbuster Mafia film The Godfather (1972). Although several established actors—including Robert Redford, Warren Beatty, and little-known Robert De Niro—also tried out for the part, Coppola selected the relatively unknown Pacino, much to the dismay of studio executives.[2]
Pacino was even teased on the set because of his short stature. Pacino's performance earned him an Academy Award nomination, and offered a prime example of his early acting style, described by Halliwell's Film Guide as "intense" and "tightly clenched". Pacino boycotted the Academy Award ceremony, as he was insulted at being nominated for the Supporting Acting award, noting that he had more screen time than costar and Best Actor winner Marlon Brando—who was himself boycotting the awards.[23]
In 1973, he co-starred in Scarecrow, with Gene Hackman, and won the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival. That same year Pacino was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor after starring in Serpico, based on the true story of New York City policeman Frank Serpico, who went undercover to expose the corruption of fellow officers.[23] In 1974, Pacino reprised his role as Michael Corleone in the sequel The Godfather Part II, which became the first sequel to win the Best Picture Oscar; Pacino, meanwhile, was nominated for his third Oscar.[23]
Newsweek has described his performance in The Godfather Part II as "arguably cinema's greatest portrayal of the hardening of a heart".[24] In 1975, he enjoyed further success with the release of Dog Day Afternoon, based on the true story of bank robber John Wojtowicz.[2] It was directed by Sidney Lumet, who had directed him in Serpico a few years earlier, and Pacino was again nominated for Best Actor.[25]
In 1977, Pacino starred as a race-car driver in Bobby Deerfield, directed by Sydney Pollack, and received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Motion Picture Actor – Drama for his portrayal of the title role, losing out to Richard Burton, who won for Equus. His next film was the courtroom drama ...And Justice for All, which again saw Pacino lauded by critics for his wide range of acting abilities, and nominated for the Best Actor Oscar for a fourth time.[25] However he lost out that year to Dustin Hoffman in Kramer vs. Kramer—a role that Pacino had declined.[25]
During the 1970s, Pacino had four Oscar nominations for Best Actor, for his performances in Serpico, The Godfather Part II, Dog Day Afternoon, and ...And Justice for All.[2]
Pacino's career slumped in the early 1980s; his appearances in the controversial Cruising, a film which provoked protests from New York's gay community,[26] and the comedy-drama Author! Author! were critically panned.[1] However, 1983's Scarface, directed by Brian De Palma, proved to be a career highlight and a defining role.[2] Upon its initial release, the film was critically panned due to its violent content, but later received critical acclaim. [27] The film did well at the box office, grossing over US$45 million domestically.[28] Pacino earned a Golden Globe nomination for his role as Cuban drug lord Tony Montana.[29]
In 1985, Pacino worked on his personal project, The Local Stigmatic, a 1969 Off Broadway play by the English writer Heathcote Williams. He starred in the play, remounting it with director David Wheeler and the Theater Company of Boston in a 50-minute film version. The film was never released theatrically but was later released as part of the Pacino: An Actor's Vision box set in 2007.[2]
His 1985 film Revolution about a fur trapper during the American Revolutionary War, was a commercial and critical failure, which Pacino blamed on a rushed production,[30] resulting in a four-year hiatus from films. During this time Pacino returned to the stage. He mounted workshop productions of Crystal Clear, National Anthems and other plays; he appeared in Julius Caesar in 1988 in producer Joseph Papp's New York Shakespeare Festival. Pacino remarked on his hiatus from film: "I remember back when everything was happening, '74, '75, doing The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui on stage and reading that the reason I'd gone back to the stage was that my movie career was waning! That's been the kind of ethos, the way in which theater's perceived, unfortunately."[31] Pacino returned to film in 1989's Sea of Love,[2] in which he portrayed a detective hunting a serial killer who finds victims through the singles column in a newspaper. The film earned solid reviews.[32]
Pacino received an Academy Award nomination for playing Big Boy Caprice in the box office hit Dick Tracy in 1990, in which critic Roger Ebert wrote that Pacino is "the scene-stealer".[33] Later in the year he followed this up by a return to one of his most famous characters, Michael Corleone, in The Godfather Part III (1990).[2] The film received mixed reviews, and had problems during pre-production due to script rewrites and the withdrawal of actors shortly before production.
In 1991, Pacino starred in Frankie and Johnny with Michelle Pfeiffer, who co-starred with Pacino in Scarface. Pacino portrays a recently paroled cook who begins a relationship with a waitress (Pfeiffer) in the diner he works in. It was adapted by Terrence McNally from his own Off-Broadway play Frankie and Johnny in the Clair de Lune (1987), which featured Kenneth Welsh and Kathy Bates. The film received mixed reviews, although Pacino later said he enjoyed playing the part.[34] Janet Maslin in The New York Times wrote, "Mr. Pacino has not been this uncomplicatedly appealing since his "Dog Day Afternoon" days, and he makes Johnny's endless enterprise in wooing Frankie a delight. His scenes alone with Ms. Pfeiffer have a precision and honesty that keep the film's maudlin aspects at bay."[35]
In 1992, Pacino won the Academy Award for Best Actor, for his portrayal of the blind U.S. Army Lieutenant Colonel Frank Slade in Martin Brest's Scent of a Woman.[2] That year, he was also nominated for Best Supporting Actor for Glengarry Glen Ross, making Pacino the first male actor ever to receive two acting nominations for two different movies in the same year, and to win for the lead role.[2]
Pacino starred alongside Sean Penn in the crime drama Carlito's Way in 1993, in which he portrayed a gangster who is released from prison with the help of his lawyer (Penn) and vows to go straight. Pacino starred in Michael Mann's Heat (1995), in which he and Robert De Niro appeared on-screen together for the first time (though both Pacino and De Niro starred in The Godfather Part II, they did not share any scenes).[2]
In 1996, Pacino starred in his theatrical docudrama Looking for Richard, which is both a performance of selected scenes of William Shakespeare's Richard III and a broader examination of Shakespeare's continuing role and relevance in popular culture. The cast brought together for the performance included Alec Baldwin, Kevin Spacey, and Winona Ryder. Pacino played Satan in the supernatural thriller The Devil's Advocate (1997) which co-starred Keanu Reaves. The film was a success at the box office, taking US$150 million worldwide.[36]
Roger Ebert wrote in the Chicago Sun-Times, ‘The satanic character is played by Pacino with relish bordering on glee.’[37] In Donnie Brasco Pacino played mafia gangster "Lefty", in the true story of undercover FBI agent Donnie Brasco (Johnny Depp) and his work in bringing down the mafia from the inside. Pacino also starred as real life 60 Minutes producer Lowell Bergman in the multi-Oscar nominated The Insider opposite Russell Crowe, before starring in Oliver Stone's Any Given Sunday in 1999.
Pacino has not received another nomination from the Academy since Scent of a Woman, but won two Golden Globes since the year 2000, the first being the Cecil B. DeMille Award in 2001 for lifetime achievement in motion pictures.[38]
In 2000, Pacino released a low-budget film adaptation of Ira Lewis' play Chinese Coffee to film festivals.[39] Shot almost exclusively as a one-on-one conversation between the two main characters, the project took almost three years to complete and it was funded entirely by Pacino.[39] Chinese Coffee was included along with Pacino's two other rare films he has been involved in producing, The Local Stigmatic and Looking for Richard, on a special DVD boxset titled Pacino: An Actor's Vision which was released in 2007. Pacino produced prologues and epilogues for the discs containing the films.[40]
Pacino turned down an offer to reprise his role as Michael Corleone in the computer game version of The Godfather. As a result, Electronic Arts was not permitted to use Pacino's likeness or voice in the game, although his character does appear in it. He did allow his likeness to appear in the video game adaptation of the remake of 1983's Scarface, titled Scarface: The World is Yours.[41]
Director Christopher Nolan worked with Pacino for Insomnia, a remake of the Norwegian film of the same name, co-starring Robin Williams. Newsweek stated that "he [Pacino] can play small as rivetingly as he can play big, that he can implode as well as explode".[42] The film and Pacino's performance were well-received, gaining a favorable rating of 93 percent on the review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes.[43] The film did moderately well at the box office, taking in $113 million dollars worldwide.[44] His next film, S1m0ne, was one that Pacino liked, but which did not gain much critical praise or box office success.[45]
He played the part of a publicist in People I Know, a small film that received little attention despite Pacino's well-received performance.[46] Rarely taking a supporting role since his commercial breakthrough, he accepted a small part in the box office flop Gigli in 2003 as a favor to director Martin Brest.[46] The Recruit, released in 2003, featured Pacino as a CIA recruiter and co-stars Colin Farrell. The film received mostly negative reviews,[47] and was described by Pacino as something he "personally couldn't follow".[46] Pacino next starred as lawyer Roy Cohn in the 2003 HBO miniseries Angels in America, an adaptation of Tony Kushner's Pulitzer Prize winning play of the same name.[2] For this performance, Pacino won his third Golden Globe, for Best Performance by an Actor, in 2004.[48]
Pacino starred as Shylock in Michael Radford's 2004 film adaptation of The Merchant of Venice, choosing to bring compassion and depth to a character traditionally played as a villainous caricature.[49] In Two for the Money, Pacino portrays a sports gambling agent and mentor for Matthew McConaughey, alongside Rene Russo. The film was released on October 8, 2005 and received mixed reviews.[50] Desson Thomson wrote in The Washington Post, "Al Pacino has played the mentor so many times, he ought to get a kingmaker's award (...) the fight between good and evil feels fixed in favor of Hollywood redemption."[51]
On October 20, 2006, the American Film Institute named Pacino the recipient of the 35th AFI Life Achievement Award.[52] On November 22, 2006, the University Philosophical Society of Trinity College, Dublin awarded Pacino the Honorary Patronage of the Society.[53]
Pacino played a spoof role in Steven Soderbergh’s Ocean's Thirteen alongside George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Elliott Gould and Andy García as the villain Willy Bank, a casino tycoon targeted by Danny Ocean and his crew. The film received generally favorable reviews.[54]
88 Minutes was released on April 18, 2008 in the United States, having already been released in various other countries in 2007. The film co-starred Alicia Witt and was critically panned,[55] although critics found the fault to be in the plot instead of Pacino's acting.[56] In Righteous Kill, Pacino and Robert De Niro co-star as New York detectives searching for a serial killer. The film was released to theaters on September 12, 2008. Although it was an anticipated return for the two stars, it was not well received by critics.[57] Lou Lumenick of The New York Post gave Righteous Kill one star out of four, saying: "Al Pacino and Robert De Niro collect bloated paychecks with intent to bore in Righteous Kill, a slow-moving, ridiculous police thriller that would have been shipped straight to the remainder bin at Blockbuster if it starred anyone else."[58]
Pacino played Dr. Jack Kevorkian in an HBO Films biopic entitled You Don't Know Jack, which premiered April 2010. The film is about the life and work of the physician-assisted suicide advocate. The performance earned Pacino his second Emmy Award[59] for lead actor[60] and his fourth Golden Globe award.[29]
Pacino and Robert De Niro are reportedly set to star in the upcoming project The Irishman, that will be directed by Martin Scorsese and co-star Joe Pesci.[61] He's also filming a biographical picture about Phil Spector.[62]
It was announced in May 2011 that Pacino was to be honored with the "Glory to the Film-maker" award at the 68th Venice International Film Festival.[63] The award will be presented ahead of the premier of his film Wilde Salome, which is the third film Pacino has directed.[63] Pacino, who plays the role of Herod in the film, describes it as his "most personal project ever".[63]
The United States premiere of Wilde Salomé took place on the evening of March 21, 2012, before a full house at the 1,400-seat Castro Theatre in San Francisco's Castro District. Marking the 130th anniversary of Oscar Wilde's visit to San Francisco, the event was a benefit for the GLBT Historical Society.[64][65][66]
It was announced in January 2013, that Pacino will play the Penn State University football coach Joe Paterno in the movie tentatively titled, "Happy Valley".[67]
Although he never married, Pacino has three children. The eldest, Julie Marie (born 1989), is his daughter with acting coach Jan Tarrant. He also has twins, son Anton James and daughter Olivia Rose (born 2001), with actress Beverly D'Angelo, with whom he had a relationship from 1996 until 2003.[68][69] Pacino had a relationship with Diane Keaton, his co-star in the Godfather Trilogy. The on-again, off-again relationship ended following the filming of The Godfather Part III.[70] He has had relationships also with Tuesday Weld, Jill Clayburgh, Marthe Keller, Kathleen Quinlan and Lyndall Hobbs.[40]
The Internal Revenue Service filed a tax lien against Pacino claiming he owes the government $169,143.06 in 2008 and $19,140.44 in 2009 for a total of $188,283.50. A representative for Pacino blamed his former business manager Kenneth Starr for the discrepancy.[71]
Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Miniseries or Television Movie
Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Miniseries or Television Movie
Pacino has been nominated and has won many awards during his acting career, including eight Oscar nominations (winning one), 15 Golden Globe nominations (winning four), five BAFTA nominations (winning two), two Primetime Emmy Awards for his work on television, and two Tony Awards for his work on the stage. In 2007, the American Film Institute awarded Pacino with a lifetime achievement award and in 2003 British television viewers voted Pacino as the greatest film star of all time in a poll for Channel 4.[73]
Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Miniseries or Television Movie (1994–2009)
Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Miniseries or Television Movie (2010–2029)
This entry is from Wikipedia, the leading user-contributed encyclopedia. It may not have been reviewed by professional editors (see full disclaimer)
Britannica Concise Encyclopedia. © 1994-2014 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. All rights reserved.					Read more
The Oxford Companion to American Theatre. Copyright © 2004 by Oxford University Press, Inc. All rights reserved.
	This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License. It uses material from the Wikipedia article Al Pacino. 
