=======================================================
A spellbinding true story — Raised on Fear by Lee Cox  http://wp.temphost.us/book/purchase/Igniting hope and purpose in peoples lives. The EVE Foundation is impacting teens and adults who have been abused. Our programs open up conversations about hardship and abuse and inspire a positive view of the future, empowering people to go beyond the hurt and pain and to live life with an inspired purpose. http://wp.temphost.us/programs/Who We Are We are committed to a future where children are born into a world of love and acceptance.  
"I grew up in a world of unpredictability and violence. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence." Raised on Fear is a true story by Lee Cox. A self healing, must-read. Buy today and get free shipping.
From Chapter One – “I grew up in a world of violence and unpredictability. I learned to protect myself the best I could. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal, and to cover my fear with anger and violence.
No one knew the abuse that went on in our home, as we all learned to keep it hidden. No one knew my wish to make it stop. And later, no one knew the fear that overwhelmed me and drove me to hit and hurt the ones I loved most.”
This book exposes the thinking, beliefs and actions of a child who grows up to find himself being the abuser in his family. We follow his story from before childhood to the beginning of his journey to stop his violent and abusive behaviors.
Lee Cox offers powerful insights into his journey of healing himself. When he shares his story, his courage, candor and honesty inspire his audience to help stop domestic abuse. Lee speaks to: Students, Teachers, Law Enforcement, Domestic Violence Professionals, Civic organizations, Self Help groups and Community Leaders. Contact the EVE Foundation to have Lee speak at your next event.
“I grew up in a world of unpredictability and violence. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence.” Raised on Fear is a true story by Lee Cox. A self healing, must-read. Buy today and get free shipping.
“I grew up in a world of violence and unpredictability. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence.”
The EVE Foundation is impacting teens and adults who have been abused. Our programs open up conversations about hardship and abuse and inspire a positive view of the future, empowering people to go beyond the hurt and pain and to live life with an inspired purpose. It is our mission to make a real difference with humans by educating and continually re-igniting their flame of hope, inspiration, and purpose, so they can heal themselves.
The EVE Foundation is committed to a future where children are born into a world of love and acceptance. We contribute to that future through programs designed to inspire healing, responsibility, empowerment and hope. Our target audience is at risk teens, abusers and the abused.
Committed to raising money to fund local organizations who focus on child abuse prevention. We achieve this by collecting, repairing, cleaning and selling donated items.
Group of men and women working to make our communities better places to live though programs of service in Americanism, Community  Service, Youth Activities, and it’s national project, the Prevention of Child Abuse.
=======================================================
Brian Edward Cox OBE (born 3 March 1968)[1] is an English physicist and former musician, Professor, a Royal Society University Research Fellow, PPARC Advanced Fellow at the University of Manchester.[14][15] He is a member of the High Energy Physics group at the University of Manchester, and works on the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC)[16][17] at CERN, near Geneva, Switzerland. He is working on the research and development project of the FP420 experiment in an international collaboration to upgrade the ATLAS and the CMS experiment by installing additional, smaller detectors at a distance of 420 metres from the interaction points of the main experiments.[18][19][20][21]
Cox is best known to the public as the presenter of a number of science programmes for the BBC, boosting the popularity of subjects such as astronomy and physics.[22] He has been described as the natural successor for BBC's scientific programming by both David Attenborough and the late Patrick Moore.[23][24] He also had some fame in the 1990s as the keyboard player for the pop band D:Ream.
Cox's parents were bankers[1] and he attended the independent Hulme Grammar School[25] in Oldham from 1979 to 1986.[26][27][28] Cox revealed on The Jonathan Ross Show that he performed poorly on his Maths A-level: "I got a D ... I was really not very good ... I found out you need to practise."[29] He cites a lack of interest and fledgling band commitments as the reason for the result.
Cox obtained first-class BSc and MPhil degrees in Physics. After D:Ream disbanded in 1997, Cox completed his Doctor of Philosophy in high energy particle physics at the University of Manchester.[4] His thesis, "Double Diffraction Dissociation at Large Momentum Transfer", was supervised by Robin Marshall[4] and drawn from work he did for the H1 experiment at the HERA[4][30] particle accelerator at the DESY laboratory in Hamburg, Germany.[31]
In the 1980s he was keyboard player with the rock band Dare.[32] He studied physics at the University of Manchester, where he joined D:Ream,[33] a group that had several hits in the UK charts, including the number one, "Things Can Only Get Better",[34] later used as a New Labour election anthem.
Cox has appeared in many science programmes for BBC radio and television,[12] including In Einstein's Shadow,[35] the BBC Horizon series,[36] ("The Six Billion Dollar Experiment", "What on Earth is Wrong with Gravity?", "Do You Know What Time It Is?", and "Can we Make a Star on Earth?") and as a voice-over for the BBC's Bitesize revision programmes. Cox presented the five-part BBC Two television series Wonders of the Solar System in early 2010 and a follow up four-part series, Wonders of the Universe, which began on 6 March 2011.[37] A new series, Wonders of Life, completed filming in June 2012,[38] which Cox describes as "a physicist's take on life / natural history".[39]
BBC Two commissioned Cox to copresent Stargazing Live, a three-day live astronomy series in January 2011 – co-presented with physicist-turned-comedian Dara Ó Briain and featuring chat show host Jonathan Ross[41] – linked to events across the United Kingdom. A second and a third series featuring a variety of guests ran in January 2012 and January 2013.[42]
Since November 2009 Cox has co-presented a BBC Radio 4 "comedy science magazine programme", The Infinite Monkey Cage with comedian Robin Ince.[43] Guests have included comedians Tim Minchin, Alexei Sayle, Dara Ó Briain, and scientists including Dr Alice Roberts of the BBC show The Incredible Human Journey. Cox also appeared in Ince's Nine Lessons and Carols for Godless People. Cox is a regular contributor to the BBC 6 Music Breakfast Show with Shaun Keaveny, with a weekly feature. Cox appeared on the 24 July 2009 episode of Robert Llewellyn's CarPool podcast series.[44]
Cox has also appeared numerous times at TED, giving talks on the LHC and particle physics.[45][46][47] In 2009 he appeared in People magazine's Sexiest Men Alive.[48] In 2010 he was featured in The Case for Mars by Symphony of Science. In November 2010 he made a promotional appearance in the Covent Garden Apple Store, talking about his new e-book set to accompany his new television series as well as answering audience questions.[49]
Cox gave the Royal Television Society's 2010 Huw Wheldon Memorial Lecture on "Science, a Challenge to TV Orthodoxy", in which he examined problems in media coverage of science and news about science. It was subsequently broadcast on BBC Two. On 4 March, Frankenstein's Science featured Cox in discussion with biographer Richard Holmes on Mary Shelley's exploration of humanity's desire to bring life to an inanimate object and whether the notion is possible, in both the nineteenth century and today.
On 6 March 2011, Cox appeared as a guest at Patrick Moore's 700th episode anniversary of The Sky At Night. He has said that he is a lifelong fan of the programme, and that it helped inspire him to become a physicist. On 10 March 2011, Cox gave the Ninth Douglas Adams Memorial Lecture.
Cox has co-authored several books on physics including Why does E=mc2?[50] with Jeff Forshaw, and The Quantum Universe, also with Jeff Forshaw.[51]
Cox was the science advisor for the science fiction film Sunshine. On the DVD release, he provides an audio commentary where he discusses scientific accuracies (and inaccuracies) depicted in the film. He also was featured on the Discovery Channel special Megaworld: Switzerland. In 2013, he presented another series of "Wonders of Life".
On 14 November 2013, BBC Two broadcast The Science of Doctor Who in celebration of Doctor Who's 50th anniversary, in which Cox tackles the mysteries of time travel. The lecture was recorded at the Royal Institution Faraday Lecture Theatre. In November 2013, the BBC announced that Cox will present Human Universe on BBC Two.
Cox has received many awards for his efforts to publicise science. In 2002 he was elected an International Fellow of The Explorers Club and in 2006 Cox received the British Association's Lord Kelvin Award for this work.
Also in 2006 he was awarded a Royal Society University Research Fellowship (an early-career research fellowship scheme). A frequent lecturer, he was keynote speaker at the Australian Science Festival in 2006, and in 2010 won the Institute of Physics Kelvin Prize for his work in communicating the appeal and excitement of physics to the general public.[52] Cox was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the Queen's 2010 Birthday Honours for services to science.[13][53]
On 15 March 2011, Cox won Best Presenter and Best Science / Natural History programme by the Royal Television Society for Wonders of the Universe. On 25 March 2011, Cox won twice at the Broadcasting Press Guild Awards for 'Best Performer' in a non-acting role, while Wonders of the Solar System was named best documentary series of 2010.[54][55]
In July 2012, Cox was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Huddersfield.[56] Later that year, he was awarded the Institute of Physics President's medal by Sir Patrick Stewart, following which he gave a speech on the value of education in science and the need to invest more in future generations of scientists.[57] On 5 October 2012 Cox was awarded an honorary doctorate by the Open University for his "Exceptional contribution to Education and Culture".[58] In 2012 he also was awarded the Michael Faraday Prize of the Royal Society "for his excellent work in science communication"[59]
In 2003 Cox married U.S. science presenter Gia Milinovich. Their first son, George, was born on 26 May 2009.[60] George's middle name is "Eagle" after the Apollo 11 lunar module. Milinovich also has a son, named Moki, from a previous relationship. The family currently lives in Battersea.[2][3]
He recalls a happy childhood in Oldham that included pursuits such as dance, gymnastics, plane spotting, and even bus spotting. He has stated in many interviews and in an episode of Wonders of the Universe[61] that when he was 12, the book Cosmos by Carl Sagan was a key factor in inspiring him to become a physicist.[1] Brian Cox is a humanist, and is a "Distinguished Supporter" of the British Humanist Association.[62] He is a lifelong Oldham Athletic A.F.C. fan, and held a season ticket at the club.[1]
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Brian_Cox_(physicist)&oldid=609631604"					
Categories: 1968 birthsEnglish pop musiciansEnglish physicistsParticle physicistsAcademics of the University of ManchesterLiving peopleMusic in OldhamPeople from ChaddertonEnglish humanistsOfficers of the Order of the British EmpirePeople educated at Hulme Grammar SchoolAlumni of the University of Manchester Institute of Science and TechnologyLabour Party (UK) peopleHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from May 2014Wikipedia pending changes protected pages (level 1)Wikipedia protected pages without expiryUse British English from November 2013Use dmy dates from March 2011Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesCash for College! 54 Scholarships Worth $10&#044;000 or MoreErikson's Psychosocial Stages Summary ChartHow to Control Carpenter BeesQuiz - What's Your Leadership Style? [About Psychology]College Interview Questions
Top Related Searchesaustralian science festivalnew labour partyuniversity research fellowshipd reamhadron colliderlord kelvin
Music Career:Brian Cox was a member of the rock band Dare in 1989 until the band split up in 1992. In 1993, he joined the UK rock band D:Ream, which had a number of hits, including the number one "Things Can Only Get Better" (which was the election anthem of the New Labour party). D:Ream disbanded in 1997, at which point Cox (who had been studying physics all along and earned his PhD) went on to practicing physics full time.Physics Work:Brian Cox received his doctorate in physics from the University of Manchester, completing his thesis in 1998. In 2005, he was awarded a Royal Society University Research Fellowship. He splits his time between work at the University of Manchester and at the CERN facility in Geneva, Switzerland, home of the Large Hadron Collider.Popularizing Science:Brian Cox has not only performed extensive research, but has also worked hard to help popularize science to lay audiences, especially through repeated appearances on the BBC programs such as The Big Bang Machine (and an October 2009 appearance on The Colbert Report, where he later twitted that it featured some of the most intelligent questions he'd ever been asked). 
Two of his speeches are available as TED lectures, where he explains the physics being performed (or not being performed) at the Large Hadron Collider. He has co-authored the following books with fellow British physicist Jeff Forshaw:
Awards and Recognition:Brian Cox was elected an international fellow of The Explorer's Club in 2002. In 2006, he received the Lord Kelvin prize from the British Association for his work popularizing science. He was the keynote speaker at the 2006 Australian Science Festival and spoke at TED 2008.
Brian Cox - More on Particle PhysicsFundamentals of ParticlesLarge Hadron ColliderBrian Cox - related booksWhy Does E=mc2? (And Why Do We Care?) by Brian Cox and Jeff ForshawThe Quantum Universe by Brian Cox and Jeff ForshawBrian Cox - Other ResourcesBrian Cox's TED profile - with videosOfficial WebpageBrian Cox's Twitter Feed
Related ArticlesBrian Wright - Biography and Profile of Brian WrightLego Rock Band Release Date - DSApril 17 Science History - Science History for April 17Running with Scissors Movie Poster - Running with Scissors Poster, Starring...Max Planck Formulates Quantum Theory 
What Is Physics?Fields of PhysicsMajor Laws of Physics5 Great Problems in Theoretical Physics10 Weirdest Physical Theories
What You Should Know About PhysicsHow Quantum Physics Explains the Invisible...How to Define EnergyMajor Laws of Physics That Explain the UniverseThe Different Fields Physicists Study
Physics 101Physics DictionaryClassroom PhysicsReal World PhysicsClassical MechanicsThermodynamicsLight & OpticsElectromagneticsAtoms & ParticlesTheory of RelativityQuantum PhysicsCosmology & AstrophysicsOther Fields of PhysicsBlog
PhysicsAbout.comEducationPhysicsPhysics 101History of PhysicsFamous PhysicistsBrian Cox - biographical profile of physicist Brian CoxAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
=======================================================
'This tiny sliver of land... changed the course of human history':The Queen and Obama lead tributes to D-Day heroes as world leaders join veterans for emotional return to Normandy beaches
Back to the beaches of death and deliverance: British D-Day veterans revisit the battlegrounds and villages they liberated 70 years on to meet the French civilians they helped to free from Nazis
Fred and the Paras return to the killing fields... as daredevil veteran, 89, is greeted by Prince Charles after fearless leap from the skies
        A beach that in 1944 was being pulverised by shells and gunfire and strewn with the brave wounded and dying  heard the lament of a lone piper today as the world remembers those who made the ultimate sacrifice in Nazi-occupied France. US President Barack Obama (top right) and French President Francois Hollande joined veterans at a joint French-American D-Day commemoration ceremony at the Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial in Colleville-sur-mer. Meanwhile, the Queen (centre) bowed her head as she paid her respects to the fallen at the British War Ceremony in Bayeux. She was joined by the Prince of Wales, the Duchess of Cornwall, and Prime Minister David Cameron and his wife Samantha.
Samantha Cameron wears 1940s-inspired suit as she joins Prime Minister at D-Day service of remembrance in France
Back to the beaches of death and deliverance: British D-Day veterans revisit the battlegrounds and villages they liberated 70 years on to meet the French civilians they helped to free from Nazis
       The Prime Minister's wife looked chic and smart in a grey suit and cream blouse as she arrived hand-in-hand with David at the Bayeux Cathedral in Ranville, France. Putting on a united front, the former Smythson creative head held hands with the Prime Minister David, who made a speech at the midnight vigil at Pegasus Bridge.
A royal salute for the fallen heroes of D-Day: Charles and Camilla join the Queen to pay their respects
      The Queen laid a wreath during a ceremony at the Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery in Bayeux where 4.144 soldiers are buried.
The British people's greatest day: Today, raise a glass to the ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
      If I had to single out one moment of the struggle which represented the zenith of our national achievement, then it must be D-Day, writes MAX HASTINGS.
The British people's greatest day: Cynics will say it's time to move on. But today raise a glass to the sheer ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
Mother left in tears after two customers called her a 'slut' for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
      Rhea Holley, of Faversham in Kent, pictured left with son Arthur, was at a Costa Coffee, pictured right, in Purley in south London, when two customers in their 60s started verbally abusing her for breast-feeding. The pair started calling her a 'slut' and telling her she was 'disgusting' and that her feeding the baby in public was 'offensive'. Costa Coffee workers then 'reprimanded the couple' telling them breast-feeding was allowed in public.
Mother in tears after being called a 'slut' by two customers for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
Police searching for Madeleine McCann 'carry out DNA tests on scraps of clothing they found in a concealed pit close to the area where she went missing'
      Forensic experts drafted in from the UK are said to be carrying out analysis of the 'non organic' material, which was found near a hole in the ground on wasteland in Portugal's Praia de Luz resort.
Parents held after son, 11, reaches 15 STONE: Couple arrested on suspicion of child cruelty after 'doctors became concerned about boy's wellbeing
      The parents, from King’s Lynn, Norfolk, claim their son's weight gain is genetic and they have tried to keep his size under control.
      Studies show the optimum amount is 3-4mg of caffeine per kilogram of bodyweight one hour prior to exercise.
Use leftover Melba toast... and other money-saving tips by aristocratic politician who lives in a 13-bed manor
      Tory peer Baroness Rawlings, who is married to a multi-millionaire, suggested people reuse their linen and use a bath to warm the room.
Outrage as Vodafone reveals governments can listen in to private mobile phone calls at the 'flick of a switch' across its entire network
      Vodafone said direct-access wires were connected to its network, allowing authorities in 29 countries - including Italy, Malta and Spain - to monitor conversations.
      Labour MP Stella Creasy says women will have to ‘breed for Britain’ if immigration is restricted - and she has a point, writes RICHARD LITTLEJOHN.
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she'd been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida - ending a 20-year scam in which she stole £144,000
       Janet Curtis, 64, top right, from Clacton, Essex, said her rheumatoid arthritis meant she could barely walk more than a few yards, and left her needing 24-hour live-in care. But fraud investigators found video footage showing her water-skiing on holiday in Florida, left, walking round theme parks and swimming. Curtis, pictured outside Ipswich Crown Court yesterday, bottom right, admitted nine benefits fraud charges and was ordered to repay the money, and given a curfew and 18-month suspended prison sentence.
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she'd been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida ending 20 year scam in which she stole £144,000
'Fraudsters hijacked our phone line and then stole £41,000 when we called the bank': Customers scammed and then left stranded by their banks
      In two separate cases investigated customers with Lloyds Bank and Nationwide Building Society lost a total of almost £60,000 to the scam.
Suffocated baby's twin returned to parents after judge clears father of accidentally killing her as they slept on sofa, saying the couple 'deserve to be believed'
      The middle class father came under suspicion from Lancashire County Council following the death of his daughter, but judge Mr Justice Peter Jackson (pictured) cleared him of blame.
More mass baby graves in Ireland?  Prime Minister Enda Kenny orders an investigation as memorial for 800 dead babies is planned
      The Irish premier spoke from San Francisco as fears emerged that the suspected mass grave at the children's home in Tuam, Co. Galway, pictured, may not be the only one.
More mass baby graves in Ireland?  Prime Minister Enda Kenny orders an investigation as memorial for 800 dead babies is planned
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
      Researchers from London's University of Westminster asked 124 men - half of whom were hungry and half well-fed - to rate different women by attractiveness.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
'The job isn't finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite triumph over Farage in Newark by-election
       The Conservative candidate Robert Jenrick (top right) attracted 17,431 votes - a comfortable majority over Ukip's Roger Helmer (pictured left with Nigel Farage), who received 10,028. The Prime Minister warned the Conservatives had to keep hammering home key messages on the economy, tax cuts and jobs.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
      The MEP strolled to his hotel with tourism executive Ande Soteri at 3.42am after a gala dinner, with conference delegates reportedly 'gossiping' that they left the party together in capital Valletta.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
‘Rape? Sometimes it's RIGHT': Indian state minister says offence is only a crime if the woman reports it to police - days after murderous gang-rape of two sisters
      'This is a social crime which depends on men and women. Sometimes it's right, sometimes it's wrong,' said Babulal Gaur, minister for Madhya Pradesh.
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left three Canadian Mounties dead and put city on day-long lock-down
      Justin Bourque, 24, was taken into custody early Friday morning after a deadly shootout in Moncton, New Brunswick, that left three police officers dead.
      As 94-year old grandmother Bertha Guymer, pictured, lay dying on a hospital bed in Essex, a thief stole her wedding rings, her family has claimed.
Does the amount of make-up you wear affect how people treat you? Student tries three different looks to find out
       Brinton Parker, a 21-year-old student at the University of California, was inspired to conduct her experiment after noticing how her peers critiqued people's looks. So during a single week, she went to school wearing three very different make-up looks - bare-faced, moderate and heavy - in a bid to measure the ways it altered how people treated her.
'Chaos and mass delays' as power failure grounds flights at Bristol Airport and passengers are told to wait outside terminal
      Passengers have taken to Twitter to voice their frustration as flights are delayed and the terminal fills with grounded passengers.
      Dr Viren Swami from the University of Westminster said those in love also tend to think their partner is better looking than themselves.
Brother of Sudanese woman facing death penalty for 'abandoning her Islamic faith' by marrying a Christian says 'she DESERVES to be executed'
      Al Samani Al Hadi said that he had denounced his sister Meriam Ibrahim to the authorities because his family are 'Muslim people.'
Obama pleads with Scotland to vote 'No' to independence AND for Britain to stay in the European Union
      The US President, who met David Cameron in Paris, said the union between England and Scotland had 'worked pretty well' and should stay together.
Shot twice, stuffed in a sack and dumped in a canal... but Pakistani girl, 18, SURVIVES botched 'honour killing' carried out by her own family for marrying the man she loved
       Saba Maqsood (pictured) was attacked by her father, uncle, brother and aunt before she was tossed into the canal, said Ali Akbar, a spokesman for police in Hafizabad, Punjab province. It comes just a week-and-a-half after the broad daylight 'honour killing' of another woman in a city centre drew worldwide condemnation. Mr Akbar told Reuters that the most recent case was also 'an honour-related incident'. 'The victim, Saba ... married her neighbour Muhammad Qaiser for love five days ago against the wishes of her family,' he said.
Outrage as actors dressed as Nazis takeover West Sussex airport 24 hours before 70th anniversary of D-day to film scenes for Ryan Reynolds film
      Stars of new Second World War film Woman in Gold, starring Helen Mirren and Ryan Reynolds, arrived at Shoreham Airport today dressed in full Nazi uniform.
Outrage as actors dressed as Nazis takeover West Sussex airport 24 hours before 70th anniversary of D-day to film scenes for Ryan Reynolds film
Fred and the Paras return to the killing fields... as daredevil veteran, 89, is greeted by Prince Charles after fearless leap from the skies
      Jock Hutton, 89, who was just 19 when he jumped out of a plane to join the Allied assault on Normandy, performed a tandem jump during the commemorations.
The average woman wants to meet ‘the one’ aged 24, have a child at 27 and reach the top of their career by 34
      Nearly two-thirds of those studied had a detailed life plan they try to follow – with targets such as passing their driving test by 19, living healthily by 24 and getting engaged at 26.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
      Vincent Walsh, professor of human brain research at University College London, also proposed they should be allowed to set their own work times, arriving whenever they want.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richman poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
       Former Man V. Food host Adam Richman is celebrating is 70lb weight loss with a naked spread in Cosmopolitan UK's July issue. Mr Richman, 40, poses lying down with a soccer ball precariously covering his genitals. He wears soccer cleats and knee socks and is surrounded by a smattering of soccer balls that read 'USA', in reference to this summer's World Cup.
Has plain cigarette packaging backfired? Australian figures show 59 million MORE cigarettes were sold during first year of ban on branded packs
      Plain packaging laws came into effect in December 2012 under Labor health minister Nicola Roxon, as part of an attempt to discourage smoking, which claims 15,000 lives each year.
Former Crimewatch presenter Sue Cook tells Rolf Harris trial she too forgot a game show appearance in Cambridge in 1970s and the star 'shouldn't be accused of lying'
      Sue Cook, 65, told the jury at Southwark Crown Court in London that she had forgotten 'loads' of events she had been to over the years.
Why Tetris is so addictive: Playing the game is like 'scratching an itch' and appeals to our brain's desire to tidy up
      A psychologist from the University of Sheffield has revealed that Tetris appeals to our brain's desire to solve mini tasks, while being tantalised by more problems.
      People who match with each other on the app can now send pictures visible for 24 hours to each other.
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Ferry captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his boat in a storm
      Steve Kingston, who runs a river ferry company in King's Lynn, Norfolk, refused to take the council's advice to leave his ship. In response the authorities sent in police to carry out the heavy-handed arrest.
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his ferry in a storm
Four generations of depravity: Court orders 'incest family' who lived in remote Australian bush to provide DNA samples to help police unravel decades of sexual abuse
       Two members of a NSW family accused of mass incest have been DNA swabbed following a court order. 'Raylene Colt' and 'Betty Colt' (the legal pseudonyms given to them) were ordered to report to a Sydney police station on Friday to provide samples. The family was discovered in regional NSW in 2012 living in squalid conditions and have been the subject of a child abuse investigation since.
      Researchers at the University of Rochester, in the U.S., say male brains are affected more significantly than female brains.
Give me my pocket money or I'll jump: Chinese boy, 10, holds parents to ransom over late payment of his 50p
      When ten-year-old Xiao Wei's father was late in paying him his weekly 50p stipend in Shangsi, China, the stubborn youngster took matters into his own hands.
Bergdahl 'declared himself a warrior for Islam and played soccer with his captors after being found by the Taliban wandering along a roadside cursing America'
      Sgt. Bowe Bergdhal converted to Islam during his captivity in Afghanistan, declaring himself a 'mujahid', or warrior for the faith according to secret new documents.
Backlash over Britain's first secret terror trial: MPs call for urgent debate over plans to set 'dangerous precedent' by holding case behind closed doors
      The case - in which a judge declared he would try two suspected terrorists y behind closed doors - was described as a 'dangerous precedent' .
Backlash over Britain's first secret terror trial: MPs call for urgent debate over plans to set 'dangerous precedent' by holding case behind closed doors
Still clutching their rosaries after hundreds of years, eerie photographs show mummies buried in a Czech underground crypt
       A monastery in the Czech Republic has a ghoulish secret for those willing to venture underground - two dozen corpses clutching rosaries are on display. The bodies in the Capuchin Crypt of the Holy Cross Church, in Brno, date back hundreds of years, but they were only recently rediscovered and opened to public viewing.
School at centre of alleged Islamist 'Trojan Horse' takeover plot rejects Ofsted report saying it is failing to protect pupils from extremism
      The report - made public yesterday but leaked to the Mail on Monday - said Golden Hillock school in Birmingham (pictured), was doing too little to keep students safe from extremist views.
Sales executives whose boss 'spoke to their breasts not their face' in line for five-figure pay out after tribunal finds he was 'fixated'
      Darren Scott, 55, was obsessed with Diane Nicholl-Pierson’s breasts and regularly spoke to them instead of her face, an employment tribunal found.
      Not everyone who has terminal cancer can find it in themselves to be so valiant and heroic, to face death with such dignified equanimity.
      In a bitter attack on the UK, Jean-Claude Juncker also condemned what he described as a British campaign against his presidency.
'I thought we were crashing': British holidaymakers' terror as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes dramatic emergency landing after losing cabin pressure
       The Jet 2 flight LS516 (inset, file picture) started to rapidly descend just an hour after departing from Paphos, Cyprus, to Newcastle last night. The plane dropped thousands of feet in minutes, while oxygen masks were deployed for passengers (top). The aircraft was forced to divert to Sofia Airport in Bulgaria, where emergency crews were waiting on the tarmac (bottom). Today, British passengers told of their terror after the plane made an emergency landing due to loss of cabin pressure
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
Gary Glitter charged with drugging and having sex with girl aged under 13 as he is accused of series of historic sex offences against children
      Gary Glitter is to be charged with eight sexual offences relating to girls aged between 12 and 14, and will appear at Westminster Magistrates Court.
Gary Glitter charged with drugging and having sex with girl aged under 13 as he is accused of series of historic sex offences against children
Mother who was three times over the limit swigged vodka at wheel of her car with her baby daughter sat next to her
      Deborah Poulton, 38, from Poole, Dorset, was pulled over by police after being reported by another driver for dangerous driving.
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: How unconventional 25-year marriage to first wife inspired world's greatest living scientist... and a movie
       Eddie Redmayne had books on Albert Einstein in his dressing room when he took on the part of Professor Stephen Hawking for a film about the physicist's 25-year love affair with his first wife Jane (the actor with Felicity Jones in the film, left, and the Hawkings in the 1960s, right). The actor, who shot to stardom in the movie musical Les Miserables, explained that Einstein and Dean were brilliant in their fields and idols to women. Redmayne grinned and said of Hawking (inset): 'Women flock to him, too. He loves women; women love him.'
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
          Nigella Lawson lets her hair down at charity dinner... as her production company makes £2.5 million profit in a year
          Prison food went down well then! Chris Brown shows off a fuller physique as he arrives at 'get out of jail free' party thrown by lover Karrueche Tran
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney enters the Big Brother house... and claims she has been celibate for a year
          Cara Delevingne shows off her supermodel style in plunging printed silk jumpsuit as she attends Stella McCartney party with pal Jourdan Dunn
          It's over: Jennifer Lopez and dancer boyfriend Casper Smart 'call it quits'... amid transsexual sexting scandal
          Earning her fashion stripes: Pregnant Holly Willoughby wears comfortable T-shirt and jeans as she leaves Soho restaurant
          Now that's Fancy! Shipshape Iggy Azalea slips into green bikini for luxury yacht holiday to celebrate 24th birthday
          Samantha Cameron wears 1940s inspired suit as she joins husband David at D-Day service of remembrance in France
          She must've Heard it was a fashion event! Amber steals the limelight as she displays her pins in fetching red minidress at Stella McCartney presentation
          Millie Mackintosh highlights her slender frame in snakeskin jumpsuit at Smirnoff Mix It campaign launch
          Sienna Miller and fiancé Tom Sturridge lead the way during ANOTHER celebrity-packed night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Moss be having fun! Kate looks worse for wear in clashing prints as she hits Prince gig and Chiltern Firehouse with Nick Grimshaw
          Don't mind us! Michael Sheen and Sarah Silverman make a discreet exit after late night out at celebrity haunt Chiltern Firehouse
          Crazy Stupid Stomach! Cheryl Cole reveals her washboard abs in low- cut crop top in stills from video for new single
          Lara Stone shows off her cleavage and slim pins as she is joined by husband David Walliams at Terrence Higgins Trust event
          Team green! Brooke Vincent's 22nd birthday celebrations continue as she hits Manchester in sexy jumpsuit flanked by pals
          Fancy meeting you here! Kim Kardashian and Hilary Duff bring their children to same parenting class in Beverly Hills
          'He's struggling!' Kris Jenner opens up about Rob Kardashian's issues, but does not deny daughter Kourtney is pregnant with third child
          Kourtney Kardashian covers up 'baby bump' in baggy black sweater as she and Scott Disick grab lunch in The Hamptons
          Meet first 10 Big Brother 2014 contestants: A former prostitute, a strict catholic and a one-hit wonder amongst those first in house
          When in Ibiza! TOWIE's Mario Falcone puts his washboard abs on display as he greets topless fans during stag do holiday
          Lovely in lace! Kate Beckinsale steals the show in strapless white dress at Macbeth opening night bash
          Doesn't she get a day off? Alesha Dixon shows off her super flat stomach as she dresses up again for UK premiere of Belle
          Here come the girls! Daisy Lowe sports cropped blouse and flared dress trousers for night out at Scott's with fellow fashionista Alexa Chung
          That's better! Bradley Cooper trades questionably tight shorts for baggy cargo pants as he takes a break from the set of American Sniper
          TOWIE's Gemma Collins wears white skinny jeans with confidence after losing nearly two stone ahead of Marbella special
          'He's lost... but he's no racist': Rapper 50 Cent defends Justin Bieber following N-word storm... as singer 'takes responsibility for his actions'
          Still selfie obsessed! Kendall and Kylie Jenner pucker up for picture... despite being mobbed by fans at book signing
          'She has the perfect body!' Kris Jenner says daughter Kendall's topless modelling shots 'comes with the territory'
          Jumping into action! Emma Willis wins the viewers votes as she kicks off Big Brother 2014 in flattering white all-in-one
          Big Brother 2014 Launch: Pauline Bennet goes on a 'power trip' as a playboy bunny and devout Catholic are amongst first stars to enter the house
          Big Brother reveals first twist of the series as Pauline Bennet is told to pick who wins £5,000 and which housemate is excluded on first night
          Lo(han) and behold... she's out again! Flame-haired Lindsay rocks a grungy leather jacket and skirt combo as she enjoys another night at Chiltern Firehouse
          He's scored! Phil Neville can't resist kissing bikini-clad wife Julie as family holiday in Barbados continues
          You gotta fight for your copyright! Beastie Boys awarded $1.7million after suing drink firm which used their music in commercials
          Look, I can do streetwise too! J-Lo is just Jenny From The Block as she steps out in denim after being branded a 'sell out' at Bronx homecoming 
          Time to update the wardrobe! Chantelle Houghton wears her favourite white blazer as she goes shopping with Dolly
          Together again! Eva Longoria reunites with Desperate Housewives co-star Felicity Huffman at Jane Fonda Tribute
          The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
          Rolling Stones stars Mick Jagger, Ronnie Wood and Charlie Watts visit Jerusalem's Western Wall before first ever Israel concert
          Pastel perfection: Lindsay Lohan reveals very slim pins in pale blue skinny jeans and jumper as she steps out to lunch
          Diary of BGT's ditziest finalist: Lettice on auditioning hungover, her outrageous stage costumes and being loaned a £1.5million violin to perform
          George RR Martin makes fundraising appeal to Game Of Thrones fans to name a character he will kill in upcoming novel
          The Queen lights up the Champs-Élysées: Her Majesty - in her FOURTH chic outfit of the day - has red carpet rolled out for her in Paris ahead of D-Day
          Catherine Zeta-Jones and Morgan Freeman share a friendly kiss gone wrong... as she and Michael Douglas arrive at Hollywood event together
          Pins on parade! Jessica Seinfeld and Liv Tyler wear revealing short summer dresses at Stella McCartney presentation
          'She's celestial... I was born into her': Keith Urban on his divine connection with Nicole Kidman... and how her drug intervention saved him
          She's still got it! Jane Fonda, 76, wows as she accepts lifetime achievement award... days after giving sex tips on Conan O'Brien
          Return Of The Jedi! Mark Hamill, 62, shows he can still handle a Lightsaber during visit to Disney World 37 years after first playing Luke Skywalker
          'You don't always have to be naked!' TLC slam Rihanna for using sex to sell records saying it's the easy way to get to the top in the music industry
          Justin Bieber has been 'non-stop crying' after two videos surface showing him singing vile racial slurs at the age of 14
          Escorted by her Goodfella! Robert De Niro's wife Grace Hightower shines in blue dress at documentary premiere in New York
          A cause close to her heart: Demi Lovato speaks about her own personal struggles during mental health event
          Pregnant Jessica-Jane Clement shows off her growing baby bump as she takes her dogs for a leisurely walk
          'People don't want them here': Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian continue to annoy Hamptons locals with 'outrageous filming demands'
          Lupita Nyong'o to star in and produce big screen adaptation of award-winning novel Americanah
          I'll be back... after my cigar break: Arnold Schwarzenegger takes things slowly as he has a sly puff on set of Terminator: Genesis
          Jaime King parades her pins in sporty cardigan and matching mini-skirt at the McDonald's World Cup party in NYC
          'I am not an opportunist!' Fan who bought Whitney Houston's mansion for $1.5m insists he will NOT open it to the public
          Christie Brinkley, 60, proves you're never too old for leather trousers as she stuns on lunch date with her son Jack
          Showing off her street style! Emmy Rossum awaits Stella McCartney presentation on the sidewalk in chic fringe dress
          Orange Is The New White! Taylor Schilling shows off toned pins in pearl-coloured dress at TheWrap's Emmy Celebration
          'Ready to rumble!' Pretty Little Liars star Tammin Sursok puckers up for the camera as she celebrates returning to work after giving birth seven months ago
          Did she use those scissors on her skirt? LeAnn Rimes sizzles in slinky white dress with thigh-high slit as she cuts ribbon to kick off CMA Music Festival
          Over already? Jennifer Lopez parties in NY with handsome rapper T.I.... as 'cheating' toy boy Casper Smart is nowhere to be seen
          Carey Mulligan and Helena Bonham Carter chant at a Votes for Women rally in first still from upcoming film Suffragette
          Are those clothes from the Thrift Shop? Macklemore and Ryan Lewis make a cool arrival in dapper attire to Sin City nightclub
          Happy to get his kit off! Robbie Williams gets help to change into his football top during preparations for SoccerAid
          One big happy family! Hilary Swank shows her maternal side as she gives her boyfriend's little girl a kiss at French Open
          'I've had a lot of therapy': Katy Perry talks about getting over exes John Mayer and Russell Brand... and how long she's gone without sex in new interview
          Ricky Gervais and longtime partner Jane Fallon attend Derek event after visiting their Muppet pals on Sesame Street
          Date night! Twilight star Ashley Greene stuns in tiny black playsuit at she takes boyfriend Paul Khoury to glitzy event in West Hollywood
          While they were teaching! Sandra Bullock makes a surprise visit to her son Louis' school as she donates goodies to the faculty
          What will Rita think? Calvin Harris parties with ANOTHER mystery woman on a night out as girlfriend Ora enjoys Mexican getaway
          Evan Rachel Wood sued for $30M after bailing on film 10 Things I Hate About Life... as rep slams lawsuit as 'preposterous' and a 'bullying tactic'
          'With you I will go': Kanye West beams as Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli serenades Kim Kardashian at their lavish Florence wedding
          Newlywed Kim Kardashian to spend up to a month shooting KUWTK spin-off in The Hamptons... but Kanye West isn't sure if he wants to join her
          Deja blue: Rosario Dawson is back in her favorite colour after wowing in that revealing gown at the Cannes Film Festival
          'I'm Sporty Spice!' Gisele Bundchen shows off washboard stomach in a bikini for cover shoot as she admits she loves to exercise
          That's her secret! Jordana Brewster shows off svelte arms pushing her son Julian along in his stroller
          The fight for $50m: Bowling For Columbine filmmaker Michael Moore claims wife of 22 years spent recklessly as they prepare for divorce trial
          She's no shrinking violet! Lorde wears purple lipstick from her new Mac collection during bewitching performance in London
          Looking scarily good! Camilla Belle wears a skull print T-shirt as she arrives at LAX after South America trip
          You'll never take King's Landing with THAT! Game Of Thrones star Kit Harington poses with plastic dragon at Universal Studios
          'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richmand poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
          Shane Warne caught kissing and sharing intimate embrace with Playboy cover girl Emily Scott... but he STILL insists he's single
          Boho babe: Alessandra Ambrosio forgoes make-up as she runs errands in LA clad in a pretty lilac tie-dye maxi-dress
          King Kevin rules supreme: Spacey is magnificent in one-man show Clarence Darrow, writes QUENTIN LETTS
          BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Let's hear it for the Scottsboro Boys! Brandon Victor Dixon to star in West End production of extraordinary show
          Poetic, haunting... these D-Day letters moved me to tears: CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV
          A hit and miss comedy: There are funny moments, but Jump Street's daft cops fail to reach the hilarious heights of their first film
          'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die:' Roman Polanski shares private memories of wife Sharon Tate in new book on pregnant beauty's tragic life
Sword-wielding Sikhs clash at India's Golden Temple during prayers to mark the deadly 1984 military assault at Amritsar
       At least six people were injured as dozens of Sikh radicals clashed with supporters of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC) at the Golden Temple, in Amritsar. It is understood the scuffle erupted over who would speak first at the service, held to remember victims of government offensive Operation Blue Star that left hundreds dead on June 6, 1984.
Lansley had all the urgency of a snail crossing a hosta leaf: QUENTIN LETTS on Yesterday in Parliament
      Andrew Lansley uses thousands of words to say almost nothing, moving at the speed cold honey drips from a teaspoon.
TOM UTLEY: Yes, I risk a lynching by feminists, but why on earth is a 'family friendly' government paying mums to dump children in nurseries?
      The Queen's Speech contained details about a Childcare Payments Bill, which would offer subsidies of up to £2,000 a year to mothers.
TOM UTLEY: Yes, I risk a lynching by feminists, but why on earth is a 'family friendly' government paying mums to dump children in nurseries?
Newborn who died from contaminated hospital drip was just nine days old it emerges as total number of babies seriously ill from the rogue batch has risen to 18
      The baby boy who died from a suspected contaminated drip in London's St Thomas' hospital was today named as nine-day-old Yousef Al-Kharboush
Ten hospital staff suspended after elderly woman died days after being found with 'unexplained and serious injuries' at hospital
      Tegwen Roderick, 88, was being treated at the Cwm Cynon Hospital in Mountain Ash, South Wales (pictured) when the injury was discovered.
'A battle for life or death is in progress': Read the first breaking news report of D-Day as it happened 70-years ago
      The first breaking news report of D-Day as it happened 70-years-ago has been re-released to mark the anniversary of the beginning of the liberation of Europe.
That'll definitely help: U.S. Secret Service buys special software that can detect SARCASM on Twitter
      The tender calls for a social media analytics software tool that can analyse Twitter data in real-time, identify statistical patterns and present complex data in a clear, concise way.
       Wheeling in on horses and carts, thousands of travellers have pitched up on a privately owned golf course in the small market town of Appleby, Cumbria, for the largest event of its kind in Europe. The week-long Appleby Horse Fair attracts members of the gypsy community from around the world, and has previously been featured in popular Channel 4 show My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding.
      Eddie Davenport managed to get himself out of his sickbed to present an award at last Monday’s London Club & Bar Awards at the Intercontinental Hotel.
      Grayson Perry and his wife Philippa turned up at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition party on Wednesday in what looked like mix ’n’ match wardrobes.
Michael Gove and Theresa May to be grilled over their Cabinet bust-up: As top civil servant steps in, PM vows: 'I'll get to the bottom of this'
      The Home Secretary and the Education Secretary will each be interviewed by Cabinet Secretary Sir Jeremy Heywood, according to government sources.
'It's time for the people to speak': Aunt of Spain’s new Queen Letizia tweets her followers calling for a Republic
      Henar Ortiz Alvarez, the aunt of future queen Letizia Ortiz, made her feelings known on Twitter tweeting: It's time for the people to speak...'
Daughter 'had elderly parents shot dead and buried in their garden after mother admitted sleeping with son-in-law... and then she tricked relatives for 15 years into believing they were still alive'
       Susan and Christopher Edwards (right) 'lied to everybody' for 15 years to cover up the killings of Patricia and William Wycherley, (left) from Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, and diverted a total of £245,000 into their own accounts, Nottingham Crown Court was told. Mr Wycherley, 85, and his 63-year-old wife were both shot twice with a revolver over bank holiday weekend in May 1998 and were buried in the garden (centre) prosecutor Peter Joyce QC said.
      But researchers at the University of Pittsburgh found a man's consumption of alcohol had no influence on their daughter's drinking habits.
Conman jailed for posing as Britain's Steven Spielberg to trick animation companies into giving him £800,000
      David Griffiths, 50, (pictured) from Oreton in Shropshire, conned investors by pretending to be a multi-millionnaire owner of a successful production company with close links to animation giants Pixar.
Conman jailed for posing as Britain's Steven Spielberg to trick animation companies into giving him £800,000
Restaurant rage: Living in an area with lots of fast food stores can make you impatient and unable to savour things, researchers warn
      Toronto researchers say just the presence of the chains was enough to cause people to struggle to slow down and savour things.
The transforming desk that moves up and down to keep you fit - and can even track how much exercise you get at the office
      The $3,900 Stir Kinect desk has a motor to raise and lower itself, converting it into a standing desk or a traditional desk.
Scaffolding company fined £5,000 after worker was caught dangling his legs over the edge five floors up with no safety barrier
      JOS Scaffolding Ltd pleaded guilty to breaking safety laws after pictures of its precariously-perched workers on a busy London street were sent to the Health and Safety Executive.
'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die': New book reveals Roman Polanski's private memories of wife Sharon Tate, slaughtered by Charles Manson's 'Family' when she was pregnant
      Sharon Tate's sister Debra has compiled a book of exclusive photographs and memories dedicated to the actress from her husband Roman Polanski.
Enjoy summer while it lasts because storms are on the way this weekend... but at least the damp weather means Britain's largest laburnum arch will be in bloom for even longer
       Saturday will see heavy rain along with some of the worst hailstorms in years - but there could be sunshine on Sunday. Twister tornado-like cloud formations were even spotted snaking their way across fields over Lincolnshire yesterday, while other parts of the UK basked in glorious sunshine and high temperatures, pictured. The Met Office has already issued a yellow severe weather warning for the whole of England and Wales, as well as southern parts of Scotland.
M&S boss takes self-imposed 26% pay cut after failing to turn round profit slump - but he still pockets £1.6m
      Marc Bolland's basic salary was unchanged at £975,000, but his decision to give up a pay rise and to not receive a bonus means his pay package was cut by 26% to £1.59m in 2013/2014.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
      Mr Justice Saunders told the jury a private detective working for the tabloid had accessed the 13-year-old’s phone - but had not deliberately deleted the voicemails.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
Extravagant hen dos now cost guests so much they rival the amount spent on attending the actual wedding!
      Gone are the days of a knees-up down the pub as the average cost of attending a hen do has rocketed and often involves a trip abroad.
      Paula Binns claims the GP at the Gill Medical Centre in Walkden told her to seek advice from a vet instead after taking Lilyanna in when she noticed the parasite.
This is how you catfight, son! Father teaches his kittens the best way to pack a punch when he sees how terrible they are at brawling
       A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video shot in an unknown location that proves boys will be boys no matter the species. The YouTube clip from user kamzer opens with two very young kitten siblings wrestling on a kitchen counter. Suddenly their papa cat peeps up from the floor below and before they can purr 'TKO,' their dad is in the mix teaching them a proper left hook.
Weak pound and high cost of living: Why retiring abroad is now branded 'a luxury' with some popular destinations even pricier than UK
      Experts warned moving abroad is 'no longer an option for the average British person' according to experts, due to rising prices in Europe.
      Ministers are concerned that malicious saboteurs who use the internet to spark civil unrest could get off lightly under current legislation.
Can you tell what it is? From the teeth of a snail and the skin of garlic, microscopic images reveal the world in close up
      British photographer David Maitland took the astonishing pictures to show how the world can look very different close up.
      The new board of the Financial Information Authority has vast international experience and includes a woman for the first time, the Vatican said.
      Annual house price inflation was 8.7 per cent, on Halifax's measure, with the average home costing almost £18,000 more than a year ago.
Tom Sharpe's ashes buried in same Northumberland cemetery as his father where he is laid to rest with bottle of whisky, a cigar and his favourite pen
      The partner of comic author Tom Sharpe who died in Spain last year has driven his ashes 1,200 miles to a small Northumberland church fulfill his dying wish.
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at US university, killing one and wounding three
       Students at Seattle Pacific University say Jon Meis (right) saved countless lives when he sprang into action as the shooter stopped to reload his weapon. The gunman has been identified as Aaron Ybarra, 26 (left). Ybarra is a Seattle resident who lives with his parents. He has allegedly confessed to the shootings and even bragged about the carnage he inflicted on the campus.
      A new report by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau has confirmed that the original search area along the 'seventh arc' of the southern Indian Ocean for MH370 is the right place to be looking for the missing jet.
Daaadddd! British teenagers stay an average of 6.7 metres away from their 'embarrassing' fathers in public
      The average father also does 627 ‘dad miles’ every year on weekends, ferrying teens to and from parties and other social gatherings, often very late into the evening.
Diabetic put her life at risk to lose weight: Mother stopped taking her insulin injections after ballooning to 19 stone
      Hayleigh Juggins, 20, from Bedfordshire, ignored doctors' advice to take insulin after the birth of her daughter, Angel.
Would YOU eat it? Seaside parlour creates battered fish and chip flavoured ice cream - complete with mushy peas
      Teare Wood's Ice Cream Parlour, in Whitby, North Yorkshire, has combined the traditional holiday tastes to tempt tourists.
Thalidomide survivors launch a fresh legal bid against manufacturers of controversial morning sickness pill
      Papers have been filed at the High Court on behalf of eight people whose mothers took the anti-morning sickness drug when pregnant in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
      Research published in the journal The Obstetrician and Gynaecologist shows a small percentage of headaches were caused by potentially life-threatening neurological conditions.
'Can't catch me': Fugitive, 20, who taunted police on Facebook weeps in the dock as he is jailed for stealing thousands from his grandparents and assaulting his mother
       Joe Barlow (left), from Laindon, Essex, was jailed for five separate offences at Basildon Crown Court, including stealing £8,500 from his grandparents’ savings to pay for drugs. He was also convicted of assaulting his mother on Valentine's Day and for an offence of criminal damage. He was sent to prison after spending two and a half months on the run from police during which he taunted officers on Facebook by writing ‘can’t catch me’, and saying he would not turn himself in until he had a meeting with Prime Minister David Cameron (right). He was caught after police posted his mugshot on Facebook with an urgent appeal on May 3 (bottom right).
Flight of a lifetime! 130 tickets go on sale to fly alongside Lancaster bomber that's in UK for last time - but it will set you back £2,150
      The Lancaster will be in the UK, flying from Canada to England, for four days, arriving on August 8, making the 18-hour trip for the first and final time.
      His comments came ahead an International Monetary Fund report, which is expected to warn that potential for runaway house price growth threatens the recovery.
Two people rescued by police after barricading themselves in a bedroom because they were scared of their dog Fluffy
      The dog owners blocked themselves in their home in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, after becoming frightened of their Staffordshire bull terrier, Fluffy (pictured).
Motorcyclist rushed to hospital and bystanders injured by flying debris after crash with a police car
      The motorcyclist suffered left head and leg injuries in the crash at around 1.20pm on the Cotton Street junction with Poplar High Street, in Poplar, east London.
Is this really the best way to woo tourists? Crisis-hit Egypt introduces £15 airport tax ... that will be hidden in cost of flight tickets
      The departure fee - which costs the same amount as a visa for trips up to 30 days - has been criticised as a further deterrent for travellers to visit the destination.
Postal worker posed as Bargain Hunt auctioneer to steal £3,000 from a bank... but was caught when the cashier spotted he was a 'nervous' fake
      Anthony Wolstencroft, 27, from Blackley, Greater Manchester, pictured, pretended to be antiques expert Charles Hanson at a Natwest bank branch.
      After pinpointing three types of stem cells in umbilical cords, Melbourne researchers could be on the verge of a major breakthrough in preventing cerebral palsy.
Woman, 22, seriously hurt in acid attack outside restaurant as 48-year-old female suspect is arrested
      A 48-year-old woman has been arrested on suspicion of causing grievous bodily harm in the attack, which happened in Sandown on the Isle of Wight in the early hours of yesterday.
Woman, 22, seriously hurt in acid attack outside restaurant as 48-year-old female suspect is arrested
Filthy fish and chip shop shut down after dead mice were found rotting while staff cooked meals and droppings were found in spice mix
       Health inspectors investigating an Oldham takeaway discovered rotting mice decaying on a glue trap, left, with a deep fat frying covered in grease and fat, top right, and work surfaces used for preparing food covered in mouse droppings, a court has heard. Owner Sarfaz Rouf told magistrates that he did not have a 'vast knowledge' of food hygiene. Him and Iram Bibi were fined just £250 each and the business has now closed.
Forget passwords, the future of security is SQUIGGLY LINES: How free-form gestures may replace PINs and grids on phones
      During tests, Rutgers University in New Jersey's free-form gestures (pictured) could not be stolen by hackers.
The end of mouldy bread? Edible film made from oils could extend the life of an everyday loaf by more than two weeks
      Scientists at the Federal University of Viçosa in Brazil used essential oils found in clove and oregano to prolong the life of sliced bread (stock image).
Man and women die from ‘overpowering fumes’ after jumping into cesspit to retrieve ‘expensive phone’
      The woman had dropped her device – worth 2,000 yuan (£190) – in the open-pit toilet, reported Dahe, a website run by the Henan provincial government.
From robotic milk maids to self-driving tractors and drones that monitor crops: Scientists reveal the future of farming
      EXCLUSIVE: A Farmer's Weekly survey has revealed which current and futuristic technologies top the wish lists of British farmers.
You will be happy! Thai junta offers free haircuts and puddings to the masses as part of charm offensive after seizing power in military coup
      Army bosses, who seized power in Bangkok just weeks ago, say cheering up the country is a top priority and want to reinstate Thailand as the ‘Land of Smiles’.
You will be happy! Thai junta offers free haircuts and puddings to the masses as part of charm offensive after seizing power in military coup
      Jobless Andrew Boyce won the money and a Porsche Boxster GTS after he snapped up 50 tickets for a draw at the Westfield shopping centre in Stratford, east London
Thor, god of the lie-in! 'Talking' puppy growls 'no' at his owner as he's told to get out of bed at 3:30am
       Thor the dog from Birmingham, Michigan, is seen in a video peacefully lying in bed before being woken up at 3.30am. But showing that it's not just humans who struggle in the morning, the little pup repeatedly growls what sounds like 'no' as he refuses to get up.
      Brand Fatyo from Japan has ditched the traditional size labels in its garments in favour of more literal descriptions such as - titch, skinny, fat and jumbo.
Zoo worker in gorilla suit shot with tranquiliser dart during 'escape drill' because no-one told the vet it wasn't real
      The 35-year-old zoo employee was shot on Monday at Tenerife's Loro Parque Zoo. Staff were taking part in a drill designed to ensure they had an emergency plan in place in case one of the gorillas escaped.
Builder hired to renovate Oxford Street store stole £30,000 of designer goods including sunglasses and perfume during his first shift
      A builder helped himself to £30,000 of designer goods on his first shift when he was hired to renovate Boots on Oxford Street, London.
Don't REIN on my parade! Moment horse bolted from Whitehall procession throwing off its rider (who still got up and saluted the Queen as she came past seconds later)
      As the Queen made her way from Buckingham Palace, Musaqaleh had other plans, bolting off towards Horse Guards Parade.
Versace, Gucci... il Duce? Wardrobe where Mussolini's corpse was kept for 11 years up for auction on eBay
      The wardrobe itself is worthless but, having been the hiding place for the dictator’s corpse between 1946 and 1957, it has ghoulish value for collectors of fascist memorabilia.
How the moon was made: Researchers reveal new evidence Earth was hit by giant object as big as Mars 4.5 billion years ago
      German researchers say their analysis of Apollo moon rocks rocks show Earth was hit by a huge object called 'Theta' which led to the moon's formation.
Did HUMANS wipe out the woolly mammoth? Study finds a direct link between hunting and the extinction of large Ice Age animals
      Researchers at Aarhus University in Denmark came to the conclusion after looking at the pattern of extinctions for 177 species between 132,000 years and 1,000 years ago.
Sky-high WiFi will soon be available across Europe: Passengers on British Airways flights to get internet within three years
      Internet will be soon be available on British Airways flights (pictured) across Europe. The service will be provided by London-based satellite operator Inmarsat.
       Revellers at the rented student house (inset top right) in Fallowfield, Manchester, were plunged into the basement (left) after the floor fell through (right). Students described how 'everyone was screaming' as the boards split, throwing up a cloud of dust. However, nobody was hurt.
William Hague condemns Assad's election victory as 'an insult to Syrians' that bore 'no relation to genuine democracy'
      Tens of thousands took to the streets in government-held areas even before the results were announced on Wednesday evening, waving portraits of Assad and the official Syrian flag.
Tasty Terracotta Army! Food artist makes China's iconic warriors with PIZZA dough (but they won't last thousands of years)
      Annabel de Vetten created the scaled-down warriors to celebrate the opening of Pizza Express' 500th restaurant... in Beijing.
Trans-cending preconceptions: Thought-provoking new photo series celebrates the lives of trans-identified and gender nonconformist individuals
      Rhys Harper, who is based in Syracuse, New York, is hoping his project will help to shift people's perspective on the subject.
Back to the rock! Adventurer leaves the UK for Britain's loneliest outpost in the Outer Hebrides in second attempt to break record
      Nick Hancock will try again to land on Britain's loneliest island Rockall tomorrow, weather permitting, to break the record of 42 days there.
      Ben Baldwin, 22, from Barnsley, has cerebral palsy, severe epilepsy and learning difficulties and is often too ill to go outside, so Tiger visits him in his bed.
An eggs-traordinary find! Ancient reptile fossils shed light on how mysterious Pterosaurs nested like modern-day birds
      The five intact eggs were found in the Xinjiang province, China and all belonged to a previously unknown pterosaur species, Hamipterus tianshanensis.
You appear to have an ad-blocker running which will prevent this page from functioning as intended. Please disable your ad-blocker or set an exception for this page.Today's hottestfashion findsSee moreRihannaWow like Rihanna in an embellished sheer dressRead more ›KarruecheWork a simple white dress into your summer wardrobeRead more ›JenniferStep up your cool style with a pair of fresh sneakersRead more ›KourtneyGo back to black in monochrome Nike trainersRead more ›
          This won't do Grace any favours: BRIAN VINER reviews Nicole Kidman's latest film Grace of Monaco
          Hollywood's $800 facial: The secret to Angelina Jolie's glowing skin combines microdermabrasion, laser and a peel
          It's DJ Delta! The Voice Kids coach Goodrem jets home from Hollywood with an edgy new look complete with ripped jeans and shiny headphones
          She's certainly a good advertisement! US TV presenter Maria Menounos promotes her diet and fitness book in shiny black shorts in New York City
          'I gave him every bit of advice but now it's up to him': Usher opens up about his friend Justin Bieber's spiral out of control
          It's ON Again! Spring Breakers star Ashley Benson steps out with her beau Ryan Good wearing a bright playsuit
          Put away the bowl! Cindy Crawford reveals her stunning mane of hair was not always her crowning glory in cute flashback photo
          'I almost killed Tom Cruise!' Emily Blunt recalls terrifying moment she nearly crashed a car while shooting scenes for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Still a sex symbol! Raquel Welch, 73, looks decades younger in white jeans and yellow jacket while out to dinner
          Her own best ad! Kate Hudson displays her washboard abs as she models for fitness line... and shares her workout motivation
          Angela Simmons displays toned physique in sexy summery outfit as she hints at new venture following power lunch with her 'fitness gurus'
          The Devil Wears...white! Meryl Streep goes sinister as the Chief Elder of a dystopian society in The Giver
          Nature girl! Vanessa Hudgens shows off her toned tummy in black crop top and shorts during a vigorous hillside hike
          'I'd be open to doing more True Detective': Matthew McConaughey expresses interest in reprising Rust Cohle TV role
          Pretty as a picture! Jessica Alba shows her passion for prints while leaving the studio with takeout lunch
          That's where she gets it from! Leggy Gigi Hadid is chic in short metallic frock while out with her stylish mother Yolanda Foster
          Natalie Portman is fresh-faced and flawless as she touches down at LAX with husband Benjamin Millepied and their adorable son Aleph
          Good news for Miley Cyrus as police 'arrest two people in their 20s' in connection with star's stolen $100k Maserati
          Hot mama! Country singer Jessie James shows off her trim post-baby body at CMT Awards... just three months after giving birth
          Don't mention the outfit! Even Lena Dunham has 'no comment' over her unflattering ensemble as she enjoys a stroll in New York
          'Superhero workout!' Arrow's Stephen Amell shows off his impressive 'parkour' skills on military inspired obstacle course
          Strong sensitive types! Insurgent's Theo James brings Fault In Their Stars book to the gym while Miles Teller pumps some iron
          Farrah Abraham reveals she's writing a Christian parenting book... despite admitting she needs 'space' from her four-year-old and waxes child's eyebrows
          She's glowing: Holly Willoughby shows off growing bump in navy skater dress as she films This Morning segment
          She's anything but PLANE! Carol Vorderman shows off her pins in hot pink and black dress at photocall after jetting herself back from awards show
          'We've got a Christmas bun in the oven! Coronation Street's Paula Lane announces first pregnancy with childhood sweetheart Tom Shaw on Twitter
          'I'm going to get stick for this': Amy Willerton posts bikini selfie... but worries about how her fans will react
          'Squats are the key! Even 10 make me feel better': Victoria's Secret Angel Candice Swanepoel reveals secrets behind that body
          The lady is a vamp! Rihanna unleashes her rock chick side in a skimpy leather two-piece and fierce lace-up heels for Paris charity event
          Explicit content! Lindsay Lohan can't even manage a supporting role in sheer logo top... but at least gives parental advisory warning
          A leggy Lily Allen makes rare appearance with husband Sam Cooper for date night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Think pink! Alex Gerrard shows off her toned figure and glowing tan in bubblegum-hued workout gear
          She's well-heeled: BGT star Lettice Rowbotham whips off her shoes as she heads to BBC studios
          Russell Brand DEFENDS Justin Bieber for making vile racial slurs at the age of 14... claiming he should be 'let off' because it was 'ages ago'
          Whatever the leather: New mum Caprice shows off her post-pregnancy figure in skin-tight leather skirt and top
          Welcome to the strip: Danielle Lloyd and husband Jamie O'Hara jet into Vegas for a holiday with friends
          Not a bad consolation prize! Michael Carrick puts World Cup woes behind him as he and wife Lisa strip to their swimwear to top up their tans in Ibiza
          Graham Norton saves Amanda Holden from revealing more than she intended while doing a handstand in LBD
          It's a very Vogue birthday: Model Bambi Norwood-Blyth celebrates by shooting for fashion magazine with designer husband Dan Single
          J-Wow! Jennifer Lopez doesn't leave much to the imagination as she strips down to sexy latex stockings and suspenders to play first-ever hometown gig
          J.Lo revisits the Bronx and THAT Versace dress for homecoming show... after transsexual bikini model linked to Casper Smart speaks out
          Feeling like a million dollars! Matchmaker Patti Stanger, 53, wears plunging swimsuit as she celebrates her birthday with toyboy fiancé
          Do Ya Thang! Rihanna is sexy in a silky black miniskirt and matching tuxedo jacket as she goes for dinner in Paris
          Here comes the bride! Adam Levine to marry model Behati Prinsloo in 'intimate Mexican ceremony' on July 19
          Politics is the new black: AnnaLynne McCord votes for her spiritual guru as congressional candidate... but she comes in fourth
          She can't resist her man in uniform! Suki Waterhouse gets to grips with Bradley Cooper on set of American Sniper
          Million dollar smile! Victoria Justice beams in an unusual wrap dress at the Spent: Looking For Change premiere
          Strong after 22 years! Woody Allen strolls through Central Park with Soon-Yi Previn... as he prepares to shoot Emma Stone movie in Rhode Island
          Mama June doesn't let her 'forklift foot' get in the way of a family pool day as she goes swimming in socks
          Ramona Singer holds hands with husband Mario on romantic movie date... after firing off legal warning to his mistress over 'lewd messages'
          'Millie Mackintosh and Abbey Clancy already have their eyes on a few pieces': Julien Macdonald unveils glamorous beachwear range for Matalan
          She's stopping traffic: Elsa Pataky wears striking lime green reptilian dress to take over the streets of Madrid for fashion shoot
          Ivana Trump sells her Palm Beach mansion for $18 million - more than FOUR TIMES what she paid for it in 1994
          Table for three! Pregnant Julia Carey displays subtle baby bump as she steps out for dinner with James Corden at Chiltern Firehouse
          Beyonce shows off her amazing legs in pink mini dress as she has a date night with Jay Z in New York
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney set to reveal sex secrets in Big Brother house
          Watch your tan-line! Abbey Clancy wows in a daring cut-out panel swimsuit as she holidays in Hawaii with Peter Crouch
          Now that's a game plan! Gisele Bundchen and Tom Brady's sprawling new Boston mansion takes shape
          Your slip is showing! Leggy Chrissy Teigen heats up New York in black lace lingerie and white knit sweater while heading to dinner
          Looking slinky! Casey Batchelor struts in shiny snakeskin leggings and low-cut top as she models her new fashion collection
          She's got it! Eliza Doolittle is a triumph in plunging leather crop-top and sporty silk trousers at The Other Ball
          'There's quite a bit of blood': The 911 call made after The Brady Bunch housekeeper Ann B Davis has fatal fall is released
          Does she EVER stay in? As Princess Beatrice dines at Roka, we bring you the hotspot-hopping royal's guide to London's smartest restaurants
          From Iceland to ice cool: Sexiest Woman of All Time Rachel Stevens swaps supermarket chic for a semi-sheer top and smart tailoring
          Hawaii-five-WHOAH!! Emma Roberts bares her toned tum in daring crop top... while Lupita Nyong'o is a vision in green at the Maui Film Festival opening 
          Is this Jen 2.0? Meet the 2014 Miss Universe Australia finalist who works as Jennifer Hawkins' body double - and she's from her home town!
          'No more marriages': Pregnant Katie Price vows to never wed again after third husband Kieran Hayler cheated on her
          He's leaving Home! Summer Bay's resident  hottie Lincoln Younes swaps surfing for the 1960s as he takes a new role in Love Child
          Supporting her man! Khloe Kardashian opts for cleavage-baring top as she watches French Montana at J-Lo Bronx show
          Kanye West to take 'drastic measures' to beef up daughter North's security as he 'fears for her safety'
          True Blood star Jim Parrack to divorce wife of six years Ciera... as he 'moves on' with Hunger Games actress Leven Rambin
          Hats you win! Racing fan Jodie Kidd smoulders as she strikes a pose in glamorous headgear ahead of the Derby
          He's clearly nutritious! TOWIE's Gemma Collins can barely keep her lips off mystery new boyfriend as she debuts him on health shop trip
          Belle-y of the ball: Miley stands out in crop top and ripped jeans as she leaves hotel after Copenhagen concert
          He still has the big house! OJ Simpson's Florida home sold for $655,000 in foreclosure auction
          'It's given me a chance to give something back': Cambridge medical student wins swimsuit round of the Miss England
          I got fired for being pregnant: Lara Stone says she was axed for modelling job because she was too fat
          Are they dating? Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Meryl Davis reunite for cosy night on the town two weeks after DWTS win
          Mother of three Elsa Pataky, 37, dazzles in black mini skirt as she unveils her new fitness book and her rock hard abs
          Alessandra Ambrosio shows off her toned tum in black crop top and displays perfect pins in thigh-split skirt as she attends event with fiance Jamie Mazur
          Cashmere from Tesco. Undies from Asda. Posh frocks from Sainsbury's: The ultimate guide to summer style at the supermarket!
          Her faiery tale life! Sam Faiers puts her cleavage on display in plunging dress for Alice In Wonderland themed magazine photo shoot
          Cara Santana puts on a brave face as she hits the gym in midriff baring vest after boyfriend Jesse Metcalfe's ex slammed his bedroom prowess
          'She's being tormented and harassed': Kardashians rent store in The Hamptons and landlord gets 'slammed on internet' and 'snide comments' for doing it
          Kendall Jenner continues to take the plunge as she dons low-cut black number while promoting new sci-fi book with Kylie
          Sheer daring! Pregnant Rebecca Ferguson looks radiant in black gown as she shows off her baby bump ahead of performance at Parkinson's event
          Something to get off your chest? Lily Allen's deep pink hair is overshadowed by keyhole black dress featuring centre split at The Other Ball
          It's there in black and white: Jessica Wright wears chic backless jumpsuit... while Diana Vickers thrills in mini at Parkinson's event
          Former Beverly Hills, 90210 star Rebecca Gayheart goes dotty in see- through shirt as she takes adorable daughter Billie Dane out for the day
          That's why the Sexiest Woman Of All Time goes to Iceland! Rachel Stevens is far cry from title as she goes make-up free in frozen food store
          'Some guys prefer blondes, some brunettes - I like old ladies': 'Extreme toyboy', 31, takes 91-year-old girlfriend home to meet his mother
          'I need to step up and own what I did': Bieber apologises after fresh clip of singer 'changing song lyrics to joke about killing a n****** and joining Ku Klux Klan'
          Getting to grips with the wildlife! Ellie Goulding posts cute Instagram snap cuddling a koala while on tour in Australia
          Let the pageant begin! Miss USA 2014 contestants strut their stuff at the preliminary competition in Louisiana
          Demi Lovato steals the spotlight in a statement black and yellow frock as she picks up Fun Fearless Latina Of The Year Award
          Robin Wright and Mel B prove simplicity is best in elegant black ensembles at magazine bash
          Let's bounce! Hugh Jackman is jumping for joy in a mysterious new video that says shows him hopping around the world
          'I invented the international press tour': Tom Cruise makes claim after whirlwind three-country première feat for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Ooh la la! Kirsten Dunst goes topless for Madame Figaro magazine as she reveals she feels more appreciated in France
          If you don't answer that, I will! Kevin Spacey halts new play on opening night to snap at audience member whose phone went off
          Battle of the busts! LeAnn Rimes and Kristen Bell compete for the most plunging gown at CMT Music Awards... and LeAnn just edges it
          She's got a lot of front! Carrie Underwood wears a revealing halter neck summer dress as she takes top prize at CMT Music Awards
          It's a boy! Offspring star Matthew Le Nevez announces the name and sex of his newborn and reveals he misses playing dreamy Dr Patrick
          Daisy Lowe works masculine chic in wide leg trousers at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition... as she leaps into the arms of her BFF Sam Smith
          Action hero Mark Wahlberg shows off his muscles in tight T-shirt as he takes eldest son Michael to lunch
          Bringing the show to life! Priscilla Presley wears gaudy blouse to opening of Joseph And The Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat
          Ready for her close up! Jessica Biel smoulders in black and white shoot for Dior Magazine as she models their latest collection
          I do NOT endorse this! Jennifer Love Hewitt 'suing company using her image to promote slimming product' featured on Shark Tank
Is that an Old Master painting - or Beyonce’s Master Cleanse? Photographer recreates celebrity diets as still lifes
       Italian Dan Bannino reproduced the diets of Gwyneth Paltrow, Kate Moss, Beyonce Knowles, Simon Cowell, Bill Clinton, Lord Byron, and even King Henry VIII. 'My aim was to capture the beauty that lies in this terrible constriction of diets and deprivation', explains Mr Bannino. 'To show how this weirdness hasn’t changed even since the 15th century.'
Fizzy drinks 'loaded with harmful sugars could increase the risk of developing diabetes, cardiovascular and liver disease'
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say the drinks contain more fructose, which is converted to fat in the liver, than people realise.
      Crowds screamed out as the boy, thought to be about three years old, appeared to cling to the ledge of an apartment block in Vila Velha, Brazil.
       The rhino was part of a relocation programme in the Zululand region of South Africa, which aims to keep the animals safe. The images of its dramatic airlift, which was carried out by KZN Wildlife Game Capture, were taken by photographer Em Gatland, who described witnessing the transfer as surreal and a mixture of emotion.
China may have banned Tiananmen Square memorial but the rest of Asia remembers: From Hong Kong to Taiwan thousands hold vigil on 25th anniversary of Beijing massacre
Dont come back, next time you wont get out alive: Talibans taunt as they released deserter POW Bowe revealed in propaganda video
Pictured: Grinning father of famous model moments after he executed his neighbour and minutes before he 'swallowed the gun' in dramatic standoff with Chinese SAS
Suicidal Chinese mother leaps from third floor balcony after her daughter refused to break up with 'lazy' boyfriend (but miraculously survives)
Hundreds of pro-Russian rebels killed in fierce attack by Ukrainian forces as Obama tells Nato allies 'you'll never be alone'
Thousands of anti-monarchist protesters take to streets of Spain calling for a republic after King Juan Carlos abdicates after 39 years
Woolly jumpers, wide collared jackets and unflattering skirts ... the medal for worst Commonwealth Games uniforms goes to Australia
King Juan Carlos of Spain in shock abdication after 40 years as his son and glamourous ex-newsreader wife take on challenge of leading Spain out of the doldrums
Spain harbours highest number of expat benefit cheats with more than 700 believed to be scamming the system while soaking up the sun
Mother of British backpacker missing in Malaysian jungle for six days arrives in country 'to be here when they find him'
Come here you big BULLy! Chinese wrestlers get to grips with giant calves in man over beast competition
China disgust at woman who beheads cat and posts image online - and then blames 'alcohol and domestic misfortune'
Bodies of five French soldiers from WWI found alongside their wallets, rifles and a figurine of the Virgin Mary in French wood 100 years after they were killed
'The job isn't finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite...
My Big Fat Gypsy horse fair: Traditional gathering begins in Appleby - and is already hit by row over...
Obama pleads with Scotland to vote 'No' to independence AND for Britain to stay in the European Union
Back to the beaches of death and deliverance: British D-Day veterans revisit the battlegrounds and villages...
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left...
Home of the free! Father paints his house with stars and stripes in protest at local officials who tried to...
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at Seattle Pacific...
Another shabby day for the marshmallow President: As his Taliban hostage swap sours, why Obama is a pygmy...
A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video, that proves boys will be boys no...
Amid urban squalor, Nature's glory takes wing: Just why is this dazzling blue kingfisher slumming it among shopping trolleys in South London?
       These kingfishers, captured by photographer Tomos Brangwyn on the River Wandle, are a tribute to the amazing turn-around in the fortunes of Britain’s urban rivers over the past 50 years.
Amid urban squalor, Nature's glory takes wing: Just why is this dazzling blue kingfisher slumming it among shopping trolleys in South London?
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say fasting could be particularly beneficial for people whose immune systems have been damaged by chemotherapy.
Couples that sleep together, stay together: Spouses are more likely to slumber in sync if the wife is satisfied with their marriage
      New study showS that overall synchrony in sleep-wake schedules among couples was higher when the woman was happier in the relationship.
Who left the hand-brake off? Investigation under way after Ryanair plane rolls backwards and crashes into airport building, destroying tail wing
      The force of the impact tore apart the rear stabiliser of the £72m Boeing 737 at Rome Ciampino Airport yesterday.
Malaysian police refuse to rule out foul play in case of missing backpacker Gareth Huntley as his family await autopsy to determine whether shirtless body found in Malaysian jungle pond is him
      Mr Huntley's mother Janet Southwell, who arrived in Malaysia on Monday was pictured this morning outside Tengku Ampuan Afzan Hospital in Kuantan with his girlfriend Kit Natariga.
Shocking moment one-armed Russian motorist starts furious road rage punch-up with car behind... but then ends up getting badly beaten
       A one-armed Russian man (circled, top left) has been filmed starting a road rage fight in Moscow, but quickly has the tables turned on him as he is kicked in the head and has his false arm pulled off (bottom right). Nikita Korolev, 43, and Kiril Stepanov, 45, started punching and kicking the occupants of a car behind them through the open windows after the driver refused to back up, but ended up being beaten themselves.
          The Azzurri hit a hiccup ahead of the World Cup when they realised their plane was too small
          Rooney rage: England star raps Scholes for saying he faces axe... and Moyes insists his former player can light up World Cup in Brazil
          Jose Mourinho has admitted Chelsea are interested in signing the former Arsenal captain from Barcelona 
          Jose Mourinho admitted that letting the midfielder go was one of the most difficult acts of his career
          Louis van Gaal has told the former Fulham boss his services will not be required at Old Trafford
          Real Madrid will trigger the latest saga in Luis Suarez's colourful career by bidding around £76m
          Countdown to World Cup hots up as brainbox Riley crunches the numbers to predict winning team
          NICO ROSBERG COLUMN: When there are awkward moments, Lewis and I discuss them and we move on...
=======================================================
The pop idol turned Science idol, Professor Brian Edward Fox is an English physicist, PPARC Advanced Fellow and a Royal Society University Research Fellow as the University of Manchester. He is an active affiliate of the group of High Energy Physics in the university. He graduated and enjoys his job on the experiment of ATLAS at CERN in the vicinity of Geneva, Switzerland. He is currently running through on the development and research of the FP420 experiment in a collaboration of all nations to promote the Compact Muon Solenoid or CMS experiment and ATLAS by putting in additional, lesser detectors with a space of 420 meters from the main points of interaction of the core experiments.
Brain Cox is best recognized by the people and viewers as the broadcaster of several science programs for the British Broadcasting Corporation, whose role mainly boosts the recognition of subjects that are perceived to be difficult and least favorite, Physics and Astronomy. He has been recognized as the usual descendant for BBC’s scientific programs by both bereaved Patrick Moore and David Attenborough. He was also able to gain some popularity during the 90’s as the one playing the keyboards for the popular band which was named D: Ream.
Brian Edward Cox was born on March 3, 1968 to banker parents. From 1979 to 1986, he attended and studied at the independent establishment of Hulme Grammar School. During his interview in The Jonathan Ross Show, he revealed that he poorly performed on his A-level on Math and got a grade of D, which he then considered as a very bad score and needed to really pour time and effort to practice. He mentions two reasons for his Math grade result – fledging band commitments and lack of interest.
Cox acquired first class Bachelor of Science and Master of Philosophy degrees in Physics. After his band, D: Ream disbanded in the year 1997 Brian Cox completed Doctor of Philosophy degree in high energy particle Physics at the University of Manchester. Supervised by Robin Marshall, he came up with a thesis entitled, “Double Diffraction Dissociation at Large Momentum Transfer” which he worked on at DESY laboratory in Hamburg, Germany basing on the H1 experiment at the HERA particle accelerator.
He recollects a joyful childhood in Oldham, which included pursuits like gymnastics, dance, spotting planes, and even spotting bus. He has mentioned in various interviews and in one episode of Wonders of the Universe that there was one book that really turned the table for him and inspired him to become a physicist. It was reading the book written by Carl Sagan called Cosmos when he was still 12. Professor Cox is a humanist and is a “Distinguished Supporter” of the BHA or the British Humanist Association.
In the year 2003, he tied the knot with the love of his life and married U.S. Science presenter Gia Milinovich and had their first son named George on May 26, 2009. The middle name of George is “Eagle” gotten from the lunar module Apollo 11. The whole family currently resides in Manchester.
Brian Edward Cox, after gaining popularity over his musical career as a keyboard player in his pop band in the 90’s, he focused on his career in Science. He returned to the heart of Physics and landed himself a led researcher position at CERN, which put him in a higher pace and position to perform numerous interviews tackling about the run up to the Great Switch On of the Large Hadron Collider.
His works and knowledge on the field was accentuated through his broadcasting career. He targets boosting science in the minds of people and the importance of studying it. He appeared in a lot of science programs for both BBC television and radio, which included In Einstein’s Shadow, the BBC Horizon series and also worked as a voice-over for the British Broadcasting Corporation’s Bitesize review programs. Cox became a presenter in a five-part BBC Two series on television entitled Wonders of the Solar System during the early 2010 and a follow-up 4-part series called the Wonders of the Universe that began on March 6, 2011. In June 2012, another series called Wonders of Life filmed which Cox describes as a physicist’s take on natural history and life.
In January 2011, Cox and comedian Dara O Briain hosted the BBC’s Stargazing Live where they acted like small and curious children looking at meteor showers and different planets. Because of his eagerness to impart his knowledge on physics and astronomy, he voiced out his interest in giving out proper lectures than just sounding and sighting the Wonders. This was generally realized in December 2011 when he gave lectures in television about the basic principles of quantum mechanics. There, he was given a complete lecture set with a blackboard in front of a lot of celebrity guests who also raised their hands on demonstrations where Jonathan Ross was seen struggling with elementary mathematics.
Brian Cox appeared as well for numerous times at TED (Technology, Entertainment, and Design) in which he gave talks on the particle and LHC physics. He was then featured in 2009 as one of the Sexiest Men Alive in People’s Magazine. The Symphony of Science featured him in The Case for Mars in 2010.
Cox gave a lecture on “Science, a Challenge to TV Orthodoxy” during the Royal Television Society’s Memorial Lecture in 2010. There, he examined problems and issues in media coverage of news about science and science in the general aspect. It was consequently broadcasted on BBC Two.
Apart from broadcasting science, he has also co-authored and numerous books about Physics, which include The Quantum Universe and Why does E=mc2, both with Jeff Forshaw.
His effort to broadcast and publicize science has brought him numerous awards and recognitions. In the year 2002, he was voted for an International Fellow of The Explorers Club. After 4 years, Brian Cox received the award on British Association’s Lord Kelvin because of this craft. It was the same year that he was awarded an early career research fellowship system – the Royal Society University Research Fellowship.
In 2012, he was awarded for his exemplary work and expertise in science communication with Michael Faraday Prize of the Royal Society.
Top Mysteries of the Oceans  Henry de la Beche  Ben Roy Mottelson  What is the Multiverse Theory?  5 of the Most Bizarre Underwater Creatures  The Basics of Nanotechnology  5 Worst Volcanic Eruptions of All Time  
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Brian Cox is an Emmy Award-winning actor, first coming to attention in the early 1970s with performances in numerous television films. His first big break was as Dr. Hannibal Lecter in Manhunter (1986). The film was not overly successful at the box office, although Cox's career prospects and popularity continued to develop. Throughout the 1990s, he appeared in nearly 20 films and television series, as well as making numerous television guest appearances. More recently, Cox has had roles in some major films, including The Corruptor (1999), The Ring (2002) and X2 (2003). He was awarded Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 2003 Queen's New Year's Honours List for his accomplishments in theater, film and television.
      His father was of Irish descent, while his mother was of half Irish and half Scottish ancestry.
      He was awarded the CBE (Commander of the Order of the British Empire) in the 2003 Queen's New Year's Honours List for his services to drama.
      Has played Hannibal Lecter in the mystery thriller Manhunter (1986). In 2002, he co-starred with Edward Norton and Philip Seymour Hoffman in the film 25th Hour (2002). In 2002, Norton and Hoffman also starred in Red Dragon (2002), which was a remake of Manhunter (1986).
      He was awarded the Laurence Olivier Theatre Award in 1985 (1984 season) for Best Actor in a New Play for "Rat in the Skull".
      He was awarded the Laurence Olivier Theatre Award in 1989 (1988 season) for Best Actor in a Revival for "Titus Andronicus".
      Son Alan Cox (a professional actor) and daughter Margaret, from his 18-year marriage to Caroline Burt (they divorced in 1986). A second son was born January 31, 2002 from his wife Nicole Ansari-Cox.
      He was awarded the 1987 London Critics Circle Theatre Award (Drama Theatre Award) for Best Actor for his performances in "The Taming of the Shrew", "Titus Andronicus" and "Fashion".
      He was awarded the 1984 London Critics Circle Theatre Award (Drama Theatre Award) for Best Actor for his performances in "Rat in the Skull" and "Strange Interlude".
      Rarely plays characters who are sympathetic or likable, from his egotistical take on Robert McKee in Adaptation. (2002) to the robust evil in his portrayal of Agamemnon in Troy (2004). However, he has gone against type and played several likable characters, such as the gruff yet honorable Uncle Argyle in Braveheart (1995) and the lovable, paternal Police Chief John O'Hagan in Super Troopers (2001).
      Has performed in several movies playing a government official in which another actor has amnesia but later discovers they are secret government assasins: The Long Kiss Goodnight (1996) where the amnesia victim is actress Geena Davis, The Bourne Identity (2002) with Matt Damon having the amnesia, and also X2 (2003) where the victim is played by Hugh Jackman.
      Has no fewer than three roles in common with Anthony Hopkins. They have both played Titus Andronicus, and both of them played King Lear while the other was simultaneously playing Hannibal Lecter.
      The scene in X2 (2003) where Magneto escapes from prison is modeled after Hannibal Lecter's escape in The Silence of the Lambs (1991) - the sequel to Cox's film Manhunter (1986), in which he played Lecter.
      Member of the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) in Stratford Upon Avon, England, where he is most recognized for his performance of "King Lear".
      After graduating from LAMDA, he spent several seasons with the Royal National Theatre in London, England.
      Has appeared with Joan Allen in Manhunter (1986). Each of them later went on to work with the other's successor. Cox's successor as Lecter, Anthony Hopkins, appeared in Nixon (1995) with Allen. Cox worked with Allen's successor, Emily Watson, in The Boxer (1997).
      Backed out of his contract after filming the second of the BBC/Celtic Sharpe series of films after complaining of poor working conditions in the Ukraine as well as becoming repeatedly ill because of them. He was replaced by Michael Byrne, who was featured in the next three Sharpe films.
      Although it is indicated in X2 (2003) that his character (William Stryker) is at least 20 years older than Bruce Davison's character (Senator Kelly), in real life, he is only 27 days older.
      Has worked with two Eomers. In the Sharpe films (Sharpe's Eagle (1993) and Sharpe's Rifles (1993)), with Sean Bean, he appears with Anthony Hyde, who played the role in the BBC radio broadcast. In The Bourne Supremacy (2004), he appears with Karl Urban, who played the role in Peter Jackson's films.
      Has appeared in two films about legendary Scottish heroes. In 1995, he appeared in both Braveheart (1995) and Rob Roy (1995).
      Has appeared in Manhunter (1986) with Joan Allen, they went on to work together 18 years later on the movie The Bourne Supremacy (2004).
      [2009] Owns two Toyota Prius cars - one for use at his American residence and one for his British home.
      Was elected Rector of Dundee University (Scotland), the city of his birth, and took up the position in spring 2010.
Manhunter (1986) was remade as Red Dragon (2002), the original title of the novel on which it is based. Cox has appeared in films with several actors from the remake. He appeared with Edward Norton and Philip Seymour Hoffman in 25th Hour (2002), with Emily Watson in The Boxer (1997) and The Water Horse (2007), Mary-Louise Parker and Anthony Hopkins in RED (2010) and RED 2 (2013), and Ralph Fiennes in Coriolanus (2011). Frankie Faison appeared in both films.
      Among the actors thought suitable for Derebridge in Lifeforce (1985). Nicholas Ball was cast in the end.
      Has won two prestigious Laurence Olivier best actor awards for performances on London's West end stage - 'Rat in the Skull' and Shakespeare's 'Titus Andronicus'.
      I was living in London and I thought, "There's nothing here for me anymore". I don't want to become this actor who's going to be doing this occasional good work in the theater and then ever diminishing bad television. I thought I'd rather do bad movies than bad television because you get more money for it.
      In a sense I feel very much a part of the cinema now in a way where when I come back to the theater now I feel like a visitor. The cinema is really what I enjoy. I want to do more independent movies.
      I'm an actor who does really interesting work in independent movies. I want to keep doing that because I don't want the burden of an opening weekend sitting on my shoulders.
      I'm 100% Celt. In fact, I'm directly related to the progenitor of the high kings of Ireland, Niall of the Nine Hostages.
      As a boy, I was never interested in theater because I came from a working-class Scottish home. I thought, "I want to do movies". Then it was finding the means to do it.
      [on Spike Lee] Ah, there's a director. Astonishing, Spike Lee. A feisty guy, but a guy who's, I think, incredibly misunderstood. I think people review his politics or his color as opposed to his filmmaking sometimes. Because he's a wonderful, wonderful filmmaker and a lover of the art. He stands up for things, but he's also a brilliant storyteller who really understands the whole.
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/loading-indicator._V192185253_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif');
        background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/buttons._V243643239_.gif')
    background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/traffic/s9m/alert-small._V195630253_.gif");
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/donsbeak-sm-up._V197474569_.png) no-repeat 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite-mini.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
Brian Cox, PhD, is a leading particle physicist and professor at the University of Manchester, as well as a researcher on one of the most ambitious experiments on Earth, the ATLAS experiment on the CERN Large Hadron Collider in Switzerland. A Royal Society research fellow, professor Cox was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 2010. He is the author of Why Does E=MC² and is well known as presenter of the television series Wonders of the Solar System and Wonders of the Universe. He was also the keyboard player in the UK pop band D:Ream in the 1990s.
Brian Cox, PhD, is a leading particle physicist and professor at the University of Manchester, as well as a researcher on one of the most ambitious experiments on Earth, the ATLAS experiment on the CERN Large Hadron Collider in Switzerland. A Royal Society research fellow, professor Cox was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 2010. He is the author of Why Does E=MC² and is well known as presenter of the television series Wonders of the Solar System and Wonders of the Universe. He was also the keyboard player in the UK pop band D:Ream in the 1990s.
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/tile-blue-bg._V46870869_.gif)
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tl._V192184760_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tm._V192184721_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tr._V192184429_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bl._V192184824_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bm._V192184603_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-br._V192545463_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tl2._V192545542_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tr2._V192545537_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-bl._V192545543_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-br._V192545543_.gif);
Help us improve our Author Pages by updating your bibliography and submitting a new or current image and biography.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
Professor Brian Cox is a British physicist, mostly well known for presenting the BBC documentary series Wonders of the Solar System and its sequel, Wonders of the Universe.
Born in Oldham, a suburb of Greater Manchester in 1968, Cox attended Hulme Grammar School before studying physics at Manchester University. Cox has, on several occasions, explained that his love of physics is strongly associated with Carl Segan's masterpiece, Cosmos among others. During his time at university, Cox performed with the pop group D:Ream, who had a number one hit with 'Things Can Only Get Better', most famously used as the theme tune to New Labours election campaign in 1997. During this period as a pop star, Cox received a first class honours degree in physics. In 1998, Cox was awarded his PhD in high energy particle physics.
Having graduated with such distinction from Manchester University, Cox has led an equally distinctive career. As a result of his PhD thesis, Cox currently works on the ATLAS experiment, a project which requires Cox to spend time at CERN in Switzerland using the Large Hadron Collider. As of 2005, Cox was appointed as a professor of particle physics at Manchester University, from where he graduated only eight years earlier.
Cox has been instrumental in bringing physics to a wider audience, and has appeared in many television and radio shows approaching various subjects within physics, as well as being science advisor to Danny Boyle when directing his film Sunshine. Cox is a regular presenter of the Radio 4 program The Infinite Monkey Cage, and has presented two series of the hit BBC physics documentaries 'Wonders of the Solar System' and 'Wonders of the Universe', both of which were well received by critics and audiences alike.
Academically, Cox has been well received, namely for his work in bringing science to a more general audience through his media outlets, as well as becoming a spokes person for the promotion and support of sciences in educational institutions. In 2006, Cox was elected as a Research Fellow for the Royal Society and in 2010, he won the Institute of Physics Kelvin Prize.
Cox has also won numerous awards for his television presenting roles, while 'Wonders of the Solar System' was named best documentary of 2010. Cox was also appointed O.B.E in 2010 during the Queen’s birthday celebrations.
=======================================================
Physicist Brian Cox has two jobs: working with the Large Hadron Collider at CERN, and explaining big science to the general public. He's a professor at the University of Manchester.
Based at the University of Manchester, Brian Cox works at CERN in Geneva on the ATLAS experiment, studying the forward proton detectors for the Large Hadron Collider  there. He's a professor at the University of Manchester, working in the High Energy Physics group, and is a research fellow of the Royal Society. He's also become a vital voice in the UK media for explaining physics to the public. With his rockstar hair and accessible charm, he's the go-to physicist for explaining heady concepts on British TV and radio. (If you're in the UK, watch him on The Big Bang Machine.) He was the science advisor for the 2007 film Sunshine. He answers science questions every Friday on BBC6 radio's Breakfast Show.
"If people don’t have an understanding of what science is and what scientists do, then they can tend to think that global warming, for example, is just a matter of opinion." —
In tough economic times, our exploratory science programs — from space probes to the LHC — are first to suffer budget cuts. Brian Cox explains how curiosity-driven science pays for itself, powering innovation and a profound appreciation of our existence. (Recorded at TEDSalon London 2010, April 2010 in London, England. Duration: 16:29) Watch Brian Cox’s […]
Tonight scientists at CERN are rebooting the LHC (Large Hadron Collider) in an attempt to recreate conditions fractions of a second after the Big Bang by crashing opposing proton beams, traveling at nearly the speed of light, into one another. Shortly after the LHC’s debut last September, a manufacturing glitch in wiring led to a […]
Last week, CERN announced that the world’s largest particle accelerator will power up again in November. However this time it will run on 3.5 trillion electron volts per beam, about half its expected energy level. Last year, the LHC shut down because of a fault between two superconducting bending magnets but recent tests have confirmed […]
The aim of particle physics is to understand what everything’s made of, and how everything sticks together. By everything I mean me and you, the Earth, the Sun, the 100 billion suns in our galaxy and the 100 billion galaxies in the observable universe. Absolutely everything.
The Large Hadron Collider is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted — 27 kilometers in circumference. Its job is to re-create the conditions that were present less than a billionth of a second after the universe began, up to 600 million times a second. It’s nothing if not ambitious.
Nothing is so dangerous to the progress of the human mind than to assume that our views of science are ultimate, that there are no mysteries in nature, that our triumphs are complete, and that there are no new worlds to conquer.
=======================================================
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more here.X
HomeNewsIn-DepthVideoOpinionBlogArchiveWhite papersElectronic and Electrical ComponentsMaterials & ChemicalsMeasurement, Quality Control & TestMechanical ComponentsMotion controlPlant EquipmentProduction & AutomationSoftware & CommunicationsEngineering JobsAerospace Engineering JobsAutomotive Engineering JobsDesign Engineering JobsElectrical Engineering JobsGraduate Engineering JobsManufacturing JobsMechanical Engineering JobsNuclear JobsOil and Gas JobsProcess Engineering JobsBrowse all Engineering JobsGet Jobs by EmailUpload your CV
Engineering is in need of a new poster boy. With Vince Cable hinting at plans to cut blue skies research and Lord Browne waging war on physicists at the Royal Academy of Engineering, the UK’s science and technology community seems more divided than ever. But now Prof Brian Cox, former rock star, working physicist and the BBC’s latest sensation, is planning to help unite the warring factions and bring engineering to the forefront of scientific research.’I’d love to be seen as just as much a communicator for engineering as for science,’ said Cox, ’My dad says that I watched the Moon landings when I was one. I don’t remember that, but one of my earliest memories is seeing pictures of Apollo around the house. I’m sure it was those things that caught my eye because the early 1970s was a time of astonishing science and this inspiring engineering. Anything was possible and it was absolutely fascinating.’With his soft Oldham accent, boyish good looks and genuine enthusiasm, it’s easy to see how Cox attracted more than five million viewers to his five-part BBC2 series, Wonders of the Solar System. The programme saw Cox calculate the energy of the sun using an umbrella in Death Valley, reach the outer edges of the Earth’s atmosphere in a jet fighter and sculpt Saturn in the sand of an African desert. When he’s not seeking out extreme environments, he’s working as a professor of physics at Manchester University and is a senior scientist on the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) in Switzerland.Cox works on the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron ColliderFor Cox, science and engineering have always been intimately linked. ’There is virtually no difference in my mind. If you look at CERN, for example, it’s number one - an astonishing engineering achievement. To make that thing - 27km of it - with superconducting magnets all over the place - to industrialise that to the level that was necessary was a tremendous achievement. To find out what the Universe was like a billionth of a second after it began you need an engineer, a scientist and a mathematician.’But Cox has been much more than that. His early career put him on an altogether different path when, at 18, he joined rock band Dare as a keyboard player and went on to record two moderately successful albums. Aged 23, he returned home and applied to study physics at Manchester University. But music once again intervened and, in 1990, Cox joined D:Ream, the band responsible for Labour’s 1997 winning anthem Things can only get better. According to Cox, however, things have got worse.“In terms of ambition for manned space flight, we have gone backwards – there’s no doubt about it”’The story of space engineering in my life has gone from massive optimism to complete disaster,’ he said. ’You know, we’ve gone nowhere, we’re retiring the Shuttle this year, just like we retired the Concorde. I almost feel like we’ve gone backwards. It’s not true of course - aeronautical engineering hasn’t gone backwards. But in terms of ambition for manned space flight, we have gone backwards, there’s no doubt about that. And it’s actually the desire to want to do it.’Cox’s TV show looks at the wonders of the UniverseThe lack of desire, stressed Cox, is not down to engineers, but politicians. Vince Cable’s announcement last month that research funding will be rationed by ’excellence’ is, according to Cox, a classic example of poor policy. ’You don’t have to be a scientist or an engineer to look at that and say “that’s just idiocy”. It’s so obvious that the research budget is too small in the UK. It’s below the EU average, yet we’re second only to the US in our success in [publishing research in] science and engineering. Every other country that matters is increasing its science and engineering research budget. I wish I could say that all politicians are idiots, because that’s how they appear, but I know they’re not. So I’m genuinely baffled.’“Engineering is the basis of everyone’s life, without a doubt. It’s so obvious you almost feel it’s a cliché, but maybe it’s not that obvious”Another senior figure that Cox is displeased with is Lord Browne, president of the Royal Academy of Engineering. Browne recently broke with convention by criticising maths and physics as having too much government funding compared with engineering. ’It’s an unfortunate opinion to want to cut this bit instead of that,’ said Cox. ’I think it’s a political division. On a non-grandee level, we certainly don’t think that. As a science and engineering community we have to stand up with a unified voice and make a big noise together.’And this is what Cox is hoping to do. In between flying to Nepal to film a new series, Wonders of the Universe, for the BBC, he is campaigning hard to voice his concerns over budget cuts, which this week are expected to hit the UK’s research base hard. ’Engineers need to stand up for themselves,’ said Cox. ’Engineering is the basis of everyone’s life, without a doubt. It’s so obvious that you almost feel it’s a cliché, but maybe it’s not that obvious. When people say we’re going to cut the research and development budget, we don’t make a big noise about it. But it should be on the front page of every newspaper. What a stupid thing to do.’Brian Cox BiographyProfessor of particle physics at Manchester UniversityEducation1997 Awarded a PhD in high-energy particle physics at Manchester UniversityCareer1989 Member of the rock band Dare1993 Joined pop group D:Ream2004 Began working on ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider2005 Received a Royal Society University Research FellowshipScience consultant on Danny Boyle’s science fiction film Sunshine2009 Became professor of particle physics at Manchester UniversityBegan a show on Radio 4 called The infinite monkey cagewith comedian and writer Robin Ince2010 Awarded an OBE for his services to science. Presented the BBC’s Wonders of the Solar SystemQ&ALet’s get physicalWhat was one of your best experiences working on Wonders of the Solar System?Definitely flying on top of the atmosphere in a Lightning jet fighter. I realised that this piece of engineering is the enabler that gives you this almost philosophical insight into the fragility of the Earth. You see the fragility of the atmosphere from up there and all those thoughts and ideas that come into your head are enabled by this astonishing machine. So I loved that machine. You can become very attached to it. I’m just as excited actually, by those things as I am by the science in many ways.Did you ever consider a career as an engineer?Yes, I did. In fact, I was going to do electronic engineering at Leeds University. But then I joined a band for a while and, when I came back, I decided I would do physics instead. I’ve always flitted between those subjects. The most recent work I did academically was running a hardware project to upgrade the detectors at the LHC. It was a challenge to put the sensors very close to the LHC beam -very close, just millimetres away -which is really difficult with silicon detectors. So then I was back running an engineering project, essentially.Do you think the UK’s research base has been damaged by a lack of funding?It was damaged massively by the problems we had in physics in 2007. I think it’ll take years to rebuild our reputation because of the problems we had in the last spending review, where money was relatively tight. So now if we face further 20 to 25 per cent cuts, it’s going to take a generation to fix for the sake of a saving of around billion pounds, which is zero in terms of government spending.Do you think these mistakes are down to a lack of engineers and scientists in government?Well, the thing is, you don’t have to be an engineer or a scientist to notice what will happen if we cut the research budget. Every statistic tells you that investing in the science and engineering base is a good idea. I don’t care if you’ve got a history degree; if you’ve got a brain, just a piece of a brain, you will notice that this is a good idea. It’s so obvious that you just need sensible people.Which of the recent developments in engineering are you most excited about?From a CERN perspective, I’m excited by the way we’ve been able to build these incredibly complicated superconducting magnets. I think that’s got massive implications. I happen to think that fusion power is something that we should be pursuing vigorously. I also think of the potential of the development of the Skylon space plane. That’s fascinating because, again, we can do those things. Actually, commercial low-Earth-orbit spaceflight in general is fascinating. Although, really, I’d like to be able to go to Mars one day.Brian Cox will be delivering a lesson on the solar system on November 16th as part of The Big Bang: UK Young Scientist and Engineers Fair. 
						Nigel | 25 Oct 2010 8:04 am" It’s so obvious that you just need sensible people."There my friend, lies the source of the problem....
				Report this commentAnonymous | 27 Oct 2010 4:28 pmI remember so well the fascination of the late sixties and early seventies. It was almost assumed a mission to Mars was only a short step away. It turned out to be a step too far. Since that time there has been such a lack of ambition from the politicians and people in power. I firmly believe there is massive interest in Science and engineering. It's just doesn’t receive the prominence it deserves either in the media or any political party who don’t have the courage to place them high on the agenda. There are so many things we need to do better on Earth and one day we will need to find other places to live. These things can only happen through Science and engineering.
				Report this commentAnna J Dixon  | 4 Jan 2011 12:57 pmThe Big Bang theory now there must have been time before the big bang or a old universe being pulled though a black hole and coming through the other side hence the big bang ? if there are black hole all through space then is space bent all over? What are your thoughts on this?
				Report this commentJohn R McCallum | 5 Jan 2011 8:57 amDear Anna, in some ancient teachings some say that before the big bang there was only a consciousness that thought what would it be like to be matter and so it happened, matter was created. Science can show us a stepping stone like the Big Bang but where is the one before it? Brahman beliefs tell the faithful that the universe and expands and contracts with the breath of the God, how did they get that idea so long ago. Maybe science and older teachings should come together to answer your question. Both can provide a partial bridge to the answer but maybe if both work together the bridge might be stronger. Then again maybe it is too long ago to concern us.
The European Space Agency's latest report on UK firm Reaction Engines' Skylon spaceplane concept and the SABRE engines which would power it says that the project is 'financially feasible'. What would be the best way for the project to proceed?
More work needs to be carried out to determine how Skylon launch costs would compare with conventional launchers
Europe's largest tidal array in the Pentand Firth off Orkney will eventually generate up to 86MW of power. What will it take for tidal energy to make an appreciable contribution to the UK's energy needs?
Centaur Communications Ltd (a member of the Centaur Media plc group) Registered Office: Wells Point, 79 Wells Street, London W1T 3QN. Registered in England, no 1595235© Copyright - Centaur Communications Ltd - All rights reserved
=======================================================
=======================================================
html,body{font-size:100%;height:100%;font-family:arial,verdana,sans-serif;}html,body,form,h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6,p,ul{margin:0;padding:0;}body{-ms-text-size-adjust:100%;-webkit-text-size-adjust:100%;-moz-text-size-adjust:100%;text-size-adjust:100%;}img{border:0;display:block;}ul{list-style-type:none;}a{color:#0000cc;}a:hover{text-decoration:;}a:visited{color:;}#p{font-size:0.813em;margin:0 auto;width:1024px;}.landing #p{height:100%;margin:0 auto;}.landing #CHROME,.landing #IE,.landing #IE6,.landing #IE7,.landing #IE8,.landing #IE9,.landing #SAFARI,.landing #isMacOS,.landing #AOL,.landing #AOL91,.landing #AOL95,.landing #AOL96{height:100%;}.landing #h{min-height:275px;max-height:456px;height:60%;position:relative;width:716px;margin:0 auto 0 auto;background:none;}.landing #IE7 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:455px;}.landing #IE8 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:456px;}.landing #IE9 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:456px;}#h{padding-top:0px;margin-bottom:12px;background:none;}#IE #h{position:relative;z-index:1;zoom:100%;}.landing #IE6 #h{height:550px;}.landing #AOL #h{height:555px;}#l{width:92px;float:left;padding-left:0px;padding-right:43px;clear:both;margin-top:;}#p.r #w{padding-right:325px;}#p.l #w{padding-left:135px;}#c{float:left;width:100%;background-color:#fff;margin-top:;}#IE6 #c{width:98%;}.cw{margin-left:;padding-left:;padding-right:10px;width:auto;}#p.r .cw{margin-right:;}#r{width:308px;float:left;border-left:1px solid #e5e5e5;padding-left:8px;padding-right:8px;margin-top:;}#IE6 #r{position:relative;}.rw{margin:10px;}#f{clear:both;background:none;min-width:650px;}.landing #f{background:none;}#hw,#center_wrap,#fw{margin:0 auto;width:auto;max-width:;min-width:650px;}.landing #hw,.landing #center_wrap,.landing #fw{margin:auto;min-width:100%;}.clear{clear:both;height:0;overflow:hidden;}.lr-sep{border-top:1px solid #e5e5e5;margin:10px 0 0;width:149px;height:0;overflow:hidden;}.lhrgt,.lhrlt{display:block;cursor:pointer;text-decoration:none;outline:none;}.lhrgt:hover,.lhrlt:hover,.lhrgt span:hover,.lhrlt span:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.lhrgt .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat -1px -8px;margin:4px 0 0 5px;height:7px;width:7px;}#IE .lhrgt .sprite{margin-top:5px;}.lhrlt .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat 0 0;margin:5px 5px 0 0;height:7px;width:7px;}.lhrgt span,.lhrlt span{float:left;}.acc{position:absolute;text-indent:-1000em;overflow:hidden;}.hac{display:inline;margin:0;font-size:1em;font-weight:normal;}.obscure{position:absolute!important;clip:rect(1px 1px 1px 1px);clip:rect(1px,1px,1px,1px);}.sprite{text-indent:-9999px;display:block;overflow:hidden;}#h .cntr{padding-left:10px;float:left;}#h .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:8px;}#f .cntr{padding-left:10px;float:left;}#f .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:8px;}#isMobile #c{float:none;padding-left:10px;padding-right:10px;width:auto;}#isMobile #h{height:auto;margin:0;max-height:none;min-height:0;padding-top:0;}.landing #isMobile #c,.landing #isMobile .cw{padding:0;}.landing #isMobile #h{padding-top:0px;}.article #p{font-size:;margin:;width:;}.article #p.r #w{padding-right:332px;}.article #p.l #w{padding-left:;}.article #h{padding-top:;margin-bottom:;background:;}.article #c{margin-top:;}.article .cw{margin-left:15px;padding-left:;padding-right:;width:;}.article #p.r .cw{margin-right:5px;}.article #r{width:;padding-left:15px;padding-right:;margin-top:;}.article #f{background:;min-width:;}.article #hw,.article #center_wrap,.article #fw{margin:;width:;max-width:;min-width:;}.article #h .cntr{padding-left:;}.article #h .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:;}.article #f .cntr{padding-left:;}.article #f .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:;}.landing{background-color:#ffffff;;;}.CSB{position:relative;width:653px;float:left;}.CSB .csbtds{padding-top:0px;padding-right:0px;padding-bottom:0px;padding-left:0px;background:transparent;}.csbs{background-color:#fff;border:1px solid black;color:#000000;font-size:1.308em;font-weight:normal;font-family:arial,verdana,sans-serif;height:28px;width:100%;position:relative;padding:5px 3px 4px 6px;}.landing .csbs{border:;}.ghost{color:#b9b9b9;}.csbb{background:url("http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites2/wow-search-button.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;cursor:pointer;font-weight:normal;font-size:1.462em;margin:0 0 0 10px;padding:0;display:block;white-space:nowrap;line-height:40px;height:40px;position:relative;text-shadow:0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.7);border:none;width:80px;}.csbb:hover{background:url("http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites2/wow-search-button.png") no-repeat scroll -80px 0 transparent;}.CSB td{vertical-align:top;}.CSB a,.CSB a:hover,.CSB a:active,.CSB a:visited{text-decoration:none;color:#fff;}#IE6 .CSB form{zoom:100%;}#IE6 .csbs,#IE7 .csbs,#IE8 .csbs{line-height:28px;}.landing .CSB{position:absolute;bottom:187px;left:33px;width:622px;}.landing #IE7 .CSB{bottom:184px;}.landing #ACC{width:529px;}.landing #ACC .acs.sel{background:#CFECFF;}.landing #IE7 .GLOG{background-position:-43px -23px;}.GLOG{background:transparent url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat -43px -23px;width:96px;height:16px;bottom:0;right:0;top:-18px;position:absolute;}.GLOG.bgnone{background:none;}.leftBrandLogo{background:transparent url() no-repeat ;width:185px;height:115px;left:-185px;top:-35px;position:absolute;text-indent:-9999px;}.rightBrandLogo{background:transparent url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/logos/2-a_google_logo_right.png) no-repeat 0px 0px;width:185px;height:115px;right:-184px;top:-35px;position:absolute;text-indent:-9999px;}#ACC{position:absolute;display:none;background:white;border:1px solid #CFECFF;padding:0 9px 0 0;width:561px;z-index:3;font-size:1.308em;top:-1px;left:1px;margin-left:-1px;}#ACC .acs{color:#3c3c3c;display:block;text-decoration:none;padding:3px 3px 4px 6px;width:100%;}#ACC .acs.sel{background:#CFECFF;}#IE6 #ACC .acs{zoom:100%;}.ACPAR{position:relative;z-index:2;}#ACC .CSERD{color:#00c;display:inline-block;padding:1px 0;margin-left:4px;}#ACC .sel .CSERD{color:#fff;}#IE .CSB td{vertical-align:middle;}#IE7 .ACPAR{clear:both;}#IE7 #ACC .acs,#IE8 #ACC .acs{padding-left:6px;}.csbSearchBox{border:1px solid transparent;}.csbSearchBox:hover{border-color:transparent;}.landing .csbSearchBox{border:1px solid transparent;}.landing .csbSearchBox:hover{border-color:transparent;}body #h .cntr,body #f .cntr{padding-top:25px;}body .leftBrandLogo{display:none;}body .GLOG{display:none;}span.clearbutton{position:relative;}span.clearbutton input{padding-right:26px;-webkit-user-modify:read-write-plaintext-only;}span.clearbutton span{position:absolute;display:block;top:-2px;right:5px;width:20px;height:19px;background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) 0 -59px;cursor:pointer;visibility:visible;}span.clearbutton span.show{visibility:visible;}span.clearbutton span.hide{visibility:hidden;}#isMobile #ACC{-webkit-tap-highlight-color:rgba(255,255,255,0);}#isMobile .CSB{padding-right:10px;position:absolute;}#isMobile .GLOG.bgnone{display:none;}.landing #isMobile .CSB{float:none;margin:;padding:0;position:static;}.landing #isMobile .CSB #inner{margin:0 auto;max-width:;padding:;}.PS{clear:both;position:absolute;left:33px;bottom:-26px;font-weight:bold;width:622px;}.PS .popSites .psHead{font-size:1.2308em;color:;text-align:;margin-bottom:11px;}.PS .furl{background-color:transparent;height:100px;margin:6px 9px 0 0;width:60px;display:block;float:left;}.PS .furl2{margin-bottom:-57px;}.PS .popSites{display:inline-block;}.PS a{color:#00F;text-decoration:none;outline:0;}.PS a.furl{background-position:0 0;background-repeat:no-repeat;}.PS .popSites ul li{float:left;}.PS a.furl .iconText{bottom:23px;color:#3B3B3B;font-size:12px;padding-top:62px;text-shadow:0px 1px 1px #FFF;text-align:center;}#IE6 .PS,#IE7 .PS{z-index:-1;}#IE7 .PS .popSites{display:inline;}#CHROME .PS .furl{margin:5px 9px 0 0;}#IE7 .PS .popSites>ul{display:inline-block;}.flogo{bottom:30px;float:right;}.flogo .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/logos/2-a_wow_logo_bottom.png) no-repeat 0 0;height:89px;width:107px;}.generror .flogo .sprite,.landing .flogo .sprite{background-position:0px 0px;height:125px;width:200px;text-indent:-9999px;}#f{bottom:0;vertical-align:bottom;position:absolute;width:100%;left:0;}.flanding{height:21.5px;padding:8.5px 16px 0 16px;display:block;clear:both;color:#5B5A5A;font-size:0.923em;background-color:#eeeeee;}.flanding ul,.flanding .extraL{float:right;}.flanding ul a{color:#5B5A5A;}.flanding ul a:visited{color:#5B5A5A;}.flanding ul a:hover{color:;}.flanding .copy{float:left;}
=======================================================
head{background: url("/__kl.gif?type=ns_pageview&amp;s=webcrawler&amp;c=info.wbcrwl&amp;pid=27&amp;lh=www.webcrawler.com&amp;dr=&amp;qid=&amp;pn=&amp;fcoi=&amp;fcop=&amp;fpid=&amp;pri=14fdd647e1d8429cb8bd54f6ea02230d");}
=======================================================
Get up to $100 VISA® PREPAID CARD  with COX Bundles!This is an exclusive offer from CoxCableSpecial.com. This offer is not available from Cox directly. view details
=======================================================
Sponsors | Privacy Policy | Technical Questions | Editorial Questions | Usage Policy | Directors & Staff | Site Map  | RSS Feeds 
=======================================================
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #0E658E), color-stop(.5, #0C577A), color-stop(.5, #014D71), to(#003E5C)); 
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #b28b06), color-stop(.5, #9c7705), color-stop(.5, #9c7705), to(#5c4100)); 
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #edbf21), color-stop(.5, #c89b0f), color-stop(.5, #c89b0f), to(#906706)); 
.stab{font-family: 'Days One', sans-serif; text-shadow: 1px 1px 2px #ffffff; filter: dropshadow(color=#ffffff, offx=1, offy=1);  width:500px; line-height:36px; padding-bottom:5px; color:#4c4136; font-size:36px;font-weight:bold; text-transform:uppercase;}
                            Memoro is an international non-profit project, an open archive of audio or video interviews of people born before 1950.
                    You can easily contribute: a camera, a smartphone, a webcam or an audio-recorder is enough. 
                            If you are an Association, a Museum or an Archive, share your contents with more 
                            We need your help to improve the project, to collect more memories and preserve them for the future, to develop Memoro projects in new Countries, to keep the site free from advertising.
