=======================================================
Keira Christina Knightley (/ˌkɪərə ˈnaɪtli/;[3] born 26 March 1985) is an English actress.[4] Knightley began acting as a child on television and made her film debut in 1995. She had a supporting role as Sabé in Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace (1999) and her first significant role came in The Hole (2001). She gained widespread recognition in 2002 after co-starring in the film Bend It Like Beckham and achieved international fame in 2003 after appearing as Elizabeth Swann in the Pirates of the Caribbean film series (2003–present).
Since the Pirates of the Caribbean films, Knightley has become known for starring in period drama films,[5][6] such as Pride & Prejudice (2005), Atonement (2007), Silk (2007), The Duchess (2008), A Dangerous Method (2011), and Anna Karenina (2012). Knightley has also appeared in a variety of genres of Hollywood films, including the romantic comedy Love Actually (2003), the historical action King Arthur (2004), the psychological thriller The Jacket (2005), biographical action Domino (2005), the historical drama The Edge of Love (2008), the film noir London Boulevard (2010), the dystopian science fiction Never Let Me Go (2010), the romantic drama Last Night (2010), and the dark comedy Seeking a Friend for the End of the World (2012).
Knightley earned nominations for the Academy Award for Best Actress and the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress for her role as Elizabeth Bennet in Joe Wright's 2005 adaptation of Jane Austen's novel Pride and Prejudice. Two years later she was nominated again for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress, as well as the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role for her performance in Wright's Atonement. In its 2008 list, Forbes identified Knightley as the second highest-paid actress in Hollywood, with reported earnings of $32 million in 2007, making her the only non-American on the list of highest-paid actresses that year.[7][8][9]
Knightley was born in Teddington, London, England, the daughter of Sharman Macdonald, an actress turned playwright, and Will Knightley, an actor.[10] Her father is English and her Scottish mother is of half Welsh ancestry.[11] She has an older brother, Caleb.[12]
Knightley lived in Richmond, attending Stanley Junior School, Teddington School and Esher College.[13] She was diagnosed with dyslexia at the age of six, but nevertheless was successful in school and was thus permitted to acquire a talent agent and pursue an acting career. She requested an agent as early as the age of three.[14] Knightley has noted that she was "single-minded about acting" during her childhood.[15] She performed in a number of local amateur productions, which included After Juliet written by her mother, and United States written by her then drama teacher, Ian McShane.[Note 1] She focused on art, history, and English literature while at Esher, but left after a year to focus on her acting and she also turned down her spot[clarification needed] at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art.[16]
After getting an agent at 6, she worked mostly on commercials and small TV roles. Her first role was "Little Girl" in Royal Celebration, a 1993 TV film. A year later, she had a small role in the film A Village Affair. She later starred in 1995's Innocent Lies and 1998's Coming Home. She was a princess in the 1996 film The Treasure Seekers.[17] Later in 1999, she appeared as Rose in Oliver Twist.[18]
Knightley appeared in several television films in the mid- to late 1990s—as well as ITV1's The Bill[19]—before being cast as Sabé, Padmé Amidala's decoy, in the 1999 science fiction blockbuster Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace. Sabé's dialogue was dubbed over with Natalie Portman's voice. This was to hide the fact that the handmaiden Padmé (played by Portman) was actually disclosed as the real Queen Amidala at the end of the film. Knightley was cast in the role because of her close resemblance to Portman; even the two actresses' mothers had difficulty telling their daughters apart when the girls were in full makeup.[20] In 2000 Knightley appeared in the video to Five's song "Don't Wanna Let You Go".
Knightley's first starring role was in 2001, when she played the daughter of Robin Hood in the made-for-television Walt Disney Productions feature Princess of Thieves. She trained for several weeks in archery, fencing and horse riding.[21] During this time, Knightley also appeared in The Hole, a thriller that received a direct-to-video release in the United States. Its director Nick Hamm described her as "a young version of Julie Christie".[22]
She appeared in the miniseries adaptation of Doctor Zhivago as Lara, alongside Scottish actor Hans Matheson in the title role, which first aired in 2002 to good reviews and high ratings.[23] In the same year, she also was in the film Pure, in which she portrays a pregnant teenager who is a heroin addict and had a child taken by social services.[21] Knightley's breakthrough role was in the football-themed film Bend It Like Beckham, which was a success in its August 2002 UK release, grossing $18 million, and in its March 2003 U.S. release, grossing $32 million.[24]
After Bend It Like Beckham's UK release raised her profile, she was cast in the big-budget action film Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl, along with Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp. Produced by Jerry Bruckheimer, it opened in July 2003 to positive reviews[25] and high box office grosses,[26] becoming one of the biggest hits of summer 2003 and cementing Knightley as the new "It" girl.[27]
Knightley had a role in the British romantic comedy Love Actually, which opened in November 2003, which co-starred her childhood idol Emma Thompson.[28] Her next film, King Arthur, opened in July 2004 to negative reviews;[29] in preparation for the role she took boxing, fighting, archery and horseriding lessons for four days a week for three months.[28][30]
In the same month, Knightley was voted by readers of Hello! magazine as the film industry's most promising teen star.[31] Additionally, TIME magazine noted in a 2004 feature that Knightley seemed dedicated to developing herself as a serious actress rather than a film star.[32]
She appeared in three films in 2005, the first of which was The Jacket, alongside Adrien Brody.[33] She next appeared in Tony Scott's Domino, an action film based on the life of bounty hunter Domino Harvey. The film has been Knightley's greatest critical flop to date.[34] Knightley's critics often suggested she was nothing more than a pretty face, which led her to comment to Elle magazine, "I always feel like I’m the one with everything to prove".[14]
Pride & Prejudice was released in 2005.[35] Knightley had loved the book since she was seven, and with her first cheque for acting she bought a doll's house of the hero's mansion.[36] She said of her character, "The beauty of Elizabeth is that every woman who ever reads the book seems to recognise herself, with all her faults and imperfections. If you give an actress who is even remotely good the chance to play a fantastic character like that, they are going to revel in it."[36] Variety wrote about her portrayal of Elizabeth Bennet: "Looking every bit a star, Knightley, who's shown more spirit than acting smarts so far in her career, really steps up to the plate here, holding her own against the more classically trained Matthew Macfadyen, as well as vets like Brenda Blethyn, Donald Sutherland, Penelope Wilton and Judi Dench with a luminous strength that recalls a young Audrey Hepburn. More than the older Jennifer Ehle in the TV series, she catches Elizabeth's essential skittishness and youthful braggadocio, making her final conversion all the more moving."[37] The film grossed more than $100 million worldwide,[38] and Knightley earned a Golden Globe nomination and an Oscar nomination (the Oscar ultimately went to Reese Witherspoon). The Academy Award nomination made her the third-youngest performer ever nominated.[39] BAFTA's decision not to nominate her drew criticism from Pride & Prejudice producer Tim Bevan.[40]
In 2006, Knightley was invited to join the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.[41] Her biggest financial hit thus far, Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest, was released in July 2006.[42]
Knightley starred in three major films in 2007: Silk, an adaptation of the novel by Alessandro Baricco, Atonement, a feature film adaptation of Ian McEwan's novel of the same name (co-starring James McAvoy, Vanessa Redgrave and Brenda Blethyn),[43] and Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End, which was released in May 2007. For her performance in Atonement, Knightley was nominated for a Golden Globe Award in the Best Dramatic Actress category for the role, as well as a BAFTA Award. Critic Richard Roeper was puzzled by both Knightley's and McAvoy's Academy Award snubs, stating "I thought McAvoy and Knightley were superb."[44]
In 2008, Knightley appeared alongside Sienna Miller, Cillian Murphy and Matthew Rhys in John Maybury's The Edge of Love, a fictional wartime drama about Welsh poet Dylan Thomas, his wife Caitlin Macnamara, childhood friend Vera Williams, and her romance and marriage with a British soldier. Penned by Knightley's mother, Sharman Macdonald, the playwright initially crafted the screenplay with Knightley as Macnamara in her mind.[45] Once her daughter agreed to portray Williams, Macdonald enlarged the character, making her a singer.[45]
Knightley, who watched Marlene Dietrich films for preparation, was expecting to mime to her pre-recorded voice, but was told by Maybury to sing live in front of the crew while shooting. "I was shaking like a leaf," Knightley later commented, "I thought my knees were going to buckle. In the first couple of songs, I sounded like a pubescent boy, it was so embarrassing."[45] While the actress received positive reviews for her role,[46] the film became a moderate critical and commercial arthouse success.[47][48]
She then filmed Saul Dibb's The Duchess (2008), based on the best-selling biography Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire by Amanda Foreman,[49] in which she played 18th-century English aristocrat Georgiana Cavendish, Duchess of Devonshire opposite Ralph Fiennes.[50] Well received by critics,[51] Knightley garnered largely positive reviews by critics, with The Epoch Times writing "Knightley's performance gains new depth – she not only perfectly portrays a witty and feminine Georgiana early in the film, but also a caring mother, and an abandoned woman later on."[52] The following year, she was nominated for a BIFA Award for Best Actress for her performance.[53]
In December 2009, Knightley made her West End debut in Martin Crimp's version of Molière's comedy The Misanthrope, at the Comedy Theatre in London alongside Damian Lewis, Tara FitzGerald and Dominic Rowan. Reviews for her portrayal of Jennifer in the play were generally positive. The Daily Telegraph described her performance as revealing "both power and poignancy" and The Independent called her performance "not only strikingly convincing but, at times, rather thrilling in its satiric aplomb."[54][55] The Guardian, however, noted that due to the nature of the role "one could say that she is not unduly stretched."[56] In recognition of her theatre debut, Knightley was nominated for the Laurence Olivier Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role in the play. Knightley also received an Evening Standard Award nomination for the Natasha Richardson Award for Best Actress.[57]
In 2010, Knightley appeared in Massy Tadjedin's romantic drama Last Night, in which she co-starred with Eva Mendes, Sam Worthington and Guillaume Canet.[58][59] The same year, Knightley completed work on an adaptation of Kazuo Ishiguro's dystopian novel Never Let Me Go with Andrew Garfield and Carey Mulligan. Filming took place in Norfolk and Clevedon in Somerset.[60][61] Also in 2010, she starred in London Boulevard with Colin Farrell, written by William Monahan.[62]
Knightley's only film of 2011 was David Cronenberg's historical drama A Dangerous Method, co-starring Viggo Mortensen, Michael Fassbender and Vincent Cassel. Based on writer Christopher Hampton's 2002 stage play The Talking Cure and set on the eve of World War I, the film depicts the turbulent relationships between fledgling psychiatrist Carl Jung, his mentor Sigmund Freud and Sabina Spielrein played by Knightley, the troubled but beautiful young psychoanalyst who comes between them.[63] The costume film premiered at the 68th Venice International Film Festival to a positive reception, while Knightley earned generally favourable reviews by critics, Andrew O'Hehir of Salon.com noting her "the real star of this film."[64]
In 2012, she appeared with Steve Carell in the dramedy Seeking a Friend for the End of the World.[65] In addition, she reunited with director Joe Wright for the production of Anna Karenina (2012), in which she starred as the title character.[66] Knightley garnered rave reviews for her performance, prompting early Oscar buzz.[67]
Knightley is slated to appear in The Emperor's Children with Rachel McAdams, Emma Thompson and Richard Gere. The film, a dark comedy, was written by Noah Baumbach and will be directed by Scott Cooper.[68] In May 2012, Knightley was cast to replace Scarlett Johansson in director John Carney's Can a Song Save Your Life? after Johansson withdrew due to personal reasons.[69] The film was released as Begin Again in 2013. Knightley played Cathy Muller in 2014's Jack Ryan: Shadow Recruit, alongside Chris Pine.
She will re-team with her Atonement co-star Benedict Cumberbatch for the 2014 historical drama film The Imitation Game. She will play Joan Clarke opposite Cumberbatch's Alan Turing.[70]
Knightley has been described by press reports as "famously open with media",[71] although Knightley herself has stated "I don't talk about my private life."[72] Knightley has appeared many times in FHMs 100 Sexiest Women in the World list. Ranked No. 79 in 2004 she climbed to No. 18 in 2005, and was named "the sexiest woman in the world in 2006".[73] In 2007, she was 12th, 10th in 2008,[74] and came in 36th in 2009.[75] The US edition ranked her No. 54 in 2004, No. 11 in 2005, and No. 5 in 2006. In May 2006, she was No. 9 on Maxim's 2006 Hot 100.[76] Knightley appeared nude, along with Scarlett Johansson, on the cover of Vanity Fair magazine's March 2006 "Hollywood" issue.[77]
Knightley was the celebrity face for the luxury goods brand Asprey, Shiatzy Chen as well as Lux haircare products in Japanese television commercials.[78] In April 2006, she was confirmed as the new celebrity face of Chanel's perfume Coco Mademoiselle, though the first photo from the campaign was not released until May 2007.[79][80]
A 41-year-old man was charged with harassment in February 2010 after trying to contact the actress on several occasions outside the Comedy Theatre in London, where she appeared in the play The Misanthrope.[81] The subsequent trial folded after the actress was unavailable to testify in court.[82]
Knightley received media attention for her perspectives on feminism, voiced in an interview for Harper's Bazaar UK published in the February 2014 edition. Knightley explained that female artists face greater hurdles in the film industry compared to their male counterparts, and also revealed that she was perplexed by the use of "feminist" in a derogatory sense:
I think it's great that the discussions are finally being allowed to be had [about feminism], as opposed to anybody mentioning feminism and everybody going, 'Oh, fucking shut up.' Somehow, it [feminism] became a dirty word. I thought it was really weird for a long time, and I think it's great that we're coming out of that.[83]
Knightley was in a relationship with actor Del Synnott from 2001 to 2003. The couple met during the filming of Princess of Thieves. Knightley was also in a relationship with actor Jamie Dornan from 2003 to 2005.[84] She dated her Pride & Prejudice co-star Rupert Friend from 2005 until December 2010.[85] She subsequently began dating musician James Righton, of Klaxons, in late February 2011.[86] Knightley and Righton married on 4 May 2013 in Mazan, Vaucluse, South of France. The couple lives in the London Borough of Islington.[87]
While appearing as a guest on The Graham Norton Show alongside former Arsenal legend Thierry Henry on 24 January 2014, she revealed that she was a fan of West Ham United.
Knightley has denied rumours she is anorexic, although her family has a history of anorexia.[88] Knightley sued the Daily Mail after they claimed she lied about having anorexia; the article said that a teenage girl died from anorexia, indicating that Knightley's physical appearance may have influenced her in some way. She was awarded a settlement.[89] In July 2006, Knightley said she has become a workaholic,[90][91] suggesting that she would take a one-year break from acting to travel and focus on her personal life.[92]
Knightley is the face of an Amnesty International campaign to support human rights, marking the 60th anniversary of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.[94][94] In 2004, she travelled to Ethiopia alongside Richard Curtis, Sanjeev Bhaskar and Julian Metcalfe on behalf of the Comic Relief charity.[95] She posed for photos for WaterAid in 2005 and also for the American Library Association's "Read" campaign (a promotional poster of Pride & Prejudice).[96] The dress she wore to the 2006 Academy Awards was donated to the charity Oxfam, where it raised £4,300.[97]
In April 2009, Knightley appeared in a video to raise awareness of domestic abuse entitled Cut shot for Women's Aid.[98] The video created controversy, with some sources calling it too graphic, while other groups support the video for showing a realistic depiction of domestic violence.[99] In November 2010, Knightley became patron of the Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) Trust, a British charity that funds medical research into the disease spinal muscular atrophy.[100]
For International Women's Day 2014, Knightley was one of the artist signatories of Amnesty International's letter to UK Prime Minister David Cameron campaigning for women's rights in Afghanistan.[101]
Nominated – Visual Effects Society Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male or Female Actor in an Effects Film
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Keira_Knightley&oldid=610997543"					
Categories: 1985 birthsLiving people20th-century English actresses21st-century English actressesBest Actress Empire Award winnersEnglish child actressesEnglish female modelsEnglish film actressesEnglish people of Scottish descentEnglish people of Welsh descentEnglish stage actressesEnglish television actressesActresses from LondonPeople from TeddingtonEnglish radio actressesHidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersArticles with hCardsWikipedia articles needing clarification from December 2013Use dmy dates from April 2014Use British English from January 2013Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          The daughter of actor Will Knightley and playwright Sharman Macdonald. After she requested an agent at the age of three, her parents allowed her to work on productions in her summer holidays. Her first role was at the age of 9, in Moira Armstrong's A Village Affair (1995). However, Knightley's first high profile role came in 1999, as Sabe, Decoy Queen to Natalie Portman's Queen Amidala in Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999). Since then she has completed an impressive array of films, including her Oscar-nominated performance as Elizabeth Bennet in Pride & Prejudice (2005), but is probably best known for her role of Elizabeth Swann in Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003).
          Keira Christina Knightley was born in the South London suburb of Richmond on March 26th 1985. She is the daughter of actor Will Knightley and actress turned playwright Sharman Macdonald. An older brother, Caleb Knightley, was born in 1979. Brought up immersed in the acting profession from both sides - writing and performing - it is little wonder that the young Keira asked for her own agent at the age of three. She was granted one at the age of six and performed in her first TV role as "Little Girl" in Screen One: Royal Celebration (1993), aged seven. It was discovered at an early age that Keira had severe difficulties in reading and writing. She was not officially dyslexic as she never sat the formal tests required of the British Dyslexia Association. Instead, she worked incredibly hard, encouraged by her family, until the problem had been overcome by her early teens.Her first multi-scene performance came in A Village Affair (1995), an adaptation of the lesbian love story by Joanna Trollope. This was followed by small parts in the British crime series The Bill (1984), an exiled German princess in The Treasure Seekers (1996) and a much more substantial role as the young "Judith Dunbar" in Giles Foster's adaptation of Rosamunde Pilcher's novel Coming Home (1998), alongside Peter O'Toole, Penelope Keith and Joanna Lumley. The first time Keira's name was mentioned around the world was when it was revealed (in a plot twist kept secret by director George Lucas) that she played Natalie Portman's decoy "Padme" to Portman's "Amidala" in Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999).It was several years before agreement was reached over which scenes featured Keira as the queen and which featured Natalie! Keira had no formal training as an actress and did it out of pure enjoyment. She went to an ordinary council-run school in nearby Teddington and had no idea what she wanted to do when she left. By now, she was beginning to receive far more substantial roles and was starting to turn work down as one project and her schoolwork was enough to contend with. She reappeared on British television in 1999 as "Rose Fleming" in Alan Bleasdale's faithful reworking of Charles Dickens' Oliver Twist (1999), and travelled to Romania to film her first title role in Walt Disney's Princess of Thieves (2001) in which she played Robin Hood's daughter, Gwyn. Keira's first serious boyfriend was her Princess of Thieves (2001) co-star Del Synnott, and they later co-starred in Peter Hewitt's 'work of fart' Thunderpants (2002). Nick Hamm's dark thriller The Hole (2001) kept her busy during 2000, and featured her first nude scene (15 at the time, the film was not released until she was 16 years old).In the summer of 2001, while Keira studied and sat her final school exams (she received six A's), she filmed a movie about an Asian girl's (Parminder Nagra) love for football and the prejudices she has to overcome regarding both her culture and her religion). Bend It Like Beckham (2002) was a smash hit in football-mad Britain but it had to wait until another of Keira's films propelled it to the top end of the US box office. Bend It Like Beckham (2002) cost just £3.5m to make, and nearly £1m of that came from the British Lottery. It took £11m in the UK and has since gone on to score more than US$76m worldwide. Meanwhile, Keira had started A-levels at Esher College, studying Classics, English Literature and Political History, but continued to take acting roles which she thought would widen her experience as an actress. The story of a drug-addicted waitress and her friendship with the young son of a drug-addict, Pure (2002), occupied Keira from January to March 2002. Also at this time, Keira's first attempt at Shakespeare was filmed. She played "Helena" in a modern interpretation of a scene from "A Midsummer Night's Dream" entitled The Seasons Alter (2002). This was commissioned by the environmental organisation "Futerra", of which Keira's mother is patron. Keira received no fee for this performance or for another short film, New Year's Eve (2002), by award-winning director Col Spector.But it was a chance encounter with producer Andy Harries at the London premiere of Bridget Jones's Diary (2001) which forced Keira to leave her studies and pursue acting full-time. The meeting lead to an audition for the role of "Larisa Feodorovna Guishar" - the classic heroine of Boris Pasternak's novel Doctor Zhivago (2002), played famously in the David Lean movie by Julie Christie. This was to be a big-budget TV movie with a screenplay written by Andrew Davies. Keira won the part and the mini-series was filmed throughout the Spring of 2002 in Slovakia, co-starring Sam Neill and Hans Matheson as "Yuri Zhivago". Keira rounded off 2002 with a few scenes in the first movie to be directed by Blackadder and Vicar of Dibley writer Richard Curtis. Called Love Actually (2003), Keira played "Juliet", a newlywed whose husband's Best Man is secretly besotted with her.A movie filmed after Love Actually (2003) but released before it was to make the world sit up and take notice of this beautiful fresh-faced young actress with a cute British accent. It was a movie which Keira very nearly missed out on, altogether. Auditions were held in London for a new blockbuster movie called Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003), but heavy traffic in the city forced Keira to be tagged on to the end of the day's auditions list. It helped - she got the part. Filming took place in Los Angeles and the Caribbean from October 2002 to March 2003 and was released to massive box office success and almost universal acclaim in the July of that year. Meanwhile, a small British film called Bend It Like Beckham (2002) had sneaked onto a North American release slate and was hardly setting the box office alight. But Keira's dominance in "Pirates" had set tongues wagging and questions being asked about the actress playing "Elizabeth Swann". Almost too late, "Bend It"'s distributors realised one of its two stars was the same girl whose name was on everyone's lips due to "Pirates", and took the unusual step of re-releasing "Bend It" to 1,000 screens across the US, catapulting it from no. 26 back up to no. 12. "Pirates", meanwhile, was fighting off all contenders at the top spot, and stayed in the Top 3 for an incredible 21 weeks. It was perhaps no surprise, then, that Keira was on producer Jerry Bruckheimer's wanted list for the part of "Guinevere" in a planned accurate telling of the legend of "King Arthur". Filming took place in Ireland and Wales from June to November 2003. In July, Keira had become the celebrity face of British jeweller and luxury goods retailer, Asprey.At a photoshoot for the company on Long Island New York in August, Keira met and fell in love with Northern Irish model Jamie Dornan. King Arthur (2004) was released in July 2004 to lukewarm reviews. It seems audiences wanted the legend after all, and not necessarily the truth. Keira became the breakout star and 'one to watch in 2004' throughout the world's media at the end of 2003.Keira's 2004 started off in Scotland and Canada filming John Maybury's time-travelling thriller The Jacket (2005) with Oscar-winner Adrien Brody. A planned movie of Deborah Moggach's novel, "Tulip Fever", about forbidden love in 17th Century Amsterdam, was cancelled in February after the British government suddenly closed tax loopholes which allowed filmmakers to claw back a large proportion of their expenditure. Due to star Keira and Jude Law in the main roles, the film remains mothballed. Instead, Keira spent her time wisely, visiting Ethiopia on behalf of the "Comic Relief" charity, and spending summer at various grandiose locations around the UK filming what promises to be a faithful adaptation of Jane Austen's classic novel Pride & Prejudice (2005), alongside Matthew Macfadyen as "Mr. Darcy", and with Donald Sutherland and Judi Dench in supporting roles. In October 2004, Keira received her first major accolade, the Hollywood Film Award for Best Breakthrough Actor - Female, and readers of Empire Magazine voted her the Sexiet Movie Star Ever. The remainder of 2004 saw Keira once again trying a completely new genre, this time the part-fact, part-fiction life story of model turned bounty hunter Domino (2005). 2005 started with the premiere of The Jacket (2005) at the Sundance Film Festival, with the US premiere in LA on February 28th. Much of the year was then spent in the Caribbean filming both sequels to Pirates Of The Caribbean. Keira's first major presenting role came in a late-night bed-in comedy clip show for Comic Relief with presenter Johnny Vaughan. In late July, promotions started for the September release of Pride & Prejudice (2005), with British fans annoyed to learn that the US version would end with a post-marriage kiss, but the European version would not. Nevertheless, when the movie opened in September on both sides of the Atlantic, Keira received her greatest praise thus far in her career, amid much talk of awards. It spent three weeks at No. 1 in the UK box office. Domino (2005) opened well in October, overshadowed by the death of Domino Harvey earlier in the year. Keira received Variety's Personality Of The Year Award in November, topped the following month by her first Golden Globe nomination, for Pride & Prejudice (2005). KeiraWeb.com exclusively announced that Keira would play Helene Joncour in an adaptation of Alessandro Baricco's novella Silk (2007).Pride & Prejudice (2005) garnered six BAFTA nominations at the start of 2006, but not Best Actress for Keira, a fact which paled soon after by the announcement she had received her first Academy Award nomination, the third youngest Best Actress Oscar hopeful. A controversial nude Vanity Fair cover of Keira and Scarlett Johansson kept the press busy up till the Oscars, with Reese Witherspoon taking home the gold man in the Best Actress category, although Keira's Vera Wang dress got more media attention. Keira spent early summer in Europe filming Silk (2007) opposite Michael Pitt, and the rest of the summer in the UK filming Atonement (2007), in which she plays Cecilia Tallis, and promoting the new Pirates movie (her Ellen Degeneres interview became one of the year's Top 10 'viral downloads'). Pirates Of The Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest (2006) broke many box office records when it opens worldwide in July, becoming the third biggest movie ever by early September.Keira sued British newspaper The Daily Mail in early 2007 after her image in a bikini accompanied an article about a woman who blamed slim celebrities for the death of her daughter from anorexia. The case was settled and Keira matched the settlement damages and donated the total amount to an eating disorder charity. Keira filmed a movie about the life of Dylan Thomas, The Edge Of Love (2008) with a screenplay written by her mother Sharman Macdonald. Her co-star Lindsay Lohan pulled out just a week before filming began, and was replaced by Sienna Miller. What was announced to be Keira's final Pirates movie in the franchise, Pirates Of The Caribbean: At World's End (2007), opened strongly in June, rising to all-time fifth biggest movie by July. Atonement (2007) opened the Venice Film Festival in August, and opened worldwide in September, again to superb reviews for Keira. Meanwhile, Silk (2007) opened in September on very few screens and disappeared without a trace. Keira spent the rest of the year filming The Duchess (2008), the life story of Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire, based on Amanda Foreman's award-winning biography of the distant relation of Princess Diana. The year saw more accolades and poll-topping for Keira than ever before, including Women's Beauty Icon 2007 and gracing the covers of all the top-selling magazines. She won Best Actress for Atonement (2007) at the Variety Club Of Great Britain Showbiz Awards, and ended the year with her second Golden Globe nomination. Christmas Day saw - or rather heard - Keira on British TV screens in a new Robbie The Reindeer animated adventure, with DVD proceeds going to Comic Relief.At the start of 2008, Keira received her first BAFTA nomination - Best Actress for Atonement, and the movie wins Best Film: Drama at the Golden Globes. Seven Academy Award nominations for Atonement soon follow. Keira wins Best Actress for her role as Cecilia Tallis at the Empire Film Awards. In May, Keira's first Shakespearean role is announced, when she is confirmed to play Cordelia in a big-screen version of King Lear, alongside Naomi Watts and Gwyneth Paltrow, with Sir Anthony Hopkins as the titular monarch. After two years of rumours, it is confirmed that Keira is on the shortlist to play Eliza Doolittle in a new adaptation of My Fair Lady. The Edge Of Love opens the Edinburgh Film Festival on June 18th, and opens on limited release in the UK and US. A huge round of promotions for The Duchess occurs throughout the summer, with cast and crew trying to play down the marketers' decision to draw parallels between the duchess and Princess Diana. Keira attends the UK and US premieres and Toronto Film Festival within the first week of September. The Duchess opens strongly on both sides of the Atlantic. Two more movies are confirmed for Keira during September - a tale of adultery called Last Night (2010), and a biopic of author F Scott Fitzgerald entitled The Beautiful and the Damned. Keira spends October on the streets of New York City filming Last Night alongside Sam Worthington and Guillaume Canet. Keira helps to promote the sixtieth anniversary of the UN's Declaration of Human Rights, by contributing to a series of short films produced to mark the occasion.In January 2009 it was announced Keira had signed to play a reclusive actress in an adaptation of Ken Bruen's novel London Boulevard (2010), co-starring Colin Farrell. Keira continues her close ties with the Comic Relief charity by helping to launch their British icons T-shirts campaign. In the same week King Lear was revealed to have been shelved, it was announced that Keira would instead star alongside her Pride & Prejudice co-star Carey Mulligan in an adaptation of Kazuo Ishiguro's novel Never Let Me Go (2010). A new short film emerges in March, recorded in the January of 2008 in which Keira plays a Fairy! The Continuing and Lamentable Saga of the Suicide Brothers (2009) was written by Keira's boyfriend Rupert Friend and actor Tom Mison. It goes on to be shown at the London Film Festival in October and wins Best Comedy Short at the New Hampshire Film Festival. Keira continued to put her celebrity to good use in 2009 with a TV commercial for WomensAid highlighting domestic abuse against women. Unfortunately UK censors refused to allow its broadcast and it can only be viewed on YouTube. May and June asw Keira filming Never Let Me Go and London Boulevard back-to-back.In October, a new direction for Keira's career emerged, when it was announced she would appear on the London stage in her West End debut role as Jennifer, in a reworking of Moliere's The Misanthrope, starring Damian Lewis and Tara Fitzgerald. More than $2m of ticket sales followed in the first four days, before even rehearsals had begun! The play will run from December to March at London's Comedy Theatre. Meanwhile, in late October it was finally confirmed that Keira had won the role of Eliza Doolittle in a brand new adaptation of My Fair Lady. With a script by Emma Thompson and produced by Duncan Kenworthy and Sir Cameron Mackintosh, its director was also finally confirmed as Joe Wright (after Danny Boyle and Stephen Daldry were linked at various stages). Filming is not due to start until late 2010, with Daniel Craig a possible Professor Higgins.
      The similarity between Knightley and Natalie Portman meant that during the filming of Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999), their own mothers could not tell them apart once in makeup.
      Her role as the decoy queen in Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999) was kept secret in order to not spoil the surprise, it was maintained through the promotions that Portman played both the Queen and the decoy.
      Mother is actress-turned-author Sharman Macdonald, who wrote 'When I Was A Girl I Used To Scream And Shout' and 'The Winter Guest'.
      The Royal Shakespeare Company of Stratford, England, held a 2004 poll asking movie viewers to vote for the actor and actress they would love to see play Romeo and Juliet, and the winners were Knightley and James Marsters. More than 2,000 people voted for more than 150 different actors for both roles. Keira triumphed over Kate Winslet, Nicole Kidman, Scarlett Johansson, and Juliet Landau in the vote. Knightley said, "I am absolutely thrilled to have come top of the poll, particularly as Juliet is a role I would very much love to play in the future." (April 23, 2004)
      She did her first topless scene at the age of 15, in The Hole (2001), whilst the film was released in 2001 it was filmed in 2000. For legal reasons due to her age her mother had to agree and the set was closed.
      Auditioned for, and was accepted to the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art (LAMDA) in London, England.
      At 16, she went to Esher College to study for her A Levels, but quit the course when offered the role of Lara in Doctor Zhivago (2002).
      Her father, who is English, has English, and a small amount of Scottish, ancestry. Her mother, who is of Scottish and Welsh descent, was born in Scotland.
      She's an idol in several forum communities from Heavengames.com, one of the most famous websites about Real Time Strategy computer games.
      When auditioning for the role of Jackie Price in The Jacket (2005), she had suffered food poisoning a few days earlier. She decided to audition anyway and the film makers liked her "acting" for the scene, as Jackie Price was to be a woman with many issues of loss and pain as well as being physically sick in general.
      She has bought a flat in Richmond Upon Thames (2005) but has said to have only have spent a few weeks there. However, she plans to fill it with her own painted canvases.
      Voted second sexiest voice, behind Sir Sean Connery, in a poll by the UK's Royal National Institute for the Blind, commissioned to celebrate 70 years of their Talking Books service.
      As of February 2006, says she plans on remaining living in London and will not move to Los Angeles to further her career in American films.
      Was considered for the role of Kate Meer in Neil James's "Ghost Seeker: Genesis" in 2006. Both Lindy King (Knightley's agent) and Knightley herself liked the script, but the shooting schedule of Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End (2007) meant that the project had to move on without her.
      Her hero is her cast mate in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003), Geoffrey Rush.
      Employed a stylist to dress her for premieres and award ceremonies. The stylist also dresses Lindsay Lohan and Nicole Kidman.
      Trained four days a week for three months in preparation for King Arthur (2004). She did about two hours of weight lifting, and then three hours either boxing, fighting, or horseback riding. - Cosmopolitan, August 2004.
      Said auditioning for the role of Christine in The Phantom of the Opera (2004) was the singularly most embarrassing moment of her life because "I knew I couldn't sing it." The role eventually went to trained opera singer Emmy Rossum. - Marie Claire 2005.
      Told NewWoman in 2004 that for King Arthur (2004), she endured an amazing seventh-month training session.
      Her 21st birthday party cost more than $30,000. Actors, designers, and other industry types attended.
      Made her debut on the Forbes 100 Most Powerful Celebrities in June, 2007. She came in a #71 beating out other high profile actresses like Scarlett Johansson and Reese Witherspoon.
      Voted #15 in the AfterEllen Hot 100, a list of the hottest women in entertainment as voted by lesbian and bisexual women (June 2007).
      Was considered for the role of Ann in Evening (2007), but wasn't able to do it due to schedule conflicts.
      In January 2007, the Daily Mail newspaper published an article about a girl who had died from anorexia which falsely suggested that Keira was also anorexic and showed a photograph of her in a bikini alongside an emotive quote from the girl's mother "If pictures like this one of Keira carried a health warning, my darling daughter might have lived". Keira successfully sued the Mail for libel.
      The green satin gown she wore in Atonement (2007) was voted the public's favorite film costume of all time in a survey by Sky Movies and In Style magazine (January 2008).
      Was originally cast as Mary Boleyn in The Other Boleyn Girl (2008), but dropped out before filming began and Scarlett Johansson was subsequently cast instead.
      Was in consideration for the role of Peggy Carter in Captain America: The First Avenger (2011), but Hayley Atwell was cast instead.
      Was originally cast as Eliza Doolittle in My Fair Lady, but later dropped out of the project. Carey Mulligan was then cast instead.
      Her film Bend It Like Beckham (2002) became the first Western film to be screened on North Korean television in 2010 (the screening was to celebrate 10 years of diplomatic relations between North Korea and the United Kingdom).
      Was in a relationship with Rupert Friend, having met on the set of Pride & Prejudice (2005) (December 2005-December 2010).
      Was in consideration for the role of Selina Kyle/Catwoman in The Dark Knight Rises (2012), but Anne Hathaway was cast instead.
      Was bridesmaid at her brother Caleb Knightley's wedding to Kerry Nixon, held at the Pollokshields Burgh Hall in Glasgow (24 April 2011).
      Ranked as having one of the most "Beautiful Famous Faces" by "The Annual Independent Critics List of the 100 Most Beautiful Famous Faces From Around the World." She was ranked #15 in 2010, #12 in 2009, #4 in 2008, #1 in 2007, #1 in 2006, #2 in 2005, #7 in 2004, #9 in 2003, and #13 in 2002.
      By age 23, Forbes Magazine ranked Knightley as the the second highest-paid actress in Hollywood with estimated earnings of $32 million in 2007. She was also the only non-American actress to make the list at that time.
      Married James Righton before 11 guests in a private ceremony in the town hall of Mazan, just 12 miles away from Marseilles. The bride wore a strapless white tulle dress and pink pumps, along with a cropped Chanel jacket and a daisy-chain style garland on her head (4 May 2013).
      Filming Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest (2006) and Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End (2007), simultaneously. [May 2005]
      The problem for me was that by being in the film the magic was broken. I loved the first Star Wars film and my mum was really into it too, that's why I took the part. But the Force wasn't there when we were filming it, and they didn't have real light sabres, which annoyed me.
      About wearing a corset on Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003): "I had a Scarlett O'Hara thing, she gets her waist down to 18 and a half inches--so I thought I would try that. For five minutes, it's fantastic--you have this tiny waist and fantastic cleavage, but oxygen deprivation is a big problem!"
      (About kissing Orlando Bloom in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003)) There were these teen-aged girls off-cam, and they were ready to kill me because I kissed Orlando Bloom!
      on Bend It Like Beckham (2002): "I thought there would be doubles--stunt doubles--and I would just run in for the close-ups, but unfortunately they didn't have the money for that.
      (After being called the new Hayley Mills) "That was cruel! Nothing against Hayley Mills, but I'm trying to be cool here. I'm trying to be edgy".
      (on shoes) "I see a pair of shoes I adore, and it doesn't matter if they have them in my size. I buy them anyway."
      (On The View (1997)) "I met Barbara Walters backstage and didn't know who she was. She's an American phenomenon, I was told later. I'm just sooo English".
      (at a photo shoot) "I'm a hooker in these pictures, and I must be a high priced one because I'm staying at the Ritz, which is good."
      I'm a tomboy beanpole? I can't use a computer, so maybe I'm a bit out of the loop. I don't know whether to be flattered or not flattered. The beanpole bit, is that good? Can you be a sexy beanpole?
      "Katharine Hepburn and Vivien Leigh are my heroes. Not because of their ability, but because of their perseverance".
      on making Love Actually (2003): "We had kind of done all our wedding and we felt like the stars of the show, then sudden you've got all these other people with story lines and you think: Excuse me, I know you're Alan Rickman, but get out of my film, please, thank you.
      I know for a fact the work is going to dry up, and people will get bored of me. That's not bitterness, just the truth.
      (On her conception) I was a bet. My mum was desperate for another child, and my dad told her that the only way they could afford to have one was if she sold a play. So Mum wrote When I Was a Girl, I Used to Scream and Shout.
      I don't think I can call myself an actress yet. I just don't think my skill level is that high. I hope that with every job it gets better. But until I'm good, I can say I'm trying to be an actor, but I don't think I've completely made it.
      As a moviegoer and a woman, I want to see that, so it's great to get to play parts like that. But Guinevere is a terrifying creature. If I saw a battle, I'd run in the other direction. I'm not strong in that way at all. But I'm certainly someone who has always known what I wanted and tried to get it.
      In this business, fame lasts for a second. You can be blown up and be blown down. People keep losing interest in faces because new ones come along every single second. I'm one at the moment. Tomorrow I won't be. That's cool. I'm not saying that when it does end, I'll be like, 'Yay! It's ending.' But I'll move on and do something else because that's what has to be done. It's about survival. If you're sad about it, then you're in the wrong job.
      (On actresses living in Hollywood) I take my hat off to actresses there, particularly the young ones, because the emphasis is on trying to find perfection. But I think it's the imperfections in people that make them perfect. I don't find perfect faces very interesting.
      Acting requires me to be very observant, which means being able to sit in cafes for hours and watch people.
      I don't have a problem with my body. I'm not just going to strip off all my clothing, but if the part calls for it and I don't think there's any way round, I'm absolutely fine.
      It's also strange when people recognise you in the street and they know you but you don't know them. It's a little weird, but nothing to complain about.
      I'd wanted to get stuck into the action on Pirates of the Caribbean and I asked Jerry [Jerry Bruckheimer] if I could have a sword fight in that, and he more than made up for it in King Arthur (2004) by giving me axe fights, knife fights, and all the rest of it. I absolutely loved it. It was like being 11 years old and in the playground again.
      It was part of the job. There's no point in being embarrassed about it, because that is the name of the game. It was just another day at the office. A very nice day at the office. [on the love scene with Clive Owen in King Arthur (2004)]
      I don't think about nutrition. The very thought of a diet makes me want chips and ice cream. And I just hate going to the gym. I cannot stand it.
      The fact that we haven't focused on the love triangle between Arthur, Lancelot and Guinevere was actually one of the things that made me want to do the film. It's interesting to tell it in a completely new way.
      Every part I've ever got, I always thought it was completely ridiculous that I was up for it. With Pirates, I only packed for a week because I was sure that I was going to get sacked. I thought they'd made the hugest mistake.
      We're all fans of cinema, you know. Forget about being an actor, I love watching films. I really do. That's what I love doing, as a hobby. I find the whole process fascinating, as do my parents, they go to the cinema a lot.
      I don't do a thing to keep fit, I just cannot make myself work out. My abs are just luck - my mum has good ones so it's a family trait.
      I don't read any magazines or newspapers any more, because I find it really scary and I get really scared when I'm followed by photographers. I have, on many occasions, broken down in tears because I find it terrifying. I dropped out of school when I was 16 so there's nothing else that I can do.
      In LA, I'm twice the size- height and everything else- of most of the other actresses who are going for an audition.
      Three years after that I was diagnosed as dyslexic, and we struck a deal: I was allowed to start acting on condition that I would read constantly and get good grades at school.
      Talking about her possibly being anorexic: "I've got a lot of experience with anorexia. It was in my family. My grandmother, and my great-grandmother suffered from it and I had a lot of friends at school who suffer from it so I don't think it's anything to be taken lightly."
      A newspaper here voted me one of the scruffiest people in Britain. I'm quite proud of that. It's completely true.
      I suppose I'm more of a tomboy than the girly-girl, which is why I can't walk on stilettos very well.
      There are pressures to conform to a certain type, tall, blonde, thin, big breasts, you know - The Type.
      Last year I went to the Vanity Fair party after the Oscars and I stood in the corner and had a lot of champagne. It's very, very scary.
      I'm dyslexic, and at six years old they realized I couldn't read a word and had been fooling them. My mum said to me: 'If you come to me with a book in your hand and a smile on your face every day through the summer holiday, I'll get you an agent.'
      Producers usually hire a stylist for me when I got to premieres because they think I'm so pathetic.
      There's no individuality on the red carpet. That's why I loved Björk's Oscar swan dress. I wish I had the courage.
      [Guinevere] "She's very manipulative and calculating and would use whomever to get her own way, whether it was with her sexuality or by killing someone. It felt very empowering playing her!"
      People send over dresses for me to wear to these functions, but I often feel like a 5-year-old in my mom's clothes. So I just wear jeans and a top every single time.
      People said to me yesterday, 'How does it feel to be anorexic?' I had no idea that I was. I can safely say that I'm not. I've got a lot of experience with anorexia. My grandmother and great-grandmother suffered from it. In a way it's good that it's out there and people are talking about it. It's quite interesting because it's normally high-achieving women who suffer from it because, I guess, they're control freaks.
      Nudity frightens me, but I will do it when I think it's necessary - or when it makes me giggle.
      I'm naturally an extremely lazy person, so if someone did everything for me, I really think I would do nothing at all.
      I don't read anything and I don't look at newspapers. It's too weird, so I'm not really aware of hype anywhere.
      I think I always disappoint people, because they always expect someone very pretty. Very done. There's so much pressure to be thin, blonde and busty. I'm skinny, but even I couldn't fit into some of the clothes there (in L.A.)!" In a funny kind of way, I think you create it yourself. I think it's much better to go with the flow and embrace your body, whatever shape it is, and just be happy.
      "The Celts would've been fighting naked and painted blue, but there was no way I was going to do that. Having a bare midriff and running around killing people was fun. But you don't want to see boobs bumping up and down on a battlefield. It would be distracting" On modesty over historical accuracy in King Arthur (2004).
      [on turning her back on Hollywood blockbuster adventure films]: I can't imagine ever doing another one. I had five months off from "Pirates" during the summer last year, when I made Silk and Atonement (2007), and it was so great - I want to be able to explore emotions in smaller projects. That's not to say I won't suddenly read a big Hollywood blockbuster and go 'oooh, that might be good...' But I haven't yet.
      I was literally sewn into these dresses. Because of that, and the hoops, I just couldn't fit into the loo at all - I just had to hang on all day. - On her costumes for The Duchess (2008).
      I think it's important to make time for the people in your life who you love and who love you back.
      [on being asked if she would go out with Robbie Williams] I don't know, I don't know him. He's very good looking though.
      I tried college for three months but I was desperately unhappy. I just wanted to perform. I was getting straight As but I had no friends and cried every day.
      I could never have an affair with any of my leading men, though. They always turn into brothers. I'm a classic turn-them-into-brothers kind of girl.
      On screen these days, you rarely see a big, strong man. You see slender, androgynous-looking boys. I've worked with very few people whom I feel small against. The most manly thing ever is a guy who can cry, who's in touch with himself.
      I love working in Britain because it is my home and it means I can be with my friends and family and work at the same time. If you are working in Britain, a lot of the time you are doing much smaller budget. I like doing a mixture of both. Early on in my career I did some enormously huge-budget films, and to be able to switch it up a bit and do small-budget ones is great as well.
      (On being famous) I think it broke something in me. I was told very early on that if I didn't go out to openings and parties and events I would be left alone. I didn't, and they still didn't leave me alone. I knew it was part of the deal in the life I had signed up to, but the fear of it has never left me. I'm still not good at being recognized. I wear scruffy clothes and hats and keep my head down.
      [on Never Let Me Go (2010)] I thought that Ruth was fascinating. For me, it was kind of a study of jealousy. She had a great path and I thought it would be an interesting thing to try and get into her head. I didn't like her. It's tricky playing people that you don't like and finding a way to empathize with them. It's challenging and very exciting for an actor.
      I started acting when I was 7, but I asked for an agent when I was 3. I don't remember it, but that's what everybody says. I don't think I knew what agents did, but I thought it was kind of unfair that my mom and dad had one and I didn't.
      [on performing certain scenes in A Dangerous Method (2011)] I phoned up David (David Cronenberg) and said, 'I love you, I love your work, but I really don't think that I want to do this'. And he said, 'Well it would be a tragedy if you turned the role down because of that, so if necessary we can take them out'. And I said, 'No, because I understand why they are there'. He said, 'Well, look, I don't want it to be sexy, and I don't want it to be voyeuristic, I want it to be clinical'. We talked for quite a long time about exactly what it was, and trying to understand it psychologically. Once we discussed I said, 'All right, fine, as long as it's not sexy. That brutal horrible aspect is kept, and it isn't a sexy spanking scene'.
      The first thing I knew about Never Let Me Go (2010) was the script that came through my door. I thought it was a completely unique piece. I'd never read anything like it. I then started talking to friends and saying, "I might do this film. I think it's really interesting." And tons of them were saying, "This is my favorite book in the entire world." Actually, one said the most terrifying thing: "It sums up our generation." Which, now having read the book, I find it a bleak prospect indeed. But then when I said yes, I read the book, and I thought it was completely astonishing and, once again, completely unique. And it's very exciting to be part of something like that.
      When you do the Hollywood vibe on a big film you are shot from the perfect angle and you do tests to make sure, so they won't shoot you from this or that angle. With The Jacket (2005) you look shit and that's great. It didn't matter what angle they wanted to film from. I didn't have to look perfect. It's all about finding the truth in any situation and the situation in this wasn't a pretty one.
      [on picking her roles] I have to think, wow, I'm fascinated, but I also get to read this amazing book. For A Dangerous Method (2011), I didn't know anything about psychoanalysis, so to get to spend [months] reading as much as I could is one of the parts of the job I fucking love.
      [on playing the title role in 'Anna Karenina'] I think shame is a deeply difficult thing to live with, and I think she breaks her own moral code. What happens to your own perception of yourself when you break your own moral code? You always make yourself into the heroine, but equally you have self-hatred. She is the heroine and the anti- heroine. She is the perfect narcissist. She hates herself and she loves herself.
      The thing about great fictional characters from literature is that they completely speak to what makes people human.
      I'm good enough to fake playing guitar. I'm not necessarily good enough to actually play the guitar. I've found something really interesting, I don't really like singing, it's not really one of my strong points. Dancing as well, I dance a lot in Anna Karenina (2012) and that's really not a strong point either. But I'm good enough to fake both of them so that's fine.
      [on being relieved that Mr. Cherkaoui never fixated on perfection] There was no point where he went, 'Oh, I've got a bunch of actors who aren't dancers, so I'm going to simplify this. He was just, 'That's what it is, so do it and do it better'. Trying to tell this particular story in those two different ways was fascinating.
      [on yoga classes being recommended to assist in developing her characterization of Anna Karenina] Marathon training would have been slightly more helpful.
      [on being asked, for 'Anna Karenina', to improvise - through movement -characters' relationships] I started off feeling incredibly stupid and going, 'I don't know how to do this. What do you mean? Movement? I'm not a dancer.' And he [Cherkaoui] said, 'I don't care that you're not a dancer - just move in any way you want to within the story of these two people'. That was incredibly liberating and something we used right through the film.
      Without going into my own history with therapy, I think a lot of people seek therapy in England, whether it's therapy itself or something like acupuncture. To me, it's extraordinary when anybody recognizes in themselves that they need help and goes and seeks it. They have nothing but my utmost respect.
      Anna Karenina did come home a couple of times. Because this was so stylized, we had to do it a million different ways, a million different times, through mirrors and twirling into something, so it meant everyone had to keep that level of emotion really high through different 14-hour days. So they did sometimes bleed over into one another.
      They always pencil in my boobs. I was only angry when they were really, really droopy. For King Arthur (2004), for a poster, they gave me these really strange droopy tits. I don't have tits anyway but they digitally made them, and I thought, "Whoa if you're going to make me fantasy breasts, at least make them perky".
      It comes to a point where you think, "What kind of film can I make that will allow me to live a proper life?" And those tentpole movies make it difficult. I became aware of how much I was complaining about it and you can't complain about the attention you're getting while still doing the films that invite the most attention. I do actually love blockbusters but that decision has a lot that comes with it that I'm not prepared to go with.
      People liked the spanking on A Dangerous Method (2011) an awful lot. In England, it was pretty much the only thing I got asked about.
      There's always the moral question when you're playing real people. Is there any reason to do this, or are you simply exploiting somebody?
      [on Seeking a Friend for the End of the World (2012)] The movie itself has comic moments, but it's about the end of the world, so obviously it has an apocalyptic feel to it that's not that comic, because everybody dies.
      I hate knowing too much when I'm going to the cinema. I don't want to know that the actor has just gone through a divorce. I don't want to know that the person is an alcoholic.
      I think it's great that the discussions are finally being allowed to be had [about feminism], as opposed to anybody mentioning feminism and everybody going, 'Oh, f***ing shut up.' Somehow, it [feminism] became a dirty word. I thought it was really weird for a long time, and I think it's great that we're coming out of that.
      Hollywood has a really long way to go. I don't think that anybody can deny that, really, and I think as much as you are getting more women playing lead roles... they're still pretty few and far between.
      I like being private. I haven't asked a lot of the actresses who I really admire, 'How do you do it?' because I don't want to know. Maybe I'm childish in that way; I just don't want to know about your life.
=======================================================
                Keira Christina Knightley was actually christened as Kiera, and was born in Teddington, a quiet suburb of south-west London. She has one brother, Caleb, who is five years older than her. Keira's Scottish-born mother, Sharman MacDonald, had formerly worked as a stage and TV actress, appearing in the popular detective series, ‘Shoestring’. After Keira's mother gave up acting, she went on to pursue a successful career as a playwright. Keira's father was Will Knightley, who was also a stage and TV actor. With such a theatrical background, it was hardly surprising that young Keira should grow up wanting to act.  Much to her parents' amazement, she asked them to find her an agent at the tender age of three! Apparently, she'd already noted that her parents received frequent calls from their agents, asking them to appear in plays and TV shows, and so she'd already decided that she needed one herself!  Keira's mother refused, but her daughter persisted, and eventually, when she was just six-years-old, she got her own way.  As luck would have it, Keira's first agent succeeded in finding acting work for her, and Keira made her TV debut at the age of seven, playing the part of a little girl in a film called 'Royal Celebration', a drama set against the background of the marriage of Diana Spencer and Prince Charles.  Two years later, in 1994, she was given a small part in another drama called 'A Village Affair', starring Sophie Ward and Kerry Fox. But while Keira's acting career was already taking off, she was not doing quite as well at school as her parents might have wished.  Right from the start, Keira had serious problems mastering reading and writing, since she was dyslexic but her condition wasn't diagnosed properly until much later on. She was frequently teased at school for being "stupid" since her condition meant that she couldn't read properly, and wrote numbers the wrong way round.  Acting, however, was a constant source of solace and consolation for young Keira. In 1995, she acted in a wartime drama called 'Innocent Lies', swiftly followed by playing the role of The Princess in E. Nesbit's 'The Treasure Seekers', alongside James Wilby, Ian Richardson and Gina McKee.  Keira went to nearby Teddington School, and although she wasn't a star student, she revelled in the great facilities the school had to offer. She spent a lot of time hanging out at Heatham House youth club nearby, a social venue for young people where local artists, musicians and youth workers introduced Keira and her friends to the delights of photography, football, DJ-ing, skateboarding and acting. Despite her hectic schedule and her early learning difficulties, Keira succeeded in passing six GCSEs.  In 1998, she played the role of a quiet schoolgirl in the TV dramatisation of Rosamund Pilcher's romantic novel, 'Coming Home'. But whilst still at school, she received an amazing offer from Hollywood. George Lucas was in the process of casting 'The Phantom Menace', the first part of the Star Wars epic saga, and Keira was chosen to play the role of handmaiden to Queen Amidala (played by Natalie Portman).  The storyline required Keira to impersonate the queen, and to wear the same clothes as her, so her presence in the film was kept completely secret - with the result that this breakthrough movie role didn't do as much to enhance Keira's career as might have been expected. Around the same time, she acted in the role of Oliver's aunt in Alan Bleasdale's adaptation of 'Oliver Twist'.  Keira's next major movie role, however, set her firmly on course for the big time. She was offered the role of Juliette Paxton in 'Bend It Like Beckham' and gave a performance that won her Best Newcomer Award at the London Critics Circle in 2003. The film told the story of a football-mad tomboyish teenager and her friendship with an Asian girl. The film was an overnight smash in football-crazy Britain. It was a huge box-office earner too, since it cost only £3.5 million to make, but took over £11 million in Great Britain alone, and has since gone on to generate over US $76 million worldwide.  Unfazed by her growing success, Keira enrolled for her A level studies at Esher College in Surrey, choosing Classics, English Literature and Political History as her subjects. Keira's academic ambitions were soon to be sidelined by better and better acting offers.  A chance meeting with producer Andy Harries at the London premiere of 'Bridget Jones's Diary' led to an audition for the lead role of Larisa Feodorovna Giushar, the heroine of an upcoming TV version of Boris Pasternak's classic novel, 'Doctor Zhivago'.  This big-budget production looked certain to be highly prestigious and Keira was delighted to land such a plum role. Keira's co-stars included Sam Neill and Hans Matheson and she'd be treading in the footsteps of the screen legend Julie Christie, who'd immortalised the role in David Lean's classic 1960s version.  Filming was scheduled to take place in Slovakia, and going on location was Keira's first real taste of independence. She had her own flat in Prague's red light district, with a bird's eye view of the local prostitutes and sleazy video stores!  On returning to London, Keira made three short films, but then it was full speed ahead for her biggest year to date. She took a chance and decided to attend the London auditions for a new blockbuster movie, called 'Pirates of The Caribbean' (2003), but got stuck in a traffic jam, and nearly didn't make it in time!  Working alongside screen idols Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom, as well as Oscar-winning actor Geoffrey Rush, Keira was to play the part of Elizabeth Swann, the daughter of the British governor, who's kidnapped by ghostly pirates in search of long-lost treasure! This time, Keira got to go on location in Los Angeles and the Caribbean, and it was hardly a surprise that the film turned out to be a major smash hit. The box-office returns were phenomenally high, quickly exceeding $200 million.  Meanwhile, 'Bend It Like Beckham' had sneaked on to the American film distributors' lists and quickly made its way up the ratings charts in the US. When Hollywood producers realised it was the same young British actress playing the lead part in the two hottest films of the moment, Keira suddenly became one of the hottest actresses around.  Keira, who had just had her 18th birthday, had most definitely arrived. Back in England, Keira was cast in the rom-com movie, 'Love Actually' (2003), which told the story of ten parallel love affairs, continually crossing paths with each other. The film had a star-studded cast that included Hugh Grant, Emma Thompson, Alan Rickman and Liam Neeson, to name but a few, and Keira claims she was continually star-struck during shooting.  Next, it was back to Hollywood and the Caribbean, as Keira worked on two sequels to Pirates back-to-back. The second movie, 'Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest', was released in 2006, and the third film, 'Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End', came out in the summer of 2007.  Changing pace yet again, Keira then starred in a stylish thriller that mixed fact and fiction called 'Domino' (2005), where she played the part of Domino Harvey, a beautiful model who gives up her career to become a bounty hunter.  Keira's appearance in 'Atonement' (2007) opposite British heart-throb James McAvoy increased her star power further as the film was well received by critics. Not only did she collect an Empire Award for Best Actress for her portrayal of Cecilia Tallis, but she was nominated for a Bafta Award too.  She went on to star in 'The Edge of Love' in 2008 before her leading role in 'The Duchess', based on a biography of 18th-century English aristocrat Georgiana Cavendish, Duchess of Devonshire, landed her more award nominations.  British film 'London Boulevard', 'Last Night' and 'Never Let Me Go', which led to a British Independent Film Award for Best Supporting Actress nomination, ensured Keira remained busy in 2010. 2011 will see her appear in historical biopic 'A Dangerous Method' alongside Viggo Mortensen, Michael Fassbender and Vincent Cassel.  2012 is also set to be a busy year for the young actress as she will be appearing in romantic comedy drama 'Seeking a Friend For The End Of The World' with Steve Carrell playing her love interest.  She will also be playing the title role in Leo Tolstoy's 'Anna Karenina' with Jude Law and Aaron Johnson. Keira is rumoured to be appearing in 'Can a Song Save Your Life' and 'Untouched', which tells the story of the mysterious wedding night incident between Victorian artist John Ruskin and Effie Gray that led to their divorce, in 2013.  Keira resolutely refuses to discuss her private life in TV and press interviews, but it seems as though she's already enjoyed her fair share of romance off-screen. Her first real boyfriend was her co-star in 'Princess of Thieves' (2001), Del Synott, with whom she also co-starred in the movie 'Thunderpants' (2002).  Whilst on a photo shoot for the jewellery company Asprey in New York, she met and fell in love with Northern Irish model, Jamie Dornan.  But that romance ended and she went on to date fellow actor Rupert Friend, whom she met on the set of 'Pride and Prejudice' (2005). They dated for five years but the pressure of carrying on a romantic relationship under intense media scrutiny took its toll on them. It was revealed in January 2011 that Keira, who has grown to become Britain's best paid actress, and Friend had decided to end their relationship.  Breaking the news, her father told the Sun newspaper: "Yes, they have broken up. They were together for quite a long time and it is always hard breaking up. She's focused on her work."  Her love life is back on track as she is now engaged to be married. After her relationship with Friend, Keira was introduced to the keyboardist for the indie band Klaxons James Righton by their mutual friend Alexa Chung.  They have been dating for 15 months and in May 2012, it was confirmed by Keira's publicist that the couple were engaged to be married.  
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
1988'Precocious Little Brat'Knightley is sure she wants to be an actress from early on. At age 3, she demands her own agent from her parents because they both have one. (Her father Will is a stage actor, and her mother Sharman MacDonald is a playwright.) They persuade her to wait a few years and she signs with an agent at age 6. "That was the kind of precocious little brat I was," she later tells PEOPLE.1999JuneA Clever DisguiseAfter Knightley's parents allow her to act full-time, she lands a small role in George Lucas' blockbuster Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace. Knightley plays a handmaiden that disguises herself as Queen Amidala, who is portrayed by Natalie Portman.2001JulyBending ItThe summer before her final year of high school, Knightley takes a brief hiatus to film Bend It Like Beckham, a boisterous cross-cultural comedy about an Anglo-Indian teenage girl who idolizes soccer star David Beckham. Knightley plays the main character's soccer-playing, tomboy, best friend.  "Everything's changed for me since Beckham," Knightley says to PEOPLE.  "It's been rather mad, but lovely."2002AugustA Pirate's Life for KeiraKnightley earns her sea legs in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl, which takes in more than $650 million at the box office. After months of wearing a corset, "I wanted to burn it," Knightley tells Vogue. Of costar Johnny Depp, she says to PEOPLE: "Lovely, lovely, lovely, lovely, lovely. He's very cool. He's a gorgeous guy. Eye candy." As for Orlando Bloom? "I can report that he's a very good kisser," she adds. 2003AugustModel BehaviorKnightley meets Irish model Jamie Dornan at a photo shoot in Manhattan, and the two start dating. The actress declines to comment on her relationship with Dornan but tells PEOPLE, "I think it's important to make time for the people in your life who you love and who love you back."NovemberTaking It OffKnightley stars in PBS' Doctor Zhivago, which requires a nude scene.  "Nudity frightens me, but I will do it if I think it's necessary – or when it makes me giggle," she tells In Style. The same month, her third studio film Love Actually premieres.2004JulyShe's A FighterIn King Arthur, Knightley plays Guinevere as a tough warrior in blue war paint. She undergoes three months of working out to build muscle and learns archery, horseback riding and sword fighting. "The Celts would've been fighting naked and painted blue, but there was no way I was going to do that," Knightley tells PEOPLE. "You don't want to see boobs bumping up and down on a battlefield. It would be distracting."2005August 09A Break-UpKnightley and boyfriend Jamie Dornan decide to call it quits. Dornan later tells Britain's Mail on Sunday, "The man is meant to be the alpha in the relationship on the money and power front, and clearly I was not."SeptemberAddressing the RumorsThough she is rumored to be dating Australian deejay Kaz James, Knightley tells PEOPLE, "I've never met him. Never!" At least she takes their reported breakup in stride. "Apparently he has dumped me now," she says. "It's the easiest breakup I've ever been through."  A month later, she takes on the role of Domino Harvey, a model turned bounty hunter, in the film Domino. November 10Couture TroublesKnightley stars as the Jane Austen heroine Elizabeth Bennett in Pride & Prejudice. At the film's premiere, she wears a scarlet custom-made Calvin Klein dress, but her nipple briefly slips out in a wardrobe malfunction. She learns her lesson and invests in some double-sided tape for the next opening. "I didn't want to repeat that!" she tells Vogue.   
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): BBC; Photofest; Everett; Disney/Neal Peters Collection; Matt Baron/Beimages; Johnathan Hession/Buena Vista Pictures; Daniella Scaramuzza/Wireimage; Rick Mackler/Rangefinders/Globe 
									James Righton, husband (2011 to present) Rupert Friend, ex-boyfriend (2006 to 2010) Jamie Dornan, ex-boyfriend (2003 to 2005) Del Synnott, ex-boyfriend (2001 to 2003)
   Sep 09, 2013 'KNIGHT' AND DAY  Now that's a duet! Adam Levine and Keira Knightley buddy up in Toronto to celebrate their film, Can a… See Photo   Jul 10, 2013 GREAT WHITE WAY  Newlyweds Keira Knightley and James Righton color coordinate on Wednesday while out for a stroll along… See Photo
=======================================================
See the Vogue cover girl play one of fashion’s most famed designers, as Chanel releases a preview of its new film
The actress' Coco Mademoiselle advert has been deemed too "sexually suggestive" for children's television
The Vogue cover girl admits that she “doesn’t have a clue” when it comes to planning her big day
Costume designer Jacqueline Durran reveals costume secrets from the set of Joe Wright’s period drama
From Rihanna's new album cover to Natalie Portman's intimate on-set moment, see all the pictures you don't want to miss
Keira Knightley's make-up artist tells us how she created the actress' Anna Karenina make-up, plus exclusive behind-the-scenes pictures
=======================================================
BiographyKeira Knightley (born 26.3.1985)Keira Knightley is an English actress who initially rose to public recognition when she appeared in the feature film Bend It Like Beckham. Knightley now has several awards nominations to her name, including an Academy Award nomination for her role in the 2005 adaptation of Pride and Prejudice.Keira Knightley: ChildhoodKeira was born in Middlesex; the child of award winning Scottish playwright, Sharman Macdonald and Will Knightley, an English actor. Keira has one older brother, Caleb (b.1979).Knightley attended Teddington School and Esher College. Although she has dyslexia, she was successful at school.She acquired a talent agent and pursued an acting career, appearing in After Juliet, written by her mother and United States, which was written by Ian McShane: her drama teacher at the time.Keira Knightley: Acting CareerKeira Knightley appeared in a number of low-budget television films in the late 1990s before being cast as Sabe in Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace.In 2001, she landed her first starring role, in a Walt Disney Productions TV movie, Princess of Thieves. She also appeared in The Hole, a film that went straight to video, as well as a mini-series adaptation of Doctor Zhivago. The series received several negative reviews, though the viewing figures were high.Keira's breakthrough to mainstream success came with a role in Bend It Like Beckham. The film grossed $18 million in its UK release and $32 million in its US release.As a boost to her profile, Knightley was then cast in the US blockbuster movie, Pirates of the Caribbean: the Curse of the Black Pearl. Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom also appeared in the film.Her next major role was in the British film, Love Actually which was a success but her follow-up venture, King Arthur received very negative reviews.In 2005 Knightley was heavily criticized for her American accent in The Jacket, starring Adrien Brody. Released later that same year, her next film, Domino, was her biggest commercial and critical failure to date.Luckily, the year improved greatly with the release of Pride and Prejudice. Playing the film's heroine, Elizabeth Bennet, Keira received the best reviews of her career to date. Cast alongside many greatly respected actors - such as Brenda Blethyn, Donald Sutherland and Dame Judi Dench, her acting style was compared to that of a young Audrey Hepburn. The film grossed more than $100 million worldwide, and earned her a Golden Globe nomination and an Oscar nomination. Knightley was later asked to join the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.In 2006, the Pirates. follow-up, Dead Man's Chest became Keira's biggest financial success to date.In 2007, the actress appeared in a number of films: Silk, Atonement (an adaptation of Ian McEwan's novel) and another Pirates. film, At World's End. Knightley was nominated for a 'Best Dramatic Actress' Golden Globe as well as a BAFTA.Keira Knightley: A life in the mediaFHM magazine voted Keira the 79th sexiest Woman in the World in 2004. In 2005, she had risen to number 18 and by 2006 had reached the top of their list.In April 2006, Chanel chose her as the new face of their 'Coco Mademoiselle' perfume.Keira has frequently denied rumours that she is anorexic, though her family has a history of anorexia. She later sued the Daily Mail newspaper, which had accused her of lying about having anorexia and attributing the blame of a young girl's death (cause by anorexia) to Knightley's image.
Benedict Cumberbatch once ''joke-punched'' a journalist for bad-mouthing Keira Knightley.The 'Atonement' star defended his stunning co-star by lashing out after a member of the press reportedly said something rude about her at an event.Speaking in...
Growing up in the word of showbiz cannot be easy for anyone, just listen to Keira Knightley's experiences.The 29 year-old recently discussed the hardships of dealing with fame in her teen years in the July...
Keira Knightley held a secret second wedding last year.The 29-year-old actress, who married The Klaxons rocker James Righton in front of just 11 family members in Mazan in the south of France in May 2013,...
Keira Knightley pities teenage celebrities that can't get ''unbelievably drunk'' and make mistakes in private.The 'Begin Again' actress, who landed a role in 'Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace' when she was 14,...
Keira Knightley has vowed to ban her children from acting in their teens, insisting youngsters should spend their time drinking booze and making mistakes.The Atonement star kicked off her stage career at the age of...
Keira Knightley admits she has ''chilled out an awful lot'' in recent years.The British actress, who shot to fame in 'Bend It Like Beckham' when she was 18, says playing troubled characters in movies like...
Gretta is a young singer-songwriter who takes to New York with her musician boyfriend Dave after he faces a major recording deal. She is supportive and not expectant of any recognition herself, but Dave still...
Keira Knightley loves reading ''trashy novels''.Though the 29-year-old actress didn't get much down time while shooting her latest movie 'Begin Again', she usually relaxes between takes with a book, but can't focus on anything too...
A Week In Movies: Star Wars Cast Announced, Festivals Bring Out Stars In London And New York While Efron And Rogen Hit L.A
Of course the biggest movie news this week was the official announcement that Harrison Ford, Mark Hamill and Carrie Fisher will be back for Star Wars Episode VII, along with the performers behind C-3PO, R2-D2...
Maroon 5 frontman Adam Levine talks about making his acting debut in the music comedy 'Begin Again' in which he stars as an emerging musician who ditches his girlfriend in New York to pursue higher...
Hailee Steinfeld discusses filming in New York and her fellow cast in a red carpet interview during the Tribeca Film Festival premiere of her new movie 'Begin Again', in which she stars alongside Mark Ruffalo,...
Keira Knightley talks about working on her new movie 'Begin Again', in which she stars as a dejected singer-songwriter in New York alongside Hailee Steinfeld, Mark Ruffalo and Adam Levine. Although not a natural singer,...
Keira Knightley Describes 'Begin Again' As 'Positive And Upflifting' At The Tribeca Premiere - Part 2
Keira Knightley talks to the press on the red carpet at the Tribeca Film Festival premiere of her new movie 'Begin Again'.'I feel the movie is a very positive, sort of uplifting tale', she explains....
Keira Knightley's marriage is ''alright''.The 'Begin Again' actress appeared surprised to learn her and James Righton's wedding anniversary is just a few days away but says all is well in their relationship.Reminded by E! News...
A Week In Movies: Tribeca Brings Out Stars In New York, Jennifer Films In L.A., Kelsey Shoots In London, And New Trailers Promise Music, Thrills And More Music
The Tribeca Film Festival is underway in New York, and stars have been turning out to promote their new movies. Jon Favreau and Sofia Vergara hit the red carpet for their film Chef. Sofia Loren...
Keira Knightley has lavished praise on rocker Adam Levine for his film debut in their new romantic drama Begin Again, insisting the Maroon 5 frontman is a "natural" onscreen.The stars play college sweethearts who relocate...
Dan Mulligan is a former record executive who has just been spectacularly dismissed by the label he was employed by. Now penniless with nowhere to go and no-one to talk to apart from his hormonal...
Keira Knightley says she can't have a personal life while working on films.The 'Anna Karenina' actress' schedule so extremely busy when she's on set that she doesn't ever have the time to catch up with...
Keira Knightley is considering a role in Fox's adaptation of 'The Typist'.The 29-year-old actress is in talks to star in the forthcoming film based on Michael Knight's 2010 book of the same name, which chronicles...
Keira Knightley wore her recycled Chanel dress on her wedding day because she'd had ''brilliant'' memories in it.The 'Anna Karenina' star chose to marry her beau James Righton in the pale pink designer frock, which...
Keira Knightley paints her nails in crazy colours for fun.The 29-year-old actress admits her strangest beauty ritual is swapping the French manicure she usually sports when she's on a film job for completely ''absurd'' shades...
One of the reasons that we love Lorde so much is that she defies the usual standards of celebrity. The 17 year old has previously posted photos of herself on her Instagram account with a...
Keira Knightley cheered on James Righton as his band kicked off their new tour.The 29-year-old actress was spotted supporting her husband's group The Klaxons during their gig at the Hare and Hounds pub in Birmingham,...
Today, Lorde has tried to prove to her fans that Photoshop perfection is not something to aspire to and that "flaws are ok" in selfies and photos. To illustrate her point, the singer posted two...
Keira Knightley doesn't worry about the way she looks.The 29-year-old actress is often hailed as one of the most iconic British beauties, with her chiseled cheekbones and famous pout, but the only time she dwells...
Keira Knightley says acting helps her build who she is.The 29-year-old actress - who was catapulted to the spotlight after starring in 2003's 'Pirates of the Caribbean' - still gets nervous when she's preparing for...
Keira Knightley and Mark Ruffalo's new movie Can A Song Save Your Life? has a new title - the film is now being marketed as Begin Again. The music-driven romantic drama has been selected to...
Keira Knightley spent years dodging officials at Britain's Tv Licensing authority as they refused to believe she did not own a television.The Pirates of the Caribbean star went without a television for a long time...
Keira Knightley loves working for Chanel because she can dress up as ''somebody different''.The 28-year-old actress fronts the Coco Mademoiselle adverts and enjoys the job because it allows her to experiment with numerous styles. She...
British actress Keira Knightley is mourning the loss of her Chanel wedding dress after she accidentally spilled red wine on the precious gown during a night out.The Pirates of the Caribbean star married musician James...
The second season of the prison comedy-drama will premiere on Netflix this week. here are some preview clips!
Oscar-winning actor Kevin Spacey turned the air blue on respected Bbc current affairs show Newsnight.
50 Cent has defended Justin Bieber in light of his N-word shame, insisting the 20-year-old star is not racist and is ''still a baby''.
I love the girl myself.I watched the blooper reel and I really enjoyed her quick wit.She's attractive and I like a woman that can play an independant lady like Miss Swan.She impressed me so much I named one of my kittens after her.
Just a comment about what seems to be a problem in Keira Knightleys self image. She is seemly concerned that her breasts arent large enough.. I just want to say that she is beautiful and there are many, many men especially myself that arent attracted to large breasted women and I for one find her to be very sexy just the way she is and dont feel she needs to make any changes in her natural anatomy. So Keira you have all you need so relax about this apparent self conscience feeling you have about your breasts.Speaking on behalf of  myself and many other men I say you are a BABE and a 10 on a scale of 10.
keira, you are the greatest! you totally don't need ANY plastic surgery, you are beautiful and a phenomonal actress! i'm coming over to london in a few days, i'm crossing my fingers that i will see you! : )i hope you're not anorexic, please listen when i say you are BEAUTIFUL! great job on all the acting, you're making your fans proud!
nahh keira go get dose breasts largened man!!! lol i gta say shes an ok actress i went 2 wtch domino bt i gt chukd out of the cinema :'(
Keira Knightley seems to be really nice and down-to-earth sort of person. And i am hoping that she wont do any operations to herself e.g. like someone suggested getting her breast larger. Shes also a great actress.
Don't get them done Keira! Don't give into the f***in media peer pressure crap!!!Three words... Less Is More!!!
hiya im amy roystone aged 13.i think keira is an amazing actress and i would kill to be in her shoes! i am crazy about acting myself and attend a local stagecoach group and i have hope to be a successful as her one day !! i no every 1 who is a fan says this but I AM HER BIGGEST FAN !!!! lol :)
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued For $30 Million Over '10 Things I Hate About Life''The Fault In Our Stars' Is (Probably) The Best Movie Out This WeekEddie Redmayne Apologised To Stephen Hawking For His Academic ChoiceHugh Jackman Is Nervous About Tony AwardsKristen Wiig Worried She Was Too Old For Hollywood'Edge Of Tomorrow' May Be Recycled, But It's Not RubbishCould Will Smith's Role In Ridley Scott's Nfl Drama Land Him His First Academy Award?Michael Jace Admitted Wife's Murder To Father-in-law Before Calling PoliceKevin Spacey Gives Paxman An F-bomb To Defuse On Bbc 2'S NewsnightJudi Dench Joins Tulip Fever
50 Cent: Justin Bieber is still a babyLa Toya Jackson wants 'huge' weddingLara Stone Lost Top Modelling Job After Discovering She Was PregnantEmily Blunt 'Almost Killed' Tom Cruise In Disastrous Driving StuntAustin Mahone: 'Comparisons To Justin Bieber Are Obnoxious'Michael Sheen Glad He Dodged Soccer Career 
Pharrell Williams - Full Show - #AmexUNSTAGED VideoJack White - Lazaretto VideoSharlto Copley - Maleficent Video Interview Sam Riley - Maleficent Video Interview Elle Fanning - Maleficent Video Interview  
Sharlto Copley - Maleficent Video InterviewSam Riley - Maleficent Video InterviewElle Fanning - Maleficent Video InterviewAngelina Jolie - Maleficent Video InterviewBlair Jollands - Interview 
LeAnn Rimes - 2014 CMA Music Festival CMA Close Up Stage Artist of theJamie Cullum - Jamie Cullum performs at the Queen Elizabeth Theatre. - Toronto, CanadaNatalie Portman - Natalie Portman and husband Benjamin Millepied with their son Aleph Portman-MillepiedRicky Gervais and Jane Fallon - Screening Of Netflix Series "Derek" Season 2 atAlesha Dixon - Celebrities at Belle UK premiere afterparty held at the Hippodrome - 
