=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Samuel Langhorne Clemens (November 30, 1835 – April 21, 1910),[1] better known by his pen name Mark Twain, was an American author and humorist. He wrote The Adventures of Tom Sawyer (1876) and its sequel, Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (1885),[2] the latter often called "the Great American Novel."
Twain grew up in Hannibal, Missouri, which provided the setting for Huckleberry Finn and Tom Sawyer. After an apprenticeship with a printer, he worked as a typesetter and contributed articles to the newspaper of his older brother Orion Clemens. He later became a riverboat pilot on the Mississippi River before heading west to join Orion in Nevada. He referred humorously to his singular lack of success at mining, turning to journalism for the Virginia City Territorial Enterprise.[3] In 1865, his humorous story, "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County," was published, based on a story he heard at Angels Hotel in Angels Camp, California, where he had spent some time as a miner. The short story brought international attention, and was even translated into classic Greek.[4] His wit and satire, in prose and in speech, earned praise from critics and peers, and he was a friend to presidents, artists, industrialists, and European royalty.
Though Twain earned a great deal of money from his writings and lectures, he invested in ventures that lost a great deal of money, notably the Paige Compositor, which failed because of its complexity and imprecision. In the wake of these financial setbacks, he filed for protection from his creditors via bankruptcy, and with the help of Henry Huttleston Rogers eventually overcame his financial troubles. Twain chose to pay all his pre-bankruptcy creditors in full, though he had no legal responsibility to do so.
Twain was born shortly after a visit by Halley's Comet, and he predicted that he would "go out with it," too. He died the day following the comet's subsequent return. He was lauded as the "greatest American humorist of his age,"[5] and William Faulkner called Twain "the father of American literature."[6]
Samuel Langhorne Clemens was born in Florida, Missouri, on November 30, 1835. He was the son of Jane (née Lampton; 1803–1890), a native of Kentucky, and John Marshall Clemens (1798–1847), a Virginian by birth. His parents met when his father moved to Missouri and were married several years later, in 1823.[7][8] He was the sixth of seven children, but only three of his siblings survived childhood: his brother Orion (1825–1897), Henry, who died in a riverboat explosion (1838–1858), and Pamela (1827–1904). His sister Margaret (1833–1839) died when he was three, and his brother Benjamin (1832–1842) died three years later. Another brother, Pleasant (1828–1829), died at six months.[9] Twain was born two weeks after the closest approach to Earth of Halley's Comet.
When he was four, Twain's family moved to Hannibal, Missouri,[10] a port town on the Mississippi River that inspired the fictional town of St. Petersburg in The Adventures of Tom Sawyer and Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.[11] Missouri was a slave state and young Twain became familiar with the institution of slavery, a theme he would later explore in his writing. Twain's father was an attorney and judge.[12] The Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad was organized in his office in 1846. The railroad connected the second and third largest cities in the state and was the westernmost United States railroad until the completion of the Transcontinental Railroad. It delivered mail to and from the Pony Express.[13]
In 1847, when Twain was 11, his father died of pneumonia.[14] The next year, he became a printer's apprentice. In 1851, he began working as a typesetter and contributor of articles and humorous sketches for the Hannibal Journal, a newspaper owned by his brother Orion. When he was 18, he left Hannibal and worked as a printer in New York City, Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Cincinnati. He joined the newly formed International Typographical Union, the printers union, and educated himself in public libraries in the evenings, finding wider information than at a conventional school.[15] Clemens came from St. Louis on the packet Keokuk in 1854[16] and lived in Muscatine during part of the summer of 1855. The Muscatine newspaper published eight stories, which amounted to almost 6,000 words.[17]
On a voyage to New Orleans down the Mississippi, steamboat pilot Horace E. Bixby inspired Twain to become a pilot himself. As Twain observed in Life on the Mississippi, the pilot surpassed a steamboat's captain in prestige and authority; it was a rewarding occupation with wages set at $250 per month.[18] A steamboat pilot needed to know the ever-changing river to be able to stop at the hundreds of ports and wood-lots. Twain studied 2,000 miles (3,200 km) of the Mississippi for more than two years before he received his steamboat pilot license in 1859. This occupation gave him his pen name, Mark Twain, from "mark twain," the cry for a measured river depth of two fathoms. While training, Samuel convinced his younger brother Henry to work with him. Henry was killed on June 21, 1858, when the steamboat he was working on, the Pennsylvania, exploded. Twain had foreseen this death in a dream a month earlier,[19]:275 which inspired his interest in parapsychology; he was an early member of the Society for Psychical Research.[20] Twain was guilt-stricken and held himself responsible for the rest of his life. He continued to work on the river and was a river pilot until the American Civil War broke out in 1861 and traffic along the Mississippi was curtailed.
At the start of the Civil War, Twain enlisted briefly in a Confederate local unit. He then left for Nevada to work for his brother, a senior official in the Federal government.[21] Twain later wrote a sketch, "The Private History of a Campaign That Failed," which told how he and his friends had been Confederate volunteers for two weeks before disbanding their company.[22]
Library of Twain House, with hand-stenciled paneling, fireplaces from India, embossed wallpapers, and hand-carved mantel purchased in Scotland
Twain joined Orion, who in 1861 became secretary to James W. Nye, the governor of Nevada Territory, and headed west. Twain and his brother traveled more than two weeks on a stagecoach across the Great Plains and the Rocky Mountains, visiting the Mormon community in Salt Lake City.
Twain's journey ended in the silver-mining town of Virginia City, Nevada, where he became a miner on the Comstock Lode.[22] Twain failed as a miner and worked at a Virginia City newspaper, the Territorial Enterprise.[23] Working under writer and friend Dan DeQuille, here he first used his pen name. On February 3, 1863, he signed a humorous travel account "Letter From Carson – re: Joe Goodman; party at Gov. Johnson's; music" with "Mark Twain."[24]
His experiences in the American West inspired Roughing It and his experiences in Angels Camp, California in Calaveras County provided material for "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County".
Twain moved to San Francisco, California in 1864, still as a journalist. He met writers such as Bret Harte and Artemus Ward. The young poet Ina Coolbrith may have romanced him.[25]
His first success as a writer came when his humorous tall tale, "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County," was published in a New York weekly, The Saturday Press, on November 18, 1865. It brought him national attention. A year later, he traveled to the Sandwich Islands (present-day Hawaii) as a reporter for the Sacramento Union. His travelogues were popular and became the basis for his first lectures.[26]
In 1867, a local newspaper funded a trip to the Mediterranean. During his tour of Europe and the Middle East, he wrote a popular collection of travel letters, which were later compiled as The Innocents Abroad in 1869. It was on this trip that he met his future brother-in-law, Charles Langdon. Both were passengers aboard the Quaker City on their way to the Holy Land. Langdon showed a picture of his sister Olivia to Twain; Twain claimed to have fallen in love at first sight.
Upon returning to the United States, Twain was offered honorary membership in the secret society Scroll and Key of Yale University in 1868.[27] Its devotion to "fellowship, moral and literary self-improvement, and charity" suited him well.
Throughout 1868, Twain and Olivia Langdon corresponded but she rejected his first marriage proposal. Two months later, they were engaged. In February 1870, Twain and Langdon were married in Elmira, New York,[26] where he had courted her and overcome her father's initial reluctance.[28] She came from a "wealthy but liberal family," and through her he met abolitionists, "socialists, principled atheists and activists for women's rights and social equality," including Harriet Beecher Stowe (his next-door neighbor in Hartford, Connecticut), Frederick Douglass, and the writer and utopian socialist William Dean Howells,[29] who became a long-time friend. The couple lived in Buffalo, New York from 1869 to 1871. Twain owned a stake in the Buffalo Express newspaper and worked as an editor and writer. While living in Buffalo, their son Langdon died of diphtheria at age 19 months. They had three daughters: Susy (1872–1896), Clara (1874–1962)[30] and Jean (1880–1909). The couple's marriage lasted 34 years, until Olivia's death in 1904. All of the Clemens family are buried in Elmira's Woodlawn Cemetery.
Twain moved his family to Hartford, Connecticut, where starting in 1873 he arranged the building of a home (local admirers saved it from demolition in 1927 and eventually turned it into a museum focused on him). In the 1870s and 1880s, Twain and his family summered at Quarry Farm, the home of Olivia's sister, Susan Crane.[31][32] In 1874,[31] Susan had a study built apart from the main house so that her brother-in-law would have a quiet place in which to write. Also, Twain smoked pipes constantly, and Susan Crane did not wish him to do so in her house. During his seventeen years in Hartford (1874–1891) and over twenty summers at Quarry Farm, Twain wrote many of his classic novels, among them The Adventures of Tom Sawyer (1876), The Prince and the Pauper (1881), Life on the Mississippi (1883), Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (1885) and A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (1889).
Twain made a second tour of Europe, described in the 1880 book A Tramp Abroad. His tour included a stay in Heidelberg from May 6 until July 23, 1878, and a visit to London.
Twain was fascinated with science and scientific inquiry. He developed a close and lasting friendship with Nikola Tesla, and the two spent much time together in Tesla's laboratory.
Twain patented three inventions, including an "Improvement in Adjustable and Detachable Straps for Garments" (to replace suspenders) and a history trivia game.[33] Most commercially successful was a self-pasting scrapbook; a dried adhesive on the pages only needed to be moistened before use.
His book A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court features a time traveler from the contemporary US, using his knowledge of science to introduce modern technology to Arthurian England. This type of storyline would later become a common feature of a science fiction sub-genre, alternate history.
In 1909, Thomas Edison visited Twain at his home in Redding, Connecticut and filmed him. Part of the footage was used in The Prince and the Pauper (1909), a two-reel short film. It is said to have been the only known existing film footage of Twain.[34]
Twain made a substantial amount of money through his writing, but he lost a great deal through investments, mostly in new inventions and technology, particularly the Paige typesetting machine. It was a beautifully engineered mechanical marvel that amazed viewers when it worked, but it was prone to breakdowns. Twain spent $300,000 (equal to $8,200,000 in inflation-adjusted terms [35]) on it between 1880 and 1894;[36] but, before it could be perfected, it was made obsolete by the Linotype. He lost not only the bulk of his book profits but also a substantial portion of his wife's inheritance.[37]
Twain also lost money through his publishing house, Charles L. Webster and Company, which enjoyed initial success selling the memoirs of Ulysses S. Grant but went broke soon after, losing money on a biography of Pope Leo XIII; fewer than two hundred copies were sold.[37]
Twain's writings and lectures, combined with the help of a new friend, enabled him to recover financially.[38] In 1893, he began a 15-year-long friendship with financier Henry Huttleston Rogers, a principal of Standard Oil. Rogers first made Twain file for bankruptcy. Then Rogers had Twain transfer the copyrights on his written works to his wife, Olivia, to prevent creditors from gaining possession of them. Finally, Rogers took absolute charge of Twain's money until all the creditors were paid.
Twain accepted an offer from Robert Sparrow Smythe[39] and embarked on a year-long, around-the-world lecture tour in July 1895[40] to pay off his creditors in full, although he was no longer under any legal obligation to do so.[41] It would be a long, arduous journey and he was sick much of the time, mostly from a cold and a carbuncle. The itinerary took him to Hawaii, Fiji, Australia, New Zealand, Sri Lanka, India, Mauritius, South Africa and England. Twain's three months in India became the centerpiece of his 712-page book Following the Equator. He joined the Anti-Imperialist League in 1898, in opposition to the U.S. annexation of the Philippines.[citation needed]
In mid-1900, he was the guest of newspaper proprietor Hugh Gilzean-Reid at Dollis Hill House, located on the north side of London, UK. In regard to Dollis Hill, Twain wrote that he had "never seen any place that was so satisfactorily situated, with its noble trees and stretch of country, and everything that went to make life delightful, and all within a biscuit's throw of the metropolis of the world."[42] He then returned to America in 1900, having earned enough to pay off his debts.
Twain was in demand as a featured speaker, performing solo humorous talks similar to what would become stand-up comedy.[43] He gave paid talks to many men's clubs, including the Authors' Club, Beefsteak Club, Vagabonds, White Friars, and Monday Evening Club of Hartford. In the late 1890s, he spoke to the Savage Club in London and was elected honorary member. When told that only three men had been so honored, including the Prince of Wales, he replied "Well, it must make the Prince feel mighty fine."[44] In 1897, Twain spoke to the Concordia Press Club in Vienna as a special guest, following diplomat Charlemagne Tower, Jr.. In German, to the great amusement of the assemblage, Twain delivered the speech "Die Schrecken der deutschen Sprache" ("The Horrors of the German Language").[45] In 1901, Twain was invited to speak at Princeton University's Cliosophic Literary Society, where he was made an honorary member.[46]
Twain passed through a period of deep depression that began in 1896 when his daughter Susy died of meningitis. Olivia's death in 1904 and Jean's on December 24, 1909, deepened his gloom.[48] On May 20, 1909, his close friend Henry Rogers died suddenly. In 1906, Twain began his autobiography in the North American Review. In April, Twain heard that his friend Ina Coolbrith had lost nearly all she owned in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, and he volunteered a few autographed portrait photographs to be sold for her benefit. To further aid Coolbrith, George Wharton James visited Twain in New York and arranged for a new portrait session. Initially resistant, Twain admitted that four of the resulting images were the finest ones ever taken of him.[49]
Twain formed a club in 1906 for girls he viewed as surrogate granddaughters, the Angel Fish and Aquarium Club. The dozen or so members ranged in age from 10 to 16. Twain exchanged letters with his "Angel Fish" girls and invited them to concerts and the theatre and to play games. Twain wrote in 1908 that the club was his "life's chief delight."[50] In 1907 Twain met Dorothy Quick (then aged 11) on a transatlantic crossing, beginning "a friendship that was to last until the very day of his death".[51]
"I came in with Halley's Comet in 1835. It is coming again next year, and I expect to go out with it. It will be the greatest disappointment of my life if I don't go out with Halley's Comet. The Almighty has said, no doubt: 'Now here are these two unaccountable freaks; they came in together, they must go out together."
His prediction was accurate—Twain died of a heart attack on April 21, 1910, in Redding, Connecticut, one day after the comet's closest approach to Earth.
"Mark Twain gave pleasure – real intellectual enjoyment – to millions, and his works will continue to give such pleasure to millions yet to come ... His humor was American, but he was nearly as much appreciated by Englishmen and people of other countries as by his own countrymen. He has made an enduring part of American literature."
Twain's funeral was at the "Old Brick" Presbyterian Church in New York.[55] He is buried in his wife's family plot at Woodlawn Cemetery in Elmira, New York. The Langdon family plot where he is buried is marked by a 12-foot (two fathoms, or "mark twain") monument, placed there by his surviving daughter, Clara.[56] There is also a smaller headstone. Although he expressed a preference for cremation (for example in Life on the Mississippi), he acknowledged that his surviving family would have the last word.
Officials in Connecticut and New York estimated the value of Twain's estate at $471,000 ($11,921,346 today); his manuscripts were given no monetary value, and his copyrights given little and decreasing value.[57]
Mark Twain in his gown (scarlet with grey sleeves and facings) for his D.Litt. degree, awarded to him by Oxford University
Twain began his career writing light, humorous verse, but evolved into a chronicler of the vanities, hypocrisies and murderous acts of mankind. At mid-career, with Huckleberry Finn, he combined rich humor, sturdy narrative and social criticism. Twain was a master at rendering colloquial speech and helped to create and popularize a distinctive American literature built on American themes and language. Many of Twain's works have been suppressed at times for various reasons. Adventures of Huckleberry Finn has been repeatedly restricted in American high schools, not least for its frequent use of the word "nigger," which was in common usage in the pre-Civil War period in which the novel was set.
A complete bibliography of his works is nearly impossible to compile because of the vast number of pieces written by Twain (often in obscure newspapers) and his use of several different pen names. Additionally, a large portion of his speeches and lectures have been lost or were not written down; thus, the collection of Twain's works is an ongoing process. Researchers rediscovered published material by Twain as recently as 1995.[37]
Cabin where Twain wrote "Jumping Frog of Calaveras County," Jackass Hill, Tuolumne County. Click on historical marker and interior view.
While writing for the Virginia City newspaper, the Territorial Enterprise in 1863, Clemens met lawyer Tom Fitch, editor of the competing newspaper Virginia Daily Union and known as the "silver-tongued orator of the Pacific."[58]:51 He credited Fitch with giving him his "first really profitable lesson" in writing. In 1866, Clemens presented his lecture on the Sandwich Islands to a crowd in Washoe City, Nevada.[59] Clemens commented that, "When I first began to lecture, and in my earlier writings, my sole idea was to make comic capital out of everything I saw and heard." Fitch told him, "Clemens, your lecture was magnificent. It was eloquent, moving, sincere. Never in my entire life have I listened to such a magnificent piece of descriptive narration. But you committed one unpardonable sin—the unpardonable sin. It is a sin you must never commit again. You closed a most eloquent description, by which you had keyed your audience up to a pitch of the intensest interest, with a piece of atrocious anti-climax which nullified all the really fine effect you had produced."[60] It was in these days that Twain became a writer of the Sagebrush School, and was known later as the most notable within this literary genre.[61]
Twain's first important work, "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County," was first published in the New York Saturday Press on November 18, 1865. The only reason it was published there was that his story arrived too late to be included in a book Artemus Ward was compiling featuring sketches of the wild American West.
After this burst of popularity, the Sacramento Union commissioned Twain to write letters about his travel experiences. The first journey he took for this job was to ride the steamer Ajax in its maiden voyage to Hawaii, referred to at the time as the Sandwich Islands. These humorous letters proved the genesis to his work with the San Francisco Alta California newspaper, which designated him a traveling correspondent for a trip from San Francisco to New York City via the Panama isthmus. All the while, Twain was writing letters meant for publishing back and forth, chronicling his experiences with his burlesque humor. On June 8, 1867, Twain set sail on the pleasure cruiser Quaker City for five months. This trip resulted in The Innocents Abroad or The New Pilgrims' Progress.
This book is a record of a pleasure trip. If it were a record of a solemn scientific expedition it would have about it the gravity, that profundity, and that impressive incomprehensibility which are so proper to works of that kind, and withal so attractive. Yet not withstanding it is only a record of a picnic, it has a purpose, which is, to suggest to the reader how he would be likely to see Europe and the East if he looked at them with his own eyes instead of the eyes of those who traveled in those countries before him. I make small pretense of showing anyone how he ought to look at objects of interest beyond the sea—other books do that, and therefore, even if I were competent to do it, there is no need.
In 1872, Twain published a second piece of travel literature, Roughing It, as a semi-sequel to Innocents. Roughing It is a semi-autobiographical account of Twain's journey from Missouri to Nevada, his subsequent life in the American West, and his visit to Hawaii. The book lampoons American and Western society in the same way that Innocents critiqued the various countries of Europe and the Middle East. Twain's next work kept Roughing It's focus on American society but focused more on the events of the day. Entitled The Gilded Age: A Tale of Today, it was not a travel piece, as his previous two books had been, and it was his first attempt at writing a novel. The book is also notable because it is Twain's only collaboration; it was written with his neighbor Charles Dudley Warner.
Twain's next two works drew on his experiences on the Mississippi River. Old Times on the Mississippi, a series of sketches published in the Atlantic Monthly in 1875, featured Twain's disillusionment with Romanticism.[62] Old Times eventually became the starting point for Life on the Mississippi.
Twain's next major publication was The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, which drew on his youth in Hannibal. Tom Sawyer was modeled on Twain as a child, with traces of two schoolmates, John Briggs and Will Bowen. The book also introduced in a supporting role Huckleberry Finn, based on Twain's boyhood friend Tom Blankenship.
The Prince and the Pauper, despite a storyline that is omnipresent in film and literature today, was not as well received. Telling the story of two boys born on the same day who are physically identical, the book acts as a social commentary as the prince and pauper switch places. Pauper was Twain's first attempt at historical fiction, and blame for its shortcomings is usually put on Twain for having not been experienced enough in English society, and also on the fact that it was produced after a massive hit. In between the writing of Pauper, Twain had started Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (which he consistently had problems completing[63]) and started and completed another travel book, A Tramp Abroad, which follows Twain as he traveled through central and southern Europe.
Twain's next major published work, Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, solidified him as a noteworthy American writer. Some have called it the first Great American Novel, and the book has become required reading in many schools throughout the United States. Huckleberry Finn was an offshoot from Tom Sawyer and had a more serious tone than its predecessor. The main premise behind Huckleberry Finn is the young boy's belief in the right thing to do though most believed that it was wrong. Four hundred manuscript pages of Huckleberry Finn were written in mid-1876, right after the publication of Tom Sawyer. Some accounts have Twain taking seven years off after his first burst of creativity, eventually finishing the book in 1883. Other accounts have Twain working on Huckleberry Finn in tandem with The Prince and the Pauper and other works in 1880 and other years. The last fifth of Huckleberry Finn is subject to much controversy. Some say that Twain experienced, as critic Leo Marx puts it, a "failure of nerve." Ernest Hemingway once said of Huckleberry Finn:
If you read it, you must stop where the Nigger Jim is stolen from the boys. That is the real end. The rest is just cheating.
Near the completion of Huckleberry Finn, Twain wrote Life on the Mississippi, which is said to have heavily influenced the former book.[37] The work recounts Twain's memories and new experiences after a 22-year absence from the Mississippi. In it, he also states that "Mark Twain" was the call made when the boat was in safe water – two fathoms (12 feet or 3.7 metres).
After his great work, Twain began turning to his business endeavors to keep them afloat and to stave off the increasing difficulties he had been having from his writing projects. Twain focused on President Ulysses S. Grant's Memoirs for his fledgling publishing company, finding time in between to write "The Private History of a Campaign That Failed" for The Century Magazine. This piece detailed his two-week stint in a Confederate militia during the Civil War. The name of his publishing company was Charles L. Webster & Company, which he owned with Charles L. Webster, his nephew by marriage.[65]
Twain next focused on A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, which featured him making his first big pronouncement of disappointment with politics. Written with the same historical fiction style of The Prince and the Pauper, A Connecticut Yankee showed the absurdities of political and social norms by setting them in the court of King Arthur. The book was started in December 1885, then shelved a few months later until the summer of 1887, and eventually finished in the spring of 1889.
Twain had begun to furiously write articles and commentary, with diminishing returns, to pay the bills and keep his business projects afloat, but it was not enough. He filed for bankruptcy in 1894.
His next large-scale work, Pudd'nhead Wilson, was written rapidly, as Twain was desperately trying to stave off the bankruptcy. From November 12 to December 14, 1893, Twain wrote 60,000 words for the novel.[37] Critics have pointed to this rushed completion as the cause of the novel's rough organization and constant disruption of continuous plot. There were parallels between this work and Twain's financial failings, notably his desire to escape his current constraints and become a different person.
Like The Prince and the Pauper, this novel also contains the tale of two boys born on the same day who switch positions in life. Considering the circumstances of Twain's birth and Halley's Comet, and his strong belief in the paranormal, it is not surprising that these "mystic" connections recur throughout his writing.
The actual title is not clearly established. It was first published serially in Century Magazine, and when it was finally published in book form, Pudd'nhead Wilson appeared as the main title; however, the disputed "subtitles" make the entire title read: The Tragedy of Pudd'nhead Wilson and the Comedy of The Extraordinary Twins.[37]
Twain's next venture was a work of straight fiction that he called Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc and dedicated to his wife. Twain had long said that this was the work he was most proud of, despite the criticism he received for it. The book had been a dream of his since childhood. He claimed he had found a manuscript detailing the life of Joan of Arc when he was an adolescent.[37] This was another piece Twain was convinced would save his publishing company. His financial adviser, Henry Huttleston Rogers, quashed that idea and got Twain out of that business altogether, but the book was published nonetheless.
During this time of dire financial straits, Twain published several literary reviews in newspapers to help make ends meet. He famously derided James Fenimore Cooper in his article detailing Cooper's "Literary Offenses." He became an extremely outspoken critic not only of other authors, but also of other critics, suggesting that before praising Cooper's work, Thomas Lounsbury, Brander Matthews, and Wilkie Collins "ought to have read some of it."[66]
Other authors to fall under Twain's attack during this time period (beginning around 1890 until his death) were George Eliot, Jane Austen, and Robert Louis Stevenson.[67] In addition to providing a source for the "tooth and claw" style of literary criticism, Twain outlines in several letters and essays what he considers to be "quality writing." He places emphasis on concision, utility of word choice, and realism (he complains that Cooper's Deerslayer purports to be realistic but has several shortcomings). Ironically, several of his works were later criticized for lack of continuity (Adventures of Huckleberry Finn) and organization (Pudd'nhead Wilson).
Twain's wife died in 1904 while the couple were staying at the Villa di Quarto in Florence; and, after an appropriate period of time, Twain allowed himself to publish some works that his wife, a de facto editor and censor throughout his life, had looked down upon. Of these works, The Mysterious Stranger, depicting various visits of Satan to the Earth, is perhaps the best known. This particular work was not published in Twain's lifetime. There were three versions found in his manuscripts, made between 1897 and 1905: the Hannibal, Eseldorf, and Print Shop versions. Confusion among the versions led to an extensive publication of a jumbled version, and only recently have the original versions as Twain wrote them become available.
Twain's last work was his autobiography, which he dictated and thought would be most entertaining if he went off on whims and tangents in non-chronological order. Some archivists and compilers have rearranged the biography into more conventional forms, thereby eliminating some of Twain's humor and the flow of the book. The first volume of autobiography, over 736 pages, was published by the University of California in November 2010, 100 years after his death, as Twain wished.[68][69] It soon became an unexpected[70] best seller,[71] making Twain one of very few authors publishing new best-selling volumes in all three of the 19th, 20th, and 21st centuries.
Twain’s works have been subjected to censorship efforts. According to Stuart (2013) “Leading these banning campaigns, generally, were religious organizations or individuals in positions of influence – not so much working librarians, who had been instilled with that American “library spirit” which honored intellectual freedom (within bounds of course). In 1905, the Brooklyn Public Library banned both The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn and The Adventures of Tom Sawyer from the children's department because of their language.[72]
Twain's views became more radical as he grew older. He acknowledged that his views changed and developed over his life, referring to one of his favorite works:
When I finished Carlyle's French Revolution in 1871, I was a Girondin; every time I have read it since, I have read it differently—being influenced and changed, little by little, by life and environment ... and now I lay the book down once more, and recognize that I am a Sansculotte! And not a pale, characterless Sansculotte, but a Marat.[73]
In the New York Herald, October 15, 1900, he describes his transformation and political awakening, in the context of the Philippine-American War, from being "a red-hot imperialist":
I wanted the American eagle to go screaming into the Pacific ... Why not spread its wings over the Philippines, I asked myself? ... I said to myself, Here are a people who have suffered for three centuries. We can make them as free as ourselves, give them a government and country of their own, put a miniature of the American Constitution afloat in the Pacific, start a brand new republic to take its place among the free nations of the world. It seemed to me a great task to which we had addressed ourselves.
But I have thought some more, since then, and I have read carefully the treaty of Paris [which ended the Spanish-American War], and I have seen that we do not intend to free, but to subjugate the people of the Philippines. We have gone there to conquer, not to redeem.
It should, it seems to me, be our pleasure and duty to make those people free, and let them deal with their own domestic questions in their own way. And so I am an anti-imperialist. I am opposed to having the eagle put its talons on any other land.[74]
Before 1899 Twain was an ardent imperialist. In the late 1860s and early 1870s he spoke out strongly in favor of American interests in the Hawaiian Islands.[75] In the mid-1890s he explained later, he was "a red-hot imperialist. I wanted the American eagle to go screaming over the Pacific."[76] He said the war with Spain in 1898 was "the worthiest" war ever fought.[77] In 1899 he reversed course, and from 1901, soon after his return from Europe, until his death in 1910, Twain was vice-president of the American Anti-Imperialist League,[78] which opposed the annexation of the Philippines by the United States and had "tens of thousands of members."[29] He wrote many political pamphlets for the organization. The Incident in the Philippines, posthumously published in 1924, was in response to the Moro Crater Massacre, in which six hundred Moros were killed. Many of his neglected and previously uncollected writings on anti-imperialism appeared for the first time in book form in 1992.[78]
Twain was critical of imperialism in other countries as well. In Following the Equator, Twain expresses "hatred and condemnation of imperialism of all stripes."[29] He was highly critical of European imperialism, notably of Cecil Rhodes, who greatly expanded the British Empire, and of Leopold II, King of the Belgians.[29] King Leopold's Soliloquy is a stinging political satire about his private colony, the Congo Free State. Reports of outrageous exploitation and grotesque abuses led to widespread international protest in the early 1900s, arguably the first large-scale human rights movement. In the soliloquy, the King argues that bringing Christianity to the country outweighs a little starvation. Leopold's rubber gatherers were tortured, maimed and slaughtered, until the movement forced Brussels to call a halt.[79][80]
During the Philippine-American War, Twain wrote a short pacifist story entitled The War Prayer, which makes the point that humanism and Christianity's preaching of love are incompatible with the conduct of war. It was submitted to Harper's Bazaar for publication, but on March 22, 1905 the magazine rejected the story as "not quite suited to a woman's magazine." Eight days later, Twain wrote to his friend Daniel Carter Beard, to whom he had read the story, "I don't think the prayer will be published in my time. None but the dead are permitted to tell the truth." Because he had an exclusive contract with Harper & Brothers, Twain could not publish The War Prayer elsewhere; it remained unpublished until 1923. It was republished as campaigning material by Vietnam War protesters.[29]
Twain acknowledged he originally sympathized with the more moderate Girondins of the French Revolution and then shifted his sympathies to the more radical Sansculottes, indeed identifying as "a Marat." Twain supported the revolutionaries in Russia against the reformists, arguing that the Tsar must be got rid of, by violent means, because peaceful ones would not work.[81] He summed up his views of revolutions in the following statement:
I am said to be a revolutionist in my sympathies, by birth, by breeding and by principle. I am always on the side of the revolutionists, because there never was a revolution unless there were some oppressive and intolerable conditions against which to revolute.[82]
Twain was an adamant supporter of the abolition of slavery and emancipation of slaves, even going so far to say "Lincoln's Proclamation ... not only set the black slaves free, but set the white man free also."[83] He argued that non-whites did not receive justice in the United States, once saying "I have seen Chinamen abused and maltreated in all the mean, cowardly ways possible to the invention of a degraded nature ... but I never saw a Chinaman righted in a court of justice for wrongs thus done to him."[84] He paid for at least one black person to attend Yale Law School and for another black person to attend a southern university to become a minister.[85]
Twain's views on race were not reflected in his early sketches of Native Americans. Of them, Twain wrote in 1870:
His heart is a cesspool of falsehood, of treachery, and of low and devilish instincts. With him, gratitude is an unknown emotion; and when one does him a kindness, it is safest to keep the face toward him, lest the reward be an arrow in the back. To accept of a favor from him is to assume a debt which you can never repay to his satisfaction, though you bankrupt yourself trying. The scum of the earth![86]
As counterpoint, Twain's essay on "The Literary Offenses of Fenimore Cooper" offers a much kinder view of Indians.[66] "No, other Indians would have noticed these things, but Cooper's Indians never notice anything. Cooper thinks they are marvelous creatures for noticing, but he was almost always in error about his Indians. There was seldom a sane one among them."[87] In his later travelogue Following the Equator (1897), Twain observes that in colonized lands all over the world, "savages" have always been wronged by "whites" in the most merciless ways, such as "robbery, humiliation, and slow, slow murder, through poverty and the white man's whiskey"; his conclusion is that "there are many humorous things in this world; among them the white man's notion that he is less savage than the other savages.".[88] In an expression that captures his Indian experiences, he wrote, “So far as I am able to judge nothing has been left undone, either by man or Nature, to make India the most extraordinary country that the sun visits on his rounds. Where every prospect pleases, and only man is vile.”[89]
Twain was also a staunch supporter of women's rights and an active campaigner for women's suffrage. His "Votes for Women" speech, in which he pressed for the granting of voting rights to women, is considered one of the most famous in history.[90]
Helen Keller benefited from Twain's support, as she pursued her college education and publishing, despite her disabilities and financial limitations.
Twain wrote glowingly about unions in the river boating industry in Life on the Mississippi, which was read in union halls decades later.[91] He supported the labor movement, especially one of the most important unions, the Knights of Labor.[29] In a speech to them, he said:
Who are the oppressors? The few: the King, the capitalist, and a handful of other overseers and superintendents. Who are the oppressed? The many: the nations of the earth; the valuable personages; the workers; they that make the bread that the soft-handed and idle eat.[92]
Twain was opposed to the vivisection practices of his day. His objection was not on a scientific basis but rather an ethical one. He specifically cited the pain caused to the animal as his basis of his opposition.[93]
I am not interested to know whether vivisection produces results that are profitable to the human race or doesn't. ... The pain which it inflicts upon unconsenting animals is the basis of my enmity toward it, and it is to me sufficient justification of the enmity without looking further.
Although Twain was a Presbyterian, he was sometimes critical of organized religion and certain elements of Christianity through his later life. He wrote, for example, "Faith is believing what you know ain't so," and "If Christ were here now there is one thing he would not be—a Christian."[94] Nonetheless, as a mature adult he engaged in religious discussions and attended services, his theology developing as he wrestled with the deaths of loved ones and his own mortality.[95] His own experiences and suffering within his family made him particularly critical of "faith healing," such as espoused by Mary Baker Eddy and Christian Science.[citation needed]
Twain generally avoided publishing his most heretical opinions on religion in his lifetime, and they are known from essays and stories that were published later. In the essay Three Statements of the Eighties in the 1880s, Twain stated that he believed in an almighty God, but not in any messages, revelations, holy scriptures such as the Bible, Providence, or retribution in the afterlife. He did state that "the goodness, the justice, and the mercy of God are manifested in His works," but also that "the universe is governed by strict and immutable laws," which determine "small matters," such as who dies in a pestilence.[96] At other times he wrote or spoke in ways that contradicted a strict deist view, for example, plainly professing a belief in Providence.[97] In some later writings in the 1890s, he was less optimistic about the goodness of God, observing that "if our Maker is all-powerful for good or evil, He is not in His right mind." At other times, he conjectured sardonically that perhaps God had created the world with all its tortures for some purpose of His own, but was otherwise indifferent to humanity, which was too petty and insignificant to deserve His attention anyway.[98]
In 1901 Twain criticized the actions of missionary Dr. William Scott Ament (1851–1909) because Ament and other missionaries had collected indemnities from Chinese subjects in the aftermath of the Boxer Uprising of 1900. Twain's response to hearing of Ament's methods was published in the North American Review in February 1901: To the Person Sitting in Darkness, and deals with examples of imperialism in China, South Africa, and with the U.S. occupation of the Philippines.[99] A subsequent article, "To My Missionary Critics" published in The North American Review in April 1901, unapologetically continues his attack, but with the focus shifted from Ament to his missionary superiors, the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions.[100]
After his death, Twain's family suppressed some of his work that was especially irreverent toward conventional religion, notably Letters from the Earth, which was not published until his daughter Clara reversed her position in 1962 in response to Soviet propaganda about the withholding.[101] The anti-religious The Mysterious Stranger was published in 1916. Little Bessie, a story ridiculing Christianity, was first published in the 1972 collection Mark Twain's Fables of Man.[102]
Despite these views, he raised money to build a Presbyterian Church in Nevada in 1864, although it has been argued that it was only by his association with his Presbyterian brother that he did that.[103]
Twain created a reverent portrayal of Joan of Arc, a subject over which he had obsessed for forty years, studied for a dozen years and spent two years writing.[104] In 1900 and again in 1908, he stated, "I like Joan of Arc best of all my books, it is the best." [104][105]
Those who knew Twain well late in life recount that he dwelt on the subject of the afterlife, his daughter Clara saying: "Sometimes he believed death ended everything, but most of the time he felt sure of a life beyond."[106]
Twain's frankest views on religion appeared in his final work Autobiography of Mark Twain, the publication of which started in November 2010, 100 years after his death. In it, he said:[107]
There is one notable thing about our Christianity: bad, bloody, merciless, money-grabbing, and predatory as it is—in our country particularly and in all other Christian countries in a somewhat modified degree—it is still a hundred times better than the Christianity of the Bible, with its prodigious crime—the invention of Hell. Measured by our Christianity of to-day, bad as it is, hypocritical as it is, empty and hollow as it is, neither the Deity nor his Son is a Christian, nor qualified for that moderately high place. Ours is a terrible religion. The fleets of the world could swim in spacious comfort in the innocent blood it has spilled.
Twain was a Freemason.[108][109] He belonged to Polar Star Lodge No. 79 A.F.&A.M., based in St. Louis. He was initiated an Entered Apprentice on May 22, 1861, passed to the degree of Fellow Craft on June 12, and raised to the degree of Master Mason on July 10.
Twain used different pen names before deciding on "'Mark Twain". He signed humorous and imaginative sketches as "Josh" until 1863. Additionally, he used the pen name "Thomas Jefferson Snodgrass" for a series of humorous letters.[110]
He maintained that his primary pen name came from his years working on Mississippi riverboats, where two fathoms, a depth indicating safe water for passage of boat, was measured on the sounding line. Twain is an archaic term for "two", as in "The veil of the temple was rent in twain." [111] The riverboatman's cry was "mark twain" or, more fully, "by the mark twain", meaning "according to the mark [on the line], [the depth is] two [fathoms]," that is, "The water is 12 feet (3.7 m) deep and it is safe to pass."
Twain claimed that his famous pen name was not entirely his invention. In Life on the Mississippi, he wrote:
Captain Isaiah Sellers was not of literary turn or capacity, but he used to jot down brief paragraphs of plain practical information about the river, and sign them "MARK TWAIN," and give them to the New Orleans Picayune. They related to the stage and condition of the river, and were accurate and valuable; ... At the time that the telegraph brought the news of his death, I was on the Pacific coast. I was a fresh new journalist, and needed a nom de guerre; so I confiscated the ancient mariner's discarded one, and have done my best to make it remain what it was in his hands – a sign and symbol and warrant that whatever is found in its company may be gambled on as being the petrified truth; how I have succeeded, it would not be modest in me to say.[112]
Twain's story about his pen name has been questioned by biographer George Williams III,[113] the Territorial Enterprise newspaper,[114] and Purdue University's Paul Fatout.[115] The claim is that "mark twain" refers to a running bar tab that Twain would regularly incur while drinking at John Piper's saloon in Virginia City, Nevada.
Twain's legacy lives on today as his namesakes continue to multiply. Several schools are named after him, including Mark Twain Elementary School in Wheeling, Illinois and Mark Twain Elementary School in Houston, Texas, which has a statue of Twain sitting on a bench. There is also Mark Twain Intermediate School in New York. There are several schools named Mark Twain Middle School in different states, as well as Samuel Clemens High School in Schertz, near San Antonio, Texas. There are also other structures, such as the Mark Twain Memorial Bridge.
Mark Twain Village is a United States Army installation located in the Südstadt district of Heidelberg, Germany. It is one of two American bases in the United States Army Garrison Heidelberg that house American soldiers and their families (the other being Patrick Henry Village).
Awards in his name proliferate. In 1998, The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts created the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor, awarded annually. The Mark Twain Award is an award given annually to a book for children in grades four through eight by the Missouri Association of School Librarians. Stetson University in DeLand, Florida sponsors the Mark Twain Young Authors' Workshop each summer in collaboration with the Mark Twain Boyhood Home & Museum in Hannibal. The program is open to young authors in grades five through eight.[116] The museum sponsors the Mark Twain Creative Teaching Award.[117]
Buildings associated with Twain, including some of his many homes, have been preserved as museums. His birthplace is preserved in Florida, Missouri. The Mark Twain Boyhood Home & Museum in Hannibal, Missouri preserves the setting for some of the author's best known work. The home of childhood friend Laura Hawkins, said to be the inspiration for his fictional character Becky Thatcher, is preserved as the "Thatcher House." In May 2007, a painstaking reconstruction of the home of Tom Blankenship, the inspiration for Huckleberry Finn, was opened to the public. The family home he had built in Hartford, Connecticut, where he and his wife raised their three daughters, is preserved and open to visitors as the Mark Twain House.
On December 4, 1985, the United States Postal Service issued a stamped envelope for "Mark Twain and Halley's Comet," noting the connection with Twain's birth, his death, and the comet.[118] On June 25, 2011, the Postal Service released a Forever stamp in his honor.[119]
Twain is often depicted wearing a white suit. While there is evidence that suggests that, after Livy's death in 1904, Twain began wearing white suits on the lecture circuit, modern representations suggesting that he wore them throughout his life are unfounded. However, there is evidence of him wearing a white suit before 1904. In 1882, he sent a photograph of himself in a white suit to 18-year-old Edward W. Bok, later publisher of the Ladies Home Journal, with a handwritten dated note on verso. It did eventually become his trademark, as illustrated in anecdotes about this eccentricity (such as the time he wore a white summer suit to a Congressional hearing during the winter).[37] McMasters' The Mark Twain Encyclopedia states that Twain did not wear a white suit in his last three years, except at one banquet speech.[120]
Actor Hal Holbrook created a one-man show called Mark Twain Tonight, which he has performed regularly for about 59 years.[121] The broadcast by CBS in 1967 won him an Emmy Award. Of the three runs on Broadway (1966, 1977, and 2005), the first won him a Tony Award.
Twain was portrayed by Fredric March in the 1944 film The Adventures of Mark Twain. He was later brought to life by James Whitmore in the (similarly titled) 1985 Will Vinton Claymation film The Adventures of Mark Twain. In the two-part Star Trek: The Next Generation episode, "Time's Arrow Pt. 1 & 2", the crew of the starship Enterprise pursues malevolent alien lifeforms through a time portal to 1893 San Francisco, where their secretive actions arouse the suspicions of Samuel Clemens as played by Jerry Hardin.
Lucius Beebe. Comstock Commotion: The Story of the Territorial Enterprise and Virginia City News. Stanford University Press, 1954 ISBN 1-122-18798-X
Louis J. Budd, ed. Mark Twain, Collected Tales, Sketches, Speeches & Essays 1891–1910 (Library of America, 1992) (ISBN 978-0-940450-73-8)
Ken Burns, Dayton Duncan, and Geoffrey C. Ward, Mark Twain: An Illustrated Biography. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2001 (ISBN 0-375-40561-5)
Gregg Camfield. The Oxford Companion to Mark Twain. New York: Oxford University Press, 2002 (ISBN 0-19-510710-1)
Guy Cardwell, ed. Mark Twain, Mississippi Writings (Library of America, 1982) (ISBN 978-0-940450-07-3)
Guy Cardwell, ed. Mark Twain, The Innocents Abroad & Roughing It (Library of America, 1984) ISBN 978-0-940450-25-7
Everett Emerson. Mark Twain: A Literary Life. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2000 (ISBN 0-8122-3516-9)
Shelley Fisher Fishkin, ed. A Historical Guide to Mark Twain. New York: Oxford University Press, 2002 (ISBN 0-19-513293-9)
Susan K. Harris, ed. Mark Twain, Historical Romances (Library of America, 1994) (ISBN 978-0-940450-82-0)
Hamlin L. Hill, ed. Mark Twain, The Gilded Age and Later Novels (Library of America, 2002) ISBN 978-1-931082-10-5
Jason Gary Horn. Mark Twain: A Descriptive Guide to Biographical Sources. Lanham, Md.: Scarecrow Press, 1999 (ISBN 0-8108-3630-0)
William Dean Howells. My Mark Twain. Mineloa, New York: Dover Publications, 1997 (ISBN 0-486-29640-7)
Justin Kaplan. Mr. Clemens and Mark Twain: A Biography. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1966 (ISBN 0-671-74807-6)
J. R. LeMaster and James D. Wilson, eds. The Mark Twain Encyclopedia. New York: Garland, 1993 (ISBN 0-8240-7212-X)
Jerome Loving, Mark Twain: The Adventures of Samuel L. Clemens (University of California Press; 2010) 491 pages, ISBN 978-0-520-25257-8; Draws on newly discovered archival materials in a detailed biography
Bruce Michelson. Mark Twain on the Loose. Amherst: University of Massachusetts Press, 1995 (ISBN 0-87023-967-8)
K. Patrick Ober. Mark Twain and Medicine: "Any Mummery Will Cure." Columbia: University of Missouri Press, 2003 (ISBN 0-8262-1502-5)
Albert Bigelow Paine. Mark Twain, A Biography: The Personal and Literary Life of Samuel Langhorne Clemens. Harper & Bros., 1912. ISBN 1-84702-983-3
Ron Powers. Dangerous Water: A Biography of the Boy Who Became Mark Twain. New York: Da Capo Press, 1999. ISBN 0-306-81086-7
R. Kent Rasmussen. Critical Companion to Mark Twain: A Literary Reference to His Life and Work. Facts On File, 2007. Revised edition of Mark Twain A to Z ISBN 0-8160-6225-0
R. Kent Rasmussen, ed. The Quotable Mark Twain: His Essential Aphorisms, Witticisms and Concise Opinions. Contemporary Books, 1997 ISBN 0-8092-2987-0
Anonymous (1873). Cartoon portraits and biographical sketches of men of the day. Illustrated by Frederick Waddy. London: Tinsley Brothers. p. 122. Retrieved 2011-03-13. 
Radavich, David. "Twain, Howells, and the Origins of Midwestern Drama." MidAmerica XXXI (2004): 25–42.
Mark Twain Library, University of California Press. This series re-prints texts from the Papers and Works for students and the general reader.
The Works of Mark Twain, University of California Press. This series prints authoritative critical editions of Mark Twain's published works.
Mark Twain Papers, University of California Press. This series publishes Mark Twain's private papers – his letters, notebooks, unpublished literary works, and autobiography.
Jumping Frogs: Undiscovered, Rediscovered, and Celebrated Writings of Mark Twain, University of California Press. The Jumping Frogs series of books brings neglected Mark Twain treasures—stories, tall tales, novels, travelogues, plays, imaginative journalism, speeches, sketches, satires, burlesques, and much more—to readers.
A True Story, Repeated Word for Word As I Heard It from The Atlantic Monthly. Nov. 1874: 591–594. Boston: Atlantic Monthly Co.
The Mark Twain Papers and Project of the Bancroft Library, University of California Berkeley. Home to the largest archive of Mark Twain's papers and the editors of a critical edition of all of his writings.
Mark Twain Room at Buffalo & Erie County Public Library, which houses the manuscript of Huckleberry Finn
PBS Twain Interactive Scrapbook and San Francisco Chronicle article documenting that Clemens did not say "The coldest winter I ever spent was summer in San Francisco."
Categories: Mark Twain1835 births1910 deathsAlternate history writersAmerican autobiographersAmerican humoristsAmerican memoiristsAmerican satiristsAmerican short story writersAmerican travel writersAmerican male writers19th-century American writersPseudonymous writersWriters from ConnecticutWriters from MissouriWriters from NevadaWriters from the San Francisco Bay Area20th-century American novelists19th-century American novelistsAmerican people of Cornish descentAmerican PresbyteriansClemens familyConfederate States Army soldiersCritics of Christian ScienceCritics of religionsHoly Land travellersLecturersPeople of the Philippine–American WarPeople of the California Gold RushPeople of Missouri in the American Civil WarPeople from Elmira, New YorkPeople from Hannibal, MissouriPeople from Monroe County, MissouriPeople from St. Louis, MissouriSagebrush SchoolRedding, ConnecticutHidden categories: CS1 errors: datesWikipedia semi-protected pagesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2013Articles with unsourced statements from April 2013Articles with DMOZ linksWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with ULAN identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
As Twain’s books provide insight into the past‚ the events of his personal life further demonstrate his role as an eyewitness to history. During his lifetime‚ Sam Clemens watched a young United States evolve from a nation torn apart by internal conflicts to one of international power. He experienced America’s vast growth and change – from westward expansion to industrialization‚ the end of slavery‚ advancements in technology‚ big government and foreign wars. And along the way‚ he often had something to say about the changes happening in his country.
Samuel Clemens was born on November 30‚ 1835 in Florida‚ Missouri‚ the sixth of seven children. At the age of 4‚ Sam and his family moved to the small frontier town of Hannibal‚ Missouri‚ on the banks of the Mississippi River. Missouri‚ at the time‚ was a fairly new state (it had gained statehood in 1821) and comprised part of the country’s western border. It was also a slave state. Sam’s father owned one slave and his uncle owned several. In fact‚ it was on his uncle’s farm that Sam spent many boyhood summers playing in the slave quarters‚ listening to tall tales and the slave spirituals that he would enjoy throughout his life.
In 1847‚ when Sam was 11‚ his father died. Shortly thereafter he left school‚ having completed the fifth grade‚ to work as a printer’s apprentice for a local newspaper. His job was to arrange the type for each of the newspaper’s stories‚ allowing Sam to read the news of the world while completing his work.
At 18‚ Sam headed east to New York City and Philadelphia‚ where he worked on several different newspapers and found some success at writing articles. By 1857‚ he had returned home to embark on a new career as a riverboat pilot on the Mississippi River. With the outbreak of the Civil War in 1861‚ however‚ all traffic along the river came to a halt‚ as did Sam’s pilot career. Inspired by the times‚ Sam joined a volunteer Confederate unit called the Marion Rangers‚ but he quit after just two weeks.
In search of a new career‚ Sam headed west in July of 1861‚ at the invitation of his brother‚ Orion‚ who had just been appointed Secretary of the Nevada Territory. Lured by the infectious hope of striking it rich in Nevada’s silver rush‚ Sam traveled across the open frontier from Missouri to Nevada by stagecoach. Along the journey Sam encountered Native American tribes for the first time as well as a variety of unique characters‚ mishaps and disappointments. These events would find a way into his short stories and books‚ particularly Roughing It.
After failing as a silver prospector‚ Sam began writing for the Territorial Enterprise‚ a Virginia City‚ Nevada‚ newspaper where he used‚ for the first time‚ his pen name‚ Mark Twain. Wanting a change by 1864‚ Sam headed for San Francisco where he continued to write for local papers.
In 1865‚ Sam’s first “big break” came with the publication of his short story‚ “Jim Smiley and His Jumping Frog 	” in papers across the country. A year later‚ Sam was hired by the Sacramento Union to visit and report on the Sandwich Islands (now Hawaii). His writings were so popular that‚ upon his return‚ he embarked upon his first lecture tour‚ which established him as a successful stage performer. 
Hired by the Alta California to continue his travel writing from the east‚ Sam arrived in New York City in 1867. He quickly signed up for a steamship tour of Europe and the Holy Land. His travel letters‚ full of vivid descriptions and tongue-in-cheek observations‚ met with such audience approval that they were later reworked into his first book‚ The Innocents Abroad in 1869. It was also on this trip that Clemens met his future brother-in-law‚ Charles Langdon. Langdon reportedly showed Sam a picture of his sister‚ Olivia‚ and Sam fell in love at first sight. 
After courting for two years‚ Sam Clemens and Olivia (Livy) Langdon were married in 1870. They settled in Buffalo‚ New York‚ where Sam had become a partner‚ editor and writer for the daily newspaper the Buffalo Express. While living in Buffalo‚ their first child‚ Langdon Clemens‚ was born. 
In 1871‚ Sam moved his family to Hartford‚ Connecticut‚ a city he had come to love while visiting his publisher there‚ and where he had made friends. Livy also had family connections to the city. For the first few years the Clemenses rented a house in the heart of Nook Farm‚ a residential area that was home to numerous writers‚ publishers and other prominent figures. In 1872‚ Sam’s recollections and tall tales from his frontier adventures were published in his book‚ Roughing It. That same year the Clemenses’ first daughter Susy was born‚ but their son‚ Langdon‚ died at the age of two from diphtheria. 
In 1873‚ Sam’s focus turned toward social criticism. He and Hartford Courant publisher Charles Dudley Warner co-wrote The Gilded Age‚ a novel that attacked political corruption‚ big business and the American obsession with getting rich that seemed to dominate the era. Ironically‚ a year after its publication‚ the Clemenses’ elaborate 25-room house on Farmington Avenue‚ which had cost the then-huge sum of $40‚000-$45‚000‚ was completed. 
For the next 17 years (1874-1891)‚ Sam‚ Livy and their three daughters (Clara was born in 1874 and Jean in 1880) lived in the Hartford home. During those years Sam completed some of his most famous books‚ often finding a summer refuge for uninterrupted work at his sister-in-law’s farm in Elmira‚ N.Y. Novels such as 
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer (1876) and Life on the Mississippi (1883) captured both his Missouri memories and depictions of the American scene. Yet‚ his social commentary continued. The Prince and the Pauper (1881) explored class relations as does A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court (1889) which‚ going a step further‚ criticized oppression in general while examining the period’s explosion of new technologies. And‚ in perhaps his most famous work‚ Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (1884)‚ Clemens‚ by the way he attacked the institution of slavery‚ railed against the failures of Reconstruction and the continued poor treatment of African Americans in his own time. 
Huckleberry Finn was also the first book published by Sam’s own publishing company‚ The Charles L. Webster Company. In an attempt to gain control over publication as well as to make substantial profits‚ Sam created the publishing company in 1884. A year later‚ he contracted with Ulysses S. Grant to publish Grant’s memoirs; the two-volume set provided large royalties for Grant’s widow and was a financial success for the publisher as well. 
Although Sam enjoyed financial success during his Hartford years‚ he continually made bad investments in new inventions‚ which eventually brought him to bankruptcy. In an effort to economize and pay back his debts‚ Sam and Livy moved their family to Europe in 1891. When his publishing company failed in 1894‚ Sam was forced to set out on a worldwide lecture tour to earn money. In 1896‚ tragedy struck when Susy Clemens‚ at the age of 24‚ died from meningitis while on a visit to the Hartford home. Unable to return to the place of her death‚ the Clemenses never returned to Hartford to live. 
From 1891 until 1900‚ Sam and his family traveled throughout the world. During those years‚ Sam witnessed the increasing exploitation of weaker governments by European powers‚ which he described in his book‚ Following the Equator (1897). The Boer War in South Africa and the Boxer Rebellion in China fueled his growing anger toward imperialistic countries and their actions. With the Spanish-American and Philippine War in 1898‚ Sam’s wrath was redirected toward the American government. When he returned to the United States in 1900‚ his finances restored‚ Sam readily declared himself an anti-imperialist and‚ from 1901 until his death‚ served as the vice president of the Anti-Imperialist League. 
In these later years‚ Sam’s writings turned dark. They began to focus on human greed‚ cruelty and questioned the humanity of the human race. His public appearances followed suit and included a harshly sarcastic public introduction of Winston Churchill in 1900. Even though Sam’s lecture tour had managed to get him out of debt‚ his anti-government writings and speeches threatened his livelihood once again. Labeled by some as a traitor‚ several of Sam’s works were never published during his lifetime either because magazines would not accept them or because of a personal fear that his marketable reputation would be ruined. 
In 1903‚ after living in New York City for three years‚ Livy became ill and Sam and his wife returned to Italy where she died a year later. After her death‚ Sam lived in New York until 1908 when he moved into his last house‚ “Stormfield”‚ in Redding‚ Connecticut. In 1909‚ his middle daughter Clara was married. In the same year Jean‚ the youngest daughter‚ died from an epileptic seizure. Four months later on April 21‚ 1910‚ Sam Clemens died at the age of 74. 
Like any good journalist‚ Sam Clemens‚ a.k.a. Mark Twain‚ spent his life observing and reporting on his surroundings. In his writings he provided images of the romantic‚ the real‚ the strengths and weaknesses of a rapidly changing world. By examining his life and his works‚ we can read into the past - piecing together various events of the era and the responses to them. We can delve into the American mindset of the late nineteenth century and make our own observations of history‚ discover new connections‚ create new inferences and gain better insights into the time period and the people who lived in it. As Sam once wrote‚ “Supposing is good‚ but finding out is better.”
Improve and develop your writing where Twain wrote. Our Writing at the Mark Twain House programs, launched in 2010, have created deep bonds among participants and instructors alike. Click here.
=======================================================
On Nov. 30, 1835, the small town of Florida, Mo. witnessed the birth of its most famous son. Samuel Langhorne Clemens was welcomed into the world as the sixth child of John Marshall and Jane Lampton Clemens. Little did John and Jane know, their son Samuel would one day be known as Mark Twain - America's most famous literary icon.
Approximately four years after his birth, in 1839, the Clemens family moved 35 miles east to the town of Hannibal. A growing port city that lay along the banks of the Mississippi, Hannibal was a frequent stop for steam boats arriving by both day and night from St. Louis and New Orleans.
Samuel's father was a judge, and he built a two-story frame house at 206 Hill Street in 1844. As a youngster, Samuel was kept indoors because of poor health. However, by age nine, he seemed to recover from his ailments and joined the rest of the town's children outside. He then attended a private school in Hannibal.
When Samuel was 12, his father died of pneumonia, and at 13, Samuel left school to become a printer's apprentice. After two short years, he joined his brother Orion's newspaper as a printer and editorial assistant. It was here that young Samuel found he enjoyed writing.
At 17, he left Hannibal behind for a printer's job in St. Louis. While in St. Louis, Clemens became a river pilot's apprentice. He became a licensed river pilot in 1858. Clemens' pseudonym, Mark Twain, comes from his days as a river pilot. It is a river term which means two fathoms or 12-feet when the depth of water for a boat is being sounded. "Mark twain" means that is safe to navigate.
Because the river trade was brought to a stand still by the Civil War in 1861, Clemens began working as a newspaper reporter for several newspapers all over the United States. In 1870, Clemens married Olivia Langdon, and they had four children, one of whom died in infancy and two who died in their twenties. Their surviving child, Clara, lived to be 88, and had one daughter. Clara's daughter died without having any children, so there are no direct descendants of Samuel Clemens living.
Twain began to gain fame when his story, "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calavaras County" appeared in the New York Saturday Press on November 18, 1865. Twain's first book, "The Innocents Abroad," was published in 1869, "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer" in 1876, and "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" in 1885. He wrote 28 books and numerous short stories, letters and sketches.
Mark Twain passed away on April 21, 1910, but has a following still today. His childhood home is open to the public as a museum in Hannibal, and Calavaras County in California holds the Calavaras County Fair and Jumping Frog Jubilee every third weekend in May. Walking tours are given in New York City of places Twain visited near his birthday every year.
=======================================================
Table of Contents: Personal InformationCareerWritingsMedia AdaptationsSidelightsFurther Readings About the AuthorObituary Sources
Personal Information: Family: Born November 30, 1835, in Florida, MO; died of heart disease, April 21, 1910, in Redding, CT; buried in Elmira, NY; son of John Marshall (a lawyer) and Jane (Lampton) Clemens; married Olivia Langdon, February 2, 1870 (died, 1904); children: Langdon, Olivia Susan, Clara, Jean Lampton. Military/Wartime Service: Wartime service:Confederate Army during Civil War; became second lieutenant.
Career: Writer. Worked as printer's apprentice and typesetter in Hannibal, MO, 1847-50; associated with Hannibal Journal, 1850-52; typesetter, 1853-57; apprentice riverboat pilot, 1857-59; riverboat pilot, 1859-60; secretary and government worker in Nevada, 1860-62; miner, 1862; Territorial Enterprise, Virginia City, NV, reporter (sometimes under pseudonym Mark Twain), 1862-64; Morning Call, San Francisco, reporter under Twain pseudonym, 1864; Sacramento Union, Sacramento, CA, correspondent under Twain pseudonym, 1866; Daily Morning, San Francisco, correspondent under Twain pseudonym, 1866-69;Buffalo Express, editor under Twain pseudonym, 1869-71. Owner of Charles L. Webster & Co. (publishers), early 1.
Award(s): Honorary M.A., 1888, Litt.D., 1901, both Yale University; LL.D., University of Missouri, 1902; named to American Academy of Arts and Letters, 1904; D.Litt., Oxford University, 1907.
(With Charles Dudley Warner) The Gilded Age: A Tale of Today, illustrated by Augustus Hoppin and others, American Publishing, 1873, Twain's portion published separately as The Adventures of Colonel Sellers, edited by Charles Nelder, Doubleday, 1965.
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, illustrated by True Williams, American Publishing (Hartford, CT), 1876.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, Tom Sawyer's Comrade, illustrated by Edward Windsor Kemble, Chatto & Windus, 1884, Webster (New York Ci 1885.
A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, illustrated by Dan Beard, Webster, 1889, published as A Yankee at the Court of King Arthur, Chatto & Windus, 1889.
The American Claimant (adapted from the play by Twain and William Dean Howells; also see below), Webster, 1892.
(Under pseudonym Sieur Louis de Conte) Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc, illustrated by E. V. Du Mond, Harper (New York City), 1896.
The Mysterious Stranger: A Romance, illustrated by N. C. Wyeth, edited by Albert Bigelow Paine and Frederick A. Duneka, Harper, 1916.
Simon Wheeler: Detective (unfinished novel), edited by Franklin R. Rogers, New York Public Library, 1963.  SHORT STORIES AND SKETCHES; UNDER TWAIN PSEUDONYM 
The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County, and Other Sketches, edited by John Paul, C. H. Webb (New York City), 1867.
Mark Twain's Sketches, illustrated by R. T. Sperry, American News, 1874, expanded as Mark Twain's Sketches: New and Old, American Publishing, 1876.
The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg, and Other Stories and Essays, Harper, 1900, revised edition, Chatto & Windus, 1900.
Eve's Diary Translated from the Original Ms (also see below), illustrated by Lester Ralph, Harper, 1906.
The Curious Republic of Gondour, and Other Whimsical Sketches, Boni & Liveright (New York City), 1919.
The Diaries of Adam and Eve (contains excerpts from Adam's Diary and Eve's Diary), American Heritage, 1971.
Early Tales and Sketches, Volume 1: 1851-1864, edited by Edgar M. Branch and Robert H. Hirst, University of California Press, 1979.
A Story without an End, illustrated by Joe McDermott, Creative Education (Mankatom, MN), 1986.  PLAYS; UNDER TWAIN PSEUDONYM 
Also author, with G. S. Densomore, of The Gilded Age (adapted from the novel by Twain and Warner), 1873; author, with William Dean Howells, of The American Claimant; or, Mulberry Sellers Ten Years Later, 1887. TRAVEL BOOKS; UNDER TWAIN PSEUDONYM  The Innocents Abroad; or, The New Pilgrims' Progress, illustrated by True Williams, American Publishing, 1869, published in two volumes as Innocents Abroad, and The New Pilgrims' Progress, Hotten (London), 1870. The Innocents at Home (also see below), Routledge (London), 1872. Roughing It, Routledge, 1872, revised edition (includes The Innocents at Home), American Publishing, 1872. An Idle Excursion, Rose-Belford, 1878, revised as Punch, Brothers, Punch!, and Other Sketches, Slote, Woodman, 1878. A Tramp Abroad, illustrated by Twain and others, American Publishing, 1880, excerpt published as Jim Baker's Bluejay Yarn (also see below). Following the Equator: A Journey around the World, American Publishing, 1897, published as More Tramps Abroad, Chatto & Windus,7. Europe and Elsewhere, edited by Albert Bigelow Paine, Harper, 1923. Traveling with the Innocents Abroad: Mark Twain's Original Reports from Europe and the Holy Land, edited by Daniel Morley McKelthan, University of Oklahoma Press, 1958. Jim Baker's Bluejay Yarn, illustrated by Fred Brenner, Orion Press, 1963.  ESSAYS; UNDER TWAIN PSEUDONYM  How to Tell a Story, and Other Essays, Harper, 1897. English as She Is Taught, Mutual Book Co., 1900. King Leopold's Soliloquy: A Defense of His Congo Rule, P. R. Warren, 1905. Editorial Wild Oats, Harper, 1905. My Debut as a Literary Person, with Other Essays and Stories, American Publishing, 1906.  (Originally published anonymously) What Is Man?, De Vinne Press, 1906, revised as What Is Man?, and Other Essays, Harper, 1917. Christian Science, with Notes Containing Corrections to Date, Harper, 1907. Is Shakespeare Dead?, Harper, 1909. In Defense of Harriet Shelley, and Other Essays, Harper, 1918. Concerning the Jews, Harper, 1934.  CORRESPONDENCE; UNDER TWAIN PSEUDONYM  Mark Twain's Letters (two volumes), edited by Albert Bigelow Paine, Harper, 1917. Mark Twain, the Letter Writer, edited by Cyril Clemens, Meador, 1932. Mark Twain's Letters to Will Bowen, edited by Theodore Hornberger, University of Texas Press, 1941. The Love Letters of Mark Twain, edited by Dixon Wecter, Harper, 1949. Mark Twain to Mrs. Fairbanks, edited by Dixon Wecter, Huntington Library, 1949. Mark Twain to Uncle Remus, 1881-1885, edited by Thomas H. English, Emory University, 1953. (With William Dean Howells) Mark Twain-Howell Letters (two volumes), edited by Henry Nash Smith and William M. Gibson, Belknap Press, 1960. Mark Twain's Letters to Mary, edited by Lewis Leary, Columbia University Press, 1961. Mark Twain: Letters from the Earth, edited by Bernard De Voto, preface by Henry Nash Smith, 1962. Mark Twain's Letters from Hawaii, edited by A. Grove Day, Appleton-Century, 1966. Mark Twain's Letters to His Publishers, edited and with an introduction by Hamlin Hill, University of California Press, 1967. Mark Twain's Letters to Henry Huttleston Rogers, edited by Leary, University of California Press, 1969.  AUTOBIOGRAPHY; UNDER TWAIN PSEUDONYM  Old Times on the Mississippi, Belford, 1876, reprinted as The Mississippi Pilot, Ward, Lock & Tyler, 1877, revised as Life on the Mississip/I> Osgood, 1883, excerpt published as The Boy's Ambition, Lerner, 1975. Mark Twain's Autobiography (two volumes), edited by Albert Bigelow Paine, Harper, 1924, edited as one volume by Charles Neider, Harper, 1959.  COLLECTED JOURNALISM; UNDER TWAIN PSEUDONYM  Letters from the Sandwich Islands Written for the "Sacramento Union," edited by G. Ezra Dane, Grabhorn, 1937. The Washoe Giant in San Francisco, edited by Franklin Walker, Fields, 1938. Mark Twain's Letters in the "Muscatine Journal," edited by Edgar M. Branch, Mark Twain Association of America, 1942. Mark Twain of the Enterprise: Newspaper Articles and Other Documents, 1862-1864, edited by Henry Nash Smith, University of California Press, 1957.  Contributions to the "Galaxy," 1868-1871, edited by Bruce R. McElderry, Jr., Scholars' Facsimiles and Reprints, 1961. Mark Twain's San Francisco, edited by Bernard Taper, McGraw, 1963. Clemens of the "Call": Mark Twain in San Francisco, edited by Edgar M. Branch, University of California Press, 1969.  ANTHOLOGIES  The Family Mark Twain, Harper, 1935. Mark Twain's Wit and Wisdom, edited by Cyril Clemens, Stokes, 1935. The Portable Mark Twain, edited by Bernard De Voto, Viking, 1946. Mark Twain on the Art of Writing, edited by Martion B. Fried, Salisbury Club, 1961. Selected Shorter Writings of Mark Twain, edited by Walter Blair, Houghton, 1962. Great Short Works of Mark Twain, edited by Justin Kaplan, Harper, 1967. "What Is Man?," and Other Philosophical Writings, edited by Paul Baender, University of California Press, 1973. Twain Unabridged, Running Press, 1976. Mark Twain Speaking, edited by Paul Fatout, University of Iowa Press, 1976. The Comic Mark Twain, Doubleday, 1977. Mark Twain Speaks for Himself, edited by Fatout, Purdue University Press, 1978. The Devil's Race-Track: Mark Twain's "Great Dark" Writings, edited by John S. Tuckey, University of California Press, 1979. Mark Twain Himself: Humor, War, and Fundamentalism, arranged and edited by William L. McLinn, foreward by Louis J. Budd, and introduction by Robert McAfee Brown, Hunt Pub. Co. (Dubuque, IA), 1983.  OTHER; UNDER TWAIN PSEUDONYM, EXCEPT WHERE INDICATED   Mark Twain's (Burlesque) Autobiography and First Romance, Sheldon, 1871. (With others) Practical Jokes with Artemus Ward, J. C. Hotten, 1872. A True Story [and] The Recent Carnival of Crime, J. R. Osgood, 1877. "1601"; or, Conversation as It Was by the Social Fireside in the Time of the Tudors, [Cleveland], 1880. The Stolen White Elephant, Etc., Osgood, 1882, published as The Stolen White Elephant, Chatto & Windus, 1882. (Editor, with William Dean Howells and others) ark Twain's Library of Humor, illustrated by E. W. Kemble, C. L. Webster, 1888. Mark Twain's Speeches, edited by F. A. Nast, Harper, 1910. Mark Twain's Speeches (two volumes), edited by Albert Bigelow Paine, Harper, 1924. (Under pseudonym Thomas Jefferson Snodgrass) The Adventures of Thomas Jefferson Snodgrass, edited by Charles Honce, Pascal Covici, 1928. Mark Twain's Notebook, edited by Albert Bigelow Paine, Harper, 1935. Mark Twain's Travels with Mr. Brown, edited by Franklin Walker and G. Ezra Dane, Knopf (New York City), 1940. Mark Twain's First Story, Prairie Press, 1952. Life as I Find It,
 edited by Charles Nelder, Hanover House, 1961. Mark Twain's "Mysterious Stranger" Manuscripts, edited by William G. Gibson, University of California Press, 1969. Mark Twain's Notebooks and Journals, University of California Press, Volume 1: 1855-1873, edited by Frederick Anderson, Michael B. Frank, and Kenneth M. Sanderson, 1975, Volume 2: 1877-1883, edited by Anderson, Lin Salamo, and Bernard L. Stein, Volume 3: 1883-1891, edited by Robert Pack Browning, Frank, and Salamo, 1979. Pudd'nhead Wilson and Those Extraordinary Twins: Authoritative Texts, Textual Introduction and Tables of Variants Criticism, edited by Sidney E. Berger, Norton, 1980. The War Prayer, drawings by John Groth, Harper, 1984.  Plymouth Rock and the Pilgrims and Other Salutary Platform Opinions, edited with introduction by Charles Neider, Harper, 1984. Mark Twain Laughing: Humorous Anecdotes by and about Samuel L. Clemens, edited with introduction by Paul M. Zall, University of Tennessee Press, 1985. Gold Miners and Guttersnipes, introduction by Ken Chowder, Chronicle Books (San Francisco), 1991. Mark Twain's Book for Bad Boys and Girls, edited by R. Kent Rasmussen, Contemporary Books (Chicago), 1995. The Bible According to Mark Twain: Writings on Heaven, Eden, and the Flood, edited by Howard G. Baetzhold and Joseph B. McCullough, University of Georgia Press (Athens), 1995. When in Doubt, Tell the Truth, and Other Quotations from Mark Twain, selected by Brain Collins, Columbia University Press (New York City), 1996. 
Contributor, sometimes under pseudonyms Quentin Curtius Snodgrass, Josh, and S. L. C., to periodicals, including  Alta California, Atlantic Monthly, Californian, Century, Forum, Golden Era, Harper's, McClure's Weekly, New York Saturday Press, New York Tribune, North American Review, and Youth's Companion. COLLECTED WORKS  The Writings of Mark Twain (twenty-five volumes), American Publishing, 1899-1907. The Writings of Mark Twain (twenty-five volumes), edited by Albert Bigelow Paine, Harper, 1906, expanded edition (thirty-seven volumes), Wells, 1922-1925.  Illustrated Works of Mark Twain, selections an introduction by Michael Patrick Hearn, illustrated by True Williams, Avenel Books (New York City), 1979. Mark Twain, Selected Writings of an American Skeptic, edited by Victor Doyno, foreward by Leslie Fiedler, Prometheus Books (Buffalo, NY), 1983. The Complete Short Stories of Mark Twain, edited with introduction by Charles Neider, Doubleday (Garden City, NY), 1985. The Outrageous Mark Twain: Some Lesser-Known but Extraordinary Works, edited with introduction by Neider, Doubleday, 1987. Collected Tales, Sketches, Speeches, and Essays, Library of America (New York City), 1992. Great Short Works of Mark Twain, edited by Jason S. Roberts, Barnes & Noblew York City), 1993. The Unabridged Mark Twain, opening remarks by Kurt Vonnegut Jr., edited by Lawrence Teacher, Sweetwater Press (Birmingham, AL), 1997. 
Media Adaptations: The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn was adapted as a motion picture titled Huckleberry Finn, in 1931 by Paramount, in 1939 and again in 1960 by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM), and in 1974 by United Artists; The Adventures of Tom Sawyer was adapted as Tom Sawyer in 1930 by Paramount, and as motion picture of the same title in 1938 by Selznick International and in 1973 by United Artists; The Adventures of Tom Sawyer was adapted as the filmTom Sawyer, Detective, Paramount, 1939; A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court was adapted as the film A Connecticut Yankee in 1931 by Twentieth Century-Fox, and as A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court in 1949 by Paramount; The Prince and the Pauper was adapted as motion pictures of the same title in 1937 by Warner Bros., and in 1969 by Childhood Productions; The Prince and the Pauper was adapted as a film titled Crossed Swords in 1978 by Warner Bros.; A Double Barrelled Detective Story was adapted as a film of the same title in 1965 by Saloon Productions; The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County, and Other Sketches was adapted as a film titledBest Man Wins in 1948 by Columbia. Among the many stagings of Twain's works are Tom Sawyer andHuckleberry Finn; some of Twain's writings have also been adapted as radio plays; Huckleberry Finn has also been staged as a musical. Twain's own life inspired The Adventures of Mark Twain, filmed by Warner Bros. in 1944, and such stage productions as Mark Twain Tonight!
Samuel Langhorne Clemens is better known as Mark Twain, the distinguished novelist, short story writer, essayist, journalist, and literary critic who ranks among the great figures of American literature. Twain was born in Florida, Missouri, in 1835, and moved during his childhood to Hannibal, Missouri, on the banks of the Mississippi River. Young Twain reveled in life along the Mississippi, a river busy with steamboat activity, and he often traveled in makeshift rafts or cavorted in various swimming holes. Nearby woods and a cave afforded him still further opportunity for exploration and adventure. But Twain's childhood was not entirely one of carefree play. His father, a lawyer, faltered with various business speculations, and when he died in 1847, Twain--then only twelve years old--was compelled to cease formal study and begin apprenticing as a typesetter for local newspapers. He eventually came to work for his brother, Orion Clemens, who owned several newspapers. During this period Twain contributed, under the pseudonym S. L. C., a humorous piece to the Carpet-Bag, a Boston magazine.
Serving as their own business managers, Twain and his brother soon repeated their father's history and suffered their own series of business failings, whereupon Twain departed and began several years of travel. Throughout the next three years he wandered from the Midwest to the East Coast and supported himself by publishing his observations in the various newspapers still managed by Orion. He eventually rejoined his brother in Keokuk, Iowa, where they again worked in the newspaper business. This new venture endured for two years, during which time Twain also made arrangements with a local newspaper editor for publication of forthcoming musings once he resumed traveling.
In 1857 Twain left Keokuk with intentions of traveling down the Mississippi River to New Orleans, Louisiana, from which he would then depart for South America with intentions of amassing a fortune there. But in the spring of that year Twain met a veteran steamboat captain named Horace Bixby. Twain was greatly intrigued by Bixby, and for the next two years he served as the captain's apprentice, sailing with him down the Mississippi where they enjoyed many adventures and rollicking times. Indeed, Twain was so enraptured by life on the Mississippi that he managed only a few contributions for the Keokuk editor, who was, doubtless, anticipating accounts of the South American adventure, which Twain had, by now, aborted.
Twain obtained his own pilot's license in 1859 and spent more time traveling up and down the Mississippi River. His exploits in this period, which Twain recalled with particular warmth and enthusiasm, eventually served as material for some of his most inspired writing. But even while traveling along the river he continued supplying occasional missives to various publications, including one that is believed to be the first that he signed as Mark Twain. His initial publication as Twain is a lampoon of an account published by riverboat captain Isaiah Sellers under the pseudonym Mark Twain (the name is, itself, a nautical term). Legend has it that Sellers was so embarrassed by Twain's parody and Twain, consequently, was so regretful that he assumed the pseudonym as a means of atonement.
After the Civil War effectively closed business travel along the Mississippi (which was being used as an invasion route by Union troops), Twain was unable to continue working as a riverboat captain. He briefly served in the Confederate Army, then rejoined Orion, who had recently won a position in the Nevada territory government as reward for his work on President Abraham Lincoln's re-election campaign. Twain traveled with his brother to Nevada, then commenced a year's work panning for gold and silver. These experiences would later provide the basis for his volumeRoughing It. For a year Twain panned only occasionally, content instead to mock the entire venture by producing comedic missives for the nearby Virginia City Territorial Enterprise. In 1862 he joined the publication and assumed the Mark Twain pseudonym almost exclusively in alternating his humorous reports with conventional pieces.
While writing in Virginia City, Twain ran afoul of a rival journalist, who insisted on a duel. To avoid imprisonment for violation of the town's anti-dueling statute, Twain promptly fled to San Francisco, where he soon found work with various newspapers. In San Francisco he became known for his often moralistic, though humorous, diatribes against public figures and institutions. On one occasion, he offended the city's police department, which responded with a lawsuit charging libel. Twain then fled to the Sierras, where he again haphazardly panned for gold. After a few months, during which the San Francisco police dropped their lawsuit, Clemens returned to the city and learned of a request from prominent humorist Artemus Ward for a piece to be included in a forthcoming humor anthology. Twain responded with the story that became known as "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County." The tale arrived too late for inclusion in Ward's volume but was pirated by the New York Saturday Press, where it won great acclaim. It was eventually copied in newspapers throughout America and published, with other tales, as Twain's first book, The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County, and Other Sketches.
Throughout the remainder of the 1860s Twain traveled widely and contributed his observations to various West Coast publications. For much of this period he even served as an official correspondent for the San Francisco Daily Morning. One of his most celebrated, and notorious, writings from this period, however, came as a correspondent for the Alta California, whose editors he convinced to finance a five-month jaunt aboard the Quaker City pleasure boat bound for Europe and the Middle East. In his ensuing correspondences, which also appeared in the New York Tribune, Twain both mocked the solemnity of the sailing party's wealthier members and reveled in the pranks and adventures of its younger, more reckless members. Such reports--at once informative yet funny, and often biting--only strengthened Twain's popularity, and upon returning to the United States he compiled the  Quaker City correspondence asThe Innocents Abroad and heeded widespread demand for his presence as a public lecturer.
With The Innocents Abroad Twain enjoyed considerable commercial and critical success. Its popularity was rather surprising, for the book was published by a subscription house, which sold works door to door on a speculative basis. Interested readers would pay in advance for the book, which would, in turn, realize actual publication only after sufficient sales had been guaranteed. But Twain, who significantly padded the book--length was an important aspect of the sales--nonetheless succeeded in producing a work that appealed to readers with its lively humor and keen, unflinching insights and depictions. Notable in the book are episodes in Venice, Italy, where the gondoliers are inevitably characterized as cheery opportunists, and in Palestine, where conniving beggars exploit the company's more squeamish members. Perhaps because of the work's broad, seemingly unflagging humor, The Innocents Abroad still ranks among Twain's most accomplished works.
While completing The Innocents Abroad, Twain received an invitation to New York City by his friend, Charles Langdon, whose wealthy family was one of great prominence. During his stay with the family, Twain fell in love with Langdon's sister, Olivia, who was considered a sensitive, delicate young woman. Her father, Jervis Langdon, made the customary inquiries into Twain's life, and though he learned little of positive note about the prospective suitor, he nonetheless agreed to the marriage. But as a safeguard to his daughter's well-being, Jervis Langdon provided Twain with a sizeable shareholding of a newspaper in Buffalo, where the newlyweds intended to live. In addition, Langdon housed the couple in a furnished mansion.
Unfortunately, Jervis Langdon died within a year of his daughter's marriage to Twain. And after his death Olivia, already pregnant, suffered a collapse. Twain, too, came under increasing strain, for he was already fashioning another book, Roughing It, while grieving his father-in-law's death, tending to his wife, and preparing for the birth of their child. Perhaps as a means of alleviating domestic and professional anxiety, Twain abruptly moved the family from Buffalo. They settled briefly at Quarry Farm, his sister-in-law's residence, then moved to Hartford, Connecticut, where he completed Roughing It.
Like The Innocents Abroad, Roughing It was sold on a subscription basis, and like the preceding volume, it proved a popular work with the American public. Here Twain adopted a rudimentary storyline, with the narrator developing from a sentimentalist to a realist as he endures the indignities and hardships of life in the American West. Rich, multi-faceted, with episodes, of adventure, melodrama, or suspense,Roughing It today still holds substantial prominence in the Twain canon.
The Twains lived in Hartford for twenty years. Most of those years were spent in residence in an architecturally bizarre mansion--designed by Twain--replete with turrets and a conservatory. Nearby lived other writers, including Harriet Beecher Stowe and Charles Dudley Warner. Though Stowe herself realized substantial fame--and, some might say, notoriety--for her anti-slavery novel Uncle Tom's Cabin, Twain was probably the community's most celebrated writer. After completing Roughing It, he conducted a successful lecture tour of England, then returned home to collaborate with neighbor Warner on The Gilded Age, a love story set in President Ulysses S. Grant's corrupt administration. This work is memorable for naive protagonist Mulberry Sellers, who remains steadfastly optimistic despite his poverty and inevitable failures. Despite its episodes of humor, the novel does not stand with Twain's more distinguished works.
Twain followed The Gilded Age with another successful tour of England, where he regaled listeners with his humorous, if sometimes caustic, anecdotes and observations. Such tours would provide Twain with needed income throughout much of his later life.
Once home again in Hartford, Twain began writing The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, a novel about a boy living near the Mississippi River. The eponymous hero of this work is an enterprising youth who rises to wealth and, thus, integration into Southern high society through a series of unlikely adventures and escapades. Early in the novel, Tom courts the favors of neighborhood newcomer Becky Thatcher, who reciprocates his affection only to learn that he had previously been tied to another girl, whereupon she ends the romance. Tom then travels with his friend, young vagrant Huckleberry Finn, to a cemetery, where their efforts to cure warts are thwarted when they witness grave robbing and a murder. The boys and another friend eventually run away and live on a nearby island. Once missing, they are believed dead, and the townsfolk hold the boys' funerals, which are interrupted by the boys themselves.
Eventually, an innocent man is jailed for the murder in the cemetery. At the trial, Tom protests, and the actual killer, Injun Joe, vaults through a window and escapes. Some time later, Tom and Huck spot Injun Joe concealing stolen goods in an abandoned house. Tom then attends a picnic held by Becky's father. Tom and Becky decide to explore a nearby cave. Once inside, though, they become lost, then learn that Injun Joe is in the cave too. Five days pass before Tom and Becky find an exit, one that is five miles from the entrance. They then learn that Injun Joe has starved to death within the cave. Tom and Huck soon return to the cave and uncover the killer's stolen loot. The novel ends with Huck agreeing to live with a widow while Tom placates him with assurances that they may yet live as pirates.
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, beloved by readers of all ages, features some of Twain's most memorable feats of storytelling, including the trial of Injun Joe, the funeral of the missing boys, and the adventure of Tom and Becky in the cave. With the book Twain restored himself with the American reading public, which had failed to support the collaborative Gilded Age. And time has scarcely eroded the book's popularity, which has remained strong throughout the more than one hundred years since its publication.
After publishing The Adventures of Tom Sawyer Twain immediately began work on a novel about Huckleberry Finn. While writing this work, which would occupy him intermittently for the next seven years, he traveled in Europe, publishing his observations from that trip as A Tramp Abroad. This work, which resembledThe Innocents Abroad in its humor, insights, and length, was another subscription book, and it too realized substantial sales. For Twain, who had grown accustomed to a rather extravagant lifestyle whether at home in his Hartford mansion or abroad in European hotels, the book's success provided much-needed income.
In 1881 Twain published The Prince and the Pauper, a straightforward novel about mistaken identities in sixteenth-century England. Tom Canty is a poor boy subjected to physical abuse by his sullen father. In an attempt to see Prince Edward, Tom steals into the royal castle, where he actually meets and befriends the prince. After Tom expresses his desire to be a prince, the boys realize that they possess an extraordinary likeness to each other and determine to exchange identities. In the ensuing days, as Tom poses as Edward, courtiers suspect their prince of madness. When Edward's father, the king, dies, Tom assumes the title. Meanwhile Edward, the actual king, wanders the streets vainly proclaiming his real identity. Tom's friend Miles, initially suspecting that his friend too is mad, eventually indulges Edward, who has resumed behaving in a royal--and, thus, insufferable--manner. While Edward futilely tries to gain the crown, Tom adopts a more courtly demeanor. Eventually, a public ceremony is held, during which Tom is to don the king's crown. Edward, however, again proclaims himself the rightly king, and through revelation of a royal secret he proves his true identity. After becoming king, Edward rewards Miles for his loyalty and assures Tom that provisions will be made for his own continued well-being.
Though relatively humorless, The Prince and the Pauper won acclaim as a compelling and convincing tale of historical England. But the book proved a debacle despite critics' acclaim, for Twain--in an extraordinary arrangement--had published the book himself and agreed to pay the publishing company a royalty for each book sold through the aforementioned subscription method. Unfortunately, this company was inexperienced at subscription sales and managed only meager returns, thus burdening Twain with a particularly disturbing financial setback.
Financial matters were aggravated further the next year, 1883, when Life on the Mississippi, Twain's recollections of his steamboat adventures, also faltered commercially. The book derived from a series of magazine articles Twain had earlier proposed and published to significant success as "Old Times on the Mississippi" while completing The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. In "Old Times on the Mississippi" Twain wrote nostalgically of his steamboat years, rendering the Mississippi River as an ever mysterious, unfathomable force of powerful reflections, murky shores, and colorful travelers. In adding to the earlier magazine articles, which were essentially memoirs, Twain revisited the river, traveling with his publisher and a secretary. After sailing from St. Louis to New Orleans, he even took the return voyage aboard a boat captained by Horace Bixby, his own mentor from the riverboat days. Twain experienced considerable difficulty affixing accounts of his return journey with the earlier memoirs. The result, Life on the Mississippi, was initially perceived by some critics as a superfluously padded volume, even by the standards accorded subscription books. Other critics, however, readily acknowledge the book as an often poetic depiction of life as seen from a pilothouse. In the ensuing years, the book has strengthened in stature as one of Twain's key achievements. Among the book's many champions is Robert Keith Miller, who proclaimed it in his bookMark Twain as the work that marked "Twain's emergence as a great modern writer" and "established Twain as something more than a western humorist."
In 1884 Twain finally completed The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, the novel that is generally considered his masterpiece. The novel resumes Huck's tale fromThe Adventures of Tom Sawyer, which ended with Huck's adoption by Widow Douglas. Here Huck has already adapted somewhat to social order as dictated in his new home. He has even curtailed his swearing and smoking and commenced attending school. But on a winter day Huck discovers that his alcoholic father, whom he had not seen for a year, has returned home.
Realizing that his father would soon learn of the treasure recovered earlier by Huck and Tom Sawyer (inThe Adventures of Tom Sawyer ), Huck gives the money to Judge Thatcher. Huck's father then returns and takes Huck into the woods, where he starves and beats him. But Huck manages to escape and stage his own death. He flees to an island, where he eventually discovers a fugitive slave, Jim. The two runaways live together for a few days, after which Huck, disguised as a girl, returns to the mainland and learns that his father has once again disappeared. More important, though, he learns that his own death has been attributed to Jim. Huck hurries back to the island and informs Jim of recent events. Jim determines to head north to freedom, and Huck decides to join him. They embark by raft, and one evening they crash into a ship. Huck manages to swim to shore, but Jim disappears.
Once on the mainland again Huck befriends the Grangerford family, whose members are feuding with those of the Shepherdsons. The Grangerfords allow Huck to live among them, and they even provide him with a slave. One day, though, the slave reveals to Huck the presence of another slave, Jim, in the nearby woods. Reunited, Huck and Jim steal away in their raft, already repaired by Jim, as the Grangerfords and Shepherdsons resume exchanging gunfire. Back on the river, the runaways soon encounter two carpetbaggers, the Duke and the King, who are hoping to swindle a family's inheritance by posing as the deceased's long-lost brothers from England. The con artists succeed in their plot, but Huck, pitying the dead party's three daughters, executes a complicated plan that leads to exposure of the schemers. Huck and Jim then embark again on the river only to be reunited with the fleeing Duke and King. Now the four travelers join together in plans to conduct various schemes. In one town, though, the Duke hands Jim to authorities in exchange for reward money. Huck determines to help Jim escape. He presents himself to a Mrs. Phelps as her nephew. She, in turn, mistakes him for Tom Sawyer. When Tom actually arrives, he cooperates with Huck and presents himself as another fellow, Sid. Huck enlists Tom's aid in the scheme to rescue Jim. Tom, however, develops an unnecessarily complicated plot. When they help Jim escape, a chase ensues. Tom is shot in the leg and Jim is recaptured. But then the boys learn that Jim's owner has died, bequeathing him his freedom. They also learn that Huck's father, too, has died. Tom's Aunt Sally then offers to adopt Huck, but he realizes that the process of becoming civilized is not an enjoyable one.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn is considered one of the greatest works in American literature. Though initially condemned in some quarters as inappropriate material for young readers, it sold well, and it soon became prized for its re-creation of the Antebellum South, its insights into slavery, its depiction of adolescent life, and, throughout, its irreverence and compassion. H. L. Mencken, writing in the Smart Set in 1913, hailed The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn as "one of the great masterpieces of the world," and Ernest Hemingway, in his book The Green Hills of Africa, championed Twain's novel as the most important work in American literature. Today the prestige accorded  The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn continues unabated, and it is a mainstay in classrooms throughout the spectrum of American education.
Though with The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, Life on the Mississippi, and The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn Twain prospered as a creative artist, by the late 1880s he no longer enjoyed the immense financial security with which he had been accustomed. Much of his monetary woes derived from his involvement in a publishing house managed by his nephew, Charles L. Webster, who also served as Twain's business manager. Webster and Twain met with success in late 1885 when they issued the profitable Memoirs of Ulysses S. Grant through subscription. But in ensuing years the company's success was undone by Twain's commitment to an alternative typesetting device being designed by James L. Paige. Envisioning time-and cost-saving benefits from the printing machine, Twain, for several years, channelled massive funds into its development, which was slow and unsteady. In addition, Twain was involved in multiple litigations resulting from other unsound investments. His financial stability was no longer assured.
Perhaps to revive his fortunes, Twain commenced work on another novel, one published in 1889 as A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court. Here Twain produced a harsh depiction of life in sixth- century England, which, with its repressive, anti-democratic society, he likened to that of post-Civil War America. The novel's protagonist is Hank Morgan, a factory foreman who suffers a blow to the head and regains consciousness only to find himself in medieval England, which is ruled by legendary King Arthur. Ever ingenious, Hank counters court magician Merlin's superstitious ways by introducing electrical devices and gunpowder among the unsuspecting courtiers. As Hank gains in influence, though, he becomes increasing misanthropic, even slaying members of the Round Table. After his stock-market maneuvers undo the nation's economy, he is attacked by Arthur's surviving legions. With firearms, explosives, and electrical devices, Hank and a handful of supporters manage to slay tens of thousands of Arthur's knights. But Merlin, disguised as a woman, eventually reaches Hank and places a spell on him, causing him to sleep until the nineteenth century.
A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court realized only scant success when it appeared. With its acid humor and bleak depiction of human progress--particularly technology--it charmed few readers accustomed to the delights of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer and The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. Furthermore, the English public, which had long been enamored of Twain, reviled and condemned the novel as tasteless. In the following years, though, the novel gained recognition as an example of Twain's biting humor and his relentless disdain for technological development void of human considerations.
With A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court Twain failed to extract himself from impending financial ruin. Two years after he completed the book, his cousin Webster died, leaving Twain to manage--or, more accurately, mismanage--the company's affairs. When Paige's typesetting device was finally installed in 1894, eight years after Twain began funding its development, it proved unstable, and its many parts broke down repeatedly. Twain was compelled to declare bankruptcy.
Through shrewd maneuvering by his lawyer, who managed to have the courts force Twain to repay company loans to his own wife, Twain managed to salvage some of his money. In addition, Twain negotiated a lucrative contract with Harper publishers for an edition of his complete works. He also undertook production of another novel,The Tragedy of Pudd'nhead Wilson, and the Comedy of Those Extraordinary Twins, in which a low level lawyer's collection of fingerprints undoes a murderer in the Antebellum South. The novel centers on the activities of two children switched at birth by a mulatto slave, Roxana, in hopes of sparing her child the indignities of slavery. The slave owner's real son is eventually sold into slavery, and Roxana's son, though reared with all manner of social advantage, nonetheless becomes an abusive profligate who turns to crime. When Roxana threatens to reveal his actions to legal authorities, he sells her to a slave trader. The son eventually commits murder, for which twin Italian immigrants are held responsible. But the community's eccentric lawyer, Pudd'nhead Wilson, defends the innocent twins and reveals the true killer's identity by using a prized collection of fingerprints.
The Tragedy of Pudd'nhead Wilson, and the Comedy of Those Extraordinary Twins is not generally considered one of Twain's greatest successes. Its humor is often grim, and its theme of miscegenation did not prompt widespread interest. Surprisingly, however, the novel managed reasonable sales, thus briefly relieving Twain of his economic hardships. More recently, critics have made major claims for the work, some placing it among the finest American novels of the late- nineteenth century.
With satisfactory sales of The Tragedy of Pudd'nhead Wilson, and the Comedy of Those Extraordinary Twins, Twain enjoyed a respite from financial woes. To further extricate himself from dire straits, he commenced a series of successful lecture tours in Canada, Australia, India, and South Africa in the mid-1890s. Always an engaging speaker, Twain would regale and cajole audiences with tall tales, amusing anecdotes, and barbed comments. After completing the tour, he published his observations asFollowing the Equator, which realized substantial sales. With profits from both the lecture tour and the book, Twain managed to once again attain financial stability.
As Twain's financial situation improved, however, his health and personal life suffered. By the early 1890s, both Twain and his wife, who was plagued with a delicate constitution, experienced a variety of physical ailments. In addition, their daughter Olivia Susan contracted meningitis, and in 1896 she died. This further aggravated the already tenuous health of Twain's wife, who began having emotional problems. In 1903, however, doctors pronounced her well enough to travel with Twain to Italy, where it was hoped the milder climate might prove restorative. But her health declined drastically after they arrived in Florence, and she died the following spring. Four years later another of Twain's
"Sidelights"daughter's fell ill, this time with epilepsy, which eventually led to her death by drowning while she bathed. Finally, another daughter suffered a nervous collapse. Her relationship with Twain had often been volatile, and doctors therefore forbade them to communicate.
During this final, tumultuous decade of his life, Twain--perhaps understandably--grew increasingly bitter and misanthropic. He had already vented considerable pessimism in 1899 with The Man that Corrupted Hadleyburg, his story about a stranger who exacts keen revenge on self-avowedly honest folk by compelling them to falsely vie for possession of a bag supposedly containing $40,000. And in the posthumously published novelThe Mysterious Stranger, Satan takes human form to undo the ostensibly just citizens of a sixteenth-century Austrian town--its name, Eseldorf, translates as "Assville." Here the devil leads a priest into corruption and madness, betrays several children, and eventually causes an earthquake that claims the lives of five hundred people, after which he encourages the children to dance heartily. Writing in his book Mark Twain, Robert Keith Miller referred to The Mysterious Stranger as "the most important of Twain's shorter works, [and] the most contemptuous."
Twain's overarching curmudgeonliness is especially apparent in the published collections of his works, which include The Complete Mark Twain, The Outrageous Mark Twain, and Collected Tales, Sketches, Speeches, and Essays, the last published in 1992. As a Tribune Books critic would note, Twain "didn't like human beings much, except as targets for his scorn, indignation or wrath.... He sent his energetic prose crackling about the heads of (among others) arrogant public officials, inept musicians and singers, vain women, vainglorious military evangelists, advocates of temperance, lecturers who pretended to have known Dickens, noisemakers, males who did violence to females, smart-talking two-year-olds, editors, officious train conductors, lynchers, book-pirating publishers, nearly all barbers, scientists who deduced too much from too little evidence, swindlers (unless they had style), and, in a ferocious defense of `family honor,' all seducers of women." However, Twain also was one of his generation's staunchest defenders of blacks, Native Americans, and the working class: "Twain thought that the white man's debt was endless," according to  New Yorker essayist Clive James. "He didn't come out on the side of the Union just because it won [the Civil War.] The Southern cause had deepened on repressing a minority, and that made the cause irredeemable." Twain's sympathy for the plight of his country's non-privileged citizenry would be taken up in many of the short stories and journalistic works that mortar together his published anthologies.
In his last years Twain sustained his misanthropy in proclamations and public appearances. He conducted another prosperous tour of Europe, then settled in New York City, where he enjoyed great celebrity as a prominent writer and general--often malicious--wit. Despite public acclaim, however, he remained mean spirited and pessimistic. His health continued to trouble him, and he suffered from angina. Hoping to provide himself some measure of relief, he traveled to Bermuda. His health continued to decline, however, and he soon returned to the United States. He died near Redding, Connecticut, on April 21, 1910.
Twain is widely held to be one of the great figures in American literature. HisAdventures of Huckleberry Finn ranks among the very finest American novels, and both The Adventures of Tom Sawyer and A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court are also highly regarded. In the genre of travel writing, Twain has also proved a master, with The Innocents Abroad high on many lists of important American entries in the field. And in the more general category of Americana, he has produced even more distinguished work, notably Roughing It and Life on the Mississippi, both of which are prized for their often humorous insights into American life in the late nineteenth century. Many would agree with H. L. Mencken, who wrote of Twain in A Mencken Chrestomathy, "I believe that he was the true father of our national literature, the first genuinely American artist of the blood royal."
In the years since Twain's death, the mass of his literary achievement has increased immensely. Numerous volumes of correspondence have appeared, as have several collections of speeches, autobiographical writings, notebook entries, and even more fiction. Further volumes are forthcoming, for the University of California Press is devoting itself to the publication of all remaining material in the Twain archives.
Dictionary of Literary Biography, Gale, Volume 11: American Humorists, 1800-1950, 1982, Volume 12: American Realists and Naturalists, 1982, Volume 23: American Newspaper Journalists, 1873-1900, 1983, Volume 64: American Literary Critics and Scholars, 1850-1880, 1988, Volume 74: American Short-Story Writers before 1880, 1988.
Fishkin, Shelley Fisher, Was Huck Black?: Mark Twain and African-American Voices, Oxford University Press (New York City), 1993.
Gale, Robert L.,Plots and Characters in the Works of Mark Twain (two volumes), Shoe String Press, 1973.
Garcia, Wilma, Mothers and Others: Myths of the Female in the Works of Melville, Twain, and Hemingway, P. Lang (New York City), 1984.
McMahan, Elizabeth, editor, Critical Approaches to Mark Twain's Short Stories, Kennikat Press (Port Washington, NY), 1981.
Paine, Albert Bigelow, Mark Twain: A Biography; the Personal and Literary Life of Samuel Langhorne Clemens (four volumes), Harper, 1912.
Shillingsburg, Miram Jones, At Home Abroad: Mark Twain in Australasia,University Press of Mississippi (Jackson), 1988.
Stahl, J.D. Mark Twain, Culture and Gender: Envisioning America through Europe, University of Georgia Press (Athens), 1994.
Turner, Arlin, Mark Twain and George W. Cable: The Record of a Literary Friendship, Michigan State University Press, 1960.
 Twain, Mark, Old Times on the Mississippi, Belford, 1876, reprinted as The Mississippi Pilot, Ward, Lock & Tyler, 1877, revised as Life on the Mississippi, Osgood, 1883.
Twain, Mark, The Tragedy of Pudd'nhead Wilson, and the Comedy of Those Extraordinary Twins, American Publishing, 1894.
Twain, Mark, Mark Twain's Autobiography (two volumes), edited by Albert Bigelow Paine, Harper, 1924, edited as one volume by Charles Neider, Harper, 1959.
Twentieth-Century Literary Criticism, Gale, Volume 6, 1982, Volume 12, 1984, Volume 48, 1993, Volume 59, 1996.
Wagenknecht, Edward, Mark Twain: The Man and His Work, 3rd edition, University of Oklahoma Press, 1967.
Zall, Paul M., editor, Mark Twain Laughing: Humorous Anecdotes by and about Samuel L. Clemens,University of Tennessee Press (Knoxville), 1985. 
=======================================================
=======================================================
Christened as Samuel Langhorne Clemens, Mark Twain was born on November 30, 1835 in the small river town of Florida, Missouri, just 200 miles from Indian Territory. The sixth child of John Marshall Clemens and Jane Lampton, Twain lived in Florida, Missouri until the age of four, at which time his family relocated to Hannibal in hopes of improving their living situation.
By lineage, Twain was a Southerner, as both his parents' families hailed from Virginia. The slaveholding community of Hannibal, a river town with a population of 2000, provided a mix of rugged frontier life and the Southern tradition, a lifestyle that influenced Twain's later writings, including the Adventures of Tom Sawyer. Few black slaves actually resided in Hannibal, and the small farms on the delta were no comparison to the typical Southern plantation. In Hannibal, blacks were mostly held as household servants rather than field workers, but were still under the obligations of slavery.In his youth, Twain was a mischievous boy, the prototype of his character, Tom Sawyer. Though he was plagued by poor health in his early years, by age nine he had already learned to smoke, led a small band of pranksters, and had developed an aversion to school. Twain's formal schooling ended after age 12, because his father passed away in March of that year. He became an apprentice in a printer's shop and then worked under his brother, Orion, at the Hannibal Journal, where he quickly became saturated in the newspaper trade.  Rising to the role of sub-editor, Twain indulged in the frontier humor that flourished in journalism at the time: tall tales, satirical pranks, and jokes.However, over the next few years, Twain found himself unable to save any wages and grew restless.  He decided to leave Hannibal in June of 1853 and accepted a position in St. Louis.  Soon afterwards, rather than settling in St. Louis, Twain proceeded to travel back and forth between New York, Philadelphia, Washington, and Iowa, working as a journalist. After his wanderings, Twain ultimately switched professions, realizing an old boyhood dream of becoming a river pilot.Under the apprenticeship of Horace Bixby, pilot of the Paul Jones, Mark Twain became a licensed river pilot at the age of 24. Earning a high salary navigating the river waters, Twain was entertained by his work, and enjoyed his traveling lifestyle.  In 1861, with the beginning of the Civil War, Twain's piloting days came to an end.After returning home to Hannibal, Twain learned that military companies were being organized to assist Governor Jackson, and he enlisted as a Confederate soldier.  Within a short period, he abandoned the cause, deserted the military, and along with thousands of other men avoiding the draft, moved West. On his way to Nevada, twelve years after the Gold Rush, Twain's primary intentions were to strike it rich mining for silver and gold. After realizing the impossibility of this dream, Twain once again picked up his pen and began to write.Twain joined the staff of the Virginia City Territorial Enterprise, and became an established reporter/humorist.  In 1863, he adopted the pseudonym Mark Twain, derived from a river pilot term describing safe navigating conditions. In 1869 he published his first book of travel letters entitled Innocents Abroad.  The book was criticized widely and discouraged Twain from pursuing a literary career.  In the years that followed, Twain published various articles, made lecture circuits, and relocated between San Francisco, New York, and Missouri.  During this time he also met Olivia Langdon, whom he married on February 2, 1870. In November of the same year, their first son, Langdon Clemens, was born prematurely.The Clemens family quickly fell into debt. However, when over 67,000 copies of Innocents Abroad sold within its first year, the American Publishing Company asked Twain for another book.  Upon Olivia's request, the couple moved to the domicile town of Hartford, Connecticut, where Twain composed Roughing It, which documented the post-Gold Rush mining epoch and was published in 1872.In March of 1872, Twain's daughter Susan Olivia was born, and the family appeared prosperous. Unfortunately, Langdon soon came down with Diphtheria and died.  Twain was torn apart by his son's death, and blamed himself.  Moreover, Roughing It was only  mildly successful, which added to the family's hardships. After traveling to Europe for a lecture series, Twain experienced a turning point in his career.  Twain's newest novel, The Gilded Age, written in collaboration with Charles Dudley Warner, was published in 1873.  The novel is about the 1800s era of corruption and exploitation at the expense of public welfare.  The Gilded Age was Twain's first extended work of fiction and marked him in the literary world as an author rather than a journalist.After the broad success of The Gilded Age, Twain began a period of concentrated writing. In 1880, his third daughter, Jean, was born. By the time Twain reached age fifty, he was already considered a successful writer and businessman. His popularity sky-rocketed with the publications of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer (1876), The Prince and the Pauper (1882), and The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (1885). By 1885, Twain was considered one the greatest character writers in the literary community.Twain died on April 21, 1910, having survived his children Langdon, Susan and Jean as well as his wife, Olivia. In his lifetime, he became a distinguished member of the literati, and was honored by Yale, the University of Missouri, and Oxford with literary degrees. With his death, many volumes of his letters, articles, and fables were published, including: The Letters of Quintas Curtius Snodgrass (1946); Simon Wheeler, Detective (1963); The Works of Mark Twain: What is Man? and Other Philosophical Writings (1973); and Mark Twain's Notebooks and Journals (1975-79). Perhaps more than any other classic American writer, Mark Twain is seen as a phenomenal author, but also as a personality that defined an era.Other works include:Punch, Brothers, Punch! and Other Stories (1878)A Tramp Abroad (1880)The Stolen White Elephant (1882)Life on the Mississippi (1883)A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (1889)Merry Tales (1892)Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc (1896)How to Tell a Story and Other Essays (1897)A Dog's Tale (1904)Is Shakespeare Dead? (1909)
=======================================================
HOWEVER, copyright law varies in other countries, and the work may still be under copyright in the country from which
you are accessing this website. It is your responsibility to check the applicable copyright laws in your country before
=======================================================
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
   background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/twister/tiny-snake._V192199047_.gif') no-repeat scroll 0px 0px;
  cursor: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-in._V184888790_.bmp'),pointer;
  cursor: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-out._V184888738_.bmp),pointer;
.swSprite { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; margin: 0;padding: 0; position: relative; overflow: hidden; vertical-align: middle; background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler div.disabled-button { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image {  background-position: -60px -80px;background-color: white;}
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image { background-position: -30px -80px; background-color: white;}
.dpSprite { background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-dp-2._V384267953_.png'); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.udpSprite { background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/udp-sprite-dp-2._V358106326_.png') no-repeat; vertical-align: middle; display: inline-block;}
.cmtySprite { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-communities._V136632413_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192250049_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V156431432_.png);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192190832_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite._V192250042_.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192239831_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/customerimage/shuttle-gradient._V192250138_.gif); 
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V192238939_.gif');
    background: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/sprite-carousel-btns-stars2._V376388587_.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_left_17._V248144977_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_right_17._V248144979_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_left._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top._V265110086_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_left._V265110084_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom._V265110084_.png); }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-arrow-v._V219326286_.png);
Autobiography of Mark Twain: Volume 1, Reader's Edition (Mark Twain Papers): Mark Twain, Harriet E. Smith, Benjamin Griffin, Victor Fischer, Michael B. Frank, Sharon Goetz, Leslie Diane Myrick: 9780520272255: Amazon.com: Books
     #twister .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; } #twister .a-dropdown-container span.a-button-dropdown { display: none !important } 	
     #buybox_feature_div .a-native-dropdown, #buybox .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; font-weight: normal;}
     #buybox_feature_div label.a-native-dropdown, #buybox label.a-native-dropdown {padding-right: 5px;}
     #buybox_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown, #buybox .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown  { display: none !important;} 
     #defaultChildDropdown_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown { display: none !important;}
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York TimesŽ Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
No Kindle device required. Download one of the free Kindle apps to start reading Kindle books on your smartphone, tablet and computer.
FREE Two-Day Shipping is available to Amazon Prime members. To join, select "Yes, I want FREE Two-Day Shipping with Amazon Prime" above the Add to Cart button and confirm your Amazon Prime free trial sign-up during checkout.
Important:  Your credit card will NOT be charged when you start your free trial or if you cancel during the trial period. If you're happy with Amazon Prime, do nothing. At the end of the free trial, your membership will automatically upgrade to an annual membership.
Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) is a service we offer sellers that lets them store their products in Amazon's fulfillment centers, and we directly pack, ship, and provide customer service for these products. Something we hope you'll especially enjoy: FBA items qualify for FREE Shipping and .
    * https://omni-grok.amazon.com/xref/src/appgroup/websiteTemplates/retail/SoftlinesDetailPageAssets/udp-intl-lock/src/legacy.css?indexName=WebsiteTemplates#40
 The year 2010 marked the 100th anniversary of Mark Twain’s death. In celebration of this important milestone and in honor of the cherished tradition of publishing Mark Twain’s works, UC Press published Autobiography of Mark Twain, Volume 1, the first of a projected three-volume edition of the complete, uncensored autobiography. The book became an immediate bestseller and was hailed as the capstone of the life’s work of America’s favorite author.This Reader’s Edition, a portable paperback in larger type, republishes the text of the hardcover Autobiography in a form that is convenient for the general reader, without the editorial explanatory notes. It includes a brief introduction describing the evolution of Mark Twain’s ideas about writing his autobiography, as well as a chronology of his life, brief family biographies, and an excerpt from the forthcoming Autobiography of Mark Twain, Volume 2a controversial but characteristically humorous attack on Christian doctrine.
Autobiography of Mark Twain, Volume 2: The Complete and Authoritative Edition (Mark Twain Papers) by Mark Twain Hardcover
The Bible According to Mark Twain: Irreverent Writings on Eden, Heaven, and the Flood by America's Master  by Mark Twain Paperback
{"currencyCode":"USD","itemData":[{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":20.43,"ASIN":"0520272250","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":29.16,"ASIN":"0520272781","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":13.45,"ASIN":"0684824396","isPreorder":0}],"shippingId":"0520272250::fw1fplxliMBoo9EfjnQR00Sy5zT9AwV1%2FzTkTvs54m8gKfz33LZFB4FNbLKxRniaz7y%2BR67X3ynHkkR9N0xnK1qX7ot%2BEoZi%2F3dnABrhujc01UYmf%2F0IMw%3D%3D,0520272781::HjLU7BlLr1G3oBEfIVvGUgvR0426P%2FdcJCtJm8hPSSYnutAm85EopcrCRIJ8kmU06zLgibwXu2osyH%2BH49tBWBvjkwCH%2Fubb1wUhmyOt9IR3ugQ4LzzF9g%3D%3D,0684824396::EEghncMswsMx1kd5eTKeQkglnm0A3wEFkXbU7%2FldGlpWTbS4BuS8UBdTCBkTaEiZA%2FVvQu6hBraPOAeuV0W7UX3PZrL1foxxo%2BP4bWLTD%2Fs%3D","sprites":{"addToWishlist":["wl_one","wl_two","wl_three"],"addToCart":["s_addToCart","s_addBothToCart","s_add3ToCart"],"preorder":["s_preorderThis","s_preorderBoth","s_preorderAll3"]},"shippingDetails":{"xz":"same","yz":"same","xy":"same","xyz":"same"},"tags":["x","y","z"],"strings":{"addToWishlist":["add to wishlist","Add both to Wish List","Add all three to Wish List"],"addToCart":["Add to Cart","Add both to Cart","Add all three to Cart"],"showDetailsDefault":"Show availability and shipping details","shippingError":"An error occurred, please try again","hideDetailsDefault":"Hide availability and shipping details","priceLabel":["Price:","Price for both:","Price for all three:"],"preorder":["Pre-order this item","Pre-order both items","Pre-order all three items"]}}
0520272781,0486280616,0486406644,1477475532,0385486804,0684824396,0486414264,1619491575,0898702682,144950325X,094045016X,0811216020,B000BITUI4,141654786X,1494362643,B005LZW822,0940450739,1595550267,0385333854,0806132388,0618723439,0139308350
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V397906885_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-right._V192549178_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_br._V192190565_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_03._V192190907_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-topleft._V192549173_.gif');
       Starred Review. Mark Twain is his own greatest character in this brilliant self-portrait, the first of three volumes collected by the Mark Twain Project on the centenary of the author's death. It is published complete and unexpurgated for the first time. (Twain wanted his more scalding opinions suppressed until long after his death.) Eschewing chronology and organization, Twain simply meanders from observation to anecdote and between past and present. There are gorgeous reminiscences from his youth of landscapes, rural idylls, and Tom Sawyeresque japes; acid-etched profiles of friends and enemies, from his "fiendish" Florentine landlady to the fatuous and "grotesque" Rockefellers; a searing polemic on a 1906 American massacre of Filipino insurgents; a hilarious screed against a hapless editor who dared tweak his prose; and countless tales of the author's own bamboozlement, unto bankruptcy, by publishers, business partners, doctors, miscellaneous moochers; he was even outsmarted by a wild turkey. Laced with Twain's unique blend of humor and vitriol, the haphazard narrative is engrossing, hugely funny, and deeply revealing of its author's mind. His is a world where every piety conceals fraud and every arcadia a trace of violence; he relishes the human comedy and reveres true nobility, yet as he tolls the bell for friends and family--most tenderly in an elegy for his daughter Susy, who died in her early 20s of meningitis--he feels that life is a pointless charade. Twain's memoirs are a pointillist masterpiece from which his vision of America--half paradise, half swindle--emerges with indelible force. 66 photos and line illus. (Nov.) (c) Copyright © Reed Business Information, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
       *Starred Review* In explaining his dissatisfaction with his early attempts to write his life story, Mark Twain blamed the narrowness of the conventional cradle-to-grave format: “The side-excursions are the life of our life-voyage, and should be, also, of its history.” This volume—the first of three—makes public autobiographical dictations in which Twain unpredictably pursues the many side-excursions of his remarkably creative life. Embedded in a substantial editorial apparatus, these free-spirited forays expose private aspects of character that the author did not want in print until he had been dead at least a century. Readers see, for instance, a misanthropic Twain consigning man to a status below that of the grubs and worms, as well as a tenderhearted Twain still grieving a year after his wife’s death. But on some side-excursions, Twain flashes the irreverent wit that made him famous: Who will not delight in Twain’s account of how, as a boy, he gleefully dons the bright parade banner of the local Temperance Lodge, only to shuck his banner upon finding a cigar stub he can light up? But perhaps the most important side-excursions are those retracing the imaginative prospecting of a miner for literary gold, efforts that resulted in such works as Roughing It and Innocents Abroad. A treasure trove for serious Twain readers. --Bryce Christensen
    .quotes-bubble-arrow { height: 0; width: 0; left: 18px; border-color: #EEEEEE rgba(238,238,238,0); border-width: 15px 0 0 19px; border-style: solid; position:relative; content:""; }
  It is really too good for just a once over.Richard E. NobleFifteen minutes ago I finished reading Volume One of the newly published "Autobiography of Mark Twain".Bruce TrinqueThere is way too much in this book that wasn't written by Mark Twain.James M. Larson
  The potential reader for this edition should be aware of several items. First, this autobiography is an oversize hardbook which means it may not fit into a bookshelf with other more traditional hardbooks. Second this is an academic press which means that there is a long introduction and discussion of prior autobiographical starts by Mark Twain (1870-1905) for two hundred pages. The actual autobiography of Mark Twain is only 270 pages of transcriptions from his dictation of his 1906 attempt to write his life story. Following the narrative are an additional 150+ pages of notes, index and appendixes. Two more volumes will be published later. Third, this edition is a rambling text with no chronological sequence. Mark Twain told stories as he remembered as they came to his memory. None of these observations are negative but the reader should be aware of these differences.This book aims to be the definitive edition by publishing everything that Mark dictated or wrote after 1905 in the order that it came into creation. Prior publications were much shorter as various editors organized what they thought was interesting, had his family's approval and was in some chronlogical sequence (Charles Neider did the best overall job of this fifty years ago). What the reader has here is Mark Twain's true speaking voice -- he is doing a monologue in your presence, going wherever his memory takes him.
Fifteen minutes ago I finished reading Volume One of the newly published "Autobiography of Mark Twain".  It is no more possible to adequately describe this massive book as to attempt to fully capture the full, intricate realities of a vast range of wild mountains.Twain tried for many years to write his autobiography, but time and again his efforts ground to a halt and were abandoned, although fragments were kept for eventual use (and presented as part of this Volume One).  It was not until Twain fixed upon the mode of orally dictating his autobiography that he found a method that really worked for him and allowed him to complete the project to his own satisfaction.  The first portion of these 1906 dictations (plus explanatory editorial notes) form the heart of the present volume (two more volumes will eventually be released to complete the "Autobiography").  The result certainly does not follow a standard autobiographical approach (which Twain characterizes as a "plan that starts you at the cradle and drives you straight for the grave, with no side-excursions permitted on the way.  Whereas the side-excursions are the life of our life-voyage, and should be, also, of its history.")  The "Autobiography" as dictated instead is all side-excursion, almost stream of consciousness.  Twain's intent was that it not be published in unexpurgated form until a hundred years after his death, leaving him free to say whatever he wished about whomever he wished to speak.  Portions of it have indeed been published from time to time, in a highly edited form bearing little resemblance to what Twain intended as the true "Autobiography".In approaching the "Autobiography" the reader should not expect a conventional, chronologically arranged, continuous narrative in the traditional style.Read more ›
It really should be made clear just what this book is and isn't. It is a completist's edition of a project Twain talked about for years but never actually sat down and wrote. In this scholarly volume, roughly one-third of the massive book details the process of its compilation, by Twain and by the editors (his contemporaries as well as the present ones), and includes what might today be called "outtakes" (several of which are quite interesting and enjoyable), pieces determined not to be intended as part of the Autobiography. One reader commented that "the book needs an editor". That misses the point; the scholarly editing is masterful. It COULD not credibly be edited in the sense of cutting it down as one might a contemporary manuscript to make it suitable for publication.Another one-third of the tome consists of scholarly notes explaining many of the references in the text. Many of these are clarifications of people (some major, some insignificant)to whom Twain refers, or locations. In many cases these are extraneous to all but the most scholarly or the compulsive who needs to know who EVERYbody is and cannot determine it by context. In some cases, they correct lapses in Twain's memory (he clearly didn't research or check many of his facts)Only one-third of this volume is the Autobiography itself, and it is only mildly interesting. It is certainly not a chronological narrative, much of it was dictated by an aging and bitter man(part of its sardonic charm), and much of it--- amazingly--- is drawn from a biography of Twain written, as a child, by his beloved daughter, which Twain explicates, albeit through the filter of the subsequent and ongoing grief Twain suffered since her youthful death.My eyesight is lousy but I was untroubled by the type.Read more ›
  Through this autobiography I am coming to gain even greater respect for this person I have admired for most of my own 74 years.  A marvelous account of his life.However, because of poor eyesight I am reading the ebook version on my iPad using the Kindle reader.  About 30% of the book is composed of clarifications and annotations by editors of the work.  Unfortunately, those notes are in a separate section of the book and reference Twain's commentary by page number.  However, the ebook version for the Kindle eliminates ALL traces of page numbering in favor of a digital code for each line.  Thus there is no possible way to find the information that is being referred to in the editors comments.  If possible stick to the hard copy or find a different digital ebook which retains the page references....I will for volumes 2 and 3.
      I love Mark Twain and looked forward to reading his bio. However, when I received the book I was surprised to see how small the type was and how heavy the book was.
      This is a fascinating collection of Mark Twain at his finest. I could hardly put it down and neither will you.
      For several years this massive, unwieldy (impossible to physically read due to size) tome has been sitting in my house, sincerely bothering me.
      By far this and volume 2 are amazing looks into the heart and mind of someone whom as I was young took me away on adventures and excitement of the characters whom kept me...
      Have been reading Twain for decades, even had the good fortune to see Hal Holbrook  ( as Twain )  once in Tennessee.
      Remarkable details about his thoughts and life. He reveals that Tom Sawyer was indeed based on his childhood and details his great friendship with ex-president Grant.
      A wonderful look into the life of one of America's best-loved witers and philosophers. A non-chronological, back and forth journey through Clemens' life, dictated in the last few...
      . I am not completely sure what I was looking for but this definitely was not it.I found it very hard to get through and will not purchase vol. 2.
      A fantastic collection of stories. Like many of his short stories he starts in the middle and ends many of his anecdotes abruptly but it's part of his charm.
      I had no idea of Twain's range of skills, and his preoccupations, his intelligence and power.  Most important, no matter how low the day, you can't pick up and read a few...
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMens GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
.ap_classic { border-top:1px solid #ccc;border-left:1px solid #ccc;border-bottom:1px solid #2F2F1D; border-right:1px solid #2F2F1D;background-color:#EFEDD4;padding:3px; }
.ap_classic .ap_content { clear:both;background-color:white;border:1px solid #ACA976;padding:8px;font-size:11px; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png");  
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
The Bible According to Mark Twain: Irreverent Writings on Eden, Heaven, and the Flood by America's Master  
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV  Amazons Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
