=======================================================
William Oliver Stone (born September 15, 1946) is an American film director, screenwriter, producer and military veteran. Stone came to public prominence between the mid-1980s and the early 1990s for writing and directing a series of films about the Vietnam War, in which he had participated as an infantry soldier. Many of Stone's films focus on contemporary and controversial American political and cultural issues, such as JFK, Natural Born Killers, and Nixon.
Stone's films often combine different camera and film formats within a single scene as evidenced in JFK, Natural Born Killers, and Nixon.[2] British newspaper The Guardian has described Stone as "one of the few committed men of the left working in mainstream American cinema."[3] Stone has received three Academy Awards for his work on the films Midnight Express, Platoon, and Born on the Fourth of July. He was presented with the Extraordinary Contribution to Filmmaking Award at the 2007 Austin Film Festival.
Stone was born in New York City, the son of Jacqueline (née Goddet) and Louis Stone, a stockbroker.[4] He grew up in Manhattan and Stamford, Connecticut. His father was a non-practicing Jew, and his French-born mother was a non-practicing Roman Catholic.[5] Stone was raised in the Episcopal Church,[6][7] and now practices Buddhism.[8] Stone attended Trinity School in New York City before his parents sent him away to The Hill School, a college-preparatory school in Pottstown, Pennsylvania. His parents were divorced abruptly while he was away at school (1962) and this, because he was an only child, marked him deeply. Stone's mother was often absent and his father made a big impact on his life; father-son relationships were to feature heavily in Stone's films.[9] He often spent parts of his summer vacations with his maternal grandparents in France, both in Paris and la Ferté-sous-Jouarre in eastern France. Stone also worked at 17 in the Paris mercantile exchange in sugar and cocoa — a job that proved inspirational to Stone for his film Wall Street. He speaks French fluently. Stone graduated from The Hill School in 1964.
Stone was admitted into Yale University, but left after a year[10] to teach high school students at the Free Pacific Institute in South Vietnam. Stone taught for six months, after which he worked as a wiper on a United States Merchant Marine ship, traveling to Oregon. He returned to Yale, where he dropped out a second time (in part due to working on an autobiographical novel A Child's Night Dream, published 1997 by St. Martin's Press).[citation needed] In April 1967, Stone enlisted in the United States Army, requesting combat duty in Vietnam. He served from September 1967 through November 1968 with the 25th Infantry Division, then with the First Cavalry Division, earning a Bronze Star with "V" device for heroism in ground combat; he was wounded twice and received a Purple Heart with an Oak Leaf Cluster. He also received the Air Medal for participating in more than 25 helicopter combat assaults and the Army Commendation Medal.[citation needed]
Stone graduated from New York University with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in film in 1971, where among his teachers was director Martin Scorsese[11] (the same year, he had a small acting role in comedy The Battle of Love's Return).[12] Stone made a short, well received 12 minute film Last Year in Viet Nam. He worked as a taxi driver, film production assistant, messenger, and salesman before making his mark in film as a scriptwriter in the late 70s, in the period between his first two films as a director: horror films Seizure and The Hand.
In 1979, Stone won his first Academy Award, after adapting true-life jail tale Midnight Express into a hit film for British director Alan Parker (the two would later collaborate on a 1996 movie of stage musical Evita). Stone's screenplay for Midnight Express was criticized by some for its inaccuracies in portraying the events described in the book and vilifying the Turkish people. The original author, Billy Hayes, around whom the film is set, spoke out against the film, protesting that he had many Turkish friends while in jail.[13] Stone later apologized to Turkey for over-dramatizing the script, while not repudiating the film's stark brutality or the reality of Turkish prisons.[14]
Stone wrote further features, including Al Pacino's drug lord tale Scarface and Year of the Dragon with Mickey Rourke, before his career took off as a writer-director in 1986. Stone has either written or co-written most of the films he has directed. In 1986, Stone directed two films back to back: the critically acclaimed but commercially unsuccessful Salvador, shot largely in Mexico, and his long in development Vietnam project Platoon, shot in the Philippines. Stone loosely based Scarface on his own addiction to cocaine, which he successfully kicked while writing the screenplay.[15]
Platoon brought Stone's name to a much wider audience. It also finally kickstarted a busy directing career, which saw him making nine films over the next decade. Alongside some negative reaction, Platoon won many rave reviews (Roger Ebert later called it the ninth best film of the 1980s), large audiences, and Academy Awards for Best Picture and Best Director. In 2007, a film industry vote ranked it at number 83 in an American Film Institute "AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies" poll of the previous century's best American movies. British TV channel Channel 4 voted Platoon as the sixth greatest war film ever made.[16]
Platoon was the first of three films Stone has made about the Vietnam War: the others were Born on the Fourth of July and Heaven & Earth, each dealing with different aspects of the war. Platoon is a semi-autobiographical film about Stone's experience in combat; Born on the Fourth of July is based on the autobiography of US marine turned peace campaigner Ron Kovic; Heaven & Earth is based on the memoir When Heaven and Earth Changed Places, in which Le Ly Hayslip recalls her life as a Vietnamese village girl drastically affected by the war and who finds another life in the USA.
Stone also directed the acclaimed Wall Street, which won Michael Douglas an Academy Award for Best Actor as a ruthless Wall Street corporate raider, and Talk Radio, based on Eric Bogosian's Pulitzer-nominated play.
The Doors, released in 1991, received criticism from former Doors member Ray Manzarek (keyboardist–bass player) during a question and answer session at Indiana University East (in Richmond, Indiana), in 1997. During the discussion, Manzarek stated that he sat down with Stone about The Doors and Jim Morrison for over 12 hours. Patricia Kennealy Morrison - a well known rock critic and author — was a consultant on the movie, in which she also has a cameo appearance, but she writes in her memoir Strange Days: My Life With and Without Jim Morrison (Dutton, 1992) that Stone ignored everything she told him and proceeded with his own version of events. From the moment the movie was released, she blasted it as untruthful and inaccurate.[17] The other surviving former members of the band, John Densmore and Robby Krieger, also cooperated with the filming of Doors, but Krieger distanced himself from the work before the film's release. However, Densmore thought highly of the film, and in fact celebrated its DVD release on a panel with Oliver Stone.
During this same period, Stone directed one of his most ambitious, controversial and successful films to date, JFK, that depicts the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963. In 1991, Stone showed JFK to Congress on Capitol Hill, which helped lead to passage of the Assassination Materials Disclosure Act[18] of 1992. The Assassination Records Review Board (created by Congress to end the secrecy surrounding Kennedy's assassination) discussed the film, including Stone's observation at the end of the film, about the dangers inherent in government secrecy.[19] Stone published an annotated version of the screenplay, in which he cites references for his claims, shortly after the film's release.
1994 saw the release of Stone's satire of the modern media, Natural Born Killers. Originally based on a screenplay by Quentin Tarantino, critics recognized its portrayal of violence and the intended satire on the media. Before it was released, the MPAA gave the film a NC-17 rating; this caused Stone to cut four minutes of film footage in order to obtain an R rating (he eventually released the unrated version on VHS and DVD in 2001).
Stone went on to direct the 1995 Richard Nixon biopic Nixon, which was nominated for Oscars for script and Anthony Hopkins' portrait of the title role. Stone followed Nixon with the 1997 road movie/film noir, U Turn and 1999's Any Given Sunday, a film about power struggles within and without an American football team.
Oliver Stone with Rino Barillari in "Piazza dé Ricci" exit of the restaurant "Pierluigi" in Rome - September 25, 2012
After a period from 1986-1999 where Stone released a new film at least every 1–2 years, Stone slowed down in the 2000s, though still finding some success. In 2004, Stone directed the critically savaged Alexander. He later radically re-edited his biopic of Alexander the Great into a two-part, 3 hour 37 minute film Alexander Revisited: The Final Cut, which became one of the highest-selling catalog items from Warner Bros.[21] After Alexander, Stone went on to direct World Trade Center, based on the true story of two PAPD policemen who were trapped in the rubble and later survived after the September 11 attacks.
In 2007, Stone was intended to direct his fourth Vietnam War film Pinkville, about a Pentagon investigation into the My Lai Massacre of Vietnamese civilians. The film was to have been made for United Artists,[22] but the company officially cancelled the production start due to the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike. Shortly after the strike, Stone went on to write and direct the George W. Bush biopic W., that chronicles the controversial President's childhood, relationship with his father, struggles with his alcoholism, rediscovery of his Christian faith, and continues the rest of his life up until the 2003 invasion of Iraq.
In 2010, Stone returned to the theme of Wall Street for the sequel Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps.[23] More recently, Stone directed Savages, based on a novel by Don Winslow.
Stone with Hugo Chávez at the Venice International Film Festival, July 9, 2009 for the screening of South of the Border
Stone made three documentaries on Fidel Castro: Comandante (2003), Looking for Fidel, and Castro in Winter (2012). He made Persona Non Grata, a documentary on Israeli-Palestinian relations, interviewing several notable figures of Israel, including Ehud Barak, Benjamin Netanyahu, and Shimon Peres, as well as Yasser Arafat, leader of the Palestine Liberation Organization.
In 2009, Stone completed a feature length documentary, South of the Border about the rise of progressive, leftist governments in Latin America, featuring seven presidents: Hugo Chávez of Venezuela, Bolivia's Evo Morales, Ecuador’s Correa, Cuba’s Raúl Castro, the Kirchners of Argentina, Brazil’s Lula da Silva, and Paraguay’s Fernando Lugo (all of whom hold negative views of US manipulations in South America). Stone hoped the film would get the Western world to rethink socialist policies in South America, particularly as it was being applied by Venezuela’s Hugo Chávez. Chávez joined Stone for the premiere of the documentary at the Venice International Film Festival in September 2009.[24] Stone defended his decision not to interview Chávez’s opponents, stating that oppositional statements and TV clips were scattered through the documentary and that the documentary was an attempt to right a balance of heavily negative coverage. He praised Chávez as a leader of a movement for social transformation in Latin America (the Bolivarian Revolution), along with the six other Presidents in the film. The documentary was also released in several cities in the United States and Europe in the summer of 2010.[25][26]
In 2012, the documentary miniseries Oliver Stone's Untold History of the United States premiered on Showtime, Stone co-wrote, directed, produced, and narrated the series, having worked on it since 2008 with co-writers American University historian Peter J. Kuznick and British screenwriter Matt Graham.[27] The 10-part series is supplemented by a 750-page companion book of the same name, also written by Stone and Kuznick, released on October 30, 2012 by Simon & Schuster.[28] Stone described the project as "the most ambitious thing I've ever done. Certainly in documentary form, and perhaps in fiction, feature form."[29] The project received positive reviews from former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev,[30] The Guardian journalist Glenn Greenwald,[31] and reviewers from IndieWire,[32] San Francisco Chronicle,[33] and Newsday.[34] Hudson Institute adjunct fellow historian Ronald Radosh accused the series of historical revisionism,[35] while journalist Michael C. Moynihan accused the book of "moral equivalence" and said nothing within the book was "untold" previously.[36] Stone defended the program's accuracy to TV host Tavis Smiley by saying "This has been fact checked by corporate fact checkers, by our own fact checkers, and fact checkers [hired] by Showtime. It's been thoroughly vetted...these are facts, our interpretation may be different than orthodox, but it definitely holds up."[37]
On March 5, 2014, Stone and teleSUR premiered the documentary film Mi Amigo Hugo (My Friend Hugo), a documentary about Venezuela's late President, Hugo Chávez, one year after his death. The film is also a "spiritual answer" and a tribute from Stone to Chávez.[38]
In 1993, Stone produced a miniseries for ABC Television called Wild Palms. In a cameo, Stone appears on a television in the show discussing how the theories in his film JFK had been proven correct (the series took place in a hypothetical future, 2007). That same year, he also spoofed himself in the comedy hit Dave, espousing an (accurate) conspiracy theory about the film President's replacement by a near-identical double. In 1997, Stone published A Child's Night Dream (St. Martin's Press), a semiautobiographical novel first written in 1966-1967.
In 2008, Stone was named the Artistic Director of New York University's Tisch School of the Arts Asia in Singapore.
Stone married three times, first to Najwa Sarkis on May 22, 1971. They divorced in 1977. He then married Elizabeth Burkit Cox, an assistant in film production, on June 7, 1981.[39][40] They had two sons, Sean Stone/Ali (b. 1984) and Michael Jack (b. 1991). Sean appeared in some of his father's films while a child. Oliver and Elizabeth divorced in 1993. Stone is currently married to Sun-jung Jung, and the couple have a daughter, Tara (b. 1995).[41]
Stone is mentioned in Pulitzer Prize-winning American author Lawrence Wright's book Going Clear: Scientology, Hollywood, and the Prison of Belief as having been a member of Scientology for about a month, saying "It was like going to college and reading Dale Carnegie, something you do to find yourself."[42] In 1997, Stone was one of 34 celebrities to sign an open letter to then-German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, published as a newspaper advertisement in the International Herald Tribune, which protested against the treatment of Scientologists in Germany and compared it to the Nazis' oppression of Jews in the 1930s.[43] In 2003, Stone was a signatory of the third Humanist Manifesto.[44]
In 1999, Stone was arrested and pleaded guilty to alcohol and drug charges. He was ordered into a rehabilitation program. He was arrested again on the night of May 27, 2005 in Los Angeles for possession of an undisclosed illegal drug.[45][46] On May 27, 2005, Stone was arrested for driving under the influence and possession of drugs. He was released the next day on a $15,000 bond.[46] In August 2005, Stone pled no contest and was fined $100.[47]
Stone has had an interest in Latin America since the 1980s when he made his 1986 film Salvador and later returned to make his documentary South of the Border about the left-leaning movements that had been taking hold in the region. He has expressed the view that these movements are a positive step toward political and economic autonomy for the region.[48]
In 2007, Stone was in Venezuela making a documentary. At that time, Operation Emmanuel, a third-party international negotiation to free three hostages held for over six years was ongoing. Venezuela's then president Hugo Chávez had proposed and set up the negotiations with the Colombian revolutionary guerrilla group FARC as part of the humanitarian exchange affair. Chávez's plan was supported by the governments of Argentina, Brazil, France, Ecuador and Bolivia, as well as the Red Cross which also participated in the operation.[49][50] In the days before the 2007 New Year's Eve, the Venezuelan government had arranged for the release of high-profile hostages held by FARC in the Colombian jungle, but the mission failed, and Stone blamed the Colombian government and the United States for the fiasco. As he waited for the exchange, Stone described Chavez as a "great man" and explained his remark:[51]
"Because he's really made a difference. You sense a revolutionary :spirit throughout Venezuela. He doesn't seem like a tyrant to me at :all, he doesn't seem even like a strongman, he seems like a man who :respects the law. He's abided by the constitution far faster than Bush :has abided by our constitution."[51]
In a January 2008 interview with The Observer, given shortly after these events, Stone expressed support for Colombian group FARC and said:
"I do think that by the standards of Western civilization they (FARC) :go too far; they kidnap innocent people. On the other hand, they're :fighting a desperate battle against highly financed,
American-supported forces who have been terrorizing the countryside :for years and kill most of the people. FARC is fighting back as best :it can and grabbing hostages is the fashion in which they can finance :themselves and try to achieve their goals, which are difficult. :They're a peasant army; I see them as a Zapata-like army. I think they :are heroic to fight for what they believe in and die for it, as was :Castro in the hills of Cuba."[51]
According to Newsmeat and Entertainment Weekly respectively, Stone voted for Barack Obama as U.S. president in both the 2008 and 2012 elections, instead of John McCain and Mitt Romney, the GOP candidates for the presidency.[52] Stone was quoted as saying at the time: "I voted for Obama because...I think he's an intelligent individual I think he responds to difficulties well...very bright guy...far better choice yes."[53] In 2012, Stone endorsed Ron Paul for the Republican nomination for President. He said that Paul is "the only one of anybody who's saying anything intelligent about the future of the world."[54] then later: "I supported Ron Paul in the Republican primary... but his domestic policy... made no sense!"[53]
In an interview with The Times newspaper on July 25, 2010, Stone claimed that America does not know "the full story" on Iran and complained about Jewish "domination" in parts of the US media and foreign policy.[55] When Stone was asked why so much of an emphasis has been placed on the Holocaust, as opposed to the 20-plus million casualties the Soviet Union, for example, suffered in World War II, he stated that in Washington the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) was an overly powerful Jewish lobby within the US. The remarks were heavily criticized by Jewish groups, including the Simon Wiesenthal Center (where Yuri Eidelstein described his remarks as what "could be a sequel to the Protocols of the Elders of Zion"),[55] and the American Jewish Committee,[56] as well as from Israel's Diaspora Affairs and Public Diplomacy Minister.[55]
A day later, Stone stated: “In trying to make a broader historical point about the range of atrocities the Germans committed against many people, I made a clumsy association about the Holocaust, for which I am sorry and I regret. Jews obviously do not control media or any other industry. The fact that the Holocaust is still a very important, vivid and current matter today is, in fact, a great credit to the very hard work of a broad coalition of people committed to the remembrance of this atrocity — and it was an atrocity.”[57]
Two days later, Stone issued a second apology to the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), which was accepted. "I believe he now understands the issues and where he was wrong, and this puts an end to the matter," said ADL National Director Abraham Foxman.[58]
Oliver Stone is a vocal supporter of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange. Stone signed a petition in support of Assange's bid for political asylum in June 2012.[59] In August 2012, he penned a New York Times op-ed with filmmaker Michael Moore on the importance of WikiLeaks and free speech.[60] Stone visited Assange in the Ecuadorian Embassy in April 2013 and commented, "I don't think most people in the US realize how important WikiLeaks is and why Julian's case needs support." He also criticized two upcoming WikiLeaks films from Alex Gibney and Bill Condon.[61]
In June 2013, Stone and numerous other celebrities appeared in a video showing support for Chelsea Manning.[62][63]
Oliver Stone's service with Company E, 52nd Infantry (LRP), 1st Air Cavalry Division, in Vietnam and his movie Platoon
Categories: 1946 birthsLiving peopleAmerican BuddhistsAmerican documentary filmmakersAmerican film directorsAmerican military personnel of the Vietnam WarAmerican people of French descentAmerican people of Jewish descentAmerican political writersAmerican screenwritersBest Director BAFTA Award winnersBest Adapted Screenplay Academy Award winnersBest Director Academy Award winnersBest Director Golden Globe winnersCommanders of the Order of Ouissam Alaouite (Morocco)Converts to BuddhismFormer ChristiansFilm directors from New York CityIndependent Spirit Award for Best Director winnersPeople from ManhattanWriters from Stamford, ConnecticutRecipients of the Bronze Star MedalRecipients of the Purple Heart medalResearchers of the John F. Kennedy assassinationSilver Bear for Best Director recipientsTisch School of the Arts alumniUnited States Army soldiersWriters Guild of America Award winnersBest Screenplay Golden Globe winnersHidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2010Use mdy dates from February 2011Articles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2012Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Oliver Stone has become known as a master of controversial subjects and a legendary film maker. His films are filled with a variety of film angles and styles, he pushes his actors to give Oscar-worthy performances, and despite his failures, has always returned to success.Oliver was born in New York City, to Jacqueline (Goddet) and Louis Stone, a stockbroker. After dropping out of Yale University, he became a soldier in the Vietnam War. Serving in two different regiments (including 1rst Cavalry), he was introduced to The Doors, drugs, Jefferson Airplane, and other things that defined the sixties. For his actions in the war, he was awarded a Bronze Star for Gallantry and a Purple Heart. Returning from the war, Stone did not return to graduate from Yale. His first film was a student film entitled Last Year in Viet Nam (1971), followed by the gritty horror film Seizure (1974) for which he also wrote the screenplay. The next seven years saw him direct two films: Mad Man of Martinique (1979) and The Hand (1981), starring Michael Caine. He also wrote many screenplays for films such as Midnight Express (1978), Conan the Barbarian (1982), and Scarface (1983). Stone won his first Oscar for Midnight Express (1978), but his fame was just beginning to show.1986 was the year that brought him much fame to the U.S.A. and the world. He directed the political film Salvador (1986) starring Oscar-nominated James Woods. However, his big hit was the Vietnam war film Platoon (1986) starring Charlie Sheen,Willem Dafoe, Tom Berenger, and Francesco Quinn. Berenger and Dafoe received Oscar nominations for their roles as the polar opposite sergeants who each influence the tour of duty of Chris Taylor (Sheen). Stone won his first Oscar for directing this film, which won Best Picture and was a hit at the box office. After Platoon (1986), Stone followed up with the critically acclaimed Wall Street (1987). The movie, starring Charlie Sheen and Michael Douglas, focuses on the business world of tycoons and stock brokers. The film was well received and won an Oscar for Douglas' portrayal of the villainous Gordon Gekko. Stone returned immediately the following year with Talk Radio (1988), which talked of a foul-mouthed radio host (played by Eric Bogosian) who never fails to talk about the serious issues. Although it was not as successful as his last three films, Stone did not slow down at all. He directed Tom Cruise into an Oscar-nominated role in Born on the Fourth of July (1989).The movie talked about the return of an embittered, crippled Vietnam soldier from the war. Although it failed to win Best Picture or Best Actor, Oliver Stone won an Academy Award for Directing, his third win to date. After Born on the Fourth of July (1989), Stone took a hand in producing several movies, including the Academy Award-winning film Reversal of Fortune (1990). He returned to the director's chair in 1991, once again with two films. Val Kilmer starred as the legendary and controversial Jim Morrison in Stone's psychedelic film The Doors (1991).Despised by former Doors member Ray Manzarek, the film is nevertheless a wonderful achievement, with Kilmer pulling off an almost flawless impersonation of Morrison. Regardless of opinion, The Doors (1991) was overshadowed by Stone's colossal film JFK (1991), which Stone himself considers the best of his films. In Stone's movie, Jim Garrison tackles the conspiracy behind the murder of America's president John F. Kennedy. The large cast featured such well-known names as Kevin Costner, Tommy Lee Jones, John CandyJoe Pesci, Donald Sutherland, and Walter Matthau. This film represented a change in Stone's works, because it was with this film that he really began to explore the different camera styles and combining them together to create a multi-dimensional way of showing a movie. JFK (1991), as with Platoon (1986) and Born on the Fourth of July (1989), earned eight Oscar nominations and was one of Stone's most successful films. However, he failed to win a third Oscar for Directing.After this film, Stone directed his third Vietnam film to date. Heaven & Earth (1993) was a film about the war from the viewpoint of a Vietnamese girl, and also co-starred Tommy Lee Jones (who had received an Oscar nomination for JFK (1991)). Despite its new woman's perspective and several positive reviews, it was a box office failure. Stone was unfazed; his next film is perhaps his most notorious film to date. Adapting a screenplay by Quentin Tarantino, Stone made Natural Born Killers (1994) starring Woody Harrelson, Juliette Lewis, Tom Sizemore and Rodney Dangerfield in his only dramatic performance. The film was received well at the box office, while review were very mixed. Because of the violence that people claimed was inspired by the film, it was compared to Stanley Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange (1971). As usual, Stone was at the center of controversial subjects; his next film Nixon (1995) was no exception. The film focused on the life of President Richard Nixon, played by Anthony Hopkins, while featuring another well-known cast, including Joan Allen in the role of Nixon's wife. Both went on to receive Oscar nominations, while Stone received his sixth Oscar nomination for Screenwriting. The film got mixed reviews, and failed to recoup its budget.Aside from directing, Stone has worked as a producer on several different films. There was, of course, the successful film Reversal of Fortune (1990), which won Jeremy Irons an Oscar and also nominated the director for an Oscar. There was also the highly praised and successful emotional drama The Joy Luck Club (1993) which centered around four Chinese immigrant women whose relationships with their daughters is affected by their own lives. Another highly praised Oscar nominated film was Milos Forman's classic film The People vs. Larry Flynt (1996) starring Woody Harrelson, Edward Norton, and Courtney Love. Whether the crime/action film The Corruptor (1999) or the brilliant war epic Savior (1998), Stone has worked in a variety of film genres.Stone had directed ten films in nine years; now however, he began to slow down. He directed the film U Turn (1997) starring Sean Penn and Jennifer Lopez. As with Natural Born Killers (1994), it was a dark and twisted satire on violence, but did not have the same success as the former. Stone was set to direct several projects in the late 90's but they fell through and were not made. However, success came back to Stone in the Al Pacino film Any Given Sunday (1999). This sports movie centered on the life behind the game of football, and it starred an impressive cast that included frequent Stone collaborators James Woods and John C. McGinley. This film was one of his most successful box office films, and put him back on track.The following years brought Stone no new theatrical films, though he did make three fascinating TV documentaries. Two of them, 'Looking for Fidel' and Comandante (2003) were interviews of Cuban dictator Fidel Castro, while 'Persona Non Grata' was an interview of several Palestinian leaders. Stone was also set to direct American Psycho (2000) with Leonardo DiCaprio and Beyond Borders (2003), starring Angelina Jolie and at the time, Ralph Fiennes. However, Stone dropped out of both projects, as did a number of the actors mentioned. Finally, five years after Any Given Sunday (1999), Stone directed a film he'd long wanted to make; the colossal epic Alexander (2004). Starring Colin Farrell as the Macedonian leader, Stone attempted to capture the essence of Alexander the Great through his conquests of the known world. The film focused on Alexander's relationships with his parents (a brilliant performance by Val Kilmer and a less impressive one by Angelina Jolie) and his relationships with his wife and childhood friend/ gay lover (played by Rosario Dawson and Jared Leto respectively).Alexander (2004) was a critical failure, and failed to win back its budget domestically. Despite being one of 2004's highest grossing films internationally, and recouping its budget through DVD sales, Stone's pet project was heavily criticized. Despite a far superior version (Alexander Revisited) being released on DVD, the film's reputation remains low by the majority. Stone was personally stung at these attacks, but managed to rebound, if mildly, with his hopeful film World Trade Center (2006). The film centers on two firefighters trapped in the rubble of the twin towers. It received good reviews, and allowed Oliver to step forward from his failure towards the possibility of more films.In late 2007, besides a number of projects Stone was set to direct "Pinkville", which would have been his fourth Vietnam film to date. It was set to star a large number of well known actors such as Bruce Willis, Toby Jones, Channing Tatum, Michael Pitt, Woody Harrelson, and Michael Peña. However, a week before shooting was to begin, the Writer's Strike was started, and the finance for the film was cut, using the strike as an excuse. After Willis backed out of the project, it was eventually scuttled, much like Stone's early productions of Platoon (1986) and Born on the Fourth of July (1989). Stone turned to another project he had worked on with former Wall Street (1987) collaborator Stanley Weiser. The project was W. (2008), a biography on president George W. Bush. Stone initially cast Christian Bale in the role of Bush but the actor dropped out at the last minute. Josh Brolin was cast, and this followed with a large cast of well known Oscar nominated character actors such as Richard Dreyfuss, James Cromwell, and Ellen Burstyn. The film was made in a record four months, starting in June and released in October. The film opened to mixed reviews, and though film's budget was recouped, it was not a financial hit.Stone then made the documentary South of the Border (2009), a documentary which focused on bringing to light the positive aspects of the left-wing governments in South America, particularly Hugo Chavez in Venezuela. Stone was much less critical than usual, instead making the documentary as a response to the harsh reputation that Chavez has in the States. The documentary was poorly received in the States. Stone also began work on Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps (2010). Starring Michael Douglas, Shia LaBeouf, Josh Brolin, Carey Mulligan, and Eli Wallach, the film focuses on the 2008 economic crisis, and the return of Gordon Gekko from prison. The film was screened at Cannes to positive reception, and hailed as Stone's triumphant return. After this, Stone made a film adaptation of "Savages", a novel by Don Winslow. The movie follows two highly successful marijuana growers (Taylor Kitsch and Aaron Taylor-Johnson ), whose shared girlfriend (Blake Lively) is kidnapped by a Mexican cartel and held for ransom. The movie also starred Salma Hayek, Benicio Del Toro, John Travolta, and Emile Hirsch. The film was a return to the tense action and violence of Stone's earlier films, though it polarized many audience members due to the colorful narrations of Lively's vapid and naive character, as well as the film's ending.Oliver Stone is a three-time Oscar winner, and although he has mostly been stung by critics of his films, he remains a well-known name today in the film industry. The films he directed have been nominated for 31 Academy Awards, including eight for acting, six for screen writing, and three for directing. There is no denying that Stone has cemented himself a position among the legends of Hollywood.
        Often directs and writes historical films on controversial subjects, such as Platoon (Vietnam War), JFK, Nixon, The Doors, Salvador, Alexander and W.
        Frequently casts John C. McGinley, Tommy Lee Jones, Mark Moses, Tom Sizemore, James Woods, James Karen, 'Charlie Sheen', Marley Shelton, Michael Wincott, Josh Brolin, Frank Whaley, and his son, Sean Stone
        Often gives the lead actors in his films a special footage-enhanced credit appearance at the end of his films (Ex. 'Platoon', 'Nixon', and 'The Doors')
        His films feature large casts, featuring many well-known actors in both major and minor roles.
        His films have mostly centered on a male protagonist (the biggest exceptions are "Heaven & Earth" and "Natural Born Killers").
        Has constantly worked with cinematographer 'Robert Richardson' military consultant Dale Dye, and producers A. Kitman Ho, Richard Rutowski, and 'Edward R. Pressman'.
        Typically ends his films with a closeup of a face or a couple arm in arm walking away from the camera.
        The issue of family and fatherhood are frequently involved in his films. In JFK (1991), Garrison must juggle fatherhood with his job. In Alexander (2004), Alexander is torn between his parents. In Natural Born Killers (1994), both the main characters were abused by their fathers. In Platoon (1986) and Born on the Fourth of July (1989), the two main characters cite that they went to Vietnam to live up to their fathers fighting in the Second World War.
        During a dialogue scene there will be frequent cutaways to details in the background that have symbolic resonance.
        Usually has multiple camera setups rolling in a single take, and encourages a noisy set with a lot of racket. Both are done in order to encourage frenetic and uninhibited performances
      In Vietnam Stone won the Bronze Star for Valor and the Purple Heart with First Oak Leaf Cluster. Stone was jailed for marijuana possession in Mexico at the age of 21.
      Father of sons Sean Stone (born December 29, 1984) and Michael Stone (born 1991) with Elizabeth Stone and a daughter, Tara Stone (born November 3, 1995) with Sun-jung Jung.
      His father Louis Stone was a successful stockbroker on Wall Street, then he suffered some financial setbacks due to bad investments and a bitter divorce from Oliver's mother Jacqueline. The movie Wall Street (1987) is supposed to be modeled after Lou.
      Oliver's father met his mother while he was President Dwight D. Eisenhower aide in WWII in France. As a child he was raised by a nanny because his mother frequently took vacations to France. He grew up as a child of privilege.
      Shares the exact same birthday as good friend and star of some his films, Tommy Lee Jones. Both were born on September 15, 1946.
      The same drum theme playing in the beginning of JFK (1991) (for which he was a producer), plays three times in The Day Reagan Was Shot (2001) (for which he was an executive producer).
      Is a friend and admirer of Cuban Premier Fidel Castro, and shot a documentary about the world's longest reigning Communist leader, titled Comandante (2003). It was to air on HBO in May 2003, but due to fierce protests by anti-Castro Cuban-American activists, it was shelved and has never been aired on HBO or made available on home video in the USA. Stone then made a new, more pointed documentary titled Looking for Fidel that aired on HBO in February 2004, in which he asked Castro questions about his human rights record, and included interviews with anti-Castro activists.
      Directed Comedian Rodney Dangerfield in his first and only dramatic role in Natural Born Killers (1994).
      On September 14, 1967, he left for Vietnam and was assigned to the 2nd Platoon of Bravo Company, 3rd Battalion, 25th Infantry Division, stationed near the Cambodian border, as "Pvt. Bill Stone" (fearing that "Oliver" was too effeminate).
      Wrote a collegiate letter of recommendation for Claire Danes when she applied to his alma mater, Yale University. She was quickly accepted.
      Often talks about the experience of his father Louis Stone taking him to lose his virginity to a prostitute in his mid-teens.
      Oliver's American father, Louis Stone, who was born Louis Silverstein, was from a Jewish family (from Germany and Eastern Europe). Oliver's mother, Jacqueline (Goddet), was French.
      As of 2004, Stone is attached to direct several projects. "Spite House", which he wrote and will direct about Vietnam. "The Fountainhead", based on the Ayn Rand novel. "Lennon", a biopic of John Lennon, a biopic of Margaret Thatcher, and a biopic of sorts about an attempted assassination plot by the Republican party against President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
      Directed 8 different actors in Oscar-nominated performances: James Woods, Tom Berenger, Willem Dafoe, Michael Douglas, Tom Cruise, Tommy Lee Jones, Anthony Hopkins and Joan Allen. Douglas won an Academy Award for Wall Street (1987).
      Known for the political content of his films, Stone was a member of the Class of 1968 at Yale University along with US President Bill Clinton administration adviser Strobe Talbot and future President George W. Bush (John Kerry was also there at the same time as Stone, though he was several classes ahead of '68). Stone left Yale after only one year (he failed all his second-semester freshman classes) and ended up joining the army and fighting in Vietnam. He never returned to graduate from Yale.
      Was attached to direct American Psycho (2000) with Leonardo DiCaprio in talks to star as Patrick Bateman. After DiCaprio left the project to make The Beach (2000) Stone left it also.
      Received two Academy Award nominations for best original screenplay in the same year, 1987 (Salvador (1986) and Platoon (1986)) but lost to Woody Allen for Hannah and Her Sisters (1986).
      Has directed four actors into Best Actor Oscar nominations, and three actors to Best Supporting Actor nominations. Lead roles were James Woods (Salvador (1986)), Michael Douglas (Wall Street (1987)), Tom Cruise (Born on the Fourth of July (1989)) and Anthony Hopkins (Nixon (1995)). Supporting roles were Willem Dafoe and Tom Berenger ("Platoon") and Tommy Lee Jones (JFK (1991)).
      Following the furor over JFK (1991), Stone addressed the U.S. Senate over the continued secrecy of documents relating to the John F. Kennedy assassination. Partly through his efforts, the government began declassifying documents.
      Interviewed in "Directors Close Up: Interviews with Directors Nominated for Best Film by the Directors Guild of America", ed. by Jeremy Kagan, Scarecrow Press, 2006.
      Was planning to make a film about Eva Perón, but after several disagreements with Argentinian President Carlos Saúl Menem he abandoned the project. He later received a token credit as a writer for Evita (1996), despite having made no input to the script.
      As of this date (May 2008), World Trade Center (2006) is his first film rated "PG-13" and his only feature film to receive a rating of less than "R". As Of September 2008, W. (2008) is his second film to receive a PG-13 rating.
      Because of his specialty with Vietnam era period pieces, he was one of the first directors to be offered American Gangster (2007) in 2001. After long consideration, he decided to pursue making his passion project, Alexander (2004), instead.
      Although he is a two-time Academy Award-winning filmmaker, it's been consistently difficult for him to acquire actors of his preference for most of the films he has directed. Casting Al Pacino in Any Given Sunday (1999) and Tom Cruise in Born on the Fourth of July (1989) are the most significant exceptions where Stone's top choice was either available or agreed to partake in an Oliver Stone production.
      Has sought Warren Beatty for three of his movies (Nixon (1995), Wall Street (1987) and W. (2008)). Beatty declined them all, and the parts went to Anthony Hopkins, Michael Douglas, and James Cromwell respectively. Hopkins and Douglas received Oscar nominations for their roles.
      As of this date (May 2008), World Trade Center (2006) is the only one of his war-related films to be made with government cooperation (by the Port Authority).
      Was set to begin filming his fourth Vietnam film 'Pinkville' in late 2007. However, after the Writers' strike began, the producers pulled out, and Bruce Willis moved on. Stone then turned his attention to making a W. (2008) which will star Josh Brolin.
      Sought Marlon Brando for two of his films: U Turn (1997) and Salvador (1986). James Woods who played the character in Salvador (1986) that Brando had turned down, received an Oscar nomination for Best Actor. Jon Voight, who played the role meant for Brando in U Turn (1997), received a Razzie for Worst Supporting Actor.
      After graduating from New York University, he worked as a cabdriver and a xerox messenger to support himself.
      Has worked with two generations of two different acting families. Worked with Jon Voight and his daughter Angelina Jolie in U Turn (1997) and Alexander (2004) respectively. He has also worked with Martin Sheen and his son Charlie Sheen in Wall Street (1987).
      As of 2008, has directed five films where people he based the main characters on were still alive and participated in the making of the film. These are Born on the Fourth of July (1989), World Trade Center (2006), JFK (1991), Salvador (1986), and Heaven & Earth (1993). Also, he is working on a film about George W. Bush while he is still in office.
      Aside from directing James Woods in three of his films, Stone has also produced "Indictment: The McMartin Trial", and Killer: A Journal of Murder (1995), both starring James Woods.
      Has worked with all of the Baldwin brothers. He cast Alec in Talk Radio (1988) and the other brothers made appearances in Born on the Fourth of July (1989).
      Was flown to Vietnam traveling west from Sacremento, California on the evening of September 14th, 1967 and crossed the international date line, arriving in Vietnam September 16th, losing his 21st birthday.
      Wrote a short film while still a student that was recently turned into a short film by his son Sean Stone. The title of the film is Singularity (2008) and is Sean's first fiction film.
      Midnight express and Scarface were written by him, and in both films, Giorgio Moroder composed the score.
      In the 1992 Sight & Sound poll, Oliver Stone listed these as his top ten films of all time: The Best Years of Our Lives (1946), Lawrence of Arabia (1962), Dr. Strangelove (1964), 1900 (1976), Raging Bull (1980), Mutiny on the Bounty (1935), On the Waterfront (1954), The Godfather, Parts I & II (1972/74), Paths of Glory (1957), Citizen Kane (1941).
      Had previously directed 6 of the acting nominees of the 81st Academy Awards: Sean Penn, Angelina Jolie, Viola Davis, Josh Brolin, Michael Shannon, and Robert Downey Jr. as well as having worked as screenwriter for Mickey Rourke. He directed Brolin and Shannon in W. (2008) that same year (although Shannon's scene was cut).
      Returned to America from his teaching job in Vietnam by serving on board a Merchant Marine vessel that came to port in Oregon.
      Is one of 7 directors to win the Golden Globe, Director's Guild, BAFTA, and Oscar for the same movie, winning for Platoon (1986). The other directors to achieve this are Mike Nichols for The Graduate (1967), Milos Forman for One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975), Richard Attenborough for Gandhi (1982), Steven Spielberg for Schindler's List (1993), 'Ang Lee' for Brokeback Mountain (2005), and Danny Boyle for Slumdog Millionaire (2008).
      Credits his tour of duty in Vietnam for turning him toward film instead of literature, which was his education. He found that cameras were much more practical to use in the jungle than books and paper, which got soaked.
Shia LaBeouf, who acted in Stone's Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps (2010), described him as 'Orson Welles and the Easter Bunny all in one guy'.
      His father, a retired Army Colonel, opposed his decision to enlist in the Army to fight in Vietnam, and tried to get him assigned non-combat duty. After being transfered out of Bravo Company, Stone was offered a job with the CIA, which he declined, opting to finish his tour of duty in the 1st Cavalry Division.
      His family's name was originally Silverstein. It was his father Louis Stone who made the decision to change his name to Stone.
      (March 23, 2009) Attended the 3rd Annual Asian Film Awards, in which he presented with Joan Chen the award for Best Director to Hirokazu Koreeda.
      Rang the NASDAQ opening bell on September 20, 2010 to celebrate the N.Y.C. premiere of Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps (2010).
      Three of his movies were nominated for AFI's 100 Years...100 Thrills: Platoon (1986), JFK (1991) and Natural Born Killers (1994). 'Platoon' made the list at #72.
      Began producing his documentary TV series The Untold History of the United States (2012) in 2008 and continued working on it between other projects it until 2012, making it a four year production, the longest of his career. He also put up $1 million of his own money into the project 's budget.
      Wrote the novel "A Child's Night Dream" when he was 19 years old. It wasn't published until 1998.
      Has been friends with Arnold Schwarzenegger since writing the script for Conan the Barbarian (1982). At one point, they both had offices on the same floor of the same building with Stone's on the left and Schwarzenegger's on the right, which they joked represented their respective political viewpoints.
      I consider my films first and foremost to be dramas about individuals in personal struggles and I consider myself to be a dramatist before I am a political filmmaker. I'm interested in alternative points of view. I think ultimately the problems of the planet are universal and that nationalism is a very destructive force. I also like anarchy in films. My heroes were Buñuel and Godard. Breathless was one of the first pictures I really remember being marked by, because of the speed and energy. They say I'm unsubtle. But we need above all, a theatre that wakes us up: nerves and heart.
      Nationalism and patriotism are the two most evil forces that I know of in this century or in any century and cause more wars and more death and more destruction to the soul and to human life than anything else.
      [on legacies] Alexander's lasted 2,300 years. Why? He's remembered because of his vision, because of his compassion, because of his generosity, because of his spirit, because he was different. He was a general, a man who was able to weep over his [dead] soldiers on the battlefield. Never before had that happened. So this is a special man who has been remembered. There is a reason this film [Alexander (2004)] was made. It is bigger than us, bigger than me, bigger than Colin [Colin Farrell] and all our team.
      [on Alexander (2004)] But I always liked the Greek outfits. They were sexier than the Romans', you've got to admit. And they didn't wear sandals. They wore boots. So don't call it a sword-and-sandal [movie], for Christ's sake! It's sword-and-boot, OK?
      [on Alexander the Great] This was the golden boy of all history. I've been trying to make Alexander (2004) for a long time. In 1991 with Val Kilmer, in 1996 with Tom Cruise. Then Colin Farrell came along, and he was perfect. He was a tough, Tyrone Power, barstool-looking boy from Dublin. We made him a blond, which was perfect for him, and he became Alexander.
      He went for the head. Kill the king, and your enemy folds. Alexander would have gone after Osama bin Laden. I'm sorry, but [John Kerry] was right.
      I don't believe in this business of chopping up a film and then releasing a "director's cut" on DVD. What you see should be the director's cut. This is the director's cut. If you can spend four hours killing Bill, Alexander (2004) deserves some space.
      If we had to do things the American PG way, then we were screwed. Alexander (2004)] had to be an R picture. If you work in Hollywood, you have to get past the studio development committees. The thousands of demands. The previews where they dumb it down for the audience. The system wears you down. It's a monster--demanding, uncompromising. [Martin Scorsese] and Spike Lee] have been through hell ...
      If I could talk to Alexander, I'd ask him why he married Roxane. But the Greeks did have a regard for women: Six of the 12 gods are women, after all. Marrying her pissed off all of his men, but he didn't care, he was making a point.
      The Cold War has been the most irritating thing to me personally. Throughout my life we've been in the grip of militarism and military budgets and a mindset that dictates a war on Communism, and that's a drain on the national energy. The real enemy is nationalism and patriotism.
      [on JFK (1991)] I thought it was a helluva thriller. JFK's [John F. Kennedy's] murder marked the end of a dream, the end of a concept of idealism that I associate with my youth. Race war, Vietnam, Watergate. If JFK had lived, the combat situation in Vietnam would never have occurred.
      I love intelligent films that come at you fast. I don't have attention deficit disorder, my mind moves fast. There's a lot to deal with in my films. We had so many facts to go through, so the governing style was flash, cut, flash, repeat.
      If I were [George W. Bush], I would shoot myself. I think he lives in fear of drinking again. There's nothing more dangerous for America than an ex-alcoholic President who tells you to believe in Jesus.
      Alexander to me is a perfect blend of male-female, masculine-feminine, yin-yang. He could communicate with both sides of his nature.
      The Indians once told me that stones are the most revered and ancient of recording devices. And that perhaps I am here on this Earth to write of these mute histories - just another stone, an 'Oliver' stone.
      [on the 9/11/01 terrorist attack on New York City] This attack was pure chaos, and chaos is energy. All great changes have come from people or events that were initially misunderstood, and seemed frightening, like madmen.
      I believed in the John Wayne image of America. My father was a Republican, and he taught me that it was a good war because the Communists were the bad guys and we had to fight them. And then there was the romanticism of the Second World War as it appeared in the films we mentioned. Obviously, the reality was very different.
      When I go to the movies, and I have to sit through ten previews of films that look [alike] and tell the whole story, you know that we've reached an age of consensus. And consensus is the worst thing for us. We all agree to agree. That's where we lose it as a culture. We have to move away from that.
      [on Platoon (1986)] I wrote the "Platoon" script in 1976 in New York City. Primarily because I'd reached a point in my life that if I didn't write about it, I would forget what had happened in the war.
      Josh [Josh Brolin] is actually better looking than George W. Bush] but has the same drive and charisma that Americans identify with Bush, who has some of that old-time movie-star swagger. I want a fair, true portrait of the man [for my film].
      I should be making movies about the Dulles brothers [John Foster Dulles, Allen Dulles], I should be making movies about [Dwight D. Eisenhower], I should be making movies about the fifties and the forties. We should be free. I'm hamstrung, I mean, they're always . . . preordaining, proclaiming . . . They always make a brouhaha, a controversy, out of nothing. It's like they're trying to keep me away from these areas.
      The reaction to JFK (1991) was just stunning. I've never spent so much time defending a film after its release.
      [About John F. Kennedy] He was the first man who stood up as a world leader and said, "We are one people, one planet. We must survive together or we will not survive at all". And it's a shame, because he was almost 30 years ahead of his time because 30 years later they're saying that.
      [About his Vietnam experience] You get to a point where you can smell them [the enemy] . . . I got to a place where I was using all my senses.
      [About his early childhood] It was a harsh upbringing in the sense that my parents divorced quickly. I was in a boarding school, so it was all boys in those days . . . And there was no femininity in my life either. My mother was often in Europe, I didn't see her very much.
      [on casting Charlton Heston in Any Given Sunday (1999)]: I wanted to show him he was still loved for all he gave to the movies. I remember his strength while in substantial pain from arthritis, during long shooting hours. He was a gentleman on the 14th hour, as he was on the first.
      If [George W. Bush] had spent some time in Vietnam, he would have a very different view on war.
      I'm tired of defending the accuracy of my movies. JFK (1991) was a case to be proven, Nixon (1995) was a penetrating biography of a complex and dark man. But I'm not bound by those strictures any more. [George W. Bush] is not a complex and dark man, so it's different. This movie can be funnier because Bush is funny. He's awkward and goofy and makes faces all the time. He's not your average president. So, let's have some fun with it. What are they going to do? Discredit me again?
      The film business has always been full of strange characters. Who the hell gets into this business but gamblers and buccaneers and pirates? You don't get Henry Paulson as a producer in this business, that's for sure.
      I'll welcome any sorts of investors in my films, as long as I can keep my freedom and my content free of interference. If you're asking if I would do a movie with a known drug dealer, no, I wouldn't. You don't want to corrupt a movie, though the nature of the film business lends itself to criminal enterprises.
      [on Stanley Kubrick] The most interesting aspect of a scene is "controlled uncertainty". That's what Kubrick got. Everybody else would shoot pretty conventionally, but when I saw [Jean-Luc Godard] or Kubrick, in that period when I was studying film with more intensity, there was an unpredictability about Stanley Kubrick. Even as a kid, I didn't know what he would do next. It's the way Kubrick looks at reality. His reality is supercharged.
      No man dies in vain. You die because you believe for something. You hope that the cause is worth it. And in Vietnam we have reasons to question it. But you die hopefully with honor and with courage. And you should be remembered for your sacrifice. That is not to say the war was right, but you honor the men who fought in the war.
      I thought we [the United States] were going to go to war in Iran. If we had been more successful in Iraq, I have no doubts that we would have been more involved in the Iranian situation now.
      [on Bernie Madoff] Madoff I consider to a be a sociopath; he was a crook running a Ponzi scheme.
      [on the recession] Wall Street has an important role to play, and it can be a very constructive role in financing, in new business, in financing state bonds and pension plans. But the speculation is the mother of all evils. There have to be regulations. And we're not getting these regulations in place.
      Look, you know something of what I've fought against in the U.S. establishment, but - McDonald's is good for the world, that's my opinion. Because I think war is the most dangerous thing. Nationalism and patriotism are the two most evil forces that I know of in this century or in any century and cause more wars and more death and destruction to the soul and human life than anything else - and can still do it with nuclear war. The prime objective we have in this era is to prevent war, to live in peace. The best way you can do that is to bring prosperity to as many people across the world as you can. And when you spread McDonald's all over the world, food becomes cheaper and more available to more people. Won't it be great when they can have McDonald's throughout Africa?
      The Pax Americana, to me, is the dollar sign. It works. It may not be attractive. It's not pretty to see American businessmen running all around the world in plaid trousers, drinking whiskey. But what they're doing makes sense. Now it's been picked up more intelligently by the Japanese, the British, the Germans. But it brings education, health, and welfare to the rest of the world.
      I don't feel particularly old, but I feel it in the morning when I wake up. Film is exhausting to make, it's a very tiring process physically.
      You cannot approach history unless you have empathy for the person you may hate. We can't judge people as only "bad" or "good". [Adolf Hitler] is an easy scapegoat throughout history and it's been used cheaply. He's the product of a series of actions. It's cause and effect.
      I agree with my father that the foundation of a healthy, prosperous and relatively free society is capitalism. The whole Alexander Hamilton idea of capitalism was to make the country grow, and he was essentially right that banks could be used to make the country grow, because we need capital and we need credit. And that is fundamental, and somehow people when they attack Wall Street so blindly, so ignorantly, they lose sight of that function.
J.P. Morgan merits enormous attention. He was a pharaoh. He controlled American business and governments in a way that's never been seen since.
      [on Russia and China] When I was researching dissidents during the 1980s in the Soviet Union, there was a form of denial, which was that these people, who were very courageous people opposing the regime, were going to psychiatric institutes. The Russian people did not understand them and I felt very sorry for these people. I tried to do a movie about it but it could not get it financed. But I remember at that time researching the Brezhnev [former Soviet president Leonid Brezhnev] regime how much of a hero Joseph Stalin was to the average Russian who did not really know about the great purges, and terrors, and famines of that period. Of the 1920s, '30s and '40s. Self-delusion of a population in denial is overwhelming to me still at my age. In China, which I've visited several times, I see a new generation, young people, crippled with amnesia. Unable to gain access to their own history. And then I see a generation my age, older people, men and women, and I'm amazed by what they've been through in their lifetime. Far more than I have, because they have lived a Lewis Carroll life, where it's been a 180-degree turn at the middle of their lives, at the age of 30 or 40 they've moved from collective Communism and worship of one god Mao, to a highly brutal competitive individual consumption and corruption in the name of another god: money.
      [on Alan Parker] Yes, I did say Alan Parker has no sense of humor, and this comment will haunt me for the rest of my days. But he doesn't, does he? Have I missed something?
      [on his script for Scarface (1983)] Al Pacino intimidated me when I watched him in rehearsals, I saw how he turned Tony Montana into something very feral, something immigrant and hungry and decadent.
      [on taxation] I pay 50% at the end of the day, it's a lot of dough. We work very hard, but we try to create things, we produce things. I think production is the key, I think producers should be encouraged. But when you're a speculator and you don't produce anything, that's where I think you should be taxed differently. I think there should be a bank tax. I think there should be a speculation tax, much higher. There's been proposals to that effect and they get defeated by the Republicans in Congress. I would put a tax on speculation because if you roll over stuff and you're just making money with money, like a casino, that's when you should really be taxed. A "Casino Tax", so to speak. But I don't really think taxing productivity is wise beyond a certain point. I'll pay 50%, but when you get to the 60% mark you're really dying, because you give jobs. My dad, who was a stockbroker, used to say, "No profit without production".
      When I did Platoon (1986) in 1986, I was saying very openly that marijuana helped me survive the war. It helped me keep my humanity in a situation that was dehumanizing.
      It's not a war on drugs. It's a war for money. There's too much money in it to back out now. Even if they taxed it, and they'd love to, there's so much money on the criminal investigation side with the DEA and the prison system. There are so many people in jail for drugs. They spend billions annually keeping non-violent criminals in jail, many of them drug users. How do you go back after forty years of tactics that haven't worked?
      [on Taylor Kitsch] He is very laid back. He's got that Canadian attitude. But he's a great athlete. He's a good boxer and apparently a great hockey player. At the same time he's powerful on camera. He conveys what in the old days you'd call a man's man.
      You see a coarsening of society through war. If you think not showing the coffins that come back to the United States is a solution, that's not so. We have to be more truthful about the nature of violence.
      I gave [my children] the best education I thought they could get . . . but I realize you have to go through some suffering and pain. People don't appreciate education unless they are an immigrant or coming up the hard way. It's a sense of entitlement.
      I grew up conservative, remember. So I had a William Buckley view of the United States in the '40s and '50s - that we were good guys, and that we were moral, and that we were doing the right thing. And now I think, how did we become this bully - this international terror that dominates the world scene today?
      I do feel that the Jim Crow laws are very important, coming back, by the Suprene Court gutting the Voting Rights Act. The gerrymandering that's going on in the states. I do believe that we owe this Republican legislature to that gerrymandering. And part of that is that ballot security issue. Every time... you've got have IDs for the poor and so forth. It's cutting out the blacks. They are really hanging on to... they don't want the Hispanic, Asian, black mixture to take over. I think that's what the Supreme Court thing is. I think that's what the gun laws are about too. The states want states rights. They want to keep the rules white. That's how I see this Tea Party.
      I grew up conservative, remember. So I had a William Buckley view of the United States in the '40s and '50s - that we were the good guys, and that we were moral, and that we were doing the right thing. And now I think, how did we become this bully - this international terror that dominates the world scene today?
      [on the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in 1963] Like everyone, it was sad for the country. He was a handsome young man with a beautiful family, but the consequences of the act did not have meaning for me until later. Within four years I'd be in Vietnam as a ground soldier. And then as I got older, JFK's presidency became more important to me in retrospect than ever before.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Looking back at my life now, I realize that it was the Dream that propelled me forward into all my memorable actions-the Dream allowed me to believe I could do certain things  in my life, as impossible as they seemed, like go to war, go to sea, make love to exotic women, have children I could create and love as ongoing reincarnations, and make movie
Oliver Stone is one of a handful of true artists left in modern cinema who will almost always place a greater importance on the craft rather than economic considerations. He has written, directed, and produced such popular and sometimes controversial masterpieces as
                                     and  Born on the Fourth of July. He has also written and directed
Oliver Stone was born in New York City on September 15, 1946. His father, Lou Stone, was a native, atheistic born Jewish stockbroker. During his successful career, Lou also wrote and published a monthly investors' newsletter focused on economics and politics. Jacqueline Stone, Oliver's mother, was a very optimistic upper class Catholic French woman. 
 The Stone family was wealthy and lived in townhouses in Manhattan and Stamford, Connecticut. Oliver's parents were very much into the social scene and he spent much of his childhood raised by nannies. At the age of five, Oliver was already writing marionette-style skits in which he cast his cousins. At the age of seven he was writing stories, which his father would pay him a quarter a piece for. By the young age of nine, Oliver began to write a nine-hundred-page book about his family and life in general.
                                    He attended Trinity School, an elite school on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and later attended the Hill School, a college preparatory academy in Pottstown, Pennsylvania. During summer break, Stone would regularly spend his vacation with his maternal grandparents in France. To his dismay, during his junior year of high school in 1961, at the age of 15, Stone's parents divorced. Oliver then came to the realization that his parents had been growing apart for some time. His father had been having several affairs with the wives of his friends as well as friends of Jacqueline's. 
 Lou was having great financial troubles and was headed towards bankruptcy. He disclosed to Oliver that he was deeply in debt, and informed him that he would pay for Oliver's college education, but otherwise he was on his own. This was a big wake up call for Oliver as he realized that he had been taking all his privileges for granted. Still in high school, Oliver looked into going to Congo as a mercenary but decided against it.
                                    Oliver Stone, feeling dejected and disillusioned with the direction his life was taking, decided to enlist in the United States army, specifically requesting combat duty in Vietnam.
After graduating from high school, Oliver entered Yale University to study the Liberal Arts. After only one year Stone left Yale. He had read Joseph Conrad's novel Lord Jim, and along with George Harrison's sitar music and Zorba the Greek, Oliver was inspired to move to Saigon and teach. He had heard of a position with the Free Pacific Institute (a Chinese school in Cholon) in the ethnic Chinese district of Saigon, South Vietnam. After being accepted to the program, Stone, now 18, arrived in Saigon in June of 1965. Stone's arrival was approximately the same time that the first ground infantry troops and marines arrived, and Stone recalls in a Time magazine interview that many of the troops would walk around firing off their guns for no apparent reason. 
                                    After six months of teaching the Vietnamese/Chinese students such things as English, math, and history, Oliver decided he had had enough. He signed on as a wiper on a U.S. merchant marine ship. After a short stint in Oregon, he traveled on to Guadalajara, Mexico. There he began to write his first novel, a 1,400-page book titled
                                    "A child's Night Dream", based on his experiences in Southeast Asia. Stone decided to return to Yale and try the college thing one more time. He was devoting so much of his time writing his novel that his grades suffered and he eventually dropped out of the University for good. After completing his novel and failing to interest a publisher, Stone became frustrated and threw half of the manuscript into the East River.
                                    In 1967, Stone, feeling dejected and disillusioned with the direction his life was taking, decided to enlist in the United States army, specifically requesting combat duty in Vietnam. Upon arrival in September of 1967, he was placed in the 25th Infantry Division near the Cambodian border. Stone noticed an extremely different scene present in Vietnam compared to the scene during his last visit a couple of years prior. The very same people who had welcomed the presence of the American troops before were now showing extreme animosity.
Director Martin Scorsese was Stone's first teacher, and a man whom Stone credits with helping him to focus and channel his rage.
Initially very driven about fighting for the rights of the people, Stone realized only a day into the war zone that his decision to join the army was a rash and stupid one. No one there wanted to fight, they all just wanted to survive and go home. Two weeks into Stones tour of duty (which was 15months), he was ambushed by three NVA soldiers and shot in the neck but luckily survived. Stone, like many other soldiers during that time, lost his sense of what was right and what was wrong. 
                                    Many villages were set on fire and many people killed. To the soldiers, it was just another day in the war. Much of Stone's experiences were brought to the big screen in his movie Platoon. Stone was the victim of other injuries during the war. He sustained several shrapnel wounds in both his leg and behind. Stone was also the recipient of various awards during the war, including one for extraordinary acts of courage under fire. He also received a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart with an Oak Leaf Cluster. Stone was eventually transferred to Saigon for MP duty and then to long-range recon patrol. 
                                    Next he went to the First Cavalry, and eventually after his 15-month commitment, Stone was discharged and he returned to the U.S. in 1968. Very confused and regretful of things he had done, Stone went to Mexico. Upon his re-entry to the U.S., he was caught with two ounces of marijuana and thrown in jail. He eventually found the courage to call his father to bail him out but realized he needed to shape up his life.
                                    Under the G.I. bill, Oliver Stone enrolled in New York University's Film School, a decision that he proclaims was his salvation. This decision offered Stone a way to express both his feelings and his creativity. Director Martin Scorsese was Stone's first teacher, and a man whom Stone credits with helping him to focus and channel his rage. While he was a student at the university, Stone made two short films. The first was
                                     Last Year in Vietnam, a story about a war veteran wandering the streets of New York. The other was titled
                                     Michael and Marie and was a take-off of several gangster films of the time.
=======================================================
				Oliver Stone has been credited with writing and or directing over 20 full-length feature films, earning him a well-respected place in cinematic history for some of the most influential and iconic films of the last two decades.
Throughout his long career, which began at a young age writing short plays for his family, Oliver Stone has served as director, writer and producer on a variety of films, documentaries and television movies. He is widely recognized for his controversial versions of recent American history, some of them at deep odds with conventional myth -- films such as 1986's “Platoon,” the first of his Vietnam trilogy, or 1991’s “JFK” and 1994’s “Natural Born Killers” and “Nixon,” his 1995 take on the finer points and parables of the  Nixon administration, as well as on George W. Bush in “W.” (2008) Stone says his films are "first and foremost dramas about individuals in personal struggles," and considers himself a dramatist rather than a political filmmaker.
				Stone was the only son of Louis Stone, a successful stockbroker and financial writer, and Jacqueline Goddet, a French student his father, then in the Army, eloped with as a war bride in Paris in 1945. He grew up in New York, and spent quite a bit of time with his maternal grandparents in the France of the 1950s. Stone attended Trinity School on the west side of Manhattan and later attended, for 4 years, The Hill, a boarding school in Pottstown, Pennsylvania. 
Stone attended Yale University in 1964-65 but dropped out after one year. In June of 1965, as the first U.S. troops arrived in Vietnam, Stone taught at the Free Pacific Institute, a Catholic high school in the ethnic Chinese district of Saigon. In 1966, he signed on to the U.S. Merchant Marine, where he worked as a “wiper” in the engine room below deck on several ships.  His travels took him from Asia back to Oregon and then Mexico. In Guadalajara, he began writing a first novel, a 1,400-page manuscript entitled "A Child's Night Dream".  He later reedited the novel down to a manageable 236 pages, which was released 30 years later by St. Martin’s Press (1997).    In 1967, Stone enlisted in the United States Army and served in the 25th Infantry Division near the Cambodian border, where he was wounded twice, and then later in the 1st Calvary Division in the northernmost part of Vietnam.  He was honored with a Bronze Star for heroism and Purple Heart for his service.
				Stone was almost immediately arrested for Federal marijuana smuggling from Mexico, but the charges were dismissed.  He eventually enrolled at New York University, where he studied filmmaking with, Martin Scorsese among other teachers.  He made 3 short films, among them “Last Year In Vietnam.”
After graduating in 1971 with a Bachelor's degree in Fine Arts, Stone worked many jobs, among them a cabdriver, messenger, sales representative, and production assistant, while continuing to write screenplays. With a Canadian production company, he made a low-budget horror film called “Seizure” -- about a fantasy writer whose characters come to life.
With a budget of $150,000, “Seizure” was released,after many difficulties,in 1974. The film's overriding theme of psychological trauma proved to be good preparation for Stone's next major project, which was his breakthrough in the 1978 film Midnight Express, based on the real-life story of an American College student jailed in a Turkish prison for trying to smuggle drugs out of the country. The film, and Stone himself, received controversial reviews and criticism. However, the low-budget film was a gigantic commercial success world wide, and received five Academy Award nominations. For his work as the film's screenwriter, Stone won his first Academy Award, for Best Adapted Screenplay and was also honored with a Golden Globe Award.
				a suspense/horror film entitled “The Hand” starring Michael Caine.  In this period, Stone also wrote “Conan the Barbarian” (1982), “Scarface” (1983), and Michael Cimino's “Year of the Dragon” (1985). 
Stone's next directorial effort, “Salvador,” explored the various politics at play during the early-'80s war in Central America. He was also the co-screenwriter for the film, based on the story of American photojournalist Richard Boyle Salvador.
Stone received international acclaim the following year for the movie Platoon, for which he drew on his personal experiences to redefine the way in which the Vietnam War was portrayed on film. Stone effectively opened the way for a new -- albeit controversial -- approach to looking at the war, and in so doing, he solidified his reputation of creating films of a more realistic nature. David Halberstam, winner of the Pulitzer Prize for his coverage of the Vietnam War, proclaimed “Platoon” as "the first real Vietnam film and one of the greatest war movies of all time." The film became the third-highest grossing film that year and won Stone his first Best Director Oscar as well as several other awards, including the Oscar for Best Picture. 
				In 1987, Stone continued his success and critical acclaim with “Wall Street,” his first big-budget project. A tale of greed, corruption and power, the film won a Best Actor Oscar for star Michael Douglas.  After completing Talk Radio in 1988, Stone went on to make the second installment of his Vietnam trilogy, Born on the Fourth of July (1989). The film received a large dose of enthusiastic acclaim and a second Best Director Oscar for Stone, as well as seven other nominations, including Best Picture and Best Actor for Tom Cruise. 
Two years later, Stone directed two more films profiling famous, and perhaps infamous, figures. “The Doors” was a drug-saturated biopic of legendary and controversial singer Jim Morrison starring  Val Kilmer in the lead role. “JFK” presented Stone's conspiracy-theory approach to the assassination of John F. Kennedy and the large cast featured such well-known names as Kevin Costner, Tommy Lee Jones, John Candy, Joe Pesci, Donald Sutherland, Jack Lemon, Sissy Spacek, Gary Oldman and Walter Matthau. “JFK” incurred a lion's share of controversy for its heated subject matter, but it secured eight Oscar nominations, including Best Director for Stone. 
				“Heaven and Earth,” which presented the war through the eyes of a Vietnamese woman, Le Ly Hayslip (from whose autobiographical writings the film was adapted). 
Stone's next directorial effort, “Natural Born Killers” (1994) was attacked for its glorification of violence. A story of serial killers, played by Woody Harrelson and Juliette Lewis, the film was named the eighth most controversial movie of all time by Entertainment Weekly in 2006. 
The following year, Stone co-wrote and directed “Nixon,” an epic take on the title character's presidency that earned four Oscar nominations. In 1997, Stone directed U-Turn, starring Sean Penn and Jennifer Lopez.
Stone also produced such films as “Reversal of Fortune” (1990), “The Joy Luck Club” (1993), “The People vs Larry Flynt” (1996), Savior (1998), “Freeway” (1996), “South Central” (1992), and “Wild Palms” (1993) for television.  In 1999 he again took a seat in the director's chair with “Any Given Sunday,” a football movie starring Al Pacino, Cameron Diaz, Jamie Foxx, and repeated collaborator James Woods.
Stone went to Cuba for his first documentary -- on Fidel Castro -- entitled “Comandante” in 2003. After covering the current state of the Palestinian conflict in the same year's “Persona Non Grata,” Stone traveled back in time to study yet another great conflict with war drama “Alexander” in 2004 (a revised “Alexander Revisited” was released in 2007). Stone's follow-up in 2006 was “World Trade Center,” a true story about two New York Port Authority policemen, who were on duty and trapped in the rubble on September 11, 2001.  Stone directed in 2008, “W.”, a chronicle of the life and presidency of George W. Bush, while Bush was still in office. 
His documentary work includes two follow-up films on Fidel Castro -- “Looking for Fidel” (2004) and the upcoming “Castro in Winter” (2012) -- as well “South of the Border” (2010), a roadtrip across Latin America meeting seven of its progressive leaders.
				one of his films, “Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps”, with Michael Douglas reprising his Oscar-winning role.  Shia LaBeouf, Josh Brolin, Carey Mulligan, and Frank Langella also starred in the film.  
Stone co-wrote and directed the upcoming “Savages,” an action-packed story of three SoCal friends going up against the Baja cartel to be released July 6, 2012.  He also co-wrote and directed the upcoming 10-hour documentary series “The Untold History of the United States,” which will air on Showtime in 2012.
=======================================================
Stone has become one of the best known filmmakers working in Hollywood, making his name and fortune from political subjects like the Vietnam War, the Kennedy assassination, and the US involvement in El Salvador.
After serving in Vietnam, Stone returned to the US in 1968, and attended film school at New York University, where he was tutored by Martin Scorsese. After graduating, he directed a short student film entitled 'Last Year in Vietnam' and worked as a New York taxi driver.
He first gained acclaim as a writer when he won an Oscar, a Writers Guild Award and a Golden Globe for his screenplay, 'Midnight Express' (1978). This movie earned him a shot at directing a major studio movie - 'The Hand'. However, its failure gave him a temporary career setback.
Stone concentrated on screenwriting for a while, with 'Conan the Barbarian', 'Scarface', and 'Year of the Dragon'. He then directed the low budget political drama, 'Salvador', which brought an Oscar-nomination for co-writing the screenplay. He received an Oscar for 'Platoon', and returned to the subject of Vietnam, to win a Best Director Oscar for 'Born on the Fourth of July' (1989).
Perhaps Stone's most ambitious and controversial work was 'JFK' (1991), a dramatisation of the attempts by Jim Garrison (Kevin Costner) to uncover a conspiracy behind the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. It earned him Oscar nominations as Best Director and co-writer of the screenplay.
That same year, he appeared as himself in the political comedy, 'Dave', and had his first TV credit as executive producer, with the sci-fi miniseries, 'Wild Palms'. Stone then made a sharp turn a year later, with his next project, the dark comedy, 'Natural Born Killers'.
Two years later, he returned to politics and history with his controversial study of US President Richard Nixon, with Anthony Hopkins in the lead, then he directed, produced, and wrote the football-themed drama, 'Any Given Sunday'. The 1999 drama featured an ensemble cast including Al Pacino, Dennis Quaid, Cameron Diaz, Jamie Foxx and LL Cool J and paved the way for Stone to work on his next political project. 'Comandante', which was released in 2003, was unlike Stone's previous work as it was a documentary featuring interviews with Cuban leader Fidel Castro.
Returning to the big budget field, Stone went on to direct the epic movie 'Alexander' (2004), which explored the life of Alexander the Great. The movie featured Colin Farrell in the title role, with Angelina Jolie, Val Kilmer, Rosario Dawson, Anthony Hopkins and Christopher Plummer supporting. Stone then went on to work on 2006 disaster drama 'World Trade Center', which was based on the 9/11 World Trade Center attacks in New York. As well as getting largely positive reviews, the movie was a commercial hit.
Two years later Stone returned to the political genre with 'W.', a biographical film based on the life and presidency of George W. Bush. Starring Josh Brolin as the president, the production was followed by 'South of the Border', a documentary about Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez and issues affecting Latin America. 'Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps' (2010) saw Stone return with a sequel to one of his earlier hits, which landed him a Golden Globe nomination. His latest film was 'Savages', which was released in 2012.
Right, so: now that we’ve convinced you Lifetime is a thing you need to have in your life – what now? How do you get this on your telly? Here’s what you have to do.
=======================================================
Yes, Oliver Stone will tell you about losing his virginity to a call girl, smoking grass, doing ecstasy and everything about his colorful life in between. But nowadays, Savages' controversial director is mellower, happier and has nothing to hide: "I'm not a Prozac person anymore."
This story first appeared in the June 22 issue of The Hollywood Reporter magazine.RecommendedTHR Cover: Oliver Stone Uncensored: 'I Was Crazy for Many Years'Oliver Stone: Less Crazy After All These YearsBehind the Scenes of THR's Oliver Stone Cover Shoot'Savages': Oliver Stone's Stoner Fake-OutBehind the Scenes of our Oscar Icons Photo Shoot with Oliver StoneOliver Stone's 'Savages' Hot Enough For Summer Oliver Stone's Son Tells Bill O'Reilly That Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is 'A Little Bit Misunderstood' (Video)
The first time I met Oliver Stone, he tried to pick up my girlfriend. It was nearly 20 years ago, and she’d stuck her head into his Natural Born Killers editing room; he promised her a role in his next film. He didn’t seem bothered that there was no role, much less that she had a boyfriend. By then, the hard-living director of films such as Platoon, Born on the Fourth of July and Wall Street infamously had had his first sexual experience with a call girl (procured by his father); done a stint in Vietnam; frequented hordes of women in Saigon (paid and unpaid); been thrown in a Mexican jail for marijuana possession then been arrested again in Los Angeles in 2005; incensed the entire Turkish population for his portrayal of its prisons in Midnight Express; and spent years in a drug-induced haze.
His reputation as the baddest of Hollywood bad boys dwarfed even that of his closest rival, Top Gun producer Don Simpson, who reportedly died while sitting on a toilet reading a Stone biography.
Nearly two decades have passed since the now-65-year-old filmmaker reached his nadir; still, it is with some trepidation that I approach his West Los Angeles offices for lunch May 10. After I wait a while near a painting of Che Guevara and an artwork inspired by Jimi Hendrix’s death certificate, Stone lopes in, casually dressed in a blue jacket and jeans, his black hair thinning, but as charismatic as any movie star. He’s grinning from ear to ear, warm and welcoming and nothing like the dark figure of lore.
“Jesus, you’re early!” he exclaims in mock protest. (He’s notorious for being late.) Then he pulls up a chair at an unpretentious table in his office, littered with books and scripts, and we munch on sandwiches.
“I was crazy for many years,” he admits. “So is everybody, you know. But now, I’m pretty sane. There’s been so much craziness in my life — and there still is — but it gets out through the work.”
Perhaps getting older has mellowed him. Perhaps it’s the daily meditation he practices. Or perhaps it’s his third marriage, to Chong Stone, 57, a South Korean immigrant he met when she was working at a New York restaurant.
“She came from a very poor background,” says Stone. “She had an arranged marriage. She didn’t see a car until she was 15, she didn’t see a television. She was one of six or seven children. Her mother brought her out of school so that she would help with the house; she was the oldest sister. She grew up in another world, you have to understand — it’s just a different tonality: the culture, the way they speak, the way they listen. She’s the opposite of everything I am. She flows with the East. I go back and see her face, and it’s very calm. She comes from another place of graciousness, transparency, selflessness. That’s why I love her.” Stone says his wife had been thinking of returning to Korea when they met: “We were gonna break up — I told her I didn’t want to get married because I’d been married and it wasn’t working for me, and the only reason I’d marry is to have a kid. I swear to God, she just said, ‘Yes, that would be wonderful.’ And she comes back six weeks later and says, ‘I’m pregnant.’ It was unbelievable.”
The couple has a 16-year-old daughter, Tara, Stone’s third child after two boys, who has turned the once-wild patriarch into a domestic disci- plinarian. “I’m the tough guy now,” he smiles. “Sometimes I gotta crack the whip.”
Thanks to all this — the wife, the meditation, the child — Stone is very different today from the crash-and-burn figure of the 1990s.
Sure, he likes to party. But when he’s not working, he mostly spends time at his “Tudor/ Chinese” home in L.A.’s Mandeville Canyon (he also has apartments in Manhattan and Beijing); reads history books (among them Alistair Horne’s The Fall of Paris: The Siege and the Commune 1870-71 and Seymour Topping’s The Peking Letter: A Novel of the Chinese Civil War); watches TV series from Mad Men to Homeland to The Daily Show With Jon Stewart; and keeps up with movies as diverse as Snow White and the Huntsman and Argentina’s Oscar-winning The Secret in Their Eyes — both of which he unabashedly enjoyed.
Yet controversy sticks to him like glue. “The controversies hurt,” he says ruefully. “People thought I was going after them, but they don’t help the movies.” Still, Stone does little to diminish their root cause, his reputation as a conspiracy nut. “There are so many conspiracies in history, it is ridiculous to defend yourself on those lines,” he says.
His oldest child, Sean, 27, a documentary filmmaker (one of two sons with his second wife), recently converted to Islam and changed his name to Ali. Stone isn’t fazed. “He decided for himself, and he is doing it for philosophical purposes,” he shrugs. “At that age, I did a lot crazier things.” Then there’s his protege Charlie Sheen’s outlandish behavior. “Oh boy, you’re going to get me in trouble,” groans Stone, jokingly bury- ing his face in his hands and noting the two are not close; indeed, the only time they’ve gotten together in years was at a recent THR photo shoot. “Fame did it to him, not me. He got wild. Listen, he’s one of the richest actors in the world. He wanted money. He loved money. Maybe he was more like the Wall Street boy than we knew.”
	He’s less amused by Richard Dreyfuss, who played Dick Cheney in Stone’s 2008 biopic W and lambasted his director as a “fascist.” “That was probably the single worst experience I’ve ever had with an actor in my life,” the helmer shoots back, saying Dreyfuss couldn’t remember his lines. “I walked him outside, and I read him the Riot Act. I said, ‘You’re going to read these f—ing cue cards, and if you don’t read them, this scene is over.’ So, yeah, I was a fascist.” Beyond Dreyfuss, the filmmaker inflamed much of Hollywood in 2010 when he complained of Jewish “domination” of the media and U.S. foreign policy. “I apologized for it,” he notes, adding he is half-Jewish on his father’s side. “I meant that the state of Israel and its policy have a very undue influence on American media.”
Lately, Stone also has raised eyebrows by declaring support for right-wing Congressman Ron Paul’s presidential bid: “I like Ron Paul’s magnetism, his decency, his honor and his foreign policy,” he argues. “Obama’s doing his best. He’s got his problems, and I think he made certain promises he hasn’t kept.” He remains undecided about whether to vote for the president because “Obama has carried on the Bush war on terror and has not addressed all the things he promised he would do to curtail the hype and fear that pervade this country.” Still, he says, “It’s hard for me to vote Republican.” As for Mitt Romney, “I’m not going to vote for that idiot.”
STORY: Oliver Stone on the Joys of Mind-Expanding Drugs, Obama's Broken Promises and Returning to Form with the Crime Drama 'Savages'
By contrast, Stone is surprisingly restrained about the most maligned of media moguls, Rupert Murdoch: “He’s very personable, charming. I don’t think he has all the facts sometimes. But he’s a battler. He’s one of the only big news guys I know who has fun.”
	So does Stone these days — if admittedly helped by the occasional illicit substance. “I’m like Willie Nelson,” he says, eyes twinkling. “I believe the grass is God’s gift. California makes the best in the world now. When I was a kid, it was Vietnamese, it was Thai, Jamaican for a while. All my life I’ve been doing it, off and on. I can stop marijuana. I can [go without it] for weeks and weeks. I’m not addicted, but I enjoy it. I also enjoy alcohol.”
	As for heavy drugs: “Cocaine, I stay away from. But I believe in LSD, mescaline, mushrooms, ayahuasca. You ever heard of ayahuasca? It’s a very strong juice that comes from the rubber trees. Ecstasy is great, too.”
Then he looks at me, amused. “I bet you didn’t ask Ridley this stuff,” he says, referring to a recent profile on Prometheus director Ridley Scott by this same writer. When I assure him Scott got his share of tough questions, he laughs gleefully. “God, you’re insane!”
=======================================================
Given Stone's penchant for politics, it is not surprising that he is one of America's most controversial 
directors. His Vietnam pictures forced Americans to deal with the war that they had tried so hard to 
Born in New York City, Stone grew up nurturing his love of films. Born in a priviliged family, Stone's 
father Lou was a successful stockbroker on Wall Street. When he suffered some financial setbacks due 
After a year at Yale, Stone dropped out and moved to Vietnam, where he taught English for a year. A 
possession.  Drugs would continue to plague him, for he was again arrested for possession of hashish, 
In 1967 Stone, like thousands of other men during that decade, enlisted in the military and went to 
Vietnam, where he received the Bronze Star for Valor and the Purple Heart with First Oak Leaf Cluster 
He studied film at N.Y.U. under Martin Scorsese and began his film career as a screenwriter.  As a student of Scorsese's, Stone acted as a cinematographer for the film Street Scenes (1970), a collection of student films. Four years later, he directed, edited and wrote his first feature film, Seizure (1974). The film's 
overriding theme of psychological trauma proved to be good preparation for Stone's next project, Midnight Express (1978). The film earned him his first Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay. 
In the early '80s, Stone concentrated on writing and completed a number of scripts including 1982's 
Stone's next directorial effort was Salvador (1986), which fully embraced the political tilt at which Platoon had hinted. The film won widespread praise and Stone followed it up with a similarly 
After completing 1988's Talk Radio, Stone went on to make the second installment of his Vietnam trilogy, 
Born on the Fourth of July (1989). The film received a large dose of enthusiastic acclaim and a second 
director for certain aspects of his historic portrayals, including his tendency to make his protagonists 
All hell broke loose with the release of JFK. The film revolved around Jim Garrison, the New Orleans 
D.A. who believed there was a conspiracy to assassinate Kennedy and a cover-up that stretched to the 
highest levels of government. The film not only compelled Congress to open previously sealed files on 
the shooting, but it rekindled the country's interest in the Kennedy case and the events surrounding 
it. Nevertheless, it secured eight Oscar nominations, including yet another Best Director nod for Stone.
In 1993, Stone completed his Vietnam trilogy with Heaven and Earth. But unlike the earlier installments, 
this film, which looked at the war through the eyes of a Vietnamese woman, bombed at the box office.  
It was celebrated by those who saw it as a condemnation of the media's glorification of violence and decried 
U-Turn (1997) followed antihero Sean Penn's accidental visit to a hick town in Arizona. The film garnered 
little more than lukewarm critical and box office response, and the noirish comedy quickly disappeared. The 
In 1999, he again took a seat in the director's chair with Any Given Sunday, a sports film that took a look at the politics behind the National Football League. It received mixed reviews and an average box office take and was mostly noticed for the abundance of male frontal nudity. Stone decided to take time off to make several political documentaries, which went largely unnoticed. He then returned to feature filmmaking with Alexander, starring Colin Farrell, but the film was panned by critics and shunned by moviegoers, earning back far less than its $150 million budget. Next, he took on World Trade Center (2006), the true story of two men trapped beneath the rubble at Ground Zero on 9/11, followed by Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps (2010) about corrupted businessman (Michael Douglas) who uses his new son-in-law (Shia LaBeouf) to rebuild his empire. Stone then followed that up with his 2012 film Savages, featuring an all-star cast including the likes of John Travolta, Blake Lively, Taylor Kitsch and Selma Hayek, just to name a few. 
ended in 1977.  With his second wife, Elizabeth, he fathered two sons, Sean and Michael. He also has a 
FilmographyDirectorSavages (2012)DirectorWall Street: Money Never Sleeps (2010)DirectorW. (2008)DirectorPersona non grata (2006)DirectorWorld Trade Center (2006)DirectorAlexander (2004)DirectorWall Street (2001)ProducerThe Art Of War (2000)DirectorAny Given Sunday (1999)ProducerAny Given Sunday (1999)ProducerThe Corruptor (1999)DirectorNatural Born Killers (1994)DirectorBorn on the Fourth of July (1989)ProducerBorn on the Fourth of July (1989)
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/loading-indicator._V192185253_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif');
        background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/buttons._V243643239_.gif')
    background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/traffic/s9m/alert-small._V195630253_.gif");
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/donsbeak-sm-up._V197474569_.png) no-repeat 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite-mini.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/tile-blue-bg._V46870869_.gif)
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tl._V192184760_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tm._V192184721_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tr._V192184429_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bl._V192184824_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bm._V192184603_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-br._V192545463_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tl2._V192545542_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tr2._V192545537_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-bl._V192545543_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-br._V192545543_.gif);
Help us improve our Author Pages by updating your bibliography and submitting a new or current image and biography.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
Gender: Male Born: September 15, 1946 Birthplace: New York City, New York, USA Nationality: United States 
From All Movie Guide: Undoubtedly one of the most controversial directors in Hollywood, Oliver Stone has made films that are remarkable for both the way in which their subject matter is handled and the degree of controversy such handling inspires. Although he has served as a producer, screenwriter, and actor on a variety of films, Stone is consistently identified with his more political works, from 1986's Platoon, the first of his so-called Vietnam trilogy, to Nixon, his 1995 take on the finer points and parables of the Nixon administration. Despite this association with political films, Stone has stated that he considers his films "first and foremost to be dramas about individuals in personal struggles," and that he believes himself to be a dramatist rather than a political filmmaker.
Born in New York City on September 15, 1946, Stone grew up nurturing his love of films. He was particularly inspired by Luis Buñuel and Jean-Luc Godard, whose Breathless inspired the nascent filmmaker with its speed and energy. After a year at Yale, Stone dropped out and moved to Vietnam, where he taught English for a year. A year in Mexico followed, during which he wrote an unpublished novel and got arrested for marijuana possession. In 1967, Stone, like thousands of other men during that decade, enlisted in the military and went to Vietnam, where he received both a Bronze Star and Purple Heart during his year of service. 
Upon his return from Vietnam, Stone enrolled at New York University, where he studied filmmaking under Martin Scorsese. As a student of Scorsese's, he participated in his first film project, Street Scenes 1970, a collection of student films on which Stone acted as a cinematographer. Four years later, he directed his first feature, Seizure, for which he also acted as editor and screenwriter. The film's overriding theme of psychological trauma proved to be good preparation for Stone's next project, the 1978 film Midnight Express. For his work as the film's screenwriter, he won his first Academy Award, for Best Adapted Screenplay.
After making his directorial debut for a major studio (Orion) with 1981's The Hand (a production for which he also served as screenwriter and had a minor acting role), Stone wrote a number of films, including 1982's Conan the Barbarian, Scarface (1983), and Michael Cimino's Year of the Dragon (1985). In 1986 Stone had his directorial breakthrough, with his internationally acclaimed Platoon. The film won him his first Best Director Oscar (as well as a slew of other awards, including the Oscar for Best Picture) and become the third-highest grossing film of 1986, as it redefined the way in which the Vietnam War was portrayed on film. Stone effectively opened the way for a new -- albeit controversial -- approach to looking at the war, and in so doing, his name became almost irretrievably associated with films of a more political, revisionist nature. 
Stone's next directorial effort, the same year's Salvador, fully embraced the political tilt that Platoon had hinted at. The story of American photojournalist Richard Boyle (James Woods), Salvador explored the various politics at play during the early-'80s war in Central America. The film won widespread praise, and Stone, who was also its producer and screenwriter, followed it up with a similarly acclaimed effort, Wall Street (1987). A tale of greed, corruption, and power, the film reflected the American state of mind in the 1980s. It went on to win a Best Actor Oscar for star Michael Douglas, who supplied a chilling portrayal of the film's central source of sleaze, Gordon Gekko. 
After completing 1988's Talk Radio, which was adapted from its star Eric Bogosian's stage production, Stone went on to make the second installment of his Vietnam trilogy, Born on the Fourth of July (1989). The film received a large dose of enthusiastic acclaim and a second Best Director Oscar for Stone, as well as seven other nominations, including Best Picture and Best Actor for Tom Cruise. But it marked the beginning of the criticism that was aimed at the director for certain aspects of his historic portrayals, including his tendency to make his protagonists into Christ-like figures (with Platoon's Chris Taylor being an earlier example of this).
Two years later, Stone directed two markedly divergent features, The Doors and JFK. The former was a drug-saturated biopic of singer Jim Morrison, while the latter presented Stone's conspiracy-theory approach to the assassination of John F. Kennedy. JFK incurred a lion's share of controversy for its heated subject matter, but it nevertheless secured eight Oscar nominations, including Best Director for Stone.
In 1993, Stone completed his Vietnam trilogy with Heaven and Earth. Unlike the trilogy's previous installments, Heaven and Earth looked at the war through the eyes of a Vietnamese woman, Le Ly Hayslip (from whose autobiographical writings the film was adapted). The film failed to find favor at the box office and the general indifference which greeted it proved inversely proportional to the brouhaha surrounding Stone's next directorial effort, 1994's Natural Born Killers. This story of serial killers (played by Woody Harrelson and Juliette Lewis) was celebrated by those who saw it as a condemnation of the media's glorification of violence and decried by those who claimed it did little more than glorify the very violence it purported to condemn.
The following year, Stone managed to regain some favor with Nixon, an epic take on the title character's presidency. Scoring four Oscar nominations but no wins, Nixon was Stone's last directing project until 1997, when he made U-Turn. Garnering little more than lukewarm critical and box-office response, the noirish comedy quickly disappeared. Stone spent the next couple of years as a producer of Savior (1998) and executive producer of Assassinated: The Last Days of King and Kennedy, but in 1999 he again took a seat in the director's chair with Any Given Sunday, a football movie starring Al Pacino, Cameron Diaz, and repeated collaborator James Woods. The same year, the director made the news for a less favorable accomplishment: a June arrest for drunk driving and possession of hashish.
Moving back into the political arena with his next film, Stone took to Cuba for the Fidel Castro documentary Comandante in 2003. Despite the fact that critical consensus ultimately decried Stone's exclusion of any truly pressing issues, the film nevertheless painted an one of the most intimate portraits of the Cuban leader to date. After documenting the current state of the Palestinain conflict in the same year's Persona Non Grata, Stone traveled back in time to study yet another great conflict with his Alexander the Great war drama Alexander in 2004. Even with an all-star cast that included Colin Farrell, Jared Leto, Anthony Hopkins and Angelina Jolie, audiences and critics were left cold and the film met an ignominious fate. Never shying away from controversial topics, Stone's follow-up was World Trade Center, a docu-drama about two firemen who were on duty and trapped in the rubble on September 11, 2001. In 2008 the director turned his attentions toward the White House for the political biopic W., which starred Oscar-nominated actor Josh Brolin as 43rd American President George W. Bush, and the following year he put U.S. foreign policy under the microscope in South of the Border -- an unabashedly biased documentary that found Stone on a road trip through numerous South American countries while speaking with a variety of leaders including Venezuela's Hugo Chávez, Cuba's Raúl Castro, and Paraguay's Fernando Lugo. 2010's Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps found Stone examining the roots of America's 2008 financial collapse with the first sequel of his long and varied career, but in 2012 the director took a break from reality for the ensemble crime thriller Savages. Based on author Don Winslow's novel of the same name, Savages told the tale of two peaceful Laguna Beach marijuana dealers who are targeted for extortion by the ruthless Mexican Baja cartel. ~ Rebecca Flint Marx, Rovi      
Institution - New York University			Location - New York , New York			Major - Film			Degree - Bachelors of Fine Arts, B.F.A			Year range - 1971			
Institution - New York University			Location - New York, NY			Major - film			Degree - BFA			Year range - 1971			
© 2010 All Media Guide, LLC Portions of content provided by All Movie Guide ®, a trademark of All Media Guide, LLC
