=======================================================
Pope Benedict XVI (Latin: Benedictus XVI; born Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger; German pronunciation: [ˈjoːzɛf ˈalɔʏzjʊs ˈʁatsɪŋɐ]; on 16 April 1927) was pope of the Catholic Church, having served from 2005 until his resignation in 2013. Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave following the death of Pope John Paul II and was inaugurated on 24 April 2005.
Ordained as a priest in 1951 in his native Bavaria, Ratzinger established himself as a highly regarded university theologian by the late 1950s and was appointed a full professor in 1958. After a long career as an academic, serving as a professor of theology at several German universities he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising and cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977, an unusual promotion for someone with little pastoral experience. In 1981, he settled in Rome when he became Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, one of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia. From 2002 until his election as pope, he was also Dean of the College of Cardinals, and as such, the primus inter pares among the cardinals. Prior to becoming pope, he was "a major figure on the Vatican stage for a quarter of a century"; he had an influence "second to none when it came to setting church priorities and directions" as one of John Paul II's closest confidants.[2]
He was originally a liberal theologian, but adopted conservative views after 1968.[3] His prolific[4] writings defend traditional Catholic doctrine and values. During his papacy, Benedict XVI advocated a return to fundamental Christian values to counter the increased secularisation of many Western countries. He views relativism's denial of objective truth, and the denial of moral truths in particular, as the central problem of the 21st century. He taught the importance of both the Catholic Church and an understanding of God's redemptive love.[5] Pope Benedict also revived a number of traditions including elevating the Tridentine Mass to a more prominent position.[6] He renewed the relationship between the Catholic Church and art, promoted the use of Latin,[7] and reintroduced traditional papal garments, for which reason he was called "the pope of aesthetics".[8] He has been described as "the main intellectual force in the Church" since the mid-1980s.[9]
On 11 February 2013, Benedict announced his resignation in a speech in Latin before the cardinals, citing a "lack of strength of mind and body" due to his advanced age. His resignation became effective on 28 February 2013. He is the first pope to resign since Pope Gregory XII in 1415, and the first to do so on his own initiative since Pope Celestine V in 1294. As pope emeritus, Benedict retains the style of His Holiness, and the title of Pope, and continues to dress in the papal colour of white. He was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13 March 2013, and he moved into the newly renovated Mater Ecclesiae monastery for his retirement on 2 May 2013.
Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger was born on 16 April, Holy Saturday, 1927, at Schulstraße 11, at 8:30 in the morning in his parents' home in Marktl, Bavaria, Germany. He was baptised the same day. He was the third and youngest child of Joseph Ratzinger, Sr., a police officer, and Maria Ratzinger (née Peintner). His mother's family was originally from South Tyrol (now in Italy).[10] Pope Benedict XVI's brother, Georg Ratzinger, a priest and former director of the Regensburger Domspatzen choir, is still alive. His sister, Maria Ratzinger, who never married, managed Cardinal Ratzinger's household until her death in 1991. Their grand-uncle was the German politician Georg Ratzinger. At the age of five, Ratzinger was in a group of children who welcomed the visiting Cardinal Archbishop of Munich with flowers. Struck by the cardinal's distinctive garb, he later announced the very same day that he wanted to be a cardinal. He attended the elementary school in Aschau am Inn, which was renamed in his honour in 2009.[11]
Ratzinger's family, especially his father, bitterly resented the Nazis, and his father's opposition to Nazism resulted in demotions and harassment of the family.[12] Following his 14th birthday in 1941, Ratzinger was conscripted into the Hitler Youth—as membership was required by law for all 14-year-old German boys after March 1939[13]—but was an unenthusiastic member who refused to attend meetings, according to his brother.[14] In 1941, one of Ratzinger's cousins, a 14-year-old boy with Down syndrome, was taken away by the Nazi regime and murdered during the Action T4 campaign of Nazi eugenics.[15] In 1943, while still in seminary, he was drafted into the German anti-aircraft corps as Luftwaffenhelfer (air force child soldier).[14] Ratzinger then trained in the German infantry.[16] As the Allied front drew closer to his post in 1945, he deserted back to his family's home in Traunstein after his unit had ceased to exist, just as American troops established a headquarters in the Ratzinger household.[17] As a German soldier, he was interned in a prisoner of war camp, but released a few months later at the end of the war in May 1945.[17]
Ratzinger and his brother Georg entered Saint Michael Seminary in Traunstein in November 1945, later studying at the Ducal Georgianum (Herzogliches Georgianum) of the Ludwig-Maximilian University in Munich. They were both ordained in Freising on 29 June 1951 by Cardinal Michael von Faulhaber of Munich. Ratzinger recalled:
...at the moment the elderly Archbishop laid his hands on me, a little bird – perhaps a lark – flew up from the altar in the high cathedral and trilled a little joyful song.[18]
Ratzinger's 1953 dissertation was on St. Augustine and was titled The People and the House of God in Augustine's Doctrine of the Church. His Habilitation (which qualified him for a professorship) was on Bonaventure. It was completed in 1957 and he became a professor of Freising College in 1958.
Ratzinger became a professor at the University of Bonn in 1959, his inaugural lecture was on "The God of Faith and the God of Philosophy". In 1963, he moved to the University of Münster. During this period, he participated in the Second Vatican Council (1962–65) and served as a peritus (theological consultant) to Cardinal Frings of Cologne. He was viewed during the time of the Council as a reformer, cooperating with theologians like Hans Küng and Edward Schillebeeckx. Ratzinger became an admirer of Karl Rahner, a well-known academic theologian of the Nouvelle Théologie and a proponent of church reform.
In 1966, Ratzinger was appointed to a chair in dogmatic theology at the University of Tübingen, where he was a colleague of Hans Küng. In his 1968 book Introduction to Christianity, he wrote that the pope has a duty to hear differing voices within the Church before making a decision, and he downplayed the centrality of the papacy. During this time, he distanced himself from the atmosphere of Tübingen and the Marxist leanings of the student movement of the 1960s that quickly radicalised, in the years 1967 and 1968, culminating in a series of disturbances and riots in April and May 1968. Ratzinger came increasingly to see these and associated developments (such as decreasing respect for authority among his students) as connected to a departure from traditional Catholic teachings.[19] Despite his reformist bent, his views increasingly came to contrast with the liberal ideas gaining currency in theological circles.[20]
Some voices, among them Küng, deem this a turn towards conservatism, while Ratzinger himself said in a 1993 interview, "I see no break in my views as a theologian [over the years]".[21] Ratzinger continued to defend the work of the Second Vatican Council, including Nostra Aetate, the document on respect of other religions, ecumenism and the declaration of the right to freedom of religion. Later, as the Prefect for the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, Ratzinger most clearly spelled out the Catholic Church's position on other religions in the 2000 document Dominus Iesus which also talks about the Roman Catholic way to engage in "ecumenical dialogue". During his time at Tübingen University, Ratzinger published articles in the reformist theological journal Concilium, though he increasingly chose less reformist themes than other contributors to the magazine such as Küng and Schillebeeckx.
In 1969, he returned to Bavaria, to the University of Regensburg and co-founded the theological journal Communio, with Hans Urs von Balthasar, Henri de Lubac, Walter Kasper and others, in 1972. Communio, now published in seventeen languages, including German, English and Spanish, has become a prominent journal of contemporary Catholic theological thought. Until his election as pope, he remained one of the journal's most prolific contributors. In 1976, he suggested that the Augsburg Confession might possibly be recognised as a Catholic statement of faith.[22][23] Several of Benedict's former students became his confidantes, notably Christoph Schönborn, and a number of his former students sometimes meet for discussions.[24][25] He served as Vice President of the University of Regensburg from 1976 to 1977.[26]
On 24 March 1977, Ratzinger was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising. He took as his episcopal motto Cooperatores Veritatis (Co-workers of the Truth) from 3 John 8, a choice he comments upon in his autobiographical work, Milestones. In the consistory of the following 27 June, he was named Cardinal-Priest of Santa Maria Consolatrice al Tiburtino by Pope Paul VI. By the time of the 2005 Conclave, he was one of only 14 remaining cardinals appointed by Paul VI, and one of only three of those under the age of 80. Of these, only he and William Wakefield Baum took part in the conclave.[27]
On 25 November 1981, Pope John Paul II, upon the retirement of Franjo Šeper, named Ratzinger as the Prefect of the Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, formerly known as the "Sacred Congregation of the Holy Office", the historical Roman Inquisition. Consequently, he resigned his post at Munich in early 1982. He was promoted within the College of Cardinals to become Cardinal Bishop of Velletri-Segni in 1993 and was made the college's vice-dean in 1998 and dean in 2002. Just a year after its foundation in 1990 Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger joined the European Academy of Sciences and Arts in Salzburg/Austria in 1991.[28][29]
Ratzinger defended and reaffirmed Catholic doctrine, including teaching on topics such as birth control, homosexuality and inter-religious dialogue. The theologian Leonardo Boff, for example, was suspended, while others such as Matthew Fox were censured. Other issues also prompted condemnations or revocations of rights to teach: for instance, some posthumous writings of Jesuit priest Anthony de Mello were the subject of a notification. Ratzinger and the congregation viewed many of them, particularly the later works, as having an element of religious indifferentism (i.e., Christ was "one master alongside others"). In particular, Dominus Iesus, published by the congregation in the jubilee year 2000, reaffirmed many recently "unpopular" ideas, including the Catholic Church's position that "Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to men by which we must be saved." The document angered many Protestant churches by claiming that they are not actually churches, but "ecclesial communities".[30]
Ratzinger's 2001 letter De delictis gravioribus clarified the confidentiality of internal church investigations, as defined in the 1962 document Crimen Sollicitationis, into accusations made against priests of certain crimes, including sexual abuse. This became a subject of controversy during the sex abuse scandal.[31] For 20 years, Ratzinger had been the man in charge of enforcing the document.[32] While bishops hold the secrecy pertained only internally, and did not preclude investigation by civil law enforcement, the letter was often seen as promoting a coverup.[33] Later, as pope, he was accused in a lawsuit of conspiring to cover up the molestation of three boys in Texas, but sought and obtained diplomatic immunity from prosecution.[34]
On 12 March 1983, Ratzinger, as prefect, notified the lay faithful and the clergy that Archbishop Pierre Martin Ngo Dinh Thuc had incurred excommunication latae sententiae for illicit episcopal consecrations without the apostolic mandate. In 1997, when he turned 70, Ratzinger asked Pope John Paul II for permission to leave the Congregation of the Doctrine of Faith and to become an archivist in the Vatican Secret Archives and a librarian in the Vatican Library, but Pope John Paul ll refused his assent.[35][36]
Benedict XVI was elected the 265th pope at the age of 78. He is the oldest person to have been elected pope since Pope Clement XII (1730–40). He served longer as a cardinal before becoming Pope than any Pontiff since Benedict XIII (1724–30). He was the ninth German pope, the eighth having been the Dutch-German Pope Adrian VI (1522–23) from Utrecht. Benedict and his Polish predecessor John Paul II were the first consecutive non-Italian popes since the 7 consecutive Frenchmen of the Avignon Papacy (1309–78). The last pope named Benedict was Benedict XV, an Italian who reigned from 1914 to 1922, during World War I (1914–18).
On 2 January 2005, Time magazine quoted unnamed Vatican sources as saying that Ratzinger was a front runner to succeed John Paul II should he die or become too ill to continue as pope. On the death of John Paul II, the Financial Times gave the odds of Ratzinger becoming pope as 7–1, the lead position, but close to his rivals on the liberal wing of the church. In April 2005, before his election as pope, he was identified as one of the 100 most influential people in the world by Time.[37] While Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, Ratzinger repeatedly stated he would like to retire to his house in the Bavarian village of Pentling near Regensburg and dedicate himself to writing books.
At the conclave, "it was, if not Ratzinger, who? And as they came to know him, the question became, why not Ratzinger?"[38] On 19 April 2005, he was elected on the second day after four ballots.[38] Ratzinger had hoped to retire peacefully and said that "At a certain point, I prayed to God 'please don't do this to me'...Evidently, this time He didn't listen to me."[39] 19 April is also the feast of St. Leo IX, the most important German pope of the Middle Ages, known for instituting major reforms during his pontificate. Before his first appearance on the balcony of Saint Peter's Basilica, he was announced by Jorge Medina Estévez, Cardinal Protodeacon of the Catholic Church. Cardinal Medina Estévez first addressed the massive crowd as "dear(est) brothers and sisters" in Italian, Spanish, French, German and English, with each language receiving cheers from the international crowd, before continuing with the traditional Habemus Papam announcement in Latin.
At the balcony, Benedict's first words to the crowd, given in Italian before he gave the traditional Urbi et Orbi blessing in Latin, were:
Dear brothers and sisters, after the great Pope John Paul II, the Cardinals have elected me, a simple, humble labourer in the vineyard of the Lord. The fact that the Lord knows how to work and to act even with insufficient instruments comforts me, and above all I entrust myself to your prayers. In the joy of the Risen Lord, confident of his unfailing help, let us move forward. The Lord will help us, and Mary, His Most Holy Mother, will be on our side. Thank you.[40]
On 24 April, he celebrated the Papal Inauguration Mass in St. Peter's Square, during which he was invested with the Pallium and the Ring of the Fisherman. Then, on 7 May, he took possession of his cathedral church, the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran.
Ratzinger chose the pontifical name Benedict, which comes from the Latin word meaning "the blessed", in honour of both Pope Benedict XV and Saint Benedict of Nursia. Pope Benedict XV was pope during the First World War, during which time he passionately pursued peace between the warring nations. St. Benedict of Nursia was the founder of the Benedictine monasteries (most monasteries of the Middle Ages were of the Benedictine order) and the author of the Rule of Saint Benedict, which is still the most influential writing regarding the monastic life of Western Christianity. The Pope explained his choice of name during his first general audience in St. Peter's Square, on 27 April 2005:
Filled with sentiments of awe and thanksgiving, I wish to speak of why I chose the name Benedict. Firstly, I remember Pope Benedict XV, that courageous prophet of peace, who guided the Church through turbulent times of war. In his footsteps I place my ministry in the service of reconciliation and harmony between peoples. Additionally, I recall Saint Benedict of Nursia, co-patron of Europe, whose life evokes the Christian roots of Europe. I ask him to help us all to hold firm to the centrality of Christ in our Christian life: May Christ always take first place in our thoughts and actions![41]
During his inaugural Mass, the previous custom of every cardinal submitting to the Pope was replaced by having twelve people, including cardinals, clergy, religious, a married couple and their child, and newly confirmed people, greet him. (The cardinals had formally sworn their obedience upon his election.) He began using an open-topped papal car, saying that he wanted to be closer to the people. Pope Benedict continued the tradition of his predecessor John Paul II and baptised several infants in the Sistine Chapel at the beginning of each year, in his pastoral role as Bishop of Rome.
On 9 May 2005, Benedict XVI began the beatification process for his predecessor, Pope John Paul II. Normally, five years must pass after a person's death before the beatification process can begin. However, in an audience with Pope Benedict, Camillo Ruini, Vicar General of the Diocese of Rome and the official responsible for promoting the cause for canonization of any person who dies within that diocese, cited "exceptional circumstances" which suggested that the waiting period could be waived. This happened before, when Pope Paul VI waived the five-year rule and announced beatification processes for his predecessors, Pope Pius XII and Pope John XXIII. Benedict XVI followed this precedent when he waived the five-year rule for John Paul II.[42] The decision was announced on 13 May 2005, the Feast of Our Lady of Fátima and the 24th anniversary of the attempt on John Paul II's life.[43] John Paul II often credited Our Lady of Fátima for preserving him on that day. Cardinal Ruini inaugurated the diocesan phase of the cause for beatification in the Lateran Basilica on 28 June 2005.[44]
The first beatification under the new pope was celebrated on 14 May 2005, by José Cardinal Saraiva Martins, Cardinal Prefect of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints. The new Blesseds were Mother Marianne Cope and Mother Ascensión Nicol Goñi. Cardinal Clemens August Graf von Galen was beatified on 9 October 2005. Mariano de la Mata was beatified in November 2006 and Rosa Eluvathingal was beatified 3 December of that year, and Fr. Basil Moreau was beatified September 2007.[45] In October 2008 the following beatifications took place: Celestine of the Mother of God, Giuseppina Nicoli, Hendrina Stenmanns, Maria Rosa Flesch, Marta Anna Wiecka, Michael Sopocko, Petrus Kibe Kasui and 187 Companions, Susana Paz-Castillo Ramírez, Maria Isbael Salvat Romero and John Henry Newman.
Unlike his predecessor, Benedict XVI delegated the beatification liturgical service to a Cardinal. On 29 September 2005, the Congregation for the Causes of Saints issued a communiqué announcing that henceforth beatifications would be celebrated by a representative of the pope, usually the prefect of that Congregation.[46]
Pope Benedict XVI celebrated his first canonizations on 23 October 2005 in St. Peter's Square when he canonized Josef Bilczewski, Alberto Hurtado SJ, Zygmunt Gorazdowski, Gaetano Catanoso and Felice da Nicosia. The canonizations were part of a Mass that marked the conclusion of the General Assembly of the Synod of Bishops and the Year of the Eucharist.[47] Pope Benedict XVI canonized Bishop Rafael Guizar y Valencia, Mother Theodore Guerin, Filippo Smaldone and Rosa Venerini on 15 October 2006.
During his visit to Brazil in 2007, Pope Benedict XVI presided over the canonization of Frei Galvão on 11 May, while George Preca, founder of the Malta based M.U.S.E.U.M., Szymon of Lipnica, Charles of Mount Argus and Marie-Eugénie de Jésus were canonized in a ceremony held at the Vatican on 3 June 2007.[48] Preca is the first Maltese saint since the country's conversion to Christianity in 60 A.D. when St. Paul converted the inhabitants.[49] In October 2008, the following canonizations took place: Saint Alphonsa of India,[50] Gaetano Errico, Narcisa de Jesus Martillo Moran and Maria Bernarda Bütler. In April 2009, he canonized Arcangelo Tadini, Bernardo Tolomei, Nuno Álvares Pereira, Geltrude Comensoli,and Caterina Volpicelli.[51] In October of the same year he canonized Jeanne Jugan, Jozef Damian de Veuster, Zygmunt Szczęsny Feliński, Francisco Coll Guitart and Rafael Arnáiz Barón.[52][53]
On 17 October 2010, Pope Benedict canonized André Bessette, a French-Canadian; Stanislaw Soltys, a 15th-century Polish priest; Italian nuns Giulia Salzano and Camilla Battista da Varano; Spanish nun Candida Maria de Jesus Cipitria y Barriola and the first Australian saint, Mother Mary MacKillop.[54] On 23 October 2011, Pope Benedict XVI canonized three saints: a Spanish nun Bonifacia Rodríguez y Castro, Italian archbishop Guido Maria Conforti and Italian priest Luigi Guanella.[55] In December 2011, Pope Benedict formally recognized the validity of the miracles necessary to proceed with the canonizations of Kateri Tekakwitha, who would be the first Native American saint, Marianne Cope, a nun working with lepers in what is now the state of Hawaii, Giovanni Battista Piamarta, an Italian priest, Jacques Berthieu a French Jesuit priest and African martyr, Carmen Salles y Barangueras, a Spanish nun and founder of the Sisters of the Immaculate Conception, Peter Calungsod, a lay catechist and martyr from the Philippines, and Anna Schäffer whose desire to be a missionary was unfulfilled on account of her illness.[56] They were canonized on 21 October 2012.[57]
On 7 October 2012, Pope Benedict XVI named Hildegard of Bingen and John of Avila Doctors of the Church, the 34th and 35th individuals so recognised in the history of Christianity.[58]
Pope Benedict began downsizing the Roman Curia when he merged four existing pontifical councils into two in March 2006. The Pontifical Council for Migrants was merged with the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace headed by Cardinal Martino. Likewise, Cardinal Poupard, who headed the Pontifical Council for Culture, now also oversees the operations of what had been the Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue, though both Councils maintained separate officials and staffs while their status and competencies continued unchanged. In May 2007 it was decided that Interreligious Dialogue would again become a separate body under a different President. In June 2010 Benedict created the Pontifical Council for the Promotion of the New Evangelisation. He appointed Archbishop Salvatore Fisichella as its first president.
As pope, one of Benedict XVI's main roles was to teach about the Catholic faith and the solutions to the problems of discerning and living the faith,[59] a role that he could play well as a former head of the Church's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith. The main points of emphasis of his teachings are stated in more detail in Theology of Pope Benedict XVI.
At the conclusion of his first homily as pope, Benedict referred to both Jesus Christ and John Paul II. Citing John Paul II's well-known words, "Do not be afraid! Open wide the doors for Christ!", Benedict XVI said:
Are we not perhaps all afraid in some way? If we let Christ enter fully into our lives, if we open ourselves totally to Him, are we not afraid that He might take something away from us?...And once again the Pope said: No! If we let Christ into our lives, we lose nothing, nothing, absolutely nothing of what makes life free, beautiful and great. No! Only in this friendship do we experience beauty and liberation....When we give ourselves to Him, we receive a hundredfold in return. Yes, open, open wide the doors to Christ – and you will find true life.[60]
"Friendship with Jesus Christ" is a frequent theme of his preaching.[61][62] He stressed that on this intimate friendship, "everything depends."[63] He also said: "We are all called to open ourselves to this friendship with God... speaking to him as to a friend, the only One who can make the world both good and happy... That is all we have to do is put ourselves at his disposal...is an extremely important message. It is a message that helps to overcome what can be considered the great temptation of our time: the claim, that after the Big Bang, God withdrew from history."[64] Thus, in his book Jesus of Nazareth, his main purpose was "to help foster [in the reader] the growth of a living relationship" with Jesus Christ.[63]
He took up this theme in his first encyclical Deus Caritas Est. In his personal explanation and summary of the encyclical, he stated: "If friendship with God becomes for us something ever more important and decisive, then we will begin to love those whom God loves and who are in need of us. God wants us to be friends of his friends and we can be so, if we are interiorly close to them."[65] Thus, he said that prayer is "urgently needed... It is time to reaffirm the importance of prayer in the face of the activism and the growing secularism of many Christians engaged in charitable work."
Continuing what he said in the pre-conclave Mass about what he often referred to as the "central problem of our faith today",[66] on 6 June 2005 Pope Benedict also said:
Today, a particularly insidious obstacle to the task of education is the massive presence in our society and culture of that relativism which, recognising nothing as definitive, leaves as the ultimate criterion only the self with its desires. And under the semblance of freedom it becomes a prison for each one, for it separates people from one another, locking each person into his or her own ego.[67]
He said that "a dictatorship of relativism"[68] was the core challenge facing the church and humanity. At the root of this problem, he said, is Kant's "self-limitation of reason". This, he said, is contradictory to the modern acclamation of science whose excellence is based on the power of reason to know the truth. He said that this self-amputation of reason leads to pathologies of religion such as terrorism and pathologies of science such as ecological disasters.[69] Benedict traced the failed revolutions and violent ideologies of the 20th century to a conversion of partial points of view into absolute guides. He said "Absolutizing what is not absolute but relative is called totalitarianism."[70]
In an address to a conference of the Diocese of Rome held at the basilica of St. John Lateran 6 June 2005, Benedict remarked on the issues of same sex marriage and abortion:
The various forms of the dissolution of matrimony today, like free unions, trial marriages and going up to pseudo-matrimonies by people of the same sex, are rather expressions of an anarchic freedom that wrongly passes for true freedom of man...from here it becomes all the more clear how contrary it is to human love, to the profound vocation of man and woman, to systematically close their union to the gift of life, and even worse to suppress or tamper with the life that is born.[71]
In the discussion with secularism and rationalism, one of Benedict's basic ideas can be found in his address on the "Crisis of Culture" in the West, a day before Pope John Paul II died, when he referred to Christianity as the Religion of the Logos (the Greek for "word", "reason", "meaning", or "intelligence"). He said:
From the beginning, Christianity has understood itself as the religion of the Logos, as the religion according to reason... It has always defined men, all men without distinction, as creatures and images of God, proclaiming for them...the same dignity. In this connection, the Enlightenment is of Christian origin and it is no accident that it was born precisely and exclusively in the realm of the Christian faith....It was and is the merit of the Enlightenment to have again proposed these original values of Christianity and of having given back to reason its own voice... Today, this should be precisely [Christianity's] philosophical strength, in so far as the problem is whether the world comes from the irrational, and reason is not other than a 'sub-product,' on occasion even harmful of its development—or whether the world comes from reason, and is, as a consequence, its criterion and goal...In the so necessary dialogue between secularists and Catholics, we Christians must be very careful to remain faithful to this fundamental line: to live a faith that comes from the Logos, from creative reason, and that, because of this, is also open to all that is truly rational.[72]
Benedict also emphasised that "Only creative reason, which in the crucified God is manifested as love, can really show us the way."[72]
Pope Benedict wrote three encyclicals: Deus Caritas Est (Latin for "God is Love"), Spe Salvi ("Saved by Hope"), and Caritas in Veritate ("Love in Truth"). In his first encyclical, Deus Caritas Est, he said that a human being, created in the image of God who is love, is able to practice love: to give himself to God and others (agape), by receiving and experiencing God's love in contemplation. This life of love, according to him, is the life of the saints such as Teresa of Calcutta and the Blessed Virgin Mary, and is the direction Christians take when they believe that God loves them in Jesus Christ.[73]
The encyclical contains almost 16,000 words in 42 paragraphs. The first half is said to have been written by Benedict in German, his first language, in the summer of 2005; the second half is derived from uncompleted writings left by his predecessor, Pope John Paul II.[74] The document was signed by Pope Benedict on Christmas Day, 25 December 2005.[75] The encyclical was promulgated a month later in Latin and was translated into English, French, German, Italian, Polish, Portuguese and Spanish. It is the first encyclical to be published since the Vatican decided to assert copyright in the official writings of the pope.[76]
Benedict's second encyclical titled Spe Salvi ("Saved by Hope"), about the virtue of hope, was released on 30 November 2007.[77][78] His third encyclical titled Caritas in Veritate ("Love in Truth" or "Charity in Truth"), was signed on 29 June 2009 (the Feast of Sts. Peter and Paul) and released on 7 July 2009.[79] In it, the Pope continued the Church's teachings on social justice. He condemned the prevalent economic system "where the pernicious effects of sin are evident," and called on people to rediscover ethics in business and economic relations.[79]
At the time of his resignation, Benedict had completed a draft of a fourth encyclical entitled Lumen Fidei ("The Light of Faith"),[80] intended to accompany his first two encyclicals to complete a trilogy on the three theological virtues of faith, hope, and love. Benedict's successor, Pope Francis, completed and published Lumen Fidei in June 2013, four months after Benedict's retirement and Francis' succession. Although the encyclical is officially the work of Pope Francis, paragraph 7 of the encyclical explicitly expresses Francis' debt to Benedict: "These considerations on faith — in continui­ty with all that the Church's magisterium has pronounced on this theological virtue — are meant to supplement what Benedict XVI had written in his encyclical letters on charity and hope. He himself had almost completed a first draft of an encyclical on faith. For this I am deeply grateful to him, and as his brother in Christ I have taken up his fine work and added a few contributions of my own."[81]
Sacramentum Caritatis (The Sacrament of Charity), signed 22 February 2007, was released in Latin, Italian, English, French, German, Portuguese, Spanish and Polish. It was made available in various languages 13 March 2007 in Rome. The English edition from Libera Editrice Vaticana is 158 pages. This apostolic exhortation "seeks to take up the richness and variety of the reflections and proposals which emerged from the Ordinary General Assembly of the Synod of Bishops" which was held in 2006.[82]
The high altar of a church was usually preceded by three steps, below which were said the Prayers at the Foot of the Altar. Side altars usually had only one step.
On 7 July 2007, Benedict XVI issued the motu proprio Summorum Pontificum, declaring that upon "the request of the faithful", celebration of Mass according to the Missal of 1962 (commonly known as the Tridentine Mass), was to be more easily permitted. Stable groups who previously had to petition their bishop to have a Tridentine Mass may now merely request permission from their local priest.[83] While Summorum Pontificum directs that pastors should provide the Tridentine Mass upon the requests of the faithful, it also allows for any qualified priest to offer private celebrations of the Tridentine Mass, to which the faithful may be admitted if they wish.[84] For regularly scheduled public celebrations of the Tridentine Mass, the permission of the priest in charge of the church is required.[85]
In an accompanying letter, the Pope outlined his position concerning questions about the new guidelines.[84] As there were fears that the move would entail a reversal of the Second Vatican Council,[86] Benedict emphasised that the Tridentine Mass would not detract from the Council, and that the Mass of Paul VI would still be the norm and priests were not permitted to refuse to say the Mass in that form. He pointed out that use of Tridentine Mass "was never juridically abrogated and, consequently, in principle, was always permitted."[84] The letter also decried "deformations of the liturgy ... because in many places celebrations were not faithful to the prescriptions of the new Missal" as the Second Vatican Council was wrongly seen "as authorising or even requiring creativity", mentioning his own experience.[84]
The Pope considered that allowing the Tridentine Mass to those who request it was a means to prevent or heal schism, stating that, on occasions in history, "not enough was done by the Church's leaders to maintain or regain reconciliation and unity" and that this "imposes an obligation on us today: to make every effort to enable for all those who truly desire unity to remain in that unity or to attain it anew."[84] Many feel the decree aimed at ending the schism between the Holy See and traditionalist groups such as the Society of St. Pius X (SSPX). Cardinal Darío Castrillón Hoyos, the president of the Pontifical Commission established for the purpose of facilitating full ecclesial communion of those associated with that Society,[87] stated that the decree "opened the door for their return". Bishop Bernard Fellay, superior general of the SSPX, expressed "deep gratitude to the Sovereign Pontiff for this great spiritual benefit".[83]
Near the end of June 2007, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith issued a document approved by Benedict XVI "because some contemporary theological interpretations of Vatican II's ecumenical intent had been 'erroneous or ambiguous' and had prompted confusion and doubt."[88] The document has been seen as restating "key sections of a 2000 text the pope wrote when he was prefect of the congregation, Dominus Iesus."[88]
Benedict XVI condemned excessive consumerism, especially among youth. He stated in December 2007 that "[A]dolescents, youths and even children are easy victims of the corruption of love, deceived by unscrupulous adults who, lying to themselves and to them, draw them into the dead-end streets of consumerism."[89] In June 2009, he blamed outsourcing for greater availability of consumer goods which lead to downsizing of social security systems.[90]
Speaking at his weekly audience in St Peter's Square on 7 June 2006, Pope Benedict asserted that Jesus himself had entrusted the leadership of the Church to his apostle Peter. "Peter's responsibility thus consists of guaranteeing the communion with Christ," said Pope Benedict. "Let us pray so that the primacy of Peter, entrusted to poor human beings, may always be exercised in this original sense desired by the Lord, so that it will be increasingly recognised in its true meaning by brothers who are still not in communion with us."
Also in 2006, Benedict met Rowan Williams, Archbishop of Canterbury and spiritual head of the Anglican Communion. In their Common Declaration, they highlighted the previous 40 years of dialogue between Catholics and Anglicans while also acknowledging "serious obstacles to our ecumenical progress".[91] Benedict also acknowledged the Lutheran church, saying that he has had friends in that organisation.
Pope Benedict was open to dialogue with other religious groups, and sought to improve relations with them throughout his pontificate.[92][93] He, however, generated certain controversies in doing so.
When Benedict ascended to the Papacy his election was welcomed by the Anti-Defamation League who noted "his great sensitivity to Jewish history and the Holocaust".[94] However, his election received a more reserved response from the United Kingdom's Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks, who hoped that Benedict would "continue along the path of Pope John XXIII and Pope John Paul II in working to enhance relations with the Jewish people and the State of Israel."[95] The Foreign Minister of Israel also offered more tentative praise, though the Minister believed that "this Pope, considering his historical experience, will be especially committed to an uncompromising fight against anti-Semitism."[95]
Critics have accused Benedict's papacy of insensitivity towards Judaism. The two most prominent instances were the expansion of the use of the Tridentine Mass and the lifting of the excommunication on four bishops from the Society of St. Pius X (SSPX). In the Good Friday service, the traditional Mass rubrics include a prayer that asks God to lift the veil so they [Jews] may be delivered from their darkness. This prayer has historically been contentious in Judaic-Catholic relations and several groups saw the restoration of the Tridentine Mass as problematic.[96][97][98][99][100] Among those whose excommunications were lifted was Bishop Richard Williamson, an outspoken historical revisionist sometimes interpreted as a Holocaust denier.[101][102][103][104] The lifting of his excommunication led critics to charge that the Pope was condoning his historical revisionist views.[105]
Pope Benedict's relations with Islam were strained at times. On 12 September 2006 he delivered a lecture which touched on Islam at the University of Regensburg in Germany. The Pope had previously served there as a professor of theology, and his lecture was entitled "Faith, Reason and the University—Memories and Reflections". The lecture received much attention from political and religious authorities. Many Islamic politicians and religious leaders registered their protest against what they labelled an insulting mischaracterisation of Islam, although his focus was aimed towards the rationality of religious violence, and its effect on the religion.[106][107] Muslims were particularly offended by this passage from the Pope's speech: "Show me just what Muhammad brought that was new and there you will find things only evil and inhuman, such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he preached."[107]
The passage originally appeared in the Dialogue Held with a Certain Persian, the Worthy Mouterizes, in Anakara of Galatia[108][109] written in 1391 as an expression of the views of the Byzantine emperor Manuel II Paleologus, one of the last Christian rulers before the Fall of Constantinople to the Muslim Ottoman Empire, on such issues as forced conversion, holy war, and the relationship between faith and reason. According to the German text, the Pope's original comment was that the emperor "addresses his interlocutor in an astoundingly harsh—to us surprisingly harsh—way" (wendet er sich in erstaunlich schroffer, uns überraschend schroffer Form).[110] Pope Benedict apologised for any offence he had caused and made a point of visiting Turkey, a predominantly Muslim country, and praying in its Blue Mosque. Benedict planned on 5 March 2008, to meet with Muslim scholars and religious leaders autumn 2008 at a Catholic-Muslim seminar in Rome.[111] That meeting, the "First Meeting of the Catholic-Muslim Forum," was held from 4–6 November 2008.[112] On 9 May 2009, Benedict visited the King Hussein Mosque, Amman, Jordan where he was addressed by Prince Ghazi bin Muhammad.[92]
The Dalai Lama congratulated Pope Benedict XVI upon his election,[113] and visited him in October 2006 in the Vatican City. In 2007 China was accused of using its political influence to stop a meeting between the Pope and the Dalai Lama.[114]
While visiting Brazil in May 2007, "the pope sparked controversy by saying that native populations had been 'silently longing' for the Christian faith brought to South America by colonizers."[115] The Pope continued, stating that "the proclamation of Jesus and of his Gospel did not at any point involve an alienation of the pre-Columbus cultures, nor was it the imposition of a foreign culture."[115] The then President of Venezuela, Hugo Chávez demanded an apology, and an indigenous organisation in Ecuador issued a response which stated that "representatives of the Catholic Church of those times, with honourable exceptions, were accomplices, deceivers and beneficiaries of one of the most horrific genocides of all humanity."[115] Later, the Pope, speaking Italian, said at a weekly audience that it was:
"not possible to forget the suffering and the injustices inflicted by colonizers against the indigenous population, whose fundamental human rights were often trampled."[116]
While visiting the United States on 17 April 2008, Benedict met with International Society for Krishna Consciousness representative Radhika Ramana Dasa;[117] a noted Hindu scholar[118] and disciple of Hanumatpreshaka Swami.[119] On behalf of the Hindu American community, Radhika Ramana Dasa presented a gift of an Om symbol to Benedict.[120][121]
As pontiff, Benedict XVI carried out numerous Apostolic activities including journeys across the world and in the Vatican.
Benedict travelled extensively during the first three years of his papacy. In addition to his travels within Italy, Pope Benedict XVI made two visits to his homeland, Germany, one for World Youth Day and another to visit the towns of his childhood. He also visited Poland and Spain, where he was enthusiastically received.[122] His visit to Turkey, an overwhelmingly Muslim nation, was initially overshadowed by the controversy about a lecture he had given at Regensburg. His visit was met by nationalist and Islamic protesters[123] and was placed under unprecedented security measures.[124] However, the trip went ahead and Benedict made a joint declaration with Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I in an attempt to begin to heal the rift between the Catholic and Orthodox churches.
In 2007, Pope Benedict visited Brazil in order to address the Bishops' Conference there and canonize Friar Antônio Galvão, an 18th-century Franciscan. In June 2007, Benedict made a personal pilgrimage and pastoral visit to Assisi, the birthplace of St. Francis. In September, Benedict undertook a three-day visit to Austria,[125] during which he joined Vienna's Chief Rabbi, Paul Chaim Eisenberg, in a memorial to the 65,000 Viennese Jews who perished in Nazi death camps.[126] During his stay in Austria, he also celebrated Mass at the Marian shrine Mariazell and visited Heiligenkreuz Abbey.[127]
Pope Benedict XVI celebrates his 81st birthday with U.S. President George W. Bush and his wife, Laura. The White House, Washington D.C.
In April 2008, Pope Benedict XVI made his first visit to the United States since becoming pope.[128] He arrived in Washington, DC where he was formally received at the White House and met privately with U.S. President George W. Bush.[129] While in Washington, the pope addressed representatives of US Catholic universities, met with leaders of other world religions, and celebrated Mass at the Washington Nationals' baseball stadium with 47,000 people.[130] The Pope also met privately with victims of sexual abuse by priests. The Pope travelled to New York where he addressed the United Nations General Assembly.[131] Also while in New York, the Pope celebrated Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral, met with disabled children and their families, and attended an event for Catholic youth, where he addressed some 25,000 young people in attendance.[132] On the final day of the Pope's visit, he visited the World Trade Center site and later celebrated Mass at Yankee Stadium.[133]
In July 2008, the Pope travelled to Australia to attend World Youth Day 2008 in Sydney. On 19 July, in St. Mary's Cathedral, he made an apology for child sex abuse perpetrated by the clergy in Australia.[134][135] On 13 September 2008, at an outdoor Paris Mass attended by 250,000 people, Pope Benedict XVI condemned the modern materialism – the world's love of power, possessions and money as a modern-day plague, comparing it to paganism.[136][137] In 2009, he visited Africa (Cameroon and Angola) for the first time as pope. During his visit, he suggested that altering sexual behavior was the answer to Africa's AIDS crisis, and urged Catholics to reach out and convert believers in sorcery. He visited the Middle East (Jordan, Israel and Palestine) in May 2009.
Pope Benedict's main arena for pastoral activity was the Vatican itself, his Christmas and Easter homilies and Urbi et Orbi are delivered from St Peter's Basilica. The Vatican is also the only regular place where Benedict XVI traveled via motor without the protective bulletproof case common to most popemobiles. Despite the more secure setting, Pope Benedict was victim to security risks several times inside Vatican City. On Wednesday, 6 June 2007 during his General Audience a man leapt across a barrier, evaded guards and nearly mounted the Pope's vehicle, although he was stopped and Benedict seemed to be unaware of the event. On Thursday, 24 December 2009, while Pope Benedict was proceeding to the altar to celebrate Christmas Eve Mass at St Peter's Basilica, a woman later identified as 25-year-old Susanna Maiolo, who holds Italian and Swiss citizenships, jumped the barrier and grabbed the Pope by his vestments and pulled him to the ground. The 82-year-old fell but was assisted to his feet and he continued to proceed towards the altar to celebrate Mass. Roger Etchegaray, 87, the vice-dean of the College of Cardinals, fell also and suffered a hip fracture. Italian police reported that the woman had previously attempted to accost the Pope at the previous Christmas Eve Mass, but was prevented from doing so.[138][139]
In his homily, Pope Benedict forgave Susanna Maiolo[140] and urged the world to "wake up" from selfishness and petty affairs, and find time for God and spiritual matters.[138]
Between 17 and 18 April, Pope Benedict made an Apostolic Journey to the Republic of Malta. Following meetings with various dignitaries on his first day on the island, 50,000 people gathered in a drizzle for Papal Mass on the granaries in Floriana. The Pope also met with the Maltese youth at the Valletta Waterfront, where an estimated 10,000 young people turned up to greet him.[141] During his visit the Pope was moved to tears while expressing his shame at cases of abuse on the island during a 20-minute meeting with victims.[142]
Prior to 2001, the primary responsibility for investigating allegations of sexual abuse and disciplining perpetrators rested with the individual dioceses. In 2001, Ratzinger convinced John Paul II to put the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith in charge of all investigations and policies surrounding sexual abuse in order to combat such abuse more efficiently.[143][144] According to John L. Allen, Jr., Ratzinger in the following years "acquired a familiarity with the contours of the problem that virtually no other figure in the Catholic Church can claim" and "driven by that encounter with what he would later refer to as 'filth' in the Church, Ratzinger seems to have undergone something of a 'conversion experience' throughout 2003–04. From that point forward, he and his staff seemed driven by a convert's zeal to clean up the mess".[145] In his role as Head of the CDF, he "led important changes made in Church law: the inclusion in canon law of internet offences against children, the extension of child abuse offences to include the sexual abuse of all under 18, the case by case waiving of the statute of limitation and the establishment of a fast-track dismissal from the clerical state for offenders."[146] As the Head of the CDF, Ratzinger developed a reputation for handling these cases. According to Charles J. Scicluna, a former prosecutor handling sexual abuse cases, "Cardinal Ratzinger displayed great wisdom and firmness in handling those cases, also demonstrating great courage in facing some of the most difficult and thorny cases, sine acceptione personarum (without exceptions)".[145][147]
One of the cases Ratzinger pursued involved Father Marcial Maciel Degollado, a Mexican priest and founder of the Legion of Christ, who had been accused repeatedly of sexual abuse. Biographer Andrea Tornielli suggested that Cardinal Ratzinger had wanted to take action against Marcial Maciel Degollado, but that John Paul II and other high-ranking officials, including several cardinals and notably the Pope's influential secretary Stanisław Dziwisz, prevented him from doing so.[144][148] According to Jason Berry, Angelo Sodano "pressured" Cardinal Ratzinger, who was "operating on the assumption that the charges were not justified", to halt the proceedings against Maciel in 1999[149] When Maciel was honored by the Pope in 2004, new accusers came forward[149] and Cardinal Ratzinger "took it on himself to authorize an investigation of Maciel"[144] After Ratzinger became pope he began proceedings against Maciel and the Legion of Christ that forced Maciel out of active service in the Church.[143] On 1 May 2010 the Vatican issued a statement denouncing Maciel's "very serious and objectively immoral acts", which were "confirmed by incontrovertible testimonies" and represent "true crimes and manifest a life without scruples or authentic religious sentiment." Pope Benedict also said he would appoint a special commission to examine the Legionaries’ constitution and open an investigation into its lay affiliate Regnum Christi.[150] Cardinal Christoph Schönborn explained that Ratzinger "made entirely clear efforts not to cover things up but to tackle and investigate them. This was not always met with approval in the Vatican".[143][151] According to Schönborn, Cardinal Ratzinger had pressed John Paul II to investigate Hans Hermann Groër, an Austrian cardinal and friend of John Paul accused of sexual abuse, resulting in Groër's resignation.[148]
In March 2010, the Pope sent a Pastoral Letter to the Catholic Church in Ireland addressing cases of sexual abuse by Catholic priests to minors, expressing sorrow, and promising changes in the way accusations of abuse are dealt with.[152] Victim groups claim the letter failed to clarify if secular law enforcement has priority over canon law confidentiality pertaining to internal investigation of abuse allegations.[153][154][155][156] The Pope then promised to introduce measures that would 'safeguard young people in the future' and 'bring to justice' priests who were responsible for abuse.[142] In April, the Vatican issued guidelines on how existing Church law should be implemented. The guideline dictates that "Civil law concerning reporting of crimes... should always be followed."[157] The guideline was intended to follow the norms established by U.S. bishops, but it does not require the reporting of "allegations" or crimes where reporting is not required by law.[158]
Pope Benedict XVI in choir dress with the red summer papal mozzetta, embroidered red stole, and the red papal shoes.
Pope Benedict XVI re-introduced several papal garments which had previously fallen into disuse. Pope Benedict XVI resumed the use of the traditional red papal shoes, which had been used since Roman times by popes but which had fallen into disuse during the pontificate of Pope John Paul II. Contrary to the initial speculation of the press that the shoes had been made by the Italian fashion house Prada, the Vatican announced that the shoes were provided by the Pope's personal shoemaker.[159]
On only one occasion, 21 December 2005, the Pope wore the camauro, the traditional red papal hat usually worn in the winter. It had not been seen since the pontificate of Pope John XXIII (1958–1963). On 6 September 2006, the Pope began wearing the red cappello romano (also called a saturno), a wide-brimmed hat for outdoor use. Rarely used by John Paul II, it was more widely worn by his predecessors.
Charlotte Allen describes Benedict as "the pope of aesthetics": "He has reminded a world that looks increasingly ugly and debased that there is such a thing as the beautiful—whether it's embodied in a sonata or an altarpiece or an embroidered cope or the cut of a cassock—and that earthly beauty ultimately communicates a beauty that is beyond earthly things."[8]
Prior to his election as pope in 2005, Ratzinger had hoped to retire—on account of age-related health problems, a long-held desire to have free time to write, and the retirement age for bishops (75)—and submitted his resignation as Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith three times, but continued at his post in obedience to the wishes of Pope John Paul II. In September 1991, Ratzinger suffered a hemorrhagic stroke, which slightly impaired his eyesight temporarily but he recovered completely.[160] This was never officially made public—the official news was that Ratzinger had fallen and struck his head against a radiator—but was an open secret known to the conclave that elected him pope.[161]
Since his election in April 2005 there were several rumors about the Pope's health, but none of them was confirmed. Early in his pontificate Benedict XVI predicted a short reign, which led to concerns about his health.[162] In May 2005 the Vatican announced that he had suffered another mild stroke. French Cardinal Philippe Barbarin said that since the first stroke Ratzinger had been suffering from an age-related heart condition, for which he was on medication. In late November 2006 Vatican insiders told the international press that the Pope had had a routine examination of the heart.[161] A few days later an unconfirmed rumor emerged that Pope Benedict had undergone an operation in preparation for an eventual bypass operation, but this rumor was only published by a small left-wing Italian newspaper and was never confirmed by any Vatican insider.[163]
On 17 July 2009, Benedict was hospitalized after falling and breaking his right wrist while on vacation in the Alps; his injuries were reported to be minor.[164]
Following the announcement of his resignation, the Vatican revealed that Pope Benedict had been fitted with a pacemaker while he was still a cardinal, before his election as pope in 2005. The battery in the pacemaker had been replaced three months earlier, a routine procedure, but that did not influence the decision.[165]
Currently, Benedict has multiple health problems including high blood pressure and reportedly has fallen out of bed more than once, but the Vatican denies any specific illnesses.[166]
On 11 February 2013, the Vatican confirmed that Benedict XVI would resign the papacy on 28 February 2013, as a result of his advanced age,[167] becoming the first pope to resign since Gregory XII in 1415.[168] At the age of 85 years and 318 days on the effective date of his retirement, he was the fourth-oldest person to hold the office of pope. The move was considered unexpected.[169] In modern times, all popes have stayed in office until death. Benedict is the first pope to have resigned without external pressure since Celestine V in 1294.[170][171]
In a statement, Benedict cited his deteriorating strength and the physical and mental demands of the papacy;[172] addressing his cardinals in Latin, Benedict gave a brief statement announcing his resignation. He also declared that he would continue to serve the church "through a life dedicated to prayer".[172]
According to a statement from the Vatican, the timing of the resignation was not caused by any specific illness but was to "avoid that exhausting rush of Easter engagements".[173] After two weeks of ceremonial farewells, the Pope left office at the appointed time and sede vacante was declared.
On the eve of the first anniversary of Benedict's resignation he wrote to La Stampa to deny speculation he had been forced to step down. "There isn't the slightest doubt about the validity of my resignation from the Petrine ministry," he wrote in a letter to the newspaper. "The only condition for the validity is the full freedom of the decision. Speculation about its invalidity is simply absurd," he wrote.[174]
On the morning of 28 February 2013, Pope Benedict met with the full college of cardinals, and in the early afternoon flew by helicopter to the papal summer residence of Castel Gandolfo. He stayed there until refurbishment was completed on his retirement home, the Mater Ecclesiae monastery in the Vatican Gardens near St Peter's, formerly home to 12 nuns, where he moved on 2 May 2013.[175] To protect it there will be a thick hedge and a fence. It has more than 2,000 square meters of garden which overlook the monastery, and are adjacent to the current "Pope's garden". A few tens of meters away is the building of Vatican Radio.[176]
After his resignation, Benedict XVI retained his papal name rather than reverting to his birth name.[177] He continued to wear white garments, but without the cape that covers the shoulders. He also ceased wearing red papal shoes.[178][179] Benedict also returned his official Fisherman's Ring, which is usually destroyed by Vatican officials on the death of a pope to prevent documents being counterfeited.
According to a Vatican spokesman, Benedict spent his first day as pope emeritus with Archbishop Georg Gänswein.[180] In the monastery, the pope emeritus will not live a cloistered life, but will study and write.[176]
Benedict XVI made his first public appearance at St. Peter's Basilica on 22 February 2014 to attend the first papal consistory of his successor Pope Francis. Benedict XVI, who entered the basilica through a discreet entrance, was seated in a row with several other cardinals. He doffed his zucchetto when Pope Francis came down the nave of St. Peter's Basilica to greet him.[181] Furthermore, he made an appearance at the canonization mass of Pope John XXIII and Pope John Paul II, greeting the cardinals and Pope Francis.
The official style of the former Pope in English is His Holiness Benedict XVI, Supreme Pontiff Emeritus or Pope Emeritus.[182] Less formally he is referred to as emeritus pope or Roman pontifex emeritus.[183]
His Holiness Benedict XVI, Bishop of Rome, Vicar of Jesus Christ, Successor of the Prince of the Apostles, Supreme Pontiff of the Universal Church, Primate of Italy, Archbishop and Metropolitan of the Roman Province, Sovereign of the Vatican City State, Servant of the servants of God.[184]
The best-known title, that of "Pope", does not appear in the official list of titles, but is commonly used in the titles of documents, and appears, in abbreviated form, in their signatures as "PP." standing for "Papa" ("Pope").[185][186][187][188][189]
Before 1 March 2006, the list of titles also used to contain that of a "Patriarch of the West", which traditionally appeared in that list of titles before "Primate of Italy". The title of "Patriarch of the West" was first introduced into the papal court in 1870 at the time of the First Vatican Council in the publication Annuario Pontificio and was removed in the 2006 edition. Pope Benedict chose to remove the title at a time when discussions with the Orthodox churches have centered on the issue of papal primacy.[190]
In 2005, the Pope listed several ways to combat the spread of HIV, including chastity, fidelity in marriage and anti-poverty efforts; he also rejected the use of condoms.[191] The alleged Vatican investigation of whether there are any cases when married persons may use condoms to protect against the spread of infections surprised many Catholics in the wake of John Paul II's consistent refusal to consider condom use in response to AIDS.[192] However, the Vatican has since stated that no such change in the Church's teaching can occur.[193] TIME also reported in its 30 April 2006 edition that the Vatican's position remains what it always has been with Vatican officials "flatly dismiss[ing] reports that the Vatican is about to release a document that will condone any condom use."[193]
I would say that this problem of AIDS cannot be overcome merely with money, necessary though it is. If there is no human dimension, if Africans do not help, the problem cannot be overcome by the distribution of prophylactics: on the contrary, they increase it. The solution must have two elements: firstly, bringing out the human dimension of sexuality, that is to say a spiritual and human renewal that would bring with it a new way of behaving towards others, and secondly, true friendship offered above all to those who are suffering, a willingness to make sacrifices and to practise self-denial, to be alongside the suffering.[194]
In November 2010, in a book-length interview, the Pope, using the example of male prostitutes, stated that the use of condoms, with the intention of reducing the risk of HIV infection, may be an indication that the prostitute is intending to reduce the evil connected with his or her immoral activity.[195] In the same interview, the Pope also reiterated the traditional teaching of the Church that condoms are not seen as a "real or moral solution" to the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Further, in December 2010, the Congregation of the Doctrine of the Faith explained that the Pope's statement did not constitute a legitimization of either contraception or prostitution, which remains gravely immoral.[195]
During his time as Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF), Benedict XVI made several efforts to tackle the issue of homosexuality within the Church and the wider world. In 1986 the CDF sent a letter to all bishops entitled: On the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons. The letter condemned a liberal interpretation of the earlier CDF document Declaration on Certain Questions Concerning Sexual Ethics, which had led to a "benign" attitude "to the homosexual condition itself". On the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons clarified that the Church's position on homosexuality was that "although the particular inclination of the homosexual person is not a sin, it is a more or less strong tendency ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil; and thus the inclination itself must be seen as an objective disorder."[196] However the document also condemned homophobic attacks and violence, stating that "It is deplorable that homosexual persons have been and are the object of violent malice in speech or in action. Such treatment deserves condemnation from the Church's pastors wherever it occurs."[196]
In 1992, he again approved CDF documents declaring that homosexual "inclination itself must be seen as an objective disorder" and extended this principle to civil law. "Sexual orientation", the document said, was not equivalent to race or ethnicity, and it declared that it was "not unjust discrimination to take sexual orientation into account."[197]
On 22 December 2008, the Pope gave an end of year message to the Roman Curia in which he talked about gender and the important distinction between men and women. The Pope said that the church viewed the distinction as central to human nature, and "asks that this order of creation be respected". The church, he said, must "protect man from self-destruction." He said "something like a human ecology" was needed, adding: "Rain forests deserve indeed to be protected, but no less so does man". He attacked gender theories which he described as "man's attempt at self-emancipation from creation and the Creator."[198][199][200]
LGBT groups such as the Italian Arcigay and German LSVD have announced that they found the Pope's comments homophobic.[201] Aurelio Mancuso, head of Arcigay, saying "A divine programme for men and women is out of line with nature, where the roles are not so clear."[199]
Father Federico Lombardi, a Vatican spokesman, claimed the Pope had not wished specifically to attack homosexuality, and had not mentioned gays or lesbians in his text. Father Lombardi insisted, however, that there had been an overreaction to the Pope's remarks: "He was speaking more generally about gender theories which overlook the fundamental difference in creation between men and women and focus instead on cultural conditioning." Nevertheless, the remarks were interpreted as a call to save mankind from homosexuals and transsexuals.[199]
During a 2012 Christmas speech,[202] the Pope made remarks about the present-day interpretation of the notion of "gender". He stated that "sex is no longer a given element of nature, that man has to accept and personally make sense of: it is a social role that we choose for ourselves", and "The words of the creation account: “male and female he created them” (Gen 1:27) no longer apply". Although he didn't mention the topic, his words were interpreted by news media as denunciations of same-sex marriage,[203] with some sources adding that Benedict would have called it a threat to world peace similar to abortion and euthanasia.[204] In March 2012, he stated that heterosexual marriages should be defended from "every possible misrepresentation of their true nature".[205]
In a message released 14 November 2006, during a Vatican press conference for the 2007 annual observance of World Day for Migrants and Refugees, the Pope urged the ratification of international conventions and policies that defend all migrants, including refugees, exiles, evacuees and internally displaced persons. "The church encourages the ratification of the international legal instruments that aim to defend the rights of migrants, refugees and their families," the Pope said. "Much is already being done for the integration of the families of immigrants, although much still remains to be done."[206]
Pope Benedict also promoted various UN events, such as World Refugee Day, on which he offered up special prayers for refugees and called for the international community to do more to secure refugees' human rights. He also called on Catholic communities and organizations to offer them concrete help.[207]
In 2007, Benedict sent a letter at Easter to Catholics in China that could have wide-ranging implications for the church's relationship with China's leadership. The letter provides long-requested guidance to Chinese bishops on how to respond to illicitly ordained bishops, as well as how to strengthen ties with the Patriotic Association and the Communist government.[208]
On 13 November 2006, Benedict said that the dispute over the North Korea nuclear weapons program should be resolved through negotiations, in his first public comment on the security issue, a news report said. "The Holy See encourages bilateral or multilateral negotiations, convinced that the solution must be sought through peaceful means and in respect for agreements taken by all sides to obtain the denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula." Benedict was talking to the new Japanese ambassador to the Vatican.[209]
In a 2004 Le Figaro interview, Ratzinger said that Turkey, which is demographically Muslim but governmentally secular by virtue of its state constitution, should seek its future in an association of Muslim nations rather than the European Union, which Ratzinger stated has Christian roots. He said Turkey had always been "in permanent contrast to Europe and that linking it to Europe would be a mistake".[210]
Later visiting the country to "reiterate the solidarity between the cultures," it was reported that he made a counter-statement backing Turkey's bid to join the EU. Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, said that the Pope told him in their meeting that while the Vatican seeks to stay out of politics it desires Turkey's membership in the EU.[211][212] However, the Common Declaration of Pope Benedict XVI and Patriarch Bartholomew I of Constantinople implied that support for Turkey's membership in the European Union would be contingent on the establishment of religious freedom in Turkey:[213] "In every step towards unification, minorities must be protected, with their cultural traditions and the distinguishing features of their religion."[214] The Declaration also reiterates Pope Benedict XVI's call for Europe to preserve its Christian roots.
In May 2009, he visited Israel.[215][216] This was the third Papal visit to the Holy Land, the previous ones being made by Pope Paul VI in 1964 and Pope John Paul II in 2000.
Pope Benedict XVI and Prime Minister Nguyễn Tấn Dũng met at the Vatican on 25 January 2007 in a "new and important step towards establishing diplomatic ties".[217] The Pope met with President Nguyễn Minh Triết on 11 December 2009. Vatican officials called the meeting "a significant stage in the progress of bilateral relations with Vietnam."[218]
In 2009, the Pope intervened in global economic and political affairs with his third encyclical, Charity in Truth (Latin Caritas in Veritate), which can be viewed on the Vatican's web site.[219] This document set out the then reigning Pope's position on the case for worldwide redistribution of wealth in considerable detail and goes on to discuss the environment, migration, terrorism, sexual tourism, bioethics, energy and population issues. The Financial Times reported that Benedict XVI's advocacy for a fairer redistribution of wealth helped set the agenda for the 2009 July G8 summit.[220][221]
One possible approach to development aid would be to apply effectively what is known as fiscal subsidiarity, allowing citizens to decide how to allocate a portion of the taxes they pay to the State. Provided it does not degenerate into the promotion of special interests, this can help to stimulate forms of welfare solidarity from below, with obvious benefits in the area of solidarity for development as well.
Pope Benedict XVI called for nuclear disarmament. At the same time, he supported the peaceful use of nuclear energy as a tool for development and the fight against poverty. In his message for the 50th anniversary of the founding of the International Atomic Energy Agency, he confirmed: "The Holy See, fully approving of the IAEA's goal, has been a member from the organisation's foundation and continues to support its activity."[222]
Benedict is known to be deeply interested in classical music,[223] and is an accomplished pianist.[224] The Pontiff Emeritus' favorite composer is Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, of whose music the Pope said, "His music is by no means just entertainment; it contains the whole tragedy of human existence."[225] Benedict also stated that Mozart's music affected him greatly as a young man and "deeply penetrated his soul".[225] Benedict's favorite works of music are Mozart's Clarinet Concerto and Clarinet Quintet.[226] He recorded an album of contemporary classical music in which he sings and recites prayers to the Blessed Virgin Mary.[227] The album was set for release on 30 November 2009.
He is also known to be fond of cats.[223] As Cardinal Ratzinger he was known (according to former neighbours) to look after stray cats in his neighbourhood. A book called Joseph and Chico: A Cat Recounts the Life of Pope Benedict XVI was published in 2007 which told the story of the Pope's life from the feline Chico's perspective. This story was inspired by an orange tabby Pentling cat, which belonged to the family next door.[228] During his trip to Australia for World Youth Day in 2008 the media reported that festival organizers lent the Pope a grey cat called Bella[229] in order to keep him company during his stay.[230]
In December 2012, the Vatican announced that Pope Benedict XVI had joined social networking website Twitter, under the handle @Pontifex.[231] His first tweet was made on 12 December and was "Dear friends, I am pleased to get in touch with you through Twitter. Thank you for your generous response. I bless all of you from my heart."[232] On 28 February 2013, the day he retired, the tweets were deleted, and @Pontifex read "Sede Vacante".[233] Pope Francis eventually took control of the @Pontifex account upon his election.
As pope, Benedict was Grand Master of the following orders: Supreme Order of Christ, Order of the Golden Spur, Order of Pius IX, Equestrian Order of St. Gregory the Great and the Order of St. Sylvester.
1993 literary prize Premio Letterario Basilicata per la Letteratura e Poesia religiosa Spirituale in Potenza (Italy)
1999 Libera Università Maria SS Assunta Roma (Maria SS Assunta Free University, Rome) (honorary degree in law)
2010 Freising, where he studied, was ordained a priest in 1951, where he served from 1954–1957 lecturer at the Philosophical and Theological College and worked from 1977 to 1982 as archbishop of Munich and Freising
2011 Natz-Schabs in South Tyrol; Benedict's grandmother Maria Tauber Peintner and his great-grandmother Elisabeth Maria Tauber both come from Natz-Schabs
The asteroid 8661 Ratzinger was named in his honor for the role he played in supervising the opening of Vatican archives in 1998 to researchers investigating judicial errors against Galileo and other medieval scientists. The name was proposed by the asteroid's first discoverers, L. D. Schmadel and F. Borngen at Tautenburg.[236]
The coat of arms of Pope Benedict XVI was designed by then Archbishop Andrea Cordero Lanza di Montezemolo (who later was created a Cardinal) soon after the papal election. Benedict's coat of arms omitted the papal tiara, which traditionally appears in the background to designate the pope's position as a worldly ruler like a king, replacing it with a simple mitre, emphasising his spiritual authority.[237]
Gules, chape in or, with the scallop shell of the second; the dexter chape with a moor's head in natural colour, crowned and collared of the first, the sinister chape a bear trippant in natural colour, carrying a pack gules belted sable
Scallop shell: The symbolism of the scallop shell is multiple; one reference is to Saint Augustine. While a doctoral candidate in 1953, Fr. Joseph Ratzinger wrote his dissertation on The People of God and the House of God in Augustine's Teaching is always about the Church, and therefore has a personal connection with the thought of this great Doctor of the Church.
Corbinian's bear: A legend states that while travelling to Rome, Saint Corbinian's pack horse was killed by a bear. He commanded the bear to carry the load. Once he arrived, he released it from his service, and it returned to Bavaria. The implication is that "Christianity tamed and domesticated the ferocity of paganism and thus laid the foundations for a great civilisation in the Duchy of Bavaria." At the same time, Corbinian's bear, as God's beast of burden, symbolises the weight of office that Benedict carried.
The man in charge of enforcing it for 20 years was Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, the man made Pope last year. In 2001 he created the successor to the decree.
"The latest issue of the SSPX's newsletter for German-speaking countries ... contains several anti-Semitic statements. 'The Jewish people were once the chosen people. But the majority of the people denied the Messiah on his first coming,' reads the February issue's cover story .... According to the newsletter article, this is why the Bible's Gospel of Matthew states, 'His blood be upon us and upon our children,' a phrase historically used by some Christians to justify anti-Semitism."
Allen, John L.: Cardinal Ratzinger: the Vatican's enforcer of the faith. – New York: Continuum, 2000
Benedetti, Amedeo: Il linguaggio di Benedetto XVI, al secolo Joseph Ratzinger. – Genova, Erga, 2012
Nichols OP, Aidan: The Theology of Joseph Ratzinger: An Introductory Study. – Edinburgh; T&T Clark, 1988
Pater Prior Maximilian Heim: Joseph Ratzinger — Kirchliche Existenz und existenzielle Theologie unter dem Anspruch von Lumen gentium (diss.).
Twomey, D. Vincent, S.V.D.: Pope Benedict XVI: The Conscience of Our Age (A Theological Portrait). – San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 2007
Wagner, Karl: Kardinal Ratzinger: der Erzbischof in München und Freising in Wort und Bild. – München: Pfeiffer, 1977
Joseph Ratzinger (= Benedikt XVI. – autobiographical): Aus meinem Leben. (1927–1977). Stuttgart 1998, ISBN 3-453-16509-8.
Alexander Kissler: Papst im Widerspruch: Benedikt XVI. und seine Kirche 2005–2013. Pattloch 2013, ISBN 978-3629022158.
Campbell, Paul-Henri: Pope Benedikt XVI. Audio Book. Monarda Publishing House, 2012, ISBN 3-939513-80-6.
Pursell, Brennan, Benedict of Bavaria: An Intimate Portrait of the Pope and His Homeland (Circle Press, 2008). ISBN 1-933271-17-5.
Allen, John L. The Rise of Benedict XVI: The Inside Story of How the Pope Was Elected and Where He Will Take the Catholic Church. NY: Doubleday, 2005. ISBN 0-385-51320-8.
Allen, John L. Pope Benedict XVI: A Biography of Joseph Ratzinger. New York: Continuum International Publishing Group, 2005. ISBN 0-8264-1786-8. This is a reprint of Allen's 2000 book Cardinal Ratzinger: the Vatican's Enforcer of the Faith.
Bardazzi, Marco. In the Vineyard of the Lord: The Life, Faith, and Teachings of Joseph Ratzinger, Pope Benedict XVI. New York: Rizzoli International, 2005. ISBN 0-8478-2801-8
Tobin, Greg. Holy Father: Pope Benedict XVI: Pontiff for a New Era. Sterling, 2005. ISBN 1-4027-3172-8.
Weigel, George. God's Choice: Pope Benedict XVI and the Future of the Catholic Church, Harper Collins, 2005. ISBN 0-06-621331-2.
Jeanne Perego. Joseph e Chico: Un gatto racconta la vita di Papa Benedetto XVI, EMP, 2007. ISBN 978-8825018820.
The Keys of the Kingdom, from John Paul II to Benedict XVI, produced by Vatican Television Center, distributed by HDH Communications, 2006.
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Pope_Benedict_XVI&oldid=611551416"					
Categories: Pope Benedict XVI1927 birthsBailiffs Grand Cross of the Order of St JohnCardinal-bishops of OstiaCardinals created by Pope Paul VICommandeurs of the Légion d'honneurDeans of the College of CardinalsGerman cardinalsGerman military personnel of World War IIGerman pianistsGerman popesGerman prisoners of warGerman Roman Catholic theologiansGrand Crosses with Star and Sash of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of GermanyInternational Theological CommissionLiving peopleLudwig Maximilian University of Munich alumniLudwig Maximilian University of Munich facultyMembers of the Bavarian Maximilian Order for Science and ArtMembers of the Bavarian Order of MeritMembers of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the FaithMembers of the European Academy of Sciences and ArtsParticipants in the Second Vatican CouncilPeople from Altötting (district)PopesPopes who abdicatedRecipients of the Grand Decoration with Sash for Services to the Republic of AustriaRecipients of the Leopold-Kunschak-PrizeRoman Catholic Archbishops of Munich and FreisingRoman Catholic philosophersRoman Catholic writersSovereigns of Vatican CityStroke survivorsUniversity of Bonn facultyUniversity of Münster facultyUniversity of Regensburg facultyUniversity of Tübingen facultyWorld War II prisoners of war held by the United StatesHidden categories: Articles with German-language external linksAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from February 2013Pages with login required references or sourcesArticles with Italian-language external linksArticles incorporating a citation from the 1913 Catholic Encyclopedia with Wikisource referencePages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersUse dmy dates from September 2013Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesArticles containing Latin-language textWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed Articles4 Biblical Reasons Not to WorryPrayer to Archangel MetatronWhat We Can Learn from the Death of King SaulThe Novena to the Holy GhostModern Day Examples of Idolatry for Christian Men
Here is a chronological summary of the life of Josef Ratzinger, now elected Pope Benedict XVI. This timeline of Josef Ratzingers life focuses on events that were important to this religious life  his ordination, his elevation to archbishop, and his election to pope.
Josef Ratzinger is born on April 16, Holy Saturday, and is baptized that day. His father is a rural policeman.
Josef Ratzinger joins the Hitler Youth, as is required of all German youth when they reach the age of 14.
Josef Ratzinger and his seminary class are drafted into an anti-aircraft unit of the German army. He would be released the next year and then drafted into the Austrian Legion, an infamous group that brutalized others.
Josef Ratzinger participates in all four sessions of the Second Vatican Council as chief theological advisor to Cardinal Josef Frings of Cologne, Germany.
Josef Ratzinger becomes chair of dogmatic theology at the University of Tübingen, a position supported by his friend professor Hans Küng.
European campuses are swept up in a series of student uprisings driven in large part by Marxist ideologies. The wholesale rejection of traditional religion outrages Josef Ratzinger, turning him away from his earlier liberalism and causing him to embrace more orthodox Catholicism. The next year he would return to Bavaria to teach at the University of Regensburg.
On November 25, Josef Ratzinger is named by Pope John Paul II as Prefect for the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith.
In November, Josef Ratzinger is elected dean of the College of Cardinals. This means that he is now also Cardinal Bishop of Ostia.
On April 19, Josef Ratzinger is elected pope and adopts the name Pope Benedict XVI, evidently in honor of St. Benedict, founder of western monasticism, and Pope Benedict XV, leader of the Catholic church during World War I.
Pope John Paul II & Pope Benedict XVIWas Pope Benedict XVI a Nazi?John Paul II: BiographyJohn Paul II & Sexual AbusePopes & the PapacyBooks on Popes & the PapacyPapal ElectionsPope John Paul IIRoman Catholicism ResourcesBooks on Roman CatholicismCatholicism NewsCatholicism & Homosexuality
Related ArticlesShould Joseph Ratzinger Have Been Elected Pope Benedict XVI? Polls on Relig...Why was Joseph Ratzinger Elected as Pope Benedict XVI? Polls on ReligionBook Review - Let God's Light Shine Forth: The Spiritual Vision of Pope...Book Review - Ratzinger Report: An Exclusive Interview on the State of the ...Book Review - The Thought of Pope Benedict XVI: An Introduction to the Theo... 
Atheism 101: Common Questions AnsweredCommon Myths About Atheism & AtheistsHow to Be an AtheistTop 10 Conversation Killers for AtheistsReaders' Choice Awards: See the Winners!
What’s the Difference Between Atheists...Atheism vs. Agnosticism: What's the Difference?Defining Science - How is Science Defined?Deductive and Inductive Arguments: What's the...How Do Atheists Explain Religion?
Does God Exist?What is Atheism?What is Agnosticism?Myths About AtheismQuestions About AtheismAdvice for AtheistsAtheist Activism & PoliticsSkeptics, Critical ThinkingEthics and MoralitySecular, Religious HumanismEvolution & CreationismChurch/State SeparationReligious Right, ExtremismReligion & TheismBible Analysis, CommentaryBlog
Agnosticism / AtheismAbout.comReligion & SpiritualityAgnosticism / AtheismReligion & TheismChristianity & ChristiansChristian DenominationsCatholics & CatholicismBenedict XVI & The PapacyPope Benedict XVIBiography: Joseph Ratzinger, Pope Benedict XVI - Short Summary of the Life of Pope Benedict XVIAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
=======================================================
                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             
 Following his shock resignation in February, Emeritus Pope Benedict XVI has officially retreated to the converted Mater Ecclesiae convent, where he will dedicate himself to a life of private prayer in the service of the Church.
He caught the world by surprise when he announced on 28 February he would stand down as head of the Catholic Church. 
Speaking in Latin, the 85-year-old told cardinals in Rome that his "strengths due to an advanced age are no longer suited" to the role.
Two months after his resignation, he was flown by helicopter from the Castel Gandolfo papal summer residence to Vatican City, where he was welcomed by his successor, Pope Francis.
Emeritus Pope Benedict will now spend the rest of his days in the convent just behind St Peter's Basilica, with his personal secretary, Monsignor Georg Gaenswein.
In the Middle Ages, Pope Celestine V abdicated in 1294, after only five months as pontiff. He died nearly two years later as a hermit. 
A clause in Church Canon Law stipulates that a papal resignation is valid if the decision is made freely and manifested properly.
A piano-playing professor, Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger was looking forward to retirement when Pope John Paul II died in 2005. He has said he never wanted to be Pope.
If he or any of the cardinals who elected him imagined a brief, uneventful reign, paving a transition to a new era, they were to be disappointed.
Benedict took the helm as one of the fiercest storms the Catholic Church has faced in decades - the scandal of child sex abuse by priests - was breaking.
The flood of allegations, lawsuits and official reports into clerical abuse, which reached a peak in 2009 and 2010, may be the defining episode of his pontificate.
 The most damaging claims for the Church have been that local dioceses - or even the Vatican itself - were complicit in the cover-up of many of the cases, prevaricating over the punishment of paedophile priests and sometimes moving them to new postings where they continued to abuse.
While some senior Vatican figures initially lashed out at the media or alleged an anti-Catholic conspiracy, the Pope has insisted that the Church accept its own responsibility, pointing directly to "sin within the Church".
Shortly before his election in 2005, he lamented: "How much filth there is in the Church, and even among those... in the priesthood." 
He has met and issued an unprecedented apology to victims, made clear that bishops must report abuse, and introduced fast-track rules for defrocking abusive priests.
Before his papacy Cardinal Ratzinger spent 24 years as a senior figure in the Vatican, heading the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith - once known as the Holy Office of the Inquisition.
Critics say he did not grasp the gravity of the crimes involved, allowing them to languish for years without proper attention. He has never publicly given his own version of events.
Joseph Ratzinger was born into a traditional Bavarian farming family in 1927, although his father was a policeman.
The eighth German to become Pope, he speaks many languages and has a fondness for Mozart and Beethoven.
He was said to have admired the red robes of the visiting archbishop of Munich when he was just five and carried his love of finery to the Vatican, where he has reintroduced papal headgear and capes from previous centuries.
World War II saw his studies at Traunstein seminary interrupted when he was drafted into an anti-aircraft unit in Munich.
He deserted the German army towards the end of the war and was briefly held as a prisoner-of-war by the Allies in 1945.
Benedict's conservative, traditionalist views were intensified by his experiences during the liberal 1960s.
He taught at the University of Bonn from 1959 and in 1966 took a chair in dogmatic theology at the University of Tuebingen.
In his view, religion was being subordinated to a political ideology that he considered "tyrannical, brutal and cruel".
He would later be a leading campaigner against liberation theology, the movement to involve the Church in social activism, which for him was too close to Marxism.
In 1969 he moved to Regensburg University in his native Bavaria and rose to become its dean and vice-president.
At the age of 78, Joseph Ratzinger was the oldest cardinal to become Pope since Clement XII was elected in 1730.
"If John Paul II had not been Pope, he would have been a movie star; if Benedict had not been Pope, he would have been a university professor," wrote US Vatican expert John L Allen.
He has a reputation as a theological conservative, taking uncompromising positions on homosexuality, women priests and contraception.
He espouses Christian compassion - speaking out for human rights, protection of the environment and the fight against poverty and injustice. 
A central theme of his papacy has been his defence of fundamental Christian values in the face of what he sees as moral decline across much of Europe.
But the conclave of cardinals, which will elect his successor, is now dominated by Benedict's appointees, and has a bias towards European, and particularly Italian, clerics.
Benedict is described by those who know him as laidback, with a mild and humble manner, but with a strong moral core.
Cardinal Cormac Murphy O'Connor, the former head of the Church in England and Wales, says he is "unfailingly courteous" and has many talents, but administration is not one of them.
An embarrassing leak of documents from the Pope's desk revealing corruption and mismanagement inside the Vatican led to the conviction of his butler. The affair gave a damaging impression of a power struggle at the Holy See.
The former pope's handling of the child abuse scandals also attracted stinging criticism from the secular press. 
Supporters argued such incidents misrepresented his avowed intention of improving inter-faith relations.
He reached out, visiting the Blue Mosque in Istanbul, and the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem, and praying for peace at the Western Wall. 
Even so, questions were raised about those who advised Benedict, and their attention to public relations - leading, eventually, to the appointment of a former Fox News correspondent, Greg Burke, to head the Vatican's communications strategy.
For Benedict, public relations gaffes may only have been fleeting concerns compared with the serious long-term challenges for the Church - the falling away from the Church of millions of Catholics, and the decline in numbers of priests being recruited in the West.
He always believed that the strength of the Church came from an absolute truth that does not bend with the winds.
That approach disappointed those who felt the Church needed to modernise and despaired of his intransigence on priestly celibacy or condoms.
But his supporters believed that was exactly why he was the man to lead the Church through such challenging times.
Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor - who took part in the conclave that elected Pope Benedict XVI - gives an insider's account of the secretive process.
Almost 2,000 World War Two veterans join dignitaries and world leaders at a ceremony to mark 70 years since the historic D-Day landings in Normandy.
    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  
=======================================================
Home | Site Map | Links | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Free Newsletter | Win a CD | Calender | Donate Now!
A ministry of Crossroads Productions, Inc. + PO Box 271227 + Flower Mound, TX  75027 + 1.800.803.0118 + a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization.
=======================================================
Joseph Alois Ratzinger was elected as Pope of the Roman Catholic Church on April 19, 2005 and formally installed as  Pope Benedict XVI during the Mass of Papal Installation on April 24 of that year.  In February 2013, Pope Benedict announced that he would resign from the papacy, citing his advanced age and declining health as reasons for the first such resignation in six centuries. In March 2013, Pope Benedict was succeeded by Jorge Mario Bergoglio (Pope Francis).
                                    Ratzinger's father retired and setled in the town of Traunstein. When 
                                      Youth. According to his biographer John Allen he was not an enthusiastic 
                                    member. He requested to be taken off the rolls and reportedly refused 
                                    at the age of 16, Ratzinger was, along with the rest of his class, drafted 
                                    into the Flak or anti-aircraft corps, responsible for the guarding of 
                                    a BMW plant outside Munich. He was then sent for basic infantry training 
                                    where he worked setting up anti-tank defences until deserting in April 1944. 
                                    Ratzinger was briefly held in an Allied POW camp, where he attended 
                                    de-Nazification classes. By June, he was released, and he and his brother 
                                    (Georg) entered a Catholic seminary. On June 29, 1951, they were ordained 
                                    by Cardinal Faulhaber of Munich. Ratzinger's dissertation (1953) was 
                                    on Saint Augustine, his Habilitationsschrift (second dissertation) on 
                                    Saint Bonaventure. Ratzinger's supporters say his experiences under 
                                    the Nazi regime convinced him that the Church had to stand up for truth 
                                    from 1959 until 1963, when he moved to the University of Münster. 
                                    In 1966, he took a chair in dogmatic theology at the University of Tübingen, 
                                    the Marxist leanings of the student movement of the 1960s. In 1969, 
                                    he returned to Bavaria, to the University of Regensburg, eventually 
                                    served as a peritus or chief theological expert alongside Justinae Janisch, 
 In 1972, Ratzinger founded the theological journal Communio with Hans Urs von Balthasar, Henri de Lubac and others. Communio, 
                                    now published in seventeen editions (German, English, Spanish and many 
                                    others), has become one of the most important journals of Catholic thought.
                                    and Freising, and in the consistory that June was named a Cardinal by 
                                    Pope Paul VI. At the time of the 2005 Conclave, he was one of only 14 
                                    remaining cardinals appointed by Paul VI, and one of only three of those 
                                    under the age of 80, and so eligible to participate in that Conclave.
                                    John Paul II named Ratzinger prefect of the Congregation for the 
                                    Doctrine of the Faith, formerly known as the Holy Office of the Inquisition, 
                                    which was renamed in 1908 by Pope Pius X. He resigned the Munich archdiocese 
                                    in early 1982, became cardinal-bishop of Velletri-Segni in 1993, vice-dean 
                                    of the College of Cardinals in 1998, and was elected Dean in 2002, , 
                                    on topics such as birth control and inter-religious dialogue. He was 
                                    closer to John Paul II than any other cardinal, and Ratzinger and John 
                                    as being a “scientist” who prefers intellectual discussions. 
                                    He was already one of the most influential men in the Vatican before 
                                    he became Pope and presided over the funeral of John Paul II and the 
                                    Conclave in 2005 that elected him. During the most recent sede vacante, 
                                      of orthodox Catholic teaching has earned him the respect of his fellow 
                                      cardinals throughout the world. He is patently holy, highly intelligent 
                                      and sees clearly what is at stake. Indeed, for those who blame the 
                                      decline of Catholic practice in the developed world precisely on the 
                                      propensity of many European bishops to hide their heads in the sand, 
                                      a pope who confronts it may be just what is required. Ratzinger is 
                                      no longer young — he is 78 years old: but Angelo Roncalli was 
                                      the same age when he became Pope as John XXIII. He turned the Church 
                                      upside-down by calling the Second Vatican Council and was perhaps 
                                    which does not recognize anything as definitive and has as its highest 
                                    value one's own ego and one's own desires,” Ratzinger declared 
                                    the last such named Pope (Benedict XV) served as Pope from 1914 to 1922 
                                    and was the Pope during the years of World War I. He is the eighth German 
                                    pope. The last German pope, Adrian VI, was elected in 1522 and died 
                                    in 1523. He is also the oldest cardinal to become pope since Clement 
                                    English, and ecclesiastical Latin). He is an accomplished pianist with 
                                    Basillica after becoming Pope, he had notably forgotten to take his 
                                    black sweater off before putting on his Papal robes, leaving it clearly 
                                    showing on his arms. At the balcony, his first words to the crowd of 
                                      Paul II, the cardinals have elected me, a simple, humble worker in 
                                      the Lord's vineyard. I am comforted by the fact that the Lord knows 
                                      how to work and act even with insufficient instruments. And above 
                                      all, I entrust myself to your prayers. With the joy of the risen Lord 
                                      and confidence in His constant help, we will go forward. The Lord 
                                      will help us and Mary, His most holy mother, will be alongside us. 
                                    and social issues such as homosexuality, and for some Catholics who 
                                    had hoped for a more moderate choice, the election of Cardinal Ratzinger 
                                    Faith, Ratzinger waged a campaign against liberation theology, which 
                                    had gained ground among priests in Latin America and elsewhere as a 
                                    means of involving the Church in social activism and human rights issues. 
                                    to politics. For example, during the 2004 U.S. presidential election 
                                    campaign, he called for pro-choice politicians to be denied Communion. 
                                    He has also argued that Turkey should not be admitted into the European 
                                    his pontificate in a message read in Latin to cardinals gathered in 
                                    the Sistine Chapel for the first Mass celebrated by the 265th leader 
                                    would be to work without fail to reunify all Christians and that sentiment 
                                    alone was not enough. “Concrete acts that enter souls and move 
                                    consciences are needed,” he said. The Pope also declared his willingness 
                                    to continue “an open and sincere dialogue” with other religions 
                                    and would do everything in his power to improve the ecumenical cause. 
                                    pontiff, Pope Benedict XVI extolled Jews for sharing a “spiritual 
                                    heritage” with Christianity. Benedict offered greetings to “my 
                                    brothers and sisters of the Jewish people, to whom we are joined by 
                                    a great shared spiritual heritage, one rooted in God´s irrevocable 
                                    a personal invitation to the Sunday Mass in which the Pope said “I 
                                    confide in the help of the Almighty to continue the dialogue and strengthen 
                                    the collaboration with the sons and daughters of the Jewish people.” 
                                    urged greater understanding and esteem between Christians and Jews and that it “deplored
In February 2008, Pope Benedict XVI made the decision to reformulate the Catholic Church’s traditional Good Friday prayers. The Latin prayers for Good Friday ask Catholics to “pray also for the Jews that the Lord our God may take the veil from their hearts and that they also make acknowledge Our Lord Jesus Christ,” and ask God not to “refuse your mercy even to the Jews; hear the prayers which we offer for the blindness of that people so that they may acknowledge the light of your truth, which is Christ, and be delivered from their darkness." The new text will drop all references to the “darkness” and “blindness” of the Jews. 
The Pope had issed a “Motu Propio” edict permitting the use of this version of the prayer from the 1962 Latin Tridentine missal in July 2007. But after protests from leaders in the Jewish community, the Pope drafted a new version to be used in time for the Holy Week celebrations in March 2008. 
                                    Pope said. The Pope reflected on the Holocaust and anti-Semitism,
                                    year marks the 60th anniversary of the liberation of the Nazi concentration
                                    with Jews, and sought his support in fighting anti-Semitism and terrorism. Israel's
                                    of Israel and the Vatican had been “useful”          in moving toward an agreement on unresolved
                                    Pope paid his first visit to the main synagogue of Rome, Longotevere
In March 2011, when excerpts of his latest book, the second volume of Jesus of Nazareth, were released, the Pope received praise from Jewish organizations for his repudiation of the claim that the Jewish people were responsible for the death of Jesus. Though the Vatican already rejected the claim in general terms in 1965 with the Nostra Aetate document, Benedict employs a thorough scholarly analysis of Catholic teaching to clearly draw the conclusion based on scripture.
About Us | Bookstore | Contact Info | Careers | Feedback | Glossary | Links | Publications | Sponsorship
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite-mini._V192240838_.gif) 0 -51px no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/graycornerbox._V143785493_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/sprite-best-flag._V338513549_.png);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, whitesmoke), color-stop(100%, #e3e3e3));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='whitesmoke', endColorstr='#e3e3e3',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #e8e8e8), color-stop(100%, #d6d6d6));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#e8e8e8', endColorstr='#d6d6d6',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f6f6c8), color-stop(100%, #cdcda1));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f6f6c8', endColorstr='#cdcda1',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f2f2b2), color-stop(100%, #c4c490));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f2f2b2', endColorstr='#c4c490',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #fee6b0), color-stop(100%, #eeba37));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#fee6b0', endColorstr='#eeba37',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #fede97), color-stop(100%, #ecb21f));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#fede97', endColorstr='#ecb21f',GradientType=0);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll -143px -821px;
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll -132px -821px;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
More to ExploreSummer ReadingEditors' PicksBlockbustersBeach ReadsChildren's BooksSee moreBooks for Kids & TeensBaby-Age 2Ages 3-5Ages 6-8Ages 9-12TeensComing to the Big Screen
This Friday The Fault in Our Stars movie adaptation opens nationwide. We share our thoughts on an early screening plus exclusive set photos of John Green on the Amazon Books blog.Best Books of the MonthTop Picks for JuneLiterature & FictionMystery, Thriller & SuspenseBiographies & MemoirsBest Books for Kids & TeensTextbooks Trade-InGet up to 80% back when you sell us your books, even if you didn’t buy them at Amazon. Search for books you own.
Popular Features100 Mysteries & Thrillers to Read in a Lifetime100 Books to Read in a LifetimeSummer ReadingBest Books of the MonthBest Books of 2013Award WinnersChildren's BooksDeals in BooksStart a New SeriesBook Club PicksFrom the EditorsEditors' Picks, Interviews, and MoreGreat American Eats150 Love StoriesThe Amazon Books BlogAmazon Books on FacebookAmazon Books on TwitterTextbooksTextbooks StoreTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksKindle eTextbooksAmazon KindleKindle eBooksKindle Daily DealsAll-New Kindle PaperwhiteFree Kindle Reading Apps 
More to ExploreBook DealsDeals in BooksBooks CouponsFeatured StoresAmazon PublishingAward WinnersRare & Collectible BooksLibros en EspañolChina BooksMoney & MarketsStationery, Journals & Notebooks2014 Calendarstech.book(store)Disney BookstorePopular FeaturesAmazon Breakthrough Novel AwardThe New York Times®  Bestsellers ListSpecial FormatsAudiobooksAudible AudiobooksLarge PrintMore to DiscoverAmazon Credit OfferingsAmazon GreenAuthor CentralGift CardsLibrarians: Order in BulkMagazines & NewspapersSell Your BooksInternational ShoppingChinese-Language Books at Amazon.cnFrench-Language Books at Amazon.frGerman-Language Books at Amazon.deJapanese-Language Books at Amazon.co.jpFind Foreign-Language Books, Movies, and Music 
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
			The Catholic Company is the leading online Catholic books and gifts store. You’ll find everything you need to dive deeper into the Catholic faith, including a wide selection of Catholic bibles, music, rosaries, new roman missal, statues and more. Getting ready to prepare for a sacred Christmas and Advent season? Browse the advent wreaths, Christmas cards, Kneeling Santas and nativities we have available. Celebrating a Sacrament with your loved ones? Find the perfect gift to cherish the moment. We offer a variety of ideas for First Communion gifts, Confirmation gifts, Catholic Wedding gifts and Baptism gifts. Enjoy the spiritual growth in you and others around you!
Support the quest to share God's love and spread the Catholic Faith among the world's least fortunate.
My mom was taken off the ventilator just as the medal arrived. We will never forget what a truly miraculous medal this is!Susan, MO
Thank you so much for all of your effort! I will certainly recommend your company in the future.Ashley - CA
When it comes to our health and the health of loved ones, we often turn to prayer. We pray for disease prevention, for physical healing or for peace. Fortunately, there seems to be a special saint for every illness and health concern we can think of! Here is a list of both popular and not-so-well-known saints to invoke for common ailments:
One of the last things Jesus did on earth after his Resurrection and before his Ascension into heaven was to give his Apostles his authority to forgive sins (John 20:21-13).
The Sacrament of Reconciliation, like all Sacraments, was instituted by Christ. It was given to us as a gift to restore our relationship to him after we damage or break it through sin.  Often the Sacrament is made use of only infrequently, and mainly during the penitential seasons of Lent and Advent. But Pope Francis has clearly been trying to encourage his flock to appreciate the Sacrament on a deeper level in hope that they will make use of it much more frequently.
Popular Catholic author Patrick Madrid has a new book coming out this summer, and you don't want to miss it!  Madrid is a cradle Catholic and a leading popular apologist for the Catholic faith through his work with Catholic Answers, Envoy Magazine, EWTN, and Immaculate Heart Radio.  He is known for being witty, engaging, knowledgeable, and charitable as he explains and defends the truth of the Catholic faith. Below is a Q&A shared by the publisher of his new book, Why Be Catholic, Ten Answers to a Very Important Question.
*Offer valid for new email subscribers only. See email for restrictions and coupon code. We value your privacy.
=======================================================
html,body{font-size:100%;height:100%;font-family:arial,verdana,sans-serif;}html,body,form,h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6,p,ul{margin:0;padding:0;}body{-ms-text-size-adjust:100%;-webkit-text-size-adjust:100%;-moz-text-size-adjust:100%;text-size-adjust:100%;}img{border:0;display:block;}ul{list-style-type:none;}a{color:#0000cc;}a:hover{text-decoration:;}a:visited{color:;}#p{font-size:0.813em;margin:0 auto;width:1024px;}.landing #p{height:100%;margin:0 auto;}.landing #CHROME,.landing #IE,.landing #IE6,.landing #IE7,.landing #IE8,.landing #IE9,.landing #SAFARI,.landing #isMacOS,.landing #AOL,.landing #AOL91,.landing #AOL95,.landing #AOL96{height:100%;}.landing #h{min-height:275px;max-height:456px;height:60%;position:relative;width:716px;margin:0 auto 0 auto;background:none;}.landing #IE7 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:455px;}.landing #IE8 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:456px;}.landing #IE9 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:456px;}#h{padding-top:0px;margin-bottom:12px;background:none;}#IE #h{position:relative;z-index:1;zoom:100%;}.landing #IE6 #h{height:550px;}.landing #AOL #h{height:555px;}#l{width:92px;float:left;padding-left:0px;padding-right:43px;clear:both;margin-top:;}#p.r #w{padding-right:325px;}#p.l #w{padding-left:135px;}#c{float:left;width:100%;background-color:#fff;margin-top:;}#IE6 #c{width:98%;}.cw{margin-left:;padding-left:;padding-right:10px;width:auto;}#p.r .cw{margin-right:;}#r{width:308px;float:left;border-left:1px solid #e5e5e5;padding-left:8px;padding-right:8px;margin-top:;}#IE6 #r{position:relative;}.rw{margin:10px;}#f{clear:both;background:none;min-width:650px;}.landing #f{background:none;}#hw,#center_wrap,#fw{margin:0 auto;width:auto;max-width:;min-width:650px;}.landing #hw,.landing #center_wrap,.landing #fw{margin:auto;min-width:100%;}.clear{clear:both;height:0;overflow:hidden;}.lr-sep{border-top:1px solid #e5e5e5;margin:10px 0 0;width:149px;height:0;overflow:hidden;}.lhrgt,.lhrlt{display:block;cursor:pointer;text-decoration:none;outline:none;}.lhrgt:hover,.lhrlt:hover,.lhrgt span:hover,.lhrlt span:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.lhrgt .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat -1px -8px;margin:4px 0 0 5px;height:7px;width:7px;}#IE .lhrgt .sprite{margin-top:5px;}.lhrlt .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat 0 0;margin:5px 5px 0 0;height:7px;width:7px;}.lhrgt span,.lhrlt span{float:left;}.acc{position:absolute;text-indent:-1000em;overflow:hidden;}.hac{display:inline;margin:0;font-size:1em;font-weight:normal;}.obscure{position:absolute!important;clip:rect(1px 1px 1px 1px);clip:rect(1px,1px,1px,1px);}.sprite{text-indent:-9999px;display:block;overflow:hidden;}#h .cntr{padding-left:10px;float:left;}#h .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:8px;}#f .cntr{padding-left:10px;float:left;}#f .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:8px;}#isMobile #c{float:none;padding-left:10px;padding-right:10px;width:auto;}#isMobile #h{height:auto;margin:0;max-height:none;min-height:0;padding-top:0;}.landing #isMobile #c,.landing #isMobile .cw{padding:0;}.landing #isMobile #h{padding-top:0px;}.article #p{font-size:;margin:;width:;}.article #p.r #w{padding-right:332px;}.article #p.l #w{padding-left:;}.article #h{padding-top:;margin-bottom:;background:;}.article #c{margin-top:;}.article .cw{margin-left:15px;padding-left:;padding-right:;width:;}.article #p.r .cw{margin-right:5px;}.article #r{width:;padding-left:15px;padding-right:;margin-top:;}.article #f{background:;min-width:;}.article #hw,.article #center_wrap,.article #fw{margin:;width:;max-width:;min-width:;}.article #h .cntr{padding-left:;}.article #h .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:;}.article #f .cntr{padding-left:;}.article #f .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:;}.landing{background-color:#ffffff;;;}.CSB{position:relative;width:653px;float:left;}.CSB .csbtds{padding-top:0px;padding-right:0px;padding-bottom:0px;padding-left:0px;background:transparent;}.csbs{background-color:#fff;border:1px solid black;color:#000000;font-size:1.308em;font-weight:normal;font-family:arial,verdana,sans-serif;height:28px;width:100%;position:relative;padding:5px 3px 4px 6px;}.landing .csbs{border:;}.ghost{color:#b9b9b9;}.csbb{background:url("http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites2/wow-search-button.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;cursor:pointer;font-weight:normal;font-size:1.462em;margin:0 0 0 10px;padding:0;display:block;white-space:nowrap;line-height:40px;height:40px;position:relative;text-shadow:0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.7);border:none;width:80px;}.csbb:hover{background:url("http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites2/wow-search-button.png") no-repeat scroll -80px 0 transparent;}.CSB td{vertical-align:top;}.CSB a,.CSB a:hover,.CSB a:active,.CSB a:visited{text-decoration:none;color:#fff;}#IE6 .CSB form{zoom:100%;}#IE6 .csbs,#IE7 .csbs,#IE8 .csbs{line-height:28px;}.landing .CSB{position:absolute;bottom:187px;left:33px;width:622px;}.landing #IE7 .CSB{bottom:184px;}.landing #ACC{width:529px;}.landing #ACC .acs.sel{background:#CFECFF;}.landing #IE7 .GLOG{background-position:-43px -23px;}.GLOG{background:transparent url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat -43px -23px;width:96px;height:16px;bottom:0;right:0;top:-18px;position:absolute;}.GLOG.bgnone{background:none;}.leftBrandLogo{background:transparent url() no-repeat ;width:185px;height:115px;left:-185px;top:-35px;position:absolute;text-indent:-9999px;}.rightBrandLogo{background:transparent url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/logos/2-a_google_logo_right.png) no-repeat 0px 0px;width:185px;height:115px;right:-184px;top:-35px;position:absolute;text-indent:-9999px;}#ACC{position:absolute;display:none;background:white;border:1px solid #CFECFF;padding:0 9px 0 0;width:561px;z-index:3;font-size:1.308em;top:-1px;left:1px;margin-left:-1px;}#ACC .acs{color:#3c3c3c;display:block;text-decoration:none;padding:3px 3px 4px 6px;width:100%;}#ACC .acs.sel{background:#CFECFF;}#IE6 #ACC .acs{zoom:100%;}.ACPAR{position:relative;z-index:2;}#ACC .CSERD{color:#00c;display:inline-block;padding:1px 0;margin-left:4px;}#ACC .sel .CSERD{color:#fff;}#IE .CSB td{vertical-align:middle;}#IE7 .ACPAR{clear:both;}#IE7 #ACC .acs,#IE8 #ACC .acs{padding-left:6px;}.csbSearchBox{border:1px solid transparent;}.csbSearchBox:hover{border-color:transparent;}.landing .csbSearchBox{border:1px solid transparent;}.landing .csbSearchBox:hover{border-color:transparent;}body #h .cntr,body #f .cntr{padding-top:25px;}body .leftBrandLogo{display:none;}body .GLOG{display:none;}span.clearbutton{position:relative;}span.clearbutton input{padding-right:26px;-webkit-user-modify:read-write-plaintext-only;}span.clearbutton span{position:absolute;display:block;top:-2px;right:5px;width:20px;height:19px;background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) 0 -59px;cursor:pointer;visibility:visible;}span.clearbutton span.show{visibility:visible;}span.clearbutton span.hide{visibility:hidden;}#isMobile #ACC{-webkit-tap-highlight-color:rgba(255,255,255,0);}#isMobile .CSB{padding-right:10px;position:absolute;}#isMobile .GLOG.bgnone{display:none;}.landing #isMobile .CSB{float:none;margin:;padding:0;position:static;}.landing #isMobile .CSB #inner{margin:0 auto;max-width:;padding:;}.PS{clear:both;position:absolute;left:33px;bottom:-26px;font-weight:bold;width:622px;}.PS .popSites .psHead{font-size:1.2308em;color:;text-align:;margin-bottom:11px;}.PS .furl{background-color:transparent;height:100px;margin:6px 9px 0 0;width:60px;display:block;float:left;}.PS .furl2{margin-bottom:-57px;}.PS .popSites{display:inline-block;}.PS a{color:#00F;text-decoration:none;outline:0;}.PS a.furl{background-position:0 0;background-repeat:no-repeat;}.PS .popSites ul li{float:left;}.PS a.furl .iconText{bottom:23px;color:#3B3B3B;font-size:12px;padding-top:62px;text-shadow:0px 1px 1px #FFF;text-align:center;}#IE6 .PS,#IE7 .PS{z-index:-1;}#IE7 .PS .popSites{display:inline;}#CHROME .PS .furl{margin:5px 9px 0 0;}#IE7 .PS .popSites>ul{display:inline-block;}.flogo{bottom:30px;float:right;}.flogo .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/logos/2-a_wow_logo_bottom.png) no-repeat 0 0;height:89px;width:107px;}.generror .flogo .sprite,.landing .flogo .sprite{background-position:0px 0px;height:125px;width:200px;text-indent:-9999px;}#f{bottom:0;vertical-align:bottom;position:absolute;width:100%;left:0;}.flanding{height:21.5px;padding:8.5px 16px 0 16px;display:block;clear:both;color:#5B5A5A;font-size:0.923em;background-color:#eeeeee;}.flanding ul,.flanding .extraL{float:right;}.flanding ul a{color:#5B5A5A;}.flanding ul a:visited{color:#5B5A5A;}.flanding ul a:hover{color:;}.flanding .copy{float:left;}
=======================================================
