=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Robert De Niro (/dəˈnɪroʊ/; born August 17, 1943) is an American actor, voice actor, director, and producer. His first major film roles were in Bang the Drum Slowly (1973) and Mean Streets (1973). In 1974, after being turned down for the role of Michael Corleone in The Godfather, he was cast as the young Vito Corleone in The Godfather Part II, a role for which he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.
De Niro's longtime collaboration with director Martin Scorsese began with Mean Streets, and later earned him an Academy Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of Jake LaMotta in the 1980 film Raging Bull. He earned nominations for Taxi Driver in 1976 and Cape Fear in 1991. De Niro received additional Academy Award nominations for Michael Cimino's The Deer Hunter (1978), Penny Marshall's Awakenings (1990), and David O. Russell's Silver Linings Playbook (2012). His portrayal of gangster Jimmy Conway in Scorsese's Goodfellas earned him a BAFTA nomination in 1990.[1]
De Niro has earned four nominations for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy, for his work in New York, New York (1977), Midnight Run (1988), Analyze This (1999), and Meet the Parents (2000). He has also simultaneously directed and starred in films such as 1993's A Bronx Tale and 2006's The Good Shepherd. De Niro has received many accolades for his career, including the AFI Life Achievement Award (2003) and the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award (2010).
De Niro was born in the Greenwich Village area of Manhattan, New York,[3] the son of Virginia Holton Admiral, a painter and poet, and Robert De Niro, Sr., an abstract expressionist painter and sculptor.[4] His father was of Italian and Irish descent, while his mother was of Dutch, English, French, German, and Irish ancestry.[5][6][7] His Italian great-grandparents, Giovanni De Niro and Angelina Mercurio, emigrated from Ferrazzano, Molise; his paternal grandmother, Helen O'Reilly, was the granddaughter of Edward O'Reilly, an immigrant from Ireland.
De Niro's parents, who had met at the painting classes of Hans Hofmann in Provincetown, Massachusetts, divorced when he was three years old. He was raised by his mother in the Greenwich Village and Little Italy areas of Manhattan. His father lived within walking distance and De Niro spent much time with him as he grew up.[8] De Niro attended PS 41, a public elementary school in Manhattan, through the sixth grade. He then went to Elisabeth Irwin High School, the private upper school of the Little Red School House, for the seventh and eighth grades.[9] He was accepted into the High School of Music and Art for the ninth grade, but only attended for a short time before transferring to a public junior high school.[10]
De Niro began high school at the private McBurney School[11] and later attended the private Rhodes Preparatory School,[12] although he never graduated from either.[13] Nicknamed "Bobby Milk" for his pallor, De Niro hung out with a group of street kids as a youth in Little Italy, some of whom have remained his lifelong friends.[14] The direction of his future had already been determined by his stage debut at age 10, when he played the Cowardly Lion in a school production of The Wizard of Oz.[3][15] Along with finding relief from shyness through performing, he was also fixated by cinema, and he dropped out of high school at age 16 to pursue acting.[14] He studied acting at the Stella Adler Conservatory, as well as Lee Strasberg's Actors Studio.[13]
De Niro's first film role came at the age of 20, when he appeared in Brian De Palma's 1963 film The Wedding Party. However, the film was not released until 1969. He then appeared in Roger Corman's film Bloody Mama (1970). He gained popular attention with his role as a dying Major League Baseball player in Bang the Drum Slowly (1973).[3] He began his collaboration with Martin Scorsese when he played the small-time criminal Johnny Boy in Mean Streets (1973).[3]
De Niro had a pivotal role in the Francis Ford Coppola film The Godfather Part II (1974), playing the young Vito Corleone. Coppola had remembered his previous auditions for the roles of Sonny Corleone, Michael Corleone, Carlo Rizzi, and Paulie Gatto in The Godfather. His performance earned him his first Academy Award, for Best Supporting Actor,[3] although Coppola accepted the award as De Niro was not present at the ceremony. De Niro became the first actor to win an Academy Award speaking mainly a foreign language; in this case, multiple Sicilian dialects,[3] although he delivered a few lines in English. He and Marlon Brando, who played the older Vito Corleone in the first film, are the only actors to have won Oscars for portraying the same fictional character. The two came together onscreen for the only time in The Score (2001).
After working with Scorsese in Mean Streets, De Niro went on to have a successful working relationship with him in films such as Taxi Driver (1976), New York, New York (1977), Raging Bull (1980), The King of Comedy (1983), Goodfellas (1990), Cape Fear (1991), and Casino (1995). They also acted together in Guilty by Suspicion (1991) and provided their voices for the animated feature Shark Tale (2004). Taxi Driver was particularly important to De Niro's career; his iconic performance as Travis Bickle catapulted him to stardom and forever linked his name with Bickle's famous "You talkin' to me?" monologue, which De Niro largely improvised.[16] The role of Bickle earned him his first Academy Award Nomination for Best Actor. His portrayal of Jake LaMotta in Raging Bull was lauded, as well as his interpretation of Max Cady in Cape Fear.
In 1976, De Niro appeared in 1900, Bernardo Bertolucci's biographical exploration of life in Italy before World War II, seen through the eyes of two Italian childhood friends at the opposite sides of society's hierarchy. He also starred in The Last Tycoon (1976), directed by Elia Kazan. Kazan recalls that De Niro "would do almost anything to succeed" and noted that he cut his weight down from 170 to 128 pounds for the role in this film. Kazan adds that De Niro "is one of a select number of actors I've directed who work hard at their trade, and the only one who asked to rehearse on Sundays. Most of the others play tennis. Bobby and I would go over the scenes to be shot. Bobby is more meticulous... he's very imaginative. He's very precise. He figures everything out both inside and outside. He has good emotion. He's a character actor: everything he does he calculates. In a good way, but he calculates."[17]:766 Kazan developed and used those personality traits for his character in the film.[17]:766 And although the film did poorly at the box office, reviewers praised De Niro's acting. Film critic Marie Brenner wrote that "for De Niro, it is a role that surpasses even his brilliant and daring portrayal of Vito Corleone in The Godfather Part II... his performance deserves to be compared with the very finest".[18]
De Niro played Michael Vronsky in the acclaimed Vietnam War film The Deer Hunter (1978), for which he was nominated for Best Actor in a Leading Role. Fearing he had become typecast in mob roles, he began expanding into occasional comedic roles in the mid-1980s and has had much success there as well, with such films as Brazil (1985), Midnight Run (1988), Analyze This (1999), Meet the Parents (2000), and Meet the Fockers (2004). Other films include True Confessions (1981), Falling in Love (1984), Once Upon a Time in America (1984), The Mission (1986), Angel Heart (1987), The Untouchables (1987), Goodfellas (1990), Awakenings (1990), Heat (1995), The Fan (1996), Sleepers (1996), Wag the Dog (1997), Jackie Brown (1997), and Ronin (1998).
In 1987, De Niro was the President of the Jury at the 15th Moscow International Film Festival.[19] He appeared in This Boy's Life (1993). Around this time, he was offered the role of Mitch Leary in In the Line of Fire (1993). However, due to scheduling conflicts with his directorial debut A Bronx Tale (1993), he gave the role up to John Malkovich, who later received an Academy Award nomination for it. In A Bronx Tale, which De Niro agreed to direct after seeing the screenwriter's one-man off-Broadway play, he played a bus driver who struggles to keep his son away from a local mobster. At the 20th Moscow International Film Festival in 1997, he was awarded an Honorable Prize for contribution to cinema.[20]
De Niro would reference In Line of Fire, along with Dirty Harry (1971) and Magnum Force (1973), two more of Eastwood's films, in Righteous Kill (2008). He also appeared in the crime drama Cop Land (1997). He starred in the police action-thriller Heat (1995), along with fellow actor and long-time friend, Al Pacino. The duo drew much attention from fans, as both have generally been compared throughout their careers. Though Pacino and De Niro both starred in The Godfather Part II (1974), they shared no screen time. They once again appeared together in Righteous Kill (2008).[21]
De Niro played Master Chief Billy Sunday in the biographical film Men of Honor (2000), based on the life of Carl Brashear, the first African American to become a U.S. Navy Master Diver. He also hosted 9/11 (2002), a documentary about the 9/11 attacks, shown on CBS and focusing on video footage made by Jules and Gedeon Naudet that showed the role of firefighters following the attacks. He reprised his role as Jack Byrnes in Meet the Fockers (2004) and was featured in Stardust (2007). All of the films were successful at the box office, but received mixed reviews. When promoting Shark Tale, De Niro said that his first experience with voice acting was enjoyable.
De Niro had to turn down a role in The Departed (2006) due to commitments with preparing The Good Shepherd (2006). He said: "I wanted to. I wish I could've been able to, but I was preparing The Good Shepherd so much that I couldn't take the time to. I was trying to figure a way to do it while I was preparing. It just didn't seem possible."[22] In June 2006, it was announced that De Niro had donated his film archive (including scripts, costumes, and props) to the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas at Austin. On April 27, 2009, it was announced that the De Niro collection at the Ransom Center was open to researchers and the public. De Niro directed and starred in The Good Shepherd (2006). The film reunited him onscreen with Joe Pesci, with whom he had starred in Raging Bull, Goodfellas, A Bronx Tale, Once Upon a Time in America, and Casino. The same year, De Niro appeared as himself in an episode of the BBC series Extras, as Ricky Gervais' character claimed it was his ambition to meet De Niro.
De Niro announced that he would appear in the film version of the BBC crime series Edge of Darkness in 2010; however, just after he arrived to begin shooting, De Niro left the film due to creative differences.[23] He was replaced by Ray Winstone.[24][25] He appeared as Senator John McLaughlin in the action film Machete (2010), and starred in the thriller Stone (2010). He again reprised his role as Jack Byrnes in Little Fockers (2010). He appeared in the action film Killer Elite (2011), Limitless (2011), and the romantic comedy film New Year's Eve (2011).[26][27][27]
De Niro starred in the film Manuale d'amore 3 (2011).[28][29] In January 2011, CBS picked up De Niro's crime pilot, NYC 22 (originally titled Rookies), but it was cancelled after airing only four episodes.[30] In 2011, De Niro was the President of the Jury for the 64th Cannes Film Festival.[31] In 2012, he starred in the films Silver Linings Playbook, Freelancers, Red Lights, and Being Flynn. He received a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role in Silver Linings Playbook.
De Niro has said that he is working with Martin Scorsese on a new project: "I'm trying to actually work... [screenwriter] Eric Roth and myself and Marty are working on a script now, trying to get it done."[22]
De Niro's capital ventures have included co-founding the film studio TriBeCa Productions, the Tribeca Film Festival, the Nobu and TriBeCa Grill (which he co-owns with Broadway producer Stewart F. Lane),[32] The Greenwich Hotel (located in Tribeca),[33] and the restaurant inside the hotel, Locanda Verde (run by executive chef and co-owner Andrew Carmellini).[34] According to the July 2010 issue of Gourmet magazine, De Niro is in negotiations with an internationally renowned chef, Natalia Jibladze, to launch an as-yet-unnamed restaurant in Manhattan under his Tribeca trademark. When in Malaysia in 2010, he dined with the Malaysian Prime Minister's wife and was asked to open a Malay restaurant in Alor Setar, Kedah.[35]
Praised for his commitment to roles, stemming from his background in method acting, De Niro gained 60lb (27kg) and learned how to box for his role as Jake LaMotta in Raging Bull,[3] ground his teeth for Cape Fear, lived in Sicily for The Godfather Part II, worked as a cab driver for a few weeks for Taxi Driver,[36] and learned to play the saxophone for New York, New York. He again put on weight for his performance as Al Capone in The Untouchables (1987).[37]
De Niro's brand of method acting includes employing whatever extreme tactic he feels is necessary to elicit the best performance from those with whom he is working. During the filming of The King of Comedy, he directed a slew of anti-Semitic epithets at co-star Jerry Lewis to enhance and authenticate the anger demonstrated by Lewis' character. According to People magazine, the technique was successful, with Lewis recalling: "I forgot the cameras were there... I was going for Bobby's throat."[38]
De Niro and his first wife, Diahnne Abbott, have a son, Raphael, a former actor who works in New York real estate.[39] De Niro also adopted Abbott's daughter from a previous relationship. De Niro has twin sons conceived by in vitro fertilization and delivered by a surrogate mother in 1995, from a long-term live-in relationship with former model Toukie Smith.[40]
In 1997, De Niro married his second wife, actress Grace Hightower, at their Marbletown home.[41] Their son was born in 1998 and the couple split in 1999. The divorce was never finalized and in 2004 they renewed their vows.[41] In December 2011 a daughter was born via surrogate.[42][43] In addition to his six children, De Niro has four grandchildren, one from his daughter Drena, three from his son Raphael.[44][45][46][47]
It was reported in October 2003 that De Niro had been diagnosed with prostate cancer. He underwent surgery at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in December 2003.[48]
De Niro, who has long resided in New York City, has been investing in Manhattan's Tribeca neighborhood since 1989. He has residences on the east and west sides of Manhattan. He also has an estate in Marbletown, New York, which acts as his primary residence.
During a film shoot in France in February 1998, De Niro was questioned as a witness about the Bourgeois prostitution ring.[49] De Niro denied any involvement,[50] later filing a complaint.[51] Despite saying at the time that he would not return to France, he later filmed there and presided over the jury at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival.[52]
In 2011, De Niro supported the initiative A Logo for Human Rights. Its goal was to create an internationally recognized logo to support the global human rights movement.[53]
De Niro is a resolute supporter of the Democratic Party, and vocally supported Al Gore in the 2000 presidential election. De Niro publicly supported John Kerry in the 2004 presidential election. In 1998, he lobbied Congress against impeaching President Bill Clinton.[54]
While promoting his movie The Good Shepherd with co-star Matt Damon on the December 8, 2006, episode of Hardball with Chris Matthews at George Mason University, De Niro was asked whom he would like to see as President of the United States. De Niro responded, "Well, I think of two people: Hillary Clinton and Obama."
On February 4, 2008, De Niro supported Obama at a rally at the Izod Center in New Jersey before Super Tuesday.[55]
On March 19, 2012, De Niro and his wife held a fundraiser for President Obama's re-election campaign. At the event, De Niro made a controversial comment—viewed by political columnist John Hayward and Steven Kurlander of the Sun-Sentinel as racist—joking, "Callista Gingrich. Karen Santorum. Ann Romney. Now do you really think our country is ready for a white first lady?"[56][57][58][59]
De Niro at a ceremony to have his hands and shoe prints placed in cement in front of TCL Chinese Theatre in February 2013
Categories: 1943 births20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsActors Studio membersAmerican film directors of Italian descentAmerican male film actorsAmerican people of Dutch descentAmerican people of English descentAmerican people of French descentAmerican people of German descentAmerican people of Irish descentBest Actor Academy Award winnersBest Drama Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Supporting Actor Academy Award winnersCancer survivorsCecil B. DeMille Award Golden Globe winnersFilm festival foundersKennedy Center honoreesLiving peopleMale actors from New York CityMale actors of Italian descentNew York DemocratsPeople from ManhattanStella Adler Studio of Acting alumniAmerican male voice actorsHidden categories: Wikipedia pending changes protected pages (level 1)Wikipedia protected pages without expiryUse mdy dates from March 2012Articles with hCardsCommons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
Robert De Niro, who is thought of as one of the greatest actors of his time, was born in New York City in 1943 to two artists. He was trained at the Stella Adler Conservatory and the American Workshop. He first gained fame for his role in Bang the Drum Slowly (1973), but he gained his reputation as a volatile actor in Mean Streets (1973), which was his first film with director Martin Scorsese. In 1974 De Niro received an Academy Award for best supporting actor for his role in The Godfather: Part II (1974) and received Academy Award nominations for best actor in Taxi Driver (1976), The Deer Hunter (1978), and Cape Fear (1991). He won the best actor award in 1980 for Raging Bull (1980). De Niro currently heads his own production company, Tribeca Film Center, and made his directorial debut in 1993 with A Bronx Tale (1993).
        Often played characters that were prone to brutal violence and/or characters who were borderline psychotics.
        Known for method acting techniques with his characters by heavily studying  their backgrounds.
      After marrying African-American Diahnne Abbott he adopted her daughter Drena De Niro, Abbott's daughter from her previous marriage. Drena refuses to identify her biological father. He also has son Raphael De Niro with Abbott.
      Had a long-term relationship with African-American fashion model Toukie Smith, sister of the late fashion designer Willi Smith. They have twins sons together.
      He married his second wife Grace Hightower in 1997, and she gave birth to their son, Elliot De Niro on March 18, 1998. In 1999 the couple renewed marriage vows at their Ulster County farm in New York's Catskill Mountains, but later that year De Niro filed for divorce. Their fallout continued into 2001 as a potential custody battle over their son, Elliott, heated up. However, the divorce was never finalized and they managed to smooth over their troubles. Their second child was born in December 2011 via surrogate.
      Growing up in the Little Italy section of New York City, his nickname was "Bobby Milk" because he was so thin and as pale as milk.
      Turned down the role of Jesus in The Last Temptation of Christ (1988). Was considered for the role of Josh Bakin in Big (1988). Was offered but turned down the role of Sal the pizza shop owner in Do the Right Thing (1989).
      Son of painter Virginia Admiral and abstract expressionist Robert De Niro Sr.. Despite being raised Presbyterian, Virginia was an atheist for most of Robert's childhood. Robert Sr was raised Catholic but was not religious in any way. After De Niro was born, his father Robert Sr came out as a homosexual male and eventually divorced Robert's mother.
      In his 1980 Oscar acceptance speech he thanked Joey LaMotta (brother of Jake LaMotta), who was at the time suing United Artists for the portrayal of him in Raging Bull (1980).
      After being caught up in a Paris prostitution ring investigation, he, denying any involvement, vowed never to return to France again (1998).
      Although he is sometimes referred to as an Italian-American actor, De Niro is actually one quarter Italian in ancestry. His father was of half Irish and half Italian descent. His mother was of English, Irish, French, German, and Dutch ancestry on her own father's side, and of German ancestry on her own mother's side. Robert was quite close to his Italian paternal grandfather, whom Robert visited frequently in Syracuse, NY when he was young. De Niro has stated that he identifies "more with [his] Italian side". He was inducted into the Italian-American Hall of Fame in 2002.
      He is the second actor to win an Oscar for portraying Vito Corleone. He and Marlon Brando are the only two actors to win an Oscar for playing the same character.
      He first discovered his love for acting at age 10 when he portrayed The Cowardly Lion in a local production of "The Wizard of Oz." He dropped out of high school to join a gang.
      Formerly held the World Record for Most Weight Gained for a Movie, in gaining over 60 pounds for his role in Raging Bull (1980). But seven years later, Vincent D'Onofrio eclipsed him in gaining 70 pounds for his role in Full Metal Jacket (1987).
      Three movies (at least) that De Niro has appeared in have the song "Gimme Shelter" by The Rolling Stones noticeably featured in the soundtrack - - The Fan (1996), Casino (1995) and Goodfellas (1990).
      In 1993 he was tapped to star as Enzo Ferrari in the film "Ferrari", which was budgeted at $65 million (U.S.) and had Michael Mann attached as director. The project fell through.
      He organised the first Tribeca Film Festival in May 2002. He intended to revitalise the Lower Manhattan area after September 11th attacks.
      British pop group Bananarama had a hit song dedicated to him called "Robert De Niro's Waiting." De Niro heard about it and arranged to meet the three girls, but they got so nervous, while waiting for him, that they got drunk before he even arrived.
      Spent four months learning to speak the Sicilian dialect in order to play Vito Corleone in The Godfather: Part II (1974). Nearly all the dialogue that his character spoke in the movie was in Sicilian.
      According to a profile in Vanity Fair's annual Hollywood issue, is the first actor to do a method interpretation of a cartoon character as Fearless Leader in The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle (2000).
      He started the whole "awards show ribbon" tradition by wearing a green ribbon on his lapel at the 1981 Academy Awards. The ribbon was in rememberance of several African-American children who were victims of a serial killer in Atlanta, Georgia in 1980-1981. The ribbon was given to him by a fan in the bleachers as he arrived; the victims' families had been wearing them for months.
      Was in Ossining, New York (home of the infamous Sing Sing penitentiary) to shoot three different movies: Analyze This (1999), Analyze That (2002) and Hide and Seek (2005).
      In the Egyptian film El Medina (1999), the main actor Ali has a duck that he named De Niro after his favorite actor.
      Was voted the Number 2 greatest movie star of all time in a Channel 4 (UK) poll, narrowly being beaten by Al Pacino.
      It was tricky to make him look huge as Frankenstein's monster in Frankenstein (1994) , considering that Kenneth Branagh, who played Dr. Frankenstein, is of similar height. Many of the tricks used to make humans, wizards and elves dwarf the hobbits later on for "Lord of the Rings" trilogy were also employed to make De Niro appear much bigger than his co-stars, including using very large men as body doubles for shots where only the hands and feet are seen.
Finley Quaye mentions him in the song "Sunday Shining", in the line "I'm a hero like Robert De Niro".
      Was unable to accept his first Oscar in 1975 due to filming commitments to Bernardo Bertolucci's Novecento (1976).
      Was good friends with comedian John Belushi, who died of a drug overdose on March 5, 1982. In fact, De Niro and Robin Williams were the last stars to see Belushi alive, albeit on separate visits to Bungalow #3 of L.A.'s Chateau Marmont hotel that fateful day. De Niro visited Belushi at 3:00 am on the morning of his death, but, according to eyewitnesses, left minutes later after seeing that Belushi was ill. Less than an hour earlier, Belushi had been visited by Robin Williams, who also left straight away.
      Ranked #1 in Empire (UK) magazine's "The Greatest Living Actor (Gods Among Us)" list (October 2004).
      At the age of 17, after leaving the movies with a friend, he unexpectedly stated that he was going to be a film actor. No one believed him until he dropped out of his senior year of high school and joined Stella Adler's acting school.
      His boyhood idols among actors included Montgomery Clift, Robert Mitchum and Marlon Brando. He preferred the darker, more character-driven work of these men to the older stars of Hollywood, for whom their public persona as a star was more important than their immersion into the character.
      Rarely does interviews and is known as one of the most ultra-private celebrities. He was the subject of a late 90s interview (and cover photo) for Esquire magazine. Most of the article focused on how guarded he is with his personal life, what few details are known about him, what rumors are speculated while only a minority of the article dealt with the actual interview itself. The writer noted that while the interview was ultimately agreed upon, he was given a substantial list of off-limit subjects NOT to ask De Niro about. They included: politics, religion, his family, his reported interest in fine wines, and so on.
      When they met shortly before making Mean Streets (1973) De Niro and Harvey Keitel became fast friends. De Niro was from Greenwich Village in Manhattan and was taught by Stella Adler and Keitel was from the Brighton Beach area of Brooklyn and was mainly mentored by Lee Strasberg. But the two guarded actors bonded and remain close to this day.
      He and Martin Scorsese were brought up blocks apart in the Greenwich Village area of Manhattan, but never formally met when they were young. When introduced at a party in 1972, the two came to realize that they had seen each other many times but had never spoken.
      Limo drivers in Los Angeles joke about his less than generous tips by referring to him as "No Dinero".
      In October 1997 he ranked #5 in Empire (UK) magazine's "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time" list. In 2005 Premiere Magazine ranked him as #38 on a list of the Greatest Movie Stars of All Time in their Stars in Our Constellation feature.
      Both of his Oscar-winning performances involved Marlon Brando. His first Oscar, for Best Supporting Actor, had him playing the younger version of Brando's character Vito Corleone. His second, for Best Actor in Raging Bull (1980), he recited Brando's famous lines from On the Waterfront (1954).
      Underwent surgery for prostate cancer at New York's Sloan-Kettering Hospital in December 2003. The cancer has now gone into remission.
      Co-owns the Rubicon restaurant in San Francisco with Bay area residents Francis Ford Coppola and Robin Williams. Much of his father's art work adorns the walls of the business. He also owns a restaurant in West Hollywood, Ago, and co-owns several restaurants in New York, including Nobu and Layla.
      First performer to win an Oscar (for The Godfather: Part II (1974)) for a performance in a sequel.
      He is a staunch supporter of the US Democratic Party. He lobbied Congress against impeaching President Bill Clinton in 1998. He supported Al Gore in the 2000 Presidential election and supported John Kerry in the 2004 Presidential election. Supported Democratic senator Barack Obama for the 2008 presidential election.
      His performance as Jake LaMotta in Raging Bull (1980) is ranked #10 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time (2006).
      His performance as Travis Bickle in Taxi Driver (1976) is ranked #42 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time (2006).
      His performance as Travis Bickle in Taxi Driver (1976) is ranked #22 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time.
      Early on, before Tim Burton was commissioned as director, was considered for the role of Willy Wonka in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005).
      Passed up the opportunity to play Frank Costello in The Departed (2006) to work on his second directorial feature The Good Shepherd (2006).
      After Once Upon a Time in America (1984), director Sergio Leone planning to cast De Niro in a film he was working on about the siege of Leningrad in World War II, but that project never came about due to Leone's death in 1989.
      For the role of Max Cady in Cape Fear (1991), he paid a dentist $5,000 to make his teeth look suitably bad. After filming, he paid $20,000 to have them fixed. For this film, he was tattooed with vegetable dyes, which faded after a few months.
      Accidentally broke a rib of Joe Pesci in a sparring scene in Raging Bull (1980). This shot appears in the film: De Niro hits Pesci in the side, Pesci groans, and there is a quick cut to another angle.
      Is one of five performers to win an Oscar playing a character that spoke mostly in a foreign language. The other are Sophia Loren, Marion Cotillard, Roberto Benigni and Benicio Del Toro.
      Played a real-life CIA director in The Good Shepherd (2006) and another real-life CIA agent in Ronin (1998), as well as a fictional CIA agent in Meet the Parents (2000).
      Mentioned in ZZ Top's song, "Gun Love", in the line, "Runnin' with the Wild Bunch, makin' like Robert De Niro".
      (November 11, 2008) Attended the star-studded opening of Dubai's lavish Atlantis Palms resort. Guests were welcomed in style with a display of one million fireworks, said to be visible from space.
      As of the 5th edition of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die (edited by Steven Jay Schneider), De Niro is the most represented actor, by 14 films. Included are the De Niro films Mean Streets (1973), The Godfather: Part II (1974), Taxi Driver (1976), Novecento (1976), The Deer Hunter (1978), Raging Bull (1980), The King of Comedy (1982), Once Upon a Time in America (1984), Brazil (1985), The Untouchables (1987), Goodfellas (1990), Casino (1995), Heat (1995) and Meet the Parents (2000).
      He based the movement of his character Travis Bickle in Taxi Driver (1976) on that of a crab. He thought the character was indirect and tended to shift from side to side.
      He visited Michael Jackson on the set of filming the 'Smooth Criminal' segment for Moonwalker (1988). Also visiting the set was 'Gregory Peck' and Bruce Willis.
      Was cited as one of the most promising movie personalities of 1973 in John Willis' 1974 Film Annual "Screen World" book.
      One of the five winners of the 2009 Kennedy Center Honors. Other 2009 winners were Bruce Springsteen, Dave Brubeck, Mel Brooks, and Grace Bumbry.
      Is almost perfectly imitated by St. Louis Cardinals' Shortstop, Brendan Ryan, especially during post game interviews.
      He won an Oscar for playing Jake LaMotta in Raging Bull (1980), making him one of 13 actors to win the Award for playing a real person who was still alive at the evening of the Award ceremony (as of 2007).
      Will receive the Cecil B. DeMille award at the Golden Globes in January, 2011 [November 9, 2010].
      Unlike Marlon Brando, who preceded him as Don Vito Corleone, he actually has Italian ancestry in his background. He and Brando both have Dutch ancestry.
      He was originally cast in the part of "Bill the Butcher" in Gangs of New York (2002), but pulled out when he discovered it would mean spending 6 months in Europe and was replaced by Daniel Day-Lewis.
      Was considered for the role of "Harry" in Home Alone (1990). The role went to his good friend, Joe Pesci.
      The longest he has gone without an Oscar nomination is 21 years, between Cape Fear (1991) and Silver Linings Playbook (2012).
      Became a father for the 1st time at age 33 when his [now ex] wife Diahnne Abbott gave birth to their son Raphael De Niro in 1976.
      Became a father for the 2nd and 3rd time at age 52 when his twins Julian Henry and Aaron Kendrick De Niro with [now ex] partner Toukie Smith were born via a surrogate on October 20, 1995.
      Became a father for the 4th time at age 54 when his 2nd wife Grace Hightower gave birth to their son Elliot De Niro on March 18, 1998.
      Became a father for the 5th time at age 68 when his daughter Helen Grace De Niro with 2nd wife Grace Hightower was born via a surrogate in December 2011.
      As of 2014, has appeared in nine films that were nominated for the Best Picture Oscar: The Godfather: Part II (1974), Taxi Driver (1976), The Deer Hunter (1978), Raging Bull (1980), The Mission (1986), Awakenings (1990), Goodfellas (1990), Silver Linings Playbook (2012)_ and American Hustle (2013). Of those, The Godfather: Part II (1974) and The Deer Hunter (1978) are winners in the category.
The Godfather (1972) predicts both of his Oscar-winning roles. In a scene with Vito Corleone, a poster advertising a Jake LaMotta fight can be seen.
      He and his close friend Gérard Depardieu have both received Oscar nominations for playing a role that had already earned an Oscar for another actor. DeNiro won his first Oscar for playing Don Vito Corleone in The Godfather: Part II (1974), a role previously played by Marlon Brando. Depardieu was nominated for Cyrano de Bergerac (1990), a role that previously won an Oscar for Jose Ferrer.
      It's important not to indicate. People don't try to show their feelings, they try to hide them.
      Some people say that drama is easy, and comedy is hard. Not true. I've been making comedies the last couple of years, and it's nice. When you make a drama, you spend all day beating a guy to death with a hammer, or what have you. Or you have to take a bite out of somebody's face. On the other hand, with a comedy, you yell at Billy Crystal for an hour, and you go home.
      [interview in Chicago Sun Times, 1/8/98] I think Hollywood has a class system. The actors are like the inmates, but the truth is they're running the asylum. You've got to look at the whole studio structure. There's these guys. We call them suits. They have the power to okay a film. They're like your parents, going, "We have the money". But at the same time they say to us actors, "We love you. We can't do without you". You know, I've been around a long time. I've seen the suits run the asylum. I think I can do it as good or even better. Let me try it. That's why I have TriBeCa.
      I go to Paris, I go to London, I go to Rome, and I always say, "There's no place like New York. It's the most exciting city in the world now. That's the way it is. That's it."
      I've never been one of those actors who has touted myself as a fascinating human being. I had to decide early on wether I was to be an actor or a personality.
      [on the mobster characters he often plays] The characters that I play are real. They are real so they have as much right to be portrayed as any other characters. There are other characters I have played, other than those ones that have been called stereotypes or whatever. So.
      People treat me with a bit too much reverence. Look at Dustin Hoffman. I always envy the way he can speak and be smart and funny and so on. I just can't do that.
      [about Al Pacino] Al, over the years we've taken roles from one another. People have tried to compare us to one another, to pit us against one another and to tear us apart personally. I've never seen the comparison frankly. I'm clearly much taller, more the leading-man type. Honestly, you just may be the finest actor of our generation - with the possible exception of me.
      One of the things about acting is it allows you to live other people's lives without having to pay the price.
      I am part Italian, I'm not all Italian. I'm part Dutch, I'm part French, I'm part German, I'm part Irish. But my name is Italian and I probably identify more with my Italian side than with my other parts.
      After my first movies, I gave interviews. Then I thought, "What's so important about where I went to school, and hobbies? . . . what does any of that have to do with acting, with my own head?"
      [in 2004] I love Italy and I have a deep tie with my Italian roots. I stand for [John Kerry]. I hope he will arrive at the White House. We need a different government to represent America. The change of presidency would be a clear and international sign to say that we are approaching again to the rest of the world. I don't want any prize that can influence this election. I stand for Kerry.
      (on Taxi Driver (1976)'s infamous line) You have no idea that, years later, people in cars will recognize you on the street and shout, "You talkin' to me?" I don't remember the original script, but I don't think the line was in it. We improvised. For some reason it touched a nerve. That happens.
      Some people say, "New York's a great place to visit, but I wouldn't want to live there". I say that about other places.
      It's true: I spent lunchtime in a grave during the filming of Bloody Mama (1970). When you're younger, you feel that's what you need to do to help you stay in character. When you get older, you become more confident and less intense about it -- and you can achieve the same effect. You might even be able to achieve more if you take your mind off it, because you're relaxed. That's the key to it all. When you're relaxed and confident, you get good stuff.
      Movies are hard work. The public doesn't see that. The critics don't see it. But they're a lot of work. A lot of work. When I'm directing a great dramatic scene, part of me is saying, "Thank God I don't have to do that". Because I know how fucking hard it is to act. It's the middle of the night. It's freezing. You gotta do this scene. You gotta get it up to get to that point. And yet, as a director, you've got to get the actors to that point. It's hard either way.
      When I was a teenager, I went to the Dramatic Workshop at the New School. The school had a lot of actors under the GI Bill -- 'Rod Steiger', Harry Belafonte, the generation ahead of me. I went in there and the director said to me, "Vy do you vant to be an acteh?" I didn't know how to answer, so I didn't say anything. And he said, "To express yourself!" And I said, "Yeah, yeah, that's it. That's right."
      [on witnessing the terrorist attack on New York on 9/11/2001] I left a meeting right after they hit the World Trade Center. I went to my apartment, which looks south, and I watched it out my window. I could see the line of fire across the North Tower. I had my binoculars and a video camera--though I didn't want to video it. I saw a few people jump. Then I saw the South Tower go. It was so unreal, I had to confirm it by immediately looking at the television screen. CNN was on. That was the only way to make it real. Like my son said: "It was like watching the moon fall".
      The hardest thing about being famous is that people are always nice to you. You're in a conversation and everybody's agreeing with what you're saying -- even if you say something totally crazy. You need people who can tell you what you don't want to hear.
      I didn't have a problem with rejection, because when you go into an audition, you're rejected already. There are hundreds of other actors. You're behind the eight ball when you go in there. At this point in my career, I don't have to deal with audition rejections. So I get my rejection from other things. My children can make me feel rejected. They can humble you pretty quick.
      [on What Just Happened (2008)] This is as close as it gets to what it can be like to be in the middle of this stuff. The fear factor is always there--everything from losing tens of millions of dollars on a film that doesn't work to not being able to get a good table in a top restaurant because your last movie flopped.
      It is good to have a few other interests taurants, hotels, the TriBeca Film Festival]. But my main interest has always been movies - making them, directing them, being involved. I have never lost the passion for that.
      I like New York because I can still walk the streets and sit down in a bar or restaurant and observe people. If you can't properly observe, as an actor, you're finished. The impression sometimes given is that I can't leave my own home without being recognised or bothered in the street. That's just not true. I can go out, at leisure, meet people for lunch or take my kids to the park. I don't think I am glamorous enough for Hollywood.
      I have lived in Los Angeles, working in Hollywood, countless times, doing movies. I am not against the place. I was not a young actor kicking around, living by the seat of my pants, desperate for work. I went by invitation, and my experiences have been good ones. But I have never chosen to live there full-time.
      I've always done comedies. There were comic elements in Mean Streets (1973) and even Taxi Driver (1976). And I did The King of Comedy (1982). I've always had what I consider to be a good sense of humour. There is this image that has been built up - invented, more like - and there's me, living the life. I do not consider myself some sort of acting legend, just an actor doing his best with the material that is there at the time.
      You can look into my background all you like, but I have never had problems with authority on film sets. Even if I disagree with a director, I work through it. I am also not one for regrets. I don't regret any film I've made, because there was a reason for making it at the time. If it hasn't worked out, then don't spend time worrying about why and how. Just move on to the next project.
      Difficult? Me? I don't think I am difficult compared to other people. It is hard to make a movie at the best of times, so you don't want to give people a hard time. People all have their own agendas. But it is not worth acting out something from your own history to make a point on a film set. If you have a problem with, say, your father or some other father figure, why give the director a tough time?
      [on Martin Scorsese] I wish I had that knowledge of movies that he has. He's like an encyclopedia. I could call him up and ask him about a certain movie, and he would know about it. He's seen everything, it's great.
      (on the lengths he will go to disappear into a part) You don't just play a part. You've got to earn the right to play them.
Angelina Jolie and Helen Mirren] She [Jolie] is my dream co-star and I love to work with her. It depends on the project [as to who would be] at the top of my list... wonderful actresses.
      I always wanted to direct. Directing is a lot more of a commitment though, a lot more time. I like directors who do very few takes, they know what they want. As for me, I know when I have a shot, but I might want back up, and one other take. You never know. If it's about capturing a moment, you're never going to be able to go back and repeat it, you go with it. It's a tricky thing. I go through all the footage, and look at everything.
      Some things you learn from just being in movies, so I see what's getting done, how it's getting done. I know what making a film is going to take, how much time. I almost don't even think about it. If I'm in a movie, I can sense if something is not quite right, if the rhythm is off.
      I know it's important to give everybody as much freedom as you can so that they don't feel there are any limitations. With any mistake they could make, everything is fine. And then they're not afraid to try things or trust you when you say, "Look, let's try and go in this direction." That's very important with actors - and all other creative elements.
      [on being cast in The Deer Hunter (1978)] I talked with the millworkers, drank and ate with them, played pool. I tried to become as close to being a steelworker as possible, and I would have worked a shift at the mill but they wouldn't let me.
      I just can't fake acting. I know movies are an illusion, and maybe the first rule is to fake it, but not for me. I'm too curious. I want to deal with all the facts of the character, thin or fat.
      [on release of restored version of The King of Comedy (1982) in 2013] I was a big fan of the script and was very excited to do it with Marty [Scorsese] and happy that we finally made it. The fact that it's been restored (hard to believe that so many years have passed) is even all the better, and I can't wait to see it on our closing night.
      The first time I went to Vegas, I was 17. I had a friend who was a dealer in a casino. It was real desert, still like the Wild West. Apparently, there's a nightclub scene now. Back then, you gambled and then, at 4am, you went to the lounges to see Sinatra sing.
      When you're directing, you think of everything ... The few times I've directed, if someone comes up with something you missed, you're glad to hear that.
      I'm hoping that if things work out with digital technology, they can finally make us look younger and I can go on for another 40 years.
      [on the death of his Flawless (1999) co-star Philip Seymour Hoffman] I'm very, very saddened by the passing of Phil. He was a wonderful actor. This is one of those times where you say, 'This just shouldn't be. He was so young and gifted and had so much going, so much to live for.' My family and I send our deepest condolences to his family.
      [on theatre] I like movies. I mean, I'd do a play if I could find a great play, a modern play, a new play. But you can do more with film. I like the illusion. In like that you can create something and do it over and then put it together like a big puzzle. With a play, the most you can do is videotape it once and then put it in the archive at the Lincoln Center. Films last. You put it on the screen and it's there forever, a little piece of history.
=======================================================
Born in New York’s lower Manhattan in 1943, De Niro came from an Italian-Irish background with his part-Italian father, Robert Sr. and part-Irish mother, Virginia - both artists.
He was largely raised by his mother in a loft apartment in Greenwich Village after his parents had separated. The ‘refuge’, as it was dubbed at the time, was often filled with bohemian friends of Virginia’s, including members of the Warhol ‘circle’. The area was not the chic and trendy area it is today, with most of the spaces being used as warehouses and studios. It was, however, the place to be if you were involved in the art scene.
As a toddler, De Niro went to a kindergarten run by the Ethical Culture Movement. It influenced him greatly throughout his life and when he married Diahnne Abbott in 1976, he did so at the group’s New York headquarters.
When De Niro was growing up, his father would often take him to the movies. When he returned home he would impress his mother with his imitations of the actors of the day, such as Robert Mitchum and Montgomery Clift. Aged 10, he appeared as the Cowardly Lion in a local production of ‘The Wizard of Oz’. Seeing that De Niro had the aspiration and ability to perform, Virginia enrolled him in New York’s High School of Music and Art. A restless and rebellious teenager, De Niro dropped out without graduating, preferring to hang out with a local street gang instead.
Thankfully, he decided there was more to life than roaming the streets of Little Italy and he started sneaking into acting workshops at the famous Stella Adler Conservatory. Adler was a teacher and acting coach to a variety of actors including Marlon Brando, Warren Beatty, Harvey Keitel and Candice Bergen. Her ‘rival’, the Actor’s Studio, was run by Lee Strasberg, a Ukrainian who taught his version of the Method – a system of mental exercises and games for actors to help build up their character.
De Niro spent the 1960s fine-tuning his technique in these performing sessions, getting a few roles in off-Broadway productions and travelling America performing Neil Simon-style comedies in dinner theatres. Although the pay was next to nothing, De Niro did not see this work as beneath him and his persistence and ambition would keep him from quitting.
New York’s small film industry meant that when De Niro auditioned for film roles he would often see the same faces turn up each time, such as Christopher Walken, Al Pacino, and later Harvey Keitel. Director Brian de Palma was to give De Niro his first break with a small role in ‘The Wedding Party’ (filmed in 1963 but not released until 1969). They collaborated again on ‘Greetings’ (1968) and the sequel, ‘Hi Mom!’ (1970), but perhaps the most memorable film they did together was to come later, with 1987’s Oscar-winning film ‘The Untouchables’.
De Palma was also responsible for introducing De Niro to fellow New Yorker Martin Scorsese at a Christmas party in 1972. Coming from the same area, they quickly hit it off and found they saw a lot of things the same way. At parties they would sit and talk about movies and technique for hours on end.
In 1973, De Niro played Bruce Pearson, a major league baseball catcher with a rare blood disease in ‘Bang the Drum Slowly’ (1973). In preparation for his role, De Niro watched thousands of hours of baseball on TV, and developed his expertise in squirting tobacco juice and saliva through his front teeth! His then girlfriend, Diahnne, would see De Niro come home still in character. She sometimes would have a problem recognising the real De Niro at all.
‘Mean Streets’ (1973) was the first of many films where De Niro and Scorsese would collaborate. His Italian looks and background earned him many roles in violent gangster movies. Indeed his appearance as the young Vito Corleone in Francis Ford Coppolla’s ‘The Godfather: Part II’ (1974) is perhaps one of the most famous, with De Niro winning his first Academy Award for Best Actor in a Supporting role. De Niro perfected a Sicilian accent, astonishing his voice coaches in Italy who did not think it would be possible. He also had a dentist fit a prosthetic mould to fill out his cheeks, and put on weight so that he could look more like a young Marlon Brando. He and Marlon Brando are the only actors to have both won Oscars for playing the same character (Brando won his in 1972).
“Are you talkin’ to me? ARE YOU TALKIN’ TO ME?”; this line from ‘Taxi Driver’ (1976) is one of the most memorable of De Niro’s entire career, and he is said to have made it up when he was meticulously researching his role in front of the mirror. De Niro enjoyed improvising and it was not uncommon for him to encourage other members of the cast to do the same.
In order to get into the mindset of nihilistic war veteran Travis Bickle, De Niro spent many days at a US army base in Italy when he had time off from working with Bernardo Bertolucci on ‘Novecento’ (1976). After observing how the guys there dressed, walked, and held a gun, he went back to New York and took pistol lessons. He also got a chauffeur’s licence and drove cabs around New York for a while. De Niro’s philosophy has always been that if he chooses to play a certain character then he has to ‘earn the right’ to play him, generally through intense suffering and transformation, both physically and mentally.
In ‘Taxi Driver’, De Niro played opposite Cybill Shepherd (Betsy), a young Jodie Foster (Iris), and Harvey Keitel (Matthew). The wonderful score was written by Bernard Herrmann, who sadly died soon after recording the music to the film.
The 1970s and 80s were a time when many Hollywood celebrities were taking cocaine. De Niro, Scorsese, Robin Williams and good friend John Belushi were among them all. Sadly, Belushi was to die in 1982 of a drugs overdose at the famous Chateau Marmont hotel in Los Angeles. The parties stretched from New York to LA, with De Niro seen on some occasions at Hugh Hefner’s Playboy mansion. In 1976, De Niro married Diahnne Abbot, an African-American model/actress, and although they had a son together (Raphael), the relationship ended only a few years later.
During these same years, however, De Niro entered his most extraordinary period of work, landing roles in ‘The Last Tycoon’ (1975, earning an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor); ‘The Deer Hunter’ (1978, which grossed $27.4 million and was the winner of five Academy Awards including Best Picture); and ‘Raging Bull’ (1980), for which he would famously put on sixty pounds to play real-life retired boxer Jake La Motta.
The idea for the movie came to De Niro after reading La Motta’s chilling autobiography a few years earlier. After some persuasion, Scorsese would direct the film, pulling in New Jersey restaurant owner Joe Pesci, who at the time had not appeared in a film for a while. Pesci would go on to star alongside De Niro in five pictures: ‘Once upon a Time in America’ (1984), ‘Goodfellas’ (1990), ‘A Bronx Tale’ (1993), ‘Casino’ (1995) and ‘The Good Shepherd’ (2006).
Scorsese shot the film in black and white because it dulled down the colour of the blood in so many of the scenes, making it look less nauseating to the audience. In the book, Jake La Motta states that when he reflects back on his life he sees it as a black and white movie, which is maybe another reason for Scorsese to choose this style of filming. ‘Raging Bull’ led De Niro on to ‘True Confessions’ (1981), ‘The King of Comedy’ (1983) and ‘Once Upon a Time in America’ (1984). The latter is a Sergio Leone tale of the lives of a small group of New York City Jewish gangsters living in the 1920s, who reunite forty years on. De Niro plays the lead role as David ‘Noodles’ Aaronson, with co-star James Woods as firm friend, Max.
In 1987, De Niro played the chilling character of Louis Cyphre in ‘Angel Heart’, a thrilling film ‘that scares you to your very soul’ - so ran the tagline at the time. Set in Cuba, De Niro stars alongside Mickey Rourke, Lisa Bonet and Charlotte Rampling, all of whom made this film so great. In 1990, De Niro once again worked with Scorsese, this time in the outstanding mafia film, ‘Goodfellas’. He then starred as the menacing Max Cady in Scorsese’s remake of ‘Cape Fear’ (1991) opposite Nick Nolte.
De Niro then founded his own production company, Tribeca (after the downtown area he grew up in), and made his directorial debut in ‘A Bronx Tale’ (1993). A few years later he accepted the 1997 Municipal Art Society’s Jacqueline Onassis Medal for his efforts to revive TriBeCa, where he opened a couple of restaurants and established a thriving film centre. During the 1990s, De Niro worked at a high pace, often making three films per year. In 1995, the public got a rare opportunity to see De Niro and Al Pacino appear in the same film. ‘Heat’ is an LA crime saga, which focuses on the lives of two men on opposite sides of the law - one a detective (Pacino); the other a thief (De Niro).
De Niro has always kept his private life to himself. He rarely gives an interview, and if the press makes statements about him, he seldom bothers to defend himself, or give his side of the story. What is known is that De Niro has twin sons with actress Toukie Smith. After a brief relationship with supermodel Naomi Campbell, De Niro married in 1997 for the second time to Grace Hightower, with whom he had a son, Elliot. Although divorced in 2002, they renewed their wedding vows and they are still together to this day.
The noughties were particularly lucrative for De Niro – he earned a reputed $20 million for ‘Analyze That’. He has also produced a number of well-received movies such as ‘The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle’ (2000), ‘About a Boy’ (2002) and ‘Stage Beauty’ (2004). He was also successful in acting in and producing comedy films, such as ‘Meet the Parents’ (2000) and the sequel, ‘Meet the Fockers’ (2004).
Other recent projects include 2005 horror film ‘Hide and Seek’, featuring Dakota Fanning, the animation ‘Arthur and the Invisibles’ (2006), and spy movie ‘The Good Shepherd’, which he starred in and directed. The film’s high profile cast, including Matt Damon, Angelina Jolie, William Hurt, Alec Baldwin, Michael Gambon, Joe Pesci and John Turturro, was a testament to how highly regarded De Niro is in the industry.
De Niro’s portrayal of the character of Captain Shakespeare in ‘Stardust’, a 2007 Paramount Pictures fantasy film, continued to cement his popularity with fans. The movie also featured many A-listers and performed well at the box office, paving the way for work on 2008 releases ‘Righteous Kill’ and ‘What Just Happened’. He picked up a Hollywood Film Festival Best Actor award for his contribution in 2009 comedy ‘Everybody’s Fine’ and went on to have a role in director Robert Rodriguez’s 2010 action film ‘Machete’.
The same year also saw De Niro appear in the drama ‘Stone’ alongside Edward Norton and Milla Jovovich and ‘Little Fockers’, another instalment of the popular comedy franchise featuring Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson. 2011 saw him star in techno-thriller ‘Limitless’, which featured Bradley Cooper in the lead role. More recently he appeared opposite Sylvester Stallone in 'Grudge Match'.
It is said De Niro’s influences for comedy come from ex-vaudeville comics, Bud Abbott and Lou Costello. However, he once said, “the talent is in the choices”. Indeed, De Niro has made a lot of good decisions over the years, earning him a number of awards on both sides of the Atlantic. Revered throughout Europe, De Niro has even received a Golden Lion from the Venice Film Festival in honour of his outstanding contribution to cinema.
These rewards seem proof enough that De Niro is a legend of his generation and deserves to be applauded for his contribution to cinema.
Right, so: now that we’ve convinced you Lifetime is a thing you need to have in your life – what now? How do you get this on your telly? Here’s what you have to do.
=======================================================
'I look at that beach and I can tell you where each one was lying...   I can still see their faces': Tears of D-Day veterans as they make emotional return to Normandy to honour their fallen comrades
A royal salute for the fallen heroes of D-Day: Prince Charles and an elegant Duchess of Cornwall join the Queen to pay their respects
        70 years after they stormed Normandy's beaches as young soldiers amid the hell of battle, veterans willing to die for freedom in 1944 have made an emotional return to France. Harold Baumgarten, 89, has described how he could still look out at the beaches of northern France and point to where the bodies lay. Other men like Peter Smooth, 89, left, went to the British War Cemetery in Bayeux to salute fallen comrades. Other told their stories to dignitaries like Prime Minister David Cameron, top right. Across the Channel Douglas Turtle, 91, bottom right, sobbed on the seafront in Portsmouth as he remembered June 6 1944 at dawn.
Still sulking, Mr Putin? Just weeks after Charles accused him of acting like Hitler, the Russian president stands by as Obama plays the gentleman for the Queen
       World leaders gathered in Normandy to mark the 70th anniversary of D-Day amid growing tensions over Russian aggression towards Ukraine. Mr Putin is due to come face-to-face with the Prince of Wales later. As heads of state gathered for a group photo to mark  D-Day at Benouville Castle, Mr Putin cut a solitary figure while Barack Obama and New Zealand's Governor-General Jerry Mateparae fussed around the Queen.
      Surrounded by thousands of war graves Her Majesty bowed as she laid a wreath during a poignant service of remembrance in Bayeux, the first town in Normandy to be freed from Hitler's grip on June 6 1944.
                  Australian war vets return to Normandy to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the D-Day...
                  When the warship HMS Belfast fired the shot that launched the D-Day landings, it was...
                  World War Two veteran Jim Martin parachutes into the fields of Normandy on the eve of the...
                  The Queen paid her respects to the 4,500 men who died fighting the Nazis on D-Day, as she...
                  United States President Barack Obama and French President Francois Hollande gather on the...
                  The Queen laid a wreath during a ceremony at the Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery in...
                  France's Hollande hosts world leaders for a commemorative D-Day group photo and lunch,...
                  Prime Minister David Cameron and his wife Samantha attended a British D-Day commemoration...
                  Imperial War Museum archive footage of British troops landing on the Normandy beaches
                  Normandy veterans are returning to the shores of France to pay their respects to lost...
                  As the sun rose over a gusty Omaha Beach in France on D-Day veterans from the United...
                  On June 6, 1944, the world's largest seaborne invasion was launched against the occupying...
                  Queen Elizabeth II lays a wreath at the tomb on the unknown soldier at the Arc de...
                  As the sun rose on the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings, people gathered on...
                  Britain's Prince Charles, accompanied by his wife the Duchess of Cornwall, meets glider...
                  Australian war vets return to Normandy to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the D-Day...
                  When the warship HMS Belfast fired the shot that launched the D-Day landings, it was...
Flood warnings issued as Britain faces a weekend soaking with a fortnight's rain forecast to fall in just an hour (so enjoy today's sunshine while you can)
      The Met Office said thundery rain is expected to start falling across Britain early tomorrow morning, with showers unlikely to ease off until the evening. Some places could see between 20mm and 30mm of rain fall in an hour - almost half of the UK monthly average for the whole of June. It comes as people across the country enjoy temperatures of up to 25C today. Families and teenagers celebrating the end of their exams took to South Shields beach today (right) to soak up the sunshine, while horses enjoyed grazing in buttercup fields in the warm weather in Biggin Hill, Kent (left).
Eight drug dealers to be questioned by British police in hunt for Madeleine McCann as officers are given green light to quiz them
      Portuguese officials are reported to have finally given the go-ahead for British officers to quiz eight local men who they believe could be crucial to solving the mystery
Mother left in tears after two customers called her a 'slut' for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
      Rhea Holley, of Faversham in Kent, was at Costa Coffee in Purley, south London, when two customers in their 60s started verbally abusing her for breast-feeding.
Mother in tears after being called a 'slut' by two customers for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
Parents held after son, 11, reaches 15 STONE: Couple arrested on suspicion of child cruelty after 'doctors became concerned about boy's wellbeing
      The parents, from King’s Lynn, Norfolk, claim their son's weight gain is genetic and they have tried to keep his size under control.
      Studies show the optimum amount is 3-4mg of caffeine per kilogram of bodyweight one hour prior to exercise.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
      Julie Matthias, 49, of Chatham, Kent, has been diagnosed with Foreign Accent Syndrome - which affects just 60 people worldwide.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
'The job isn't finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite triumph over Farage in Newark by-election
      The Prime Minister warned the Conservatives had to keep hammering home key messages on the economy, tax cuts and jobs, after Robert Jenrick beat UKIP's Roger Helmer by 7,000 votes.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
Mexican Kim Kardashian lookalike 'takes over as boss of drug cartel hit squad' and uses a personalised pink AK47
       Claudia Ochoa Felix, 27, is thought to be the new head of an elite kill squad used by one of Mexico's most powerful drug cartel, the Sinaloas, to carry out executions. She regularly posts pictures on social media posing like her idol Kim Kardashian while holding her signature pink AK (right). She has also uploaded images of her bodyguards (inset) and her three children surrounded by piles of cash.
Forget the helmets - you'll only need a flat cap: Hilarious video warns Tour de France riders what to expect in Yorkshire (and says avoid bright clothing... it scares the sheep)
      Ditch helmets for flat caps and switch bright jackets for grey cardigans so you don't scare the sheep - a Yorkshire man's advice ahead of the Tour de France.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
      Researchers from London's University of Westminster asked 124 men - half of whom were hungry and half well-fed - to rate different women by attractiveness.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
'Fraudsters hijacked our phone line and then stole £41,000 when we called the bank': Customers scammed and then left stranded by their banks
      In two separate cases investigated customers with Lloyds Bank and Nationwide Building Society lost a total of almost £60,000 to the scam.
Most rapists don't lurk down dark alleys wearing balaclavas, say prosecutors in move to boost conviction rates
      The country’s top prosecutor warned that ‘out-of-date myths’ had to be tackled to persuade victims to have confidence in the criminal justice system.
Dying for a tan: Man, 32, diagnosed with terminal skin cancer after spending £7,000 on sunbed sessions over eight years
       Damien Platt, from Greater Manchester, was diagnosed with melanoma after using a sunbed up to four times a week for nine minutes at a time 'to make hi self feel good'. He said: 'To find out I had melanoma was the worst feeling in the world. I felt completely numb and found it very hard to function properly for days, people would try talking to me but nothing would register. Now I'm just trying to be as happy as possible with the time I've got left.' Image ( bottom right) shows the scar on his leg where the mole was removed and (top right) shows him with a tan.
Fears government agencies can listen in to private mobile phone calls at the ‘flick of a switch’ after Vodafone reveals authorities use secret wires across its entire network which stretches to 29 countries
      Vodafone said direct-access wires were connected to its network, allowing authorities in 29 countries - including Italy, Malta and Spain - to monitor conversations.
‘Rape? Sometimes it's RIGHT': Indian state minister says offence is only a crime if the woman reports it to police - days after murderous gang-rape of two sisters
      'This is a social crime which depends on men and women. Sometimes it's right, sometimes it's wrong,' said Babulal Gaur, minister for Madhya Pradesh.
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left three Canadian Mounties dead and put city on day-long lock-down
      Justin Bourque, 24, was taken into custody early Friday morning after a deadly shootout in Moncton, New Brunswick, that left three police officers dead.
Suffocated baby's twin returned to parents after judge clears father of accidentally killing her as they slept on sofa, saying the couple 'deserve to be believed'
      The middle class father came under suspicion from Lancashire County Council following the death of his daughter, but judge Mr Justice Peter Jackson (pictured) cleared him of blame.
'I wasn't even hungry': Russian cannibal is FREED from court despite admitting he ate his fisherman friend - as victim's distraught wife says all she is left with is his foot
       Her husband, Andrei Kurochkin was eaten by his close friends who were fishermen after they were lost for months during an expedition in frozen Siberia. Olga Korochkin, 38, spoke out after hearing confirmation that cannibalised human remains found were those of her husband.
Use leftover Melba toast... and other money-saving tips by aristocratic politician who lives in a 13-bed manor
      Tory peer Baroness Rawlings, who is married to a multi-millionaire, suggested people reuse their linen and use a bath to warm the room.
New obesity jab could be available within two years after scientists discover hormone that helps the body burn fat
      Researchers at Havard Medical School and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in the U.S. have found a new hormone, they believe could provide the key to treating obesity and diabetes.
      As 94-year old grandmother Bertha Guymer, pictured, lay dying on a hospital bed in Essex, a thief stole her wedding rings, her family has claimed.
'Can't catch me': Fugitive, 20, who taunted police on Facebook weeps in the dock as he is jailed for stealing thousands from his grandparents and assaulting his mother
      Joe Barlow, from Laindon, Essex, was jailed for five separate offences at Basildon Crown Court, including stealing £8,500 from his grandparents’ savings to pay for drugs.
       The 'barbaric' act of cruelty in Pendle, Lancashire was filmed by one of the men, while the other two tried to clamber up towards the terrified animal. Joshua Varey, 24, filmed the act while Shaun Mullens, 22, and Paul Ashworth, 49, shook branches trying to dislodge the animal. All three defendants, from Colne, have pleaded guilty to what Burnley magistrates described as 'deliberate and serious' acts of cruelty that the defendants 'appear to derive pleasure from'.
'Everything is proceeding according to plan. And what a plan!' How Churchill told MPs of the most ambitious operation ever launched as the D-Day landings were still underway
      MPs applauded after the wartime Prime Minister described the start of the 'most complicated and difficult' operation ever launched.
The British people's greatest day: Today, raise a glass to the ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
      If I had to single out one moment of the struggle which represented the zenith of our national achievement, then it must be D-Day, writes MAX HASTINGS.
The British people's greatest day: Cynics will say it's time to move on. But today raise a glass to the sheer ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
The average woman wants to meet ‘the one’ aged 24, have a child at 27 and reach the top of their career by 34
      Nearly two-thirds of those studied had a detailed life plan they try to follow – with targets such as passing their driving test by 19, living healthily by 24 and getting engaged at 26.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
      Vincent Walsh, professor of human brain research at University College London, also proposed they should be allowed to set their own work times, arriving whenever they want.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
And they're off! Fillies in fascinators and fancy frocks descend on a sunny Epsom Downs for Ladies Day at the Derby
       Colourfully dressed racegoers basked in the sunshine as they arrived at the Epsom Downs racecourse in Surrey for the first day of the Derby Festival. Highlights on Ladies Day include the Oaks and the Princess Elizabeth Stakes but the big hitters, including the hot favourite Australia, will arrive tomorrow ahead of the Derby.
One Direction's Louis Tomlinson to become co-chairman of Doncaster Rovers Football Club after 'finalising multi-million pound takeover deal'
      The One Direction singer is believed to have finalised a deal to takeover the football club, who he has supported his whole life.
Why Tetris is so addictive: Playing the game is like 'scratching an itch' and appeals to our brain's desire to tidy up
      A psychologist from the University of Sheffield has revealed that Tetris appeals to our brain's desire to solve mini tasks, while being tantalised by more problems.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
      Scientists secretly gave 2,051 babies and children in homes thought to include Sean Ross Abbey, Co. Tipperary, pictured, a diphtheria vaccine without their consent.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his ferry in a storm
      Steve Kingston, who runs a river ferry company in King's Lynn, Norfolk, refused to take the council's advice to leave his ship. In response the authorities sent in police to carry out the heavy-handed arrest.
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his ferry in a storm
Four generations of depravity: Court orders 'incest family' who lived in remote Australian bush to provide DNA samples to help police unravel decades of sexual abuse
       Two members of a NSW family accused of mass incest have been DNA swabbed following a court order. 'Raylene Colt' and 'Betty Colt' (the legal pseudonyms given to them) were ordered to report to a Sydney police station on Friday to provide samples. The family was discovered in regional NSW in 2012 living in squalid conditions and have been the subject of a child abuse investigation since.
      Researchers at the University of Rochester, in the U.S., say male brains are affected more significantly than female brains.
Give me my pocket money or I'll jump: Chinese boy, 10, holds parents to ransom over late payment of his 50p
      When ten-year-old Xiao Wei's father was late in paying him his weekly 50p stipend in Shangsi, China, the stubborn youngster took matters into his own hands.
Father jailed for stabbing his partner six times during vicious attack in front of their children after she called police to report him
      Nicholas Robinson, pictured, broke down in tears at Leeds Crown Court after he received the 11-year sentence for the attempted murder of Claire Chambers.
      Dr Viren Swami from the University of Westminster said those in love also tend to think their partner is better looking than themselves.
'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richman poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
       Former Man V. Food host Adam Richman is celebrating is 70lb weight loss with a naked spread in Cosmopolitan UK's July issue. Mr Richman, 40, poses lying down with a soccer ball precariously covering his genitals. He wears soccer cleats and knee socks and is surrounded by a smattering of soccer balls that read 'USA', in reference to this summer's World Cup.
School at centre of Islamist 'Trojan Horse' takeover plot rejects Ofsted report saying it is failing to protect pupils from extremism
      The report - made public yesterday but leaked to the Mail on Monday - said Golden Hillock school in Birmingham (pictured), was doing too little to keep students safe from extremist views.
Is this the street in which Jack the Ripper lived? Geographic profiling pinpoints exact address of Victorian serial killer
      A former Canadian police officer combined geographical profiling and computer models to pinpoint Ripper's address in Whitechapel, East London (pictured in 1902).
Still clutching their rosaries after hundreds of years, eerie photographs show mummies buried in a Czech underground crypt
       A monastery in the Czech Republic has a ghoulish secret for those willing to venture underground - two dozen corpses clutching rosaries are on display. The bodies in the Capuchin Crypt of the Holy Cross Church, in Brno, date back hundreds of years, but they were only recently rediscovered and opened to public viewing.
Google reveals 3D scanning sensors for tablets that will map your home and give you directions INSIDE a building
      California-based Google has revealed the next step in their 'Project Tango'. The ambitious 3D mapping technology is being brought to tablets (pictured).
Build more homes in the countryside to stop property boom, says Lagarde (as IMF abandons warnings on Osborne's austerity)
      IMF chief Christine Lagarde, said the Bank of England should start to put up interest rates and take measures to clamp down on risky mortgages.
      People who match with each other on the app can now send pictures visible for 24 hours to each other.
      The mums in Krasnoyarsk Krai, a city in central Russia, were among thousands who offered up their children in the races which have taken place across the country.
It's one in a mill-ion! Stunning riverside home with its own working water mill and vintage car museum could be yours (for £700,000)
       The secluded estate is set in 67 acres of woodland near South Molton, between the picturesque Dartmoor and Exmoor national parks in Devon, and features a water mill with exposed mechanics and a huge millstone. The magnificent building also features a spectacular 13,000 sq ft vintage car museum, riverside terrace and floodlit weir.
'Chaos and mass delays' as power failure grounds flights at Bristol Airport and passengers are told to wait outside terminal
      Passengers have taken to Twitter to voice their frustration as flights are delayed and the terminal fills with grounded passengers.
Air passengers delayed and 'forced to fly without luggage' from Heathrow due to Europe-wide computer problem
      The luggage system that manages baggage across Europe has experienced an IT failure which is affecting flight out of the UK.
Does the amount of make-up you wear affect how people treat you? Student tries three different looks to find out
       Brinton Parker, a 21-year-old student at the University of California, was inspired to conduct her experiment after noticing how her peers critiqued people's looks. So during a single week, she went to school wearing three very different make-up looks - bare-faced, moderate and heavy - in a bid to measure the ways it altered how people treated her.
          Pregnant Claire Sweeney displays growing bump in two tone mini dress as she treats herself to restaurant meal
          Katherine Jenkins ditches her usual glamorous make-up for a more natural look as she showcases her slim frame in navy mini dress
          A look that will take you places! Michelle Keegan wears bright playsuit at photocall for holiday company
          Handle with care! Nigella Lawson steps out looking pale and fragile... the morning after her dazed appearance at charity fundraiser
          One Direction's Louis Tomlinson to become co-chairman of Doncaster Rovers Football Club after 'finalising multi-million pound takeover deal'
          Cara Delevingne shows off her supermodel style in plunging printed silk jumpsuit as she attends Stella McCartney party with pal Jourdan Dunn
          It's over: Jennifer Lopez and dancer boyfriend Casper Smart 'call it quits'... amid transsexual sexting scandal
          BGT 2014's final will be a huge TV event... and a mindless, cynical circus: JIM SHELLEY's 12 reasons for hating Britain's Got Talent
          Earning her fashion stripes: Pregnant Holly Willoughby wears comfortable T-shirt and jeans as she leaves Soho restaurant
          Samantha Cameron walks hand-in-hand with veteran's family member at service to mark the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings
          Now where did I put those Daisy Dukes? Jessica Simpson parades her slimmer figure in semi-sheer dress as she prepares for summer wedding
          Only the best for his wife-to-be! George Clooney 'on the hunt for French love nest' with fiancee Amal Alamuddin... as he 'plans move into politics'
          Lara Stone shows off her cleavage and slim pins as she is joined by husband David Walliams at Terrence Higgins Trust event
          Jake Gyllenhaal and Rachel McAdams spotted sharing intimate meal in Pittsburgh as they prepare to start shooting new film Southpaw
          Simply bellissimo! Chloe Green opts for effortless Italian glamour in pale pink tie- up shirt and leather skirt as she kicks off charity road trip in Venice
          Fit for Hollywood royalty! Sandra Bullock looks regal in side-split blue gown as she speaks at Jane Fonda Tribute
          Prison food went down well then! Chris Brown displays fuller physique as he arrives at his get out of jail free party thrown by girlfriend Karrueche Tran
          Sienna Miller and fiancé Tom Sturridge lead the way during ANOTHER celebrity-packed night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Lo(han) and behold... she's out again! Flame-haired Lindsay rocks a grungy leather jacket and skirt combo as she enjoys another night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Moss be having fun! Kate looks worse for wear in clashing prints as she hits Prince gig and Chiltern Firehouse with Nick Grimshaw
          Don't mind us! Michael Sheen and Sarah Silverman make a discreet exit after late night out at celebrity haunt Chiltern Firehouse
          Millie Mackintosh highlights her slender frame in snakeskin jumpsuit at Smirnoff Mix It campaign launch
          Another celebrity convert: Amber Le Bon models the world's first in-flight onesie (but don't expect to look as good as her at 30,000ft)
          'Fake boobs, sex and spirituality need to be addressed in opera!' The rugby WAG and Gary Barlow protégée who wants to shake up the classical music world
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney enters the Big Brother house... and claims she has been celibate for a year
          Lovely in lace! Kate Beckinsale steals the show in strapless white dress at Macbeth opening night bash
          She must've Heard it was a fashion event! Amber steals the limelight as she displays her pins in fetching red minidress at Stella McCartney presentation
          Now that's Fancy! Shipshape Iggy Azalea slips into green bikini for luxury yacht holiday to celebrate 24th birthday
          Team green! Brooke Vincent's 22nd birthday celebrations continue as she hits Manchester in sexy jumpsuit flanked by pals
          Fancy meeting you here! Kim Kardashian and Hilary Duff bring their children to same parenting class in Beverly Hills
          'He's struggling!' Kris Jenner opens up about Rob Kardashian's issues, but does not deny daughter Kourtney is pregnant with third child
          Maggie Gyllenhaal wows in colourful boho chic as she holds her own at Stella McCartney's Spring 2015 presentation
          Crazy Stupid Stomach! Cheryl Cole reveals her washboard abs in low- cut crop top in stills from video for new single
          Meet first 10 Big Brother 2014 contestants: A former prostitute, a strict catholic and a one-hit wonder amongst those first in house
          Here come the girls! Daisy Lowe sports cropped blouse and flared dress trousers for night out at Scott's with fellow fashionista Alexa Chung
          Nigella Lawson lets her hair down at charity dinner... as her production company makes £2.5 million profit in a year
          Emma Roberts cuts a striking figure in a fetching red dress as she receives Maui Film Festival Shining Star Award alongside fiance Evan Peters
          When in Ibiza! TOWIE's Mario Falcone puts his washboard abs on display as he greets topless fans during stag do holiday
          They love the nightlife! Aussie star Guy Pearce plays tour guide as he takes actor  Robert Pattinson and his blonde lady friend on a trip to Sydney's top hotspots
          Doesn't she get a day off? Alesha Dixon shows off her super flat stomach as she dresses up again for UK premiere of Belle
          Kourtney Kardashian covers up 'baby bump' in baggy black sweater as she and Scott Disick grab lunch in The Hamptons
          That's better! Bradley Cooper trades questionably tight shorts for baggy cargo pants as he takes a break from the set of American Sniper
          TOWIE's Gemma Collins wears white skinny jeans with confidence after losing nearly two stone ahead of Marbella special
          'He's lost... but he's no racist': Rapper 50 Cent defends Justin Bieber following N-word storm... as singer 'takes responsibility for his actions'
          Still selfie obsessed! Kendall and Kylie Jenner pucker up for picture... despite being mobbed by fans at book signing
          'She has the perfect body!' Kris Jenner says daughter Kendall's topless modelling shots 'comes with the territory'
          Jumping into action! Emma Willis wins the viewers votes as she kicks off Big Brother 2014 in flattering white all-in-one
          Big Brother 2014 Launch: Pauline Bennet goes on a 'power trip' as a playboy bunny and devout Catholic are amongst first stars to enter the house
          Big Brother reveals first twist of the series as Pauline Bennet is told to pick who wins £5,000 and which housemate is excluded on first night
          He's scored! Phil Neville can't resist kissing bikini-clad wife Julie as family holiday in Barbados continues
          You gotta fight for your copyright! Beastie Boys awarded $1.7million after suing drink firm which used their music in commercials
          George RR Martin makes fundraising appeal to Game Of Thrones fans to name a character he will kill in upcoming novel
          Time to update the wardrobe! Chantelle Houghton wears her favourite white blazer as she goes shopping with Dolly
          Together again! Eva Longoria reunites with Desperate Housewives co-star Felicity Huffman at Jane Fonda Tribute
          Orange is the new black: Ashley Tisdale shows off her tanned and toned legs in tiny bright shorts as she enjoys shopping trip
          The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
          Rolling Stones stars Mick Jagger, Ronnie Wood and Charlie Watts visit Jerusalem's Western Wall before first ever Israel concert
          Look, I can do streetwise too! J-Lo is just Jenny From The Block as she steps out in denim after being branded a 'sell out' at Bronx homecoming 
          Diary of BGT's ditziest finalist: Lettice on auditioning hungover, her outrageous stage costumes and being loaned a £1.5million violin to perform
          The Queen lights up the Champs-Élysées: Her Majesty - in her FOURTH chic outfit of the day - has red carpet rolled out for her in Paris ahead of D-Day
          Pastel perfection: Lindsay Lohan reveals very slim pins in pale blue skinny jeans and jumper as she steps out to lunch
          Catherine Zeta-Jones and Morgan Freeman share a friendly kiss gone wrong... as she and Michael Douglas arrive at Hollywood event together
          Pins on parade! Jessica Seinfeld and Liv Tyler wear revealing short summer dresses at Stella McCartney presentation
          'She's celestial... I was born into her': Keith Urban on his divine connection with Nicole Kidman... and how her drug intervention saved him
          She's still got it! Jane Fonda, 76, wows as she accepts lifetime achievement award... days after giving sex tips on Conan O'Brien
          Return Of The Jedi! Mark Hamill, 62, shows he can still handle a Lightsaber during visit to Disney World 37 years after first playing Luke Skywalker
          'You don't always have to be naked!' TLC slam Rihanna for using sex to sell records saying it's the easy way to get to the top in the music industry
          Justin Bieber has been 'non-stop crying' after two videos surface showing him singing vile racial slurs at the age of 14
          Escorted by her Goodfella! Robert De Niro's wife Grace Hightower shines in blue dress at documentary premiere in New York
          A cause close to her heart: Demi Lovato speaks about her own personal struggles during mental health event
          Pregnant Jessica-Jane Clement shows off her growing baby bump as she takes her dogs for a leisurely walk
          'People don't want them here': Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian continue to annoy Hamptons locals with 'outrageous filming demands'
          Lupita Nyong'o to star in and produce big screen adaptation of award-winning novel Americanah
          I'll be back... after my cigar break: Arnold Schwarzenegger takes things slowly as he has a sly puff on set of Terminator: Genesis
          Jaime King parades her pins in sporty cardigan and matching mini-skirt at the McDonald's World Cup party in NYC
          'I am not an opportunist!' Fan who bought Whitney Houston's mansion for $1.5m insists he will NOT open it to the public
          Christie Brinkley, 60, proves you're never too old for leather trousers as she stuns on lunch date with her son Jack
          Showing off her street style! Emmy Rossum awaits Stella McCartney presentation on the sidewalk in chic fringe dress
          Orange Is The New White! Taylor Schilling shows off toned pins in pearl-coloured dress at TheWrap's Emmy Celebration
          'Ready to rumble!' Pretty Little Liars star Tammin Sursok puckers up for the camera as she celebrates returning to work after giving birth seven months ago
          Did she use those scissors on her skirt? LeAnn Rimes sizzles in slinky white dress with thigh-high slit as she cuts ribbon to kick off CMA Music Festival
          Over already? Jennifer Lopez parties in NY with handsome rapper T.I.... as 'cheating' toy boy Casper Smart is nowhere to be seen
          Carey Mulligan and Helena Bonham Carter chant at a Votes for Women rally in first still from upcoming film Suffragette
          Are those clothes from the Thrift Shop? Macklemore and Ryan Lewis make a cool arrival in dapper attire to Sin City nightclub
          Happy to get his kit off! Robbie Williams gets help to change into his football top during preparations for SoccerAid
          One big happy family! Hilary Swank shows her maternal side as she gives her boyfriend's little girl a kiss at French Open
          'I've had a lot of therapy': Katy Perry talks about getting over exes John Mayer and Russell Brand... and how long she's gone without sex in new interview
          Ricky Gervais and longtime partner Jane Fallon attend Derek event after visiting their Muppet pals on Sesame Street
          Date night! Twilight star Ashley Greene stuns in tiny black playsuit at she takes boyfriend Paul Khoury to glitzy event in West Hollywood
          While they were teaching! Sandra Bullock makes a surprise visit to her son Louis' school as she donates goodies to the faculty
          What will Rita think? Calvin Harris parties with ANOTHER mystery woman on a night out as girlfriend Ora enjoys Mexican getaway
          Evan Rachel Wood sued for $30M after bailing on film 10 Things I Hate About Life... as rep slams lawsuit as 'preposterous' and a 'bullying tactic'
          'With you I will go': Kanye West beams as Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli serenades Kim Kardashian at their lavish Florence wedding
          Newlywed Kim Kardashian to spend up to a month shooting KUWTK spin-off in The Hamptons... but Kanye West isn't sure if he wants to join her
          Deja blue: Rosario Dawson is back in her favorite colour after wowing in that revealing gown at the Cannes Film Festival
          'I'm Sporty Spice!' Gisele Bundchen shows off washboard stomach in a bikini for cover shoot as she admits she loves to exercise
          That's her secret! Jordana Brewster shows off svelte arms pushing her son Julian along in his stroller
          The fight for $50m: Bowling For Columbine filmmaker Michael Moore claims wife of 22 years spent recklessly as they prepare for divorce trial
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she had been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida - ending a 20-year scam in which she stole £144,000
       Janet Curtis, 64, top right, from Clacton, Essex, said her rheumatoid arthritis meant she could barely walk more than a few yards, and left her needing 24-hour live-in care. But fraud investigators found video footage showing her water-skiing on holiday in Florida, left, walking round theme parks and swimming. Curtis, pictured outside Ipswich Crown Court yesterday, bottom right, admitted nine benefits fraud charges and was ordered to repay the money, and given a curfew and 18-month suspended prison sentence.
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she'd been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida ending 20 year scam in which she stole £144,000
Germans complain British tourists are too loud and all too often drunk (but at least we're not as bad as the Russians)
      British tourists are second only to Russians when it comes to nationalities Germans dislike most when on holiday.
Sales of widescreen TVs boom ahead of World Cup as Tesco gears up for the big event by getting extra nuts in
      Tesco said TV sales have almost doubled ahead of the event, while John Lewis reported a 47 per cent jump in sales in its vision department.
      Labour MP Stella Creasy says women will have to ‘breed for Britain’ if immigration is restricted - and she has a point, writes RICHARD LITTLEJOHN.
Father who has been hiccupping for three years is devastated to be told he could have condition for LIFE
      Daniel Clavin (pictured with his wife, Susan), 38, from County Roscommon, has been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and believes the condition is responsible for his hiccups.
Father who has been hiccupping for three years is devastated to be told he could have condition for LIFE
Fancy hosting the next Olympics? Ultimate sporting mansion comes with golf course, climbing wall, tennis and badminton courts, pool, shooting range and even a lake (but it'll cost you £7million)
       The country estate near Exeter, Devon is set in 30 acres that include a golf course, tennis courts, beach volleyball court, archery and hockey facilities and a lake. And with a badminton court, squash court, climbing walls, 10-metre swimming pool, gymnasium and table tennis and snooker rooms inside, some have suggested its new owner could host their own mini-Olympics.
Outrage as actors dressed as Nazis takeover West Sussex airport 24 hours before 70th anniversary of D-Day to film scenes for Ryan Reynolds film
      Stars of new Second World War film Woman in Gold, starring Helen Mirren and Ryan Reynolds, arrived at Shoreham Airport today dressed in full Nazi uniform.
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
      The Jet 2 flight LS516 started to rapidly descend just an hour after departing from Paphos, Cyprus, to Newcastle last night.
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
From Londoners praying to New Yorkers using smartphones on the loo: Ikea survey reveals morning habits of major cities
      The Swedish furniture giant has published a new study called Life At Home which looks at the morning habits of residents in Berlin, London, Moscow, Mumbai, New York, Shanghai and Stockholm.
'It's time for the people to speak': Aunt of Spain’s new Queen Letizia tweets her followers calling for a Republic
      Henar Ortiz Alvarez, the aunt of future queen Letizia Ortiz, made her feelings known on Twitter tweeting: It's time for the people to speak...'
Sword-wielding Sikhs clash at India's Golden Temple during prayers to mark the deadly 1984 military assault at Amritsar
       At least six people were injured as dozens of Sikh radicals clashed with supporters of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC) at the Golden Temple, in Amritsar. It is understood the scuffle erupted over who would speak first at the service, held to remember victims of government offensive Operation Blue Star that left hundreds dead on June 6, 1984.
      But researchers at the University of Pittsburgh found a man's consumption of alcohol had no influence on their daughter's drinking habits.
Talking about alcohol can make you as aggressive as drinking it: Words such as 'beer' and 'wine' cause people to be hostile
      University of Kent conducted a study in which students were exposed to either alcohol, or non-alcohol-related words. Those in the first group were more aggressive when given feedback on an essay.
Restaurant rage: Living in an area with lots of fast food stores can make you impatient and unable to savour things, researchers warn
      Toronto researchers say just the presence of the chains was enough to cause people to struggle to slow down and savour things.
The transforming desk that moves up and down to keep you fit - and can even track how much exercise you get at the office
      The $3,900 Stir Kinect desk has a motor to raise and lower itself, converting it into a standing desk or a traditional desk.
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: How unconventional 25-year marriage to first wife inspired world's greatest living scientist... and a movie
      Eddie Redmayne had books on Albert Einstein in his dressing room when he took on the part of Professor Stephen Hawking for a film about the physicist's 25-year love affair with his first wife, writes BAZ BAMIGBOYE.
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die': New book reveals Roman Polanski's private memories of wife Sharon Tate, slaughtered by Charles Manson's 'Family' when she was pregnant
      Sharon Tate's sister Debra has compiled a book of exclusive photographs and memories dedicated to the actress from her husband Roman Polanski.
The Best Night Ever! Woman, 28, goes into labour at One Direction concert (and nearly names him Harry in honour of Mr Styles)
       Sarah Turnbull, 28, from Glebe in Washington, County Durham, was 39 weeks pregnant when her waters broke during One Direction's gig in Sunderland. Six hours later she gave birth to Thomas Setterfield, exactly one week earlier than her due date, in the early hours of May 29 after the gig the night before.
'Stabby, stab, stab': Two US girls, 12, who knifed schoolmate 19 times used code words to plan horrific 'Slender Man' attack
      A police document compiled soon after the stabbing in Waukesha, Wisconsin, revealed that when Morgan Geyser and Anissa Weier discussed the attack, they would use the word 'cracker' to describe a knife or killing.
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at US university, killing one and wounding three
      Students at Seattle Pacific University say Jon Meis saved countless lives when he sprang into action as the shooter stopped to reload his weapon.
Extravagant hen dos now cost guests so much they rival the amount spent on attending the actual wedding!
      Gone are the days of a knees-up down the pub as the average cost of attending a hen do has rocketed and often involves a trip abroad.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
      Mr Justice Saunders told the jury a private detective working for the tabloid had accessed the 13-year-old’s phone - but had not deliberately deleted the voicemails.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
Shot twice, stuffed in a sack and dumped in a canal... but Pakistani girl, 18, SURVIVES botched 'honour killing' carried out by her own family for marrying the man she loved
       Saba Maqsood (pictured) was attacked by her father, uncle, brother and aunt before she was tossed into the canal, said Ali Akbar, a spokesman for police in Hafizabad, Punjab province. It comes just a week-and-a-half after the broad daylight 'honour killing' of another woman in a city centre drew worldwide condemnation. Mr Akbar told Reuters that the most recent case was also 'an honour-related incident'. 'The victim, Saba ... married her neighbour Muhammad Qaiser for love five days ago against the wishes of her family,' he said.
Jurassic Park actor arrested and charged with kidnap and rape of 13-year-old girl he met for acting classes
      Cameron Thor, 54, is accused of sexually assaulting the girl over the course of a year by police in Los Angeles, California, who say he took her to a secluded area.
Now that's a randy rodent! Male guinea pig at animal sanctuary breaks free from his cage and makes 100 females pregnant
      The two-year-old rodent - nicknamed Randy - managed to get all of the female guinea pigs at Hatton Country World, Warwickshire, pregnant before staff cottoned on to his antics.
Weak pound and high cost of living: Why retiring abroad is now branded 'a luxury' with some popular destinations even pricier than UK
      Experts warned moving abroad is 'no longer an option for the average British person' according to experts, due to rising prices in Europe.
Britons' favourite drive is the A470 through Snowdonia National Park and the Brecon Beacons (and everyone hates the M25)
      Wales and Scotland topped the poll for the best UK roads, followed by the north of England, but the south has most of the worst roads in Britain.
Don't look down! World's tallest tower will feature an elevator that travels at 32 feet a SECOND when it opens in 2018
The Kingdom Tower in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia will feature the world's fastest double-decker elevator which will let visitors travel over 2,165ft (660metres) in one go. It will ascend the mighty skyscraper at 32ft (10 metres) a second. The lift will use high-tech carbon fibre cables, and this UltraRope technology is lighter than conventional steel cable.
Masked rapist, 67, who attacked 100 women over 30 years is finally caught after woman fights him off in Moscow park
      Valery Makarenkov prowled the streets and parks of capital Moscow preying on women in a reign of terror that spanned more than 30 years.
Would YOU eat it? Seaside parlour creates battered fish and chip flavoured ice cream - complete with mushy peas
      Teare Wood's Ice Cream Parlour, in Whitby, North Yorkshire, has combined the traditional holiday tastes to tempt tourists.
Thalidomide survivors launch a fresh legal bid against manufacturers of controversial morning sickness pill
      Papers have been filed at the High Court on behalf of eight people whose mothers took the anti-morning sickness drug when pregnant in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
      Research published in the journal The Obstetrician and Gynaecologist shows a small percentage of headaches were caused by potentially life-threatening neurological conditions.
Submarines on Titan and giant nets to capture asteroids: Nasa unveils futuristic designs that could help explore new worlds
       Nasa has unveiled 12 proposals for next-gen exploration technologies in Washington, including a mission to bag an asteroid (illustration left), a submarine in Titan's largest sea (top right) and a spacecraft that could travel from the sun to Neptune in a year (bottom right). These will each receive $100,000 of funding for study over 18 months.
Flight of a lifetime! 130 tickets go on sale to fly alongside Lancaster bomber that's in UK for last time - but it will set you back £2,150
      The Lancaster will be in the UK, flying from Canada to England, for four days, arriving on August 8, making the 18-hour trip for the first and final time.
House price bubble threatens to derail economy, warns IMF - and Chancellor says Bank of England 'should not hesitate' to rein in market if necessary
      The International Monetary Fund called for 'targeted and timely' measures to clamp down on risky mortgage lending.
Two people rescued by police after barricading themselves in a bedroom because they were scared of their dog Fluffy
      The dog owners blocked themselves in their home in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, after becoming frightened of their Staffordshire bull terrier, Fluffy (pictured).
Motorcyclist rushed to hospital and bystanders injured by flying debris after crash with a police car
      The motorcyclist suffered left head and leg injuries in the crash at around 1.20pm on the Cotton Street junction with Poplar High Street, in Poplar, east London.
This is how you catfight, son! Father teaches his kittens the best way to pack a punch when he sees how terrible they are at brawling
       A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video shot in an unknown location that proves boys will be boys no matter the species. The YouTube clip from user kamzer opens with two very young kitten siblings wrestling on a kitchen counter. Suddenly their papa cat peeps up from the floor below and before they can purr 'TKO,' their dad is in the mix teaching them a proper left hook.
World's biggest tumour weighing 30lbs and the size of a watermelon is removed from the uterus of Indian woman
      WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT: Surgeons in the city of Chennai spent three-and-a-half hours removing the giant uterine tumour, which could have been growing for two years.
      When hungry, people were found to find a wider range of body shapes attractive and were more likely to be attracted to bigger people.
      Researchers from the National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA) in the U.S. say the damaging effects remain even if a person stops smoking cannabis in adulthood.
      The footage, captured on the cyclist's GoPro helmet camera shows the confrontation in a Dublin street, which sees the driver threaten to 'run over' the cyclist.
Girlfriend of Camilla's tragic brother Mark Shand leads tributes to him at fundraiser for endangered elephants held in his memory
       Mark Shand's former girlfriend Ruth Powys (left) led tributes to the Duchess of Cornwall's younger brother last night. Money raised was donated to the charity Elephant Family which Mr Shand founded. Ms Powys was joined by her twin sister Mary (both pictured centre) and Mr Shand's niece Laura Lopes (right), who is Camilla's daughter. Mr Shand (inset), 62, suffered a head injury when he slipped and fell on the pavement on a night out in Manhattan, New York, in April.
So you think you can dance? Two kittens wow with their perfectly synchronized groove to hip hop track
      The cats were filmed at the home of Hayley Markham and Andrew Kerr in Virginia, as they danced to DJ Snake and Lil Jon's 2013 club sensation Turn Down For What.
Killed by a single punch: Thug admits killing pensioner with a single blow after 'scuffle' outside pub
      Sean Sillet, 20, pictured, pleaded guilty the manslaughter of Kenneth Brough, 65, outside the Beehive in Newcastle's Bigg Market on January 28.
Man and women die from ‘overpowering fumes’ after jumping into cesspit to retrieve ‘expensive phone’
      The woman had dropped her device – worth 2,000 yuan (£190) – in the open-pit toilet, reported Dahe, a website run by the Henan provincial government.
Terrifying moment motorist gets mobbed by dozens of drunk Frenchmen who jump up and down on her car after spilling out of BMX festival
      Dozens of drunk and overexcited extreme sports fans brought an area of central Montpellier, France, to a standstill last night after spilling out of the city's famous FISE festival and attacking cars that stood in their way.
Filthy fish and chip shop shut down after dead mice were found rotting while staff cooked meals and droppings were found in spice mix
       Health inspectors investigating an Oldham takeaway discovered rotting mice decaying on a glue trap, left, with a deep fat frying covered in grease and fat, top right, and work surfaces used for preparing food covered in mouse droppings, a court has heard. Owner Sarfaz Rouf told magistrates that he did not have a 'vast knowledge' of food hygiene. Him and Iram Bibi were fined just £250 each and the business has now closed.
Versace, Gucci... il Duce? Wardrobe where Mussolini's corpse was kept for 11 years up for auction on eBay
      The wardrobe itself is worthless but, having been the hiding place for the dictator’s corpse between 1946 and 1957, it has ghoulish value for collectors of fascist memorabilia.
How the moon was made: Researchers reveal new evidence Earth was hit by giant object as big as Mars 4.5 billion years ago
      German researchers say their analysis of Apollo moon rocks rocks show Earth was hit by a huge object called 'Theta' which led to the moon's formation.
Did HUMANS wipe out the woolly mammoth? Study finds a direct link between hunting and the extinction of large Ice Age animals
      Researchers at Aarhus University in Denmark came to the conclusion after looking at the pattern of extinctions for 177 species between 132,000 years and 1,000 years ago.
Sky-high WiFi will soon be available across Europe: Passengers on British Airways flights to get internet within three years
      Internet will be soon be available on British Airways flights (pictured) across Europe. The service will be provided by London-based satellite operator Inmarsat.
'I was a product of rape': Miss USA 2014 hopeful reveals she was conceived when her mother was attacked at knifepoint
       Valerie Gatto's mother was attacked when she was 19. Rather than let the tragic story define her, Valerie uses it to help educate young women about sexual assault. 'I believe God put me here for a reason,' she said.'To give [people] hope that everything is possible and you can't let your circumstances define your life.'
My Big Fat Gypsy horse fair: Traditional gathering begins in Appleby - and is already hit by row over 'invasion'
      A large number of traveller families have pitched cars, caravans and horse buggies on a privately owned golf course in the small market town of Appleby, Cumbria.
Tasty Terracotta Army! Food artist makes China's iconic warriors with PIZZA dough (but they won't last thousands of years)
      Annabel de Vetten created the scaled-down warriors to celebrate the opening of Pizza Express' 500th restaurant... in Beijing.
You appear to have an ad-blocker running which will prevent this page from functioning as intended. Please disable your ad-blocker or set an exception for this page.Today's hottestfashion findsSee moreRihannaWow like Rihanna in an embellished sheer dressRead more ›KarruecheWork a simple white dress into your summer wardrobeRead more ›KourtneyGo back to black in monochrome Nike trainersRead more ›AlexaRamp up your wardrobe and invest in a leather pencil skirtRead more ›
          She's no shrinking violet! Lorde wears purple lipstick from her new Mac collection during bewitching performance in London
          Looking scarily good! Camilla Belle wears a skull print T-shirt as she arrives at LAX after South America trip
          You'll never take King's Landing with THAT! Game Of Thrones star Kit Harington poses with plastic dragon at Universal Studios
          'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honour': Man V. Food host Adam Richmand poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
          Shane Warne caught kissing and sharing intimate embrace with Playboy cover girl Emily Scott... but he STILL insists he's single
          Boho babe: Alessandra Ambrosio forgoes make-up as she runs errands in LA clad in a pretty lilac tie-dye maxi-dress
          King Kevin rules supreme: Spacey is magnificent in one-man show Clarence Darrow, writes QUENTIN LETTS
          BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Let's hear it for the Scottsboro Boys! Brandon Victor Dixon to star in West End production of extraordinary show
          Poetic, haunting... these D-Day letters moved me to tears: CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV
          A hit and miss comedy: There are funny moments, but Jump Street's daft cops fail to reach the hilarious heights of their first film
          This won't do Grace any favours: BRIAN VINER reviews Nicole Kidman's latest film Grace of Monaco
          'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die:' Roman Polanski shares private memories of wife Sharon Tate in new book on pregnant beauty's tragic life
          Hollywood's $800 facial: The secret to Angelina Jolie's glowing skin combines microdermabrasion, laser and a peel
          It's DJ Delta! The Voice Kids coach Goodrem jets home from Hollywood with an edgy new look complete with ripped jeans and shiny headphones
          She's certainly a good advertisement! US TV presenter Maria Menounos promotes her diet and fitness book in shiny black shorts in New York City
          'I gave him every bit of advice but now it's up to him': Usher opens up about his friend Justin Bieber's spiral out of control
          It's ON Again! Spring Breakers star Ashley Benson steps out with her beau Ryan Good wearing a bright playsuit
          Put away the bowl! Cindy Crawford reveals her stunning mane of hair was not always her crowning glory in cute flashback photo
          'I almost killed Tom Cruise!' Emily Blunt recalls terrifying moment she nearly crashed a car while shooting scenes for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Still a sex symbol! Raquel Welch, 73, looks decades younger in white jeans and yellow jacket while out to dinner
          Her own best ad! Kate Hudson displays her washboard abs as she models for fitness line... and shares her workout motivation
          Angela Simmons displays toned physique in sexy summery outfit as she hints at new venture following power lunch with her 'fitness gurus'
          The Devil Wears...white! Meryl Streep goes sinister as the Chief Elder of a dystopian society in The Giver
          Nature girl! Vanessa Hudgens shows off her toned tummy in black crop top and shorts during a vigorous hillside hike
          'I'd be open to doing more True Detective': Matthew McConaughey expresses interest in reprising Rust Cohle TV role
          Pretty as a picture! Jessica Alba shows her passion for prints while leaving the studio with takeout lunch
          That's where she gets it from! Leggy Gigi Hadid is chic in short metallic frock while out with her stylish mother Yolanda Foster
          Natalie Portman is fresh-faced and flawless as she touches down at LAX with husband Benjamin Millepied and their adorable son Aleph
          Good news for Miley Cyrus as police 'arrest two people in their 20s' in connection with star's stolen $100k Maserati
          Hot mama! Country singer Jessie James shows off her trim post-baby body at CMT Awards... just three months after giving birth
          Don't mention the outfit! Even Lena Dunham has 'no comment' over her unflattering ensemble as she enjoys a stroll in New York
          'Superhero workout!' Arrow's Stephen Amell shows off his impressive 'parkour' skills on military inspired obstacle course
          Strong sensitive types! Insurgent's Theo James brings Fault In Their Stars book to the gym while Miles Teller pumps some iron
          Farrah Abraham reveals she's writing a Christian parenting book... despite admitting she needs 'space' from her four-year-old and waxes child's eyebrows
          She's glowing: Holly Willoughby shows off growing bump in navy skater dress as she films This Morning segment
          She's anything but PLANE! Carol Vorderman shows off her pins in hot pink and black dress at photocall after jetting herself back from awards show
          'We've got a Christmas bun in the oven! Coronation Street's Paula Lane announces first pregnancy with childhood sweetheart Tom Shaw on Twitter
          'I'm going to get stick for this': Amy Willerton posts bikini selfie... but worries about how her fans will react
          'Squats are the key! Even 10 make me feel better': Victoria's Secret Angel Candice Swanepoel reveals secrets behind that body
          The lady is a vamp! Rihanna unleashes her rock chick side in a skimpy leather two-piece and fierce lace-up heels for Paris charity event
          Explicit content! Lindsay Lohan can't even manage a supporting role in sheer logo top... but at least gives parental advisory warning
          A leggy Lily Allen makes rare appearance with husband Sam Cooper for date night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Think pink! Alex Gerrard shows off her toned figure and glowing tan in bubblegum-hued workout gear
          She's well-heeled: BGT star Lettice Rowbotham whips off her shoes as she heads to BBC studios
          Russell Brand DEFENDS Justin Bieber for making vile racial slurs at the age of 14... claiming he should be 'let off' because it was 'ages ago'
          Whatever the leather: New mum Caprice shows off her post-pregnancy figure in skin-tight leather skirt and top
          Welcome to the strip: Danielle Lloyd and husband Jamie O'Hara jet into Vegas for a holiday with friends
          Not a bad consolation prize! Michael Carrick puts World Cup woes behind him as he and wife Lisa strip to their swimwear to top up their tans in Ibiza
          Graham Norton saves Amanda Holden from revealing more than she intended while doing a handstand in LBD
          It's a very Vogue birthday: Model Bambi Norwood-Blyth celebrates by shooting for fashion magazine with designer husband Dan Single
          J-Wow! Jennifer Lopez doesn't leave much to the imagination as she strips down to sexy latex stockings and suspenders to play first-ever hometown gig
          J.Lo revisits the Bronx and THAT Versace dress for homecoming show... after transsexual bikini model linked to Casper Smart speaks out
          Feeling like a million dollars! Matchmaker Patti Stanger, 53, wears plunging swimsuit as she celebrates her birthday with toyboy fiancé
          Do Ya Thang! Rihanna is sexy in a silky black miniskirt and matching tuxedo jacket as she goes for dinner in Paris
          Here comes the bride! Adam Levine to marry model Behati Prinsloo in 'intimate Mexican ceremony' on July 19
          Politics is the new black: AnnaLynne McCord votes for her spiritual guru as congressional candidate... but she comes in fourth
          She can't resist her man in uniform! Suki Waterhouse gets to grips with Bradley Cooper on set of American Sniper
          Million dollar smile! Victoria Justice beams in an unusual wrap dress at the Spent: Looking For Change premiere
          Strong after 22 years! Woody Allen strolls through Central Park with Soon-Yi Previn... as he prepares to shoot Emma Stone movie in Rhode Island
          Mama June doesn't let her 'forklift foot' get in the way of a family pool day as she goes swimming in socks
          Ramona Singer holds hands with husband Mario on romantic movie date... after firing off legal warning to his mistress over 'lewd messages'
          'Millie Mackintosh and Abbey Clancy already have their eyes on a few pieces': Julien Macdonald unveils glamorous beachwear range for Matalan
          She's stopping traffic: Elsa Pataky wears striking lime green reptilian dress to take over the streets of Madrid for fashion shoot
          Ivana Trump sells her Palm Beach mansion for $18 million - more than FOUR TIMES what she paid for it in 1994
          Table for three! Pregnant Julia Carey displays subtle baby bump as she steps out for dinner with James Corden at Chiltern Firehouse
          Beyonce shows off her amazing legs in pink mini dress as she has a date night with Jay Z in New York
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney set to reveal sex secrets in Big Brother house
          Watch your tan-line! Abbey Clancy wows in a daring cut-out panel swimsuit as she holidays in Hawaii with Peter Crouch
          Now that's a game plan! Gisele Bundchen and Tom Brady's sprawling new Boston mansion takes shape
          Your slip is showing! Leggy Chrissy Teigen heats up New York in black lace lingerie and white knit sweater while heading to dinner
          Looking slinky! Casey Batchelor struts in shiny snakeskin leggings and low-cut top as she models her new fashion collection
          She's got it! Eliza Doolittle is a triumph in plunging leather crop-top and sporty silk trousers at The Other Ball
          'There's quite a bit of blood': The 911 call made after The Brady Bunch housekeeper Ann B Davis has fatal fall is released
          Does she EVER stay in? As Princess Beatrice dines at Roka, we bring you the hotspot-hopping royal's guide to London's smartest restaurants
          From Iceland to ice cool: Sexiest Woman of All Time Rachel Stevens swaps supermarket chic for a semi-sheer top and smart tailoring
          Hawaii-five-WHOAH!! Emma Roberts bares her toned tum in daring crop top... while Lupita Nyong'o is a vision in green at the Maui Film Festival opening 
          Is this Jen 2.0? Meet the 2014 Miss Universe Australia finalist who works as Jennifer Hawkins' body double - and she's from her home town!
          'No more marriages': Pregnant Katie Price vows to never wed again after third husband Kieran Hayler cheated on her
          He's leaving Home! Summer Bay's resident  hottie Lincoln Younes swaps surfing for the 1960s as he takes a new role in Love Child
          Supporting her man! Khloe Kardashian opts for cleavage-baring top as she watches French Montana at J-Lo Bronx show
          Kanye West to take 'drastic measures' to beef up daughter North's security as he 'fears for her safety'
          True Blood star Jim Parrack to divorce wife of six years Ciera... as he 'moves on' with Hunger Games actress Leven Rambin
          Hats you win! Racing fan Jodie Kidd smoulders as she strikes a pose in glamorous headgear ahead of the Derby
          He's clearly nutritious! TOWIE's Gemma Collins can barely keep her lips off mystery new boyfriend as she debuts him on health shop trip
          Belle-y of the ball: Miley stands out in crop top and ripped jeans as she leaves hotel after Copenhagen concert
          He still has the big house! OJ Simpson's Florida home sold for $655,000 in foreclosure auction
          'It's given me a chance to give something back': Cambridge medical student wins swimsuit round of the Miss England
          I got fired for being pregnant: Lara Stone says she was axed for modelling job because she was too fat
          Are they dating? Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Meryl Davis reunite for cosy night on the town two weeks after DWTS win
          Mother of three Elsa Pataky, 37, dazzles in black mini skirt as she unveils her new fitness book and her rock hard abs
          Alessandra Ambrosio shows off her toned tum in black crop top and displays perfect pins in thigh-split skirt as she attends event with fiance Jamie Mazur
          Cashmere from Tesco. Undies from Asda. Posh frocks from Sainsbury's: The ultimate guide to summer style at the supermarket!
          Her faiery tale life! Sam Faiers puts her cleavage on display in plunging dress for Alice In Wonderland themed magazine photo shoot
          Cara Santana puts on a brave face as she hits the gym in midriff baring vest after boyfriend Jesse Metcalfe's ex slammed his bedroom prowess
          'She's being tormented and harassed': Kardashians rent store in The Hamptons and landlord gets 'slammed on internet' and 'snide comments' for doing it
          Kendall Jenner continues to take the plunge as she dons low-cut black number while promoting new sci-fi book with Kylie
          Sheer daring! Pregnant Rebecca Ferguson looks radiant in black gown as she shows off her baby bump ahead of performance at Parkinson's event
          Something to get off your chest? Lily Allen's deep pink hair is overshadowed by keyhole black dress featuring centre split at The Other Ball
          It's there in black and white: Jessica Wright wears chic backless jumpsuit... while Diana Vickers thrills in mini at Parkinson's event
          Former Beverly Hills, 90210 star Rebecca Gayheart goes dotty in see- through shirt as she takes adorable daughter Billie Dane out for the day
          That's why the Sexiest Woman Of All Time goes to Iceland! Rachel Stevens is far cry from title as she goes make-up free in frozen food store
          'Some guys prefer blondes, some brunettes - I like old ladies': 'Extreme toyboy', 31, takes 91-year-old girlfriend home to meet his mother
          'I need to step up and own what I did': Bieber apologises after fresh clip of singer 'changing song lyrics to joke about killing a n****** and joining Ku Klux Klan'
          Getting to grips with the wildlife! Ellie Goulding posts cute Instagram snap cuddling a koala while on tour in Australia
          Let the pageant begin! Miss USA 2014 contestants strut their stuff at the preliminary competition in Louisiana
          Demi Lovato steals the spotlight in a statement black and yellow frock as she picks up Fun Fearless Latina Of The Year Award
          Robin Wright and Mel B prove simplicity is best in elegant black ensembles at magazine bash
          Let's bounce! Hugh Jackman is jumping for joy in a mysterious new video that says shows him hopping around the world
          'I invented the international press tour': Tom Cruise makes claim after whirlwind three-country première feat for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Ooh la la! Kirsten Dunst goes topless for Madame Figaro magazine as she reveals she feels more appreciated in France
Thor, god of the lie-in! 'Talking' puppy growls 'no' at his owner as he's told to get out of bed at 3:30am
       Thor the dog from Birmingham, Michigan, is seen in a video peacefully lying in bed before being woken up at 3.30am. But showing that it's not just humans who struggle in the morning, the little pup repeatedly growls what sounds like 'no' as he refuses to get up.
Is that an Old Master painting - or Beyonce’s Master Cleanse? Photographer recreates celebrity diets as still lifes
      Italian Dan Bannino reproduced the diets of Gwyneth Paltrow, Kate Moss, Beyonce Knowles, Simon Cowell, and even King Henry VIII.
Fizzy drinks 'loaded with harmful sugars could increase the risk of developing diabetes, cardiovascular and liver disease'
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say the drinks contain more fructose, which is converted to fat in the liver, than people realise.
       The rhino was part of a relocation programme in the Zululand region of South Africa, which aims to keep the animals safe. The images of its dramatic airlift, which was carried out by KZN Wildlife Game Capture, were taken by photographer Em Gatland, who described witnessing the transfer as surreal and a mixture of emotion.
China may have banned Tiananmen Square memorial but the rest of Asia remembers: From Hong Kong to Taiwan thousands hold vigil on 25th anniversary of Beijing massacre
Dont come back, next time you wont get out alive: Talibans taunt as they released deserter POW Bowe revealed in propaganda video
Pictured: Grinning father of famous model moments after he executed his neighbour and minutes before he 'swallowed the gun' in dramatic standoff with Chinese SAS
Suicidal Chinese mother leaps from third floor balcony after her daughter refused to break up with 'lazy' boyfriend (but miraculously survives)
Hundreds of pro-Russian rebels killed in fierce attack by Ukrainian forces as Obama tells Nato allies 'you'll never be alone'
Thousands of anti-monarchist protesters take to streets of Spain calling for a republic after King Juan Carlos abdicates after 39 years
Woolly jumpers, wide collared jackets and unflattering skirts ... the medal for worst Commonwealth Games uniforms goes to Australia
King Juan Carlos of Spain in shock abdication after 40 years as his son and glamourous ex-newsreader wife take on challenge of leading Spain out of the doldrums
Spain harbours highest number of expat benefit cheats with more than 700 believed to be scamming the system while soaking up the sun
Mother of British backpacker missing in Malaysian jungle for six days arrives in country 'to be here when they find him'
Come here you big BULLy! Chinese wrestlers get to grips with giant calves in man over beast competition
China disgust at woman who beheads cat and posts image online - and then blames 'alcohol and domestic misfortune'
Bodies of five French soldiers from WWI found alongside their wallets, rifles and a figurine of the Virgin Mary in French wood 100 years after they were killed
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of...
Mother in tears after being called a 'slut' by two customers for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
Obama pleads with Scotland to vote 'No' to independence AND for Britain to stay in the European Union
Brother of Sudanese woman facing death penalty for ‘abandoning her Islamic faith’ by marrying a Christian says...
Home of the free! Father paints his house with stars and stripes in protest at local officials who tried to...
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at Seattle Pacific...
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left...
A step too far? New Lifetime reality show to film women giving BIRTH in the wild with no help from doctors
A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video, that proves boys will be boys no...
Emotional moment US marine is reunited with bomb-sniffing dog who kept him safe in Afghanistan after they were separated four years ago without saying goodbye
       U.S. Marine Corps veteran Corporal Jeff DeYoung of Muskegon, Michigan worked with bomb-sniffing black Lab Cena until April 2010. That's when DeYoung went home to Michigan and he's since started a family but never forgot about his best canine friend. Their emotional reunion took place Thursday at the Detroit airport thanks to a non-profit group called Mission K9 Rescue.
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say fasting could be particularly beneficial for people whose immune systems have been damaged by chemotherapy.
Couples that sleep together, stay together: Spouses are more likely to slumber in sync if the wife is satisfied with their marriage
      New study showS that overall synchrony in sleep-wake schedules among couples was higher when the woman was happier in the relationship.
Who left the hand-brake off? Investigation under way after Ryanair plane rolls backwards and crashes into airport building, destroying tail wing
      The force of the impact tore apart the rear stabiliser of the £72m Boeing 737 at Rome Ciampino Airport yesterday.
Malaysian police refuse to rule out foul play in case of missing backpacker Gareth Huntley as his family await autopsy to determine whether shirtless body found in Malaysian jungle pond is him
      Mr Huntley's mother Janet Southwell, who arrived in Malaysia on Monday was pictured this morning outside Tengku Ampuan Afzan Hospital in Kuantan with his girlfriend Kit Natariga.
Shocking moment one-armed Russian motorist starts furious road rage punch-up with car behind... but then ends up getting badly beaten
       A one-armed Russian man (circled, top left) has been filmed starting a road rage fight in Moscow, but quickly has the tables turned on him as he is kicked in the head and has his false arm pulled off (bottom right). Nikita Korolev, 43, and Kiril Stepanov, 45, started punching and kicking the occupants of a car behind them through the open windows after the driver refused to back up, but ended up being beaten themselves.
          Follow Sportsmail's coverage of the French Open, as Andy Murray takes on Rafael Nadal in the semi-finals
          Stuart Pearce insists Everton midfielder Ross Barkley should not be in Brazil this summer at all
          Robin van Persie has declared himself 100 per cent fit for the World Cup as the Dutch squad arrived in Rio
          The Azzurri hit a hiccup ahead of the World Cup when they realised their plane was too small
          Aston Villa have sounded out Rio Ferdinand over a possible move to Villa Park - but the defender is thought to favour Spurs
          Jose Mourinho has admitted Chelsea are interested in signing the former Arsenal captain from Barcelona 
=======================================================
  #priceBlock, #priceBlock table td, #primaryUsedAndNew, #primaryClubPrice, #secondaryUsedAndNew, #secondaryClubPrice, #adultWarning, #violenceWarning { font-size: small; }
  table.offersAndRebates th { font-size: small; font-weight: bold; text-align: right; padding-left: 8px; }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-body .wl-pop-left { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_left._V245377548_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-body .wl-pop-right { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_right._V245377550_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-header .wl-pop-left { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_topleft._V245421466_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-header .wl-pop-right { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_topright._V245377539_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-header .wl-pop-middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_top._V245377545_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-footer .wl-pop-left { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_bottomleft._V245377589_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-footer .wl-pop-right { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_bottomright._V245377584_.png); }
    .wl-pop-unsprited .wl-pop-footer .wl-pop-middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gifts/registries/wishlist/eq/wladd_drop_bottom._V156433861_.png); }
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite_buybox_drop_sides._V247168586_.png);
      background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite_wladd_drop_corners._V156421604_.png);
div.nvff_highlight   { font-size:0.9em; margin-top:8px; margin-bottom:10px; padding:7px; border:1px solid #DDDAC0; background:#FFFFDD; }
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/twister/images/down-arrow-shadow-v2-buybox._V181901516_.png) center top no-repeat;
  _background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/twister/images/down-arrow-v2-buybox._V181901516_.png);
  background-image:url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-cbox._V388671922_.png); 
     background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/btn_add-to-cart._V156421482_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
.prime-pBoxBL, .prime-pBoxBR { position:absolute; width:10px; height:10px; z-index:1; bottom:-1px; background-image:url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/sprite-all-corners._V192251185_.gif); background-repeat:no-repeat; }
    background-image:url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kitchen/scheduled-delivery/sd_bkgd_sprite2._V156428021_.png');
    background-image:url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kitchen/scheduled-delivery/sd_bkgd_sprite2._V156428021_.png'); 
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V397906885_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/rentals/rent-book-promo-image._V176687376_.png');
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/gifting/box-top-left._V200235849_.jpg");
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/gifting/box-top._V200235850_.jpg");
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/gifting/box-top-right._V200235851_.jpg");
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/gifting/box-left._V200235894_.jpg");
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/gifting/box-right._V200235855_.jpg");
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/gifting/box-bottom-left._V200235899_.jpg");
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/gifting/box-bottom._V200235895_.jpg");
  background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/gifting/box-bottom-right._V200235893_.jpg");
	background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/payphrase/widget-background._V192199000_.gif);
	background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/payphrase/widget_background_161x26._V187983538_.gif);
    #main-image-widget .thumbs .video-alt div { font-size: 10px; border: 1px solid #CCC; border-top: none; }
    #main-image-unavailable .wrapper.not-buyable { border:1px solid #AA0000; height:83px; _height:84px;}
    #main-image-widget .holder.video.hide { top: 0; left: -1px; width: 1px !important; height: 1px !important; }
    #main-image-widget.noflash #main-image{ opacity:0.4; -moz-opacity:0.4; filter:alpha(opacity=40); }
    #recommendations h2 { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size:13px; font-weight: bold; color: #C60; }
    #recommendations li .item { text-align:left; margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;position:relative;padding-right: 10px;}
    #recommendations .item .title { font-family:arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size:11px; }
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192190832_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite._V192250042_.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192239831_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V192238939_.gif');
    background: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/sprite-carousel-btns-stars2._V376388587_.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V166092224_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V166092224_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V166092224_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V166092224_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
    background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/twister/images/twister_books_sprite._V166092224_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0 !important;
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192250049_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V156431432_.png);
.SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:link, #A9AdsMiddleBoxTop .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:link, #SponsoredLinksCustomerMediaPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:link, #SponsoredLinksTagPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:link {
.SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:hover,  #A9AdsMiddleBoxTop .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:hover, #SponsoredLinksCustomerMediaPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:hover, #SponsoredLinksTagPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:hover {
.SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:visited, #A9AdsMiddleBoxTop .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:visited, #SponsoredLinksCustomerMediaPage .SponsoredLinkDescritionUrlLink:visited, #SponsoredLinksTagPage .SponsoredLinkDescriptionUrlLink:visited {
div.mp3Enabled a.mp3Asin { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; height: 20px; width: 20px; cursor: pointer; margin: 0; vertical-align: middle; overflow: hidden;
		background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/zeitgeist/mp3player/sprites._V192194383_.gif') repeat-x scroll 0 0; }
.mp3DurationPopover { border: 1px solid black; background-color: #FFFFE1; font-size: 0.8em; padding: 1px 5px 1px 5px; text-align: center}
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_left_17._V248144977_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_right_17._V248144979_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_left._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top._V265110086_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_left._V265110084_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom._V265110084_.png); }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-arrow-v._V219326286_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York TimesŽ Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
                FREE Two-Day Shipping is available to Amazon Prime members. To join, select "Yes, I want FREE Two-Day Shipping with Amazon Prime" above the Add to Cart button and confirm your Amazon Prime free trial sign-up during checkout.
Important:  Your credit card will NOT be charged when you start your free trial or if you cancel during the trial period. If you're happy with Amazon Prime, do nothing. At the end of the free trial, your membership will automatically upgrade to an annual membership. 
Comment: This is a typical used book. What does this mean? When a visitor picks it up and looks it over it will look as if you've read it even if you have not gotten to it yet. We Pack Carefully and Ship Daily! This is a typical used book. What does this mean? When a visitor picks it up and looks it over it will look as if you've read it even if you have not gotten to it yet. Amazon Prime Members get FREE 2 day shipping; Not prime? Join, it's worth it.
o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o
No Kindle device required. Download one of the free Kindle apps to start reading Kindle books on your smartphone, tablet and computer.
From his amazing feature film performances to his roles as producer and director to his many notable guest appearances, De Niro started his career as early as 1965 and has since dominated the world of Hollywood. Untouchable will take you inside the life of this astonishing actor to provide a revealing and sometimes startling account of an intensely private man. Dougan provides information on actual life events that seemed to have had a profound effect on De Niro emotionally, and discusses De Niro's working and personal relationships with personalities such as Martin Scorcese, Jack Nicholson, Jodie Foster, and Sharon Stone. With an updated epilogue and filmography, this new edition will also include De Niro's entrepreneurial and behind-the-scenes role in co-founding Tribeca Productions in 1988 and the works he has since produced and directed. Although De Niro continues his work as an actor, it is his vision for Tribeca to be the axis of the film industry and the heart of New York City's film community that currently takes up most of his time. 24 black-and-white photos are included.
From his amazing feature film performances to his roles as producer and director to his many notable guest appearances, De Niro started his career as early as 1965 and has since dominated the world of Hollywood. Untouchable will take you inside the life of this astonishing actor to provide a revealing and sometimes startling account of an intensely private man. Dougan provides information on actual life events that seemed to have had a profound effect on De Niro emotionally, and discusses De Niro's working and personal relationships with personalities such as Martin Scorcese, Jack Nicholson, Jodie Foster, and Sharon Stone. With an updated epilogue and filmography, this new edition will also include De Niro's entrepreneurial and behind-the-scenes role in co-founding Tribeca Productions in 1988 and the works he has since produced and directed. Although De Niro continues his work as an actor, it is his vision for Tribeca to be the axis of the film industry and the heart of New York City's film community that currently takes up most of his time. 24 black-and-white photos are included.
{"currencyCode":"USD","itemData":[{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":13.87,"ASIN":"1560254696","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":11.51,"ASIN":"1416955569","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":26.96,"ASIN":"184454639X","isPreorder":0}],"shippingId":"1560254696::ovknr5vRDhfes1t96XqTga0OtFMSRlQixc%2BMRBtFdOpUB2iKUpnt1bz9PvXCFu0b0ufhRCsYR4uwZ8lnnMgzEcXjl2vtP9B7qq0x%2B%2FVJRfg%3D,1416955569::EgDK4Z8eqaDRAVKOFGAt7IbKGpUtaJzZNYAZBzclCdnJFSbSg3CAp1BeIS5db1HG0SHUGBe2tFMogA3clev6aCM1W8318rorWH7NfodDjFY%3D,184454639X::n2C8OEqmVpYOGvLDx0gz%2FIiM9SAAEG1ojmQH78MQb%2BKmsQKRQPqnt%2FFJe6FGIFmQJDYSyxdp%2BFKGcQJ5PageiNyWTqWueXOgTdfSy4SrDVkSnRiOQE3KFw%3D%3D","sprites":{"addToWishlist":["wl_one","wl_two","wl_three"],"addToCart":["s_addToCart","s_addBothToCart","s_add3ToCart"],"preorder":["s_preorderThis","s_preorderBoth","s_preorderAll3"]},"shippingDetails":{"xz":"availability","yz":"availability","xy":"same","xyz":"availability"},"tags":["x","y","z"],"strings":{"showDetails":"Show details","differentAvailabilityAll":"Some of these items ship sooner than the others.","addToWishlist":["add to wishlist","Add both to Wish List","Add all three to Wish List"],"shippingError":"An error occurred, please try again","differentAvailability":"One of these items ships sooner than the other.","preorder":["Pre-order this item","Pre-order both items","Pre-order all three items"],"addToCart":["Add to Cart","Add both to Cart","Add all three to Cart"],"showDetailsDefault":"Show availability and shipping details","priceLabel":["Price:","Price for both:","Price for all three:"],"hideDetailsDefault":"Hide availability and shipping details","hideDetails":"Hide details"}}
ANDY DOUGAN is the author of The Biography of George Clooney, Robin Williams, Martin Scorcese, and The Actors’ Director: Richard Attenborough Behind the Camera. A respected film reviewer and broadcaster, Dougan is Chairman of the guild of Film Writers. He lives in Ireland.
It took me a while to decide whether to give this book 3 or 4 stars.  As you can see, I decided on the lower number.  I have many reasons for this:1.  This is an interesting book, but only because it is about Robert De Niro.  Not because the information is presented in an interesting fashion.  In fact, my Calculus textbook presents its information more interestingly than this bio.  Mr. Dougan either doesn't know how to write, or had his 9 year old write this book for him.  The language of his writing is awful.  The way he states things is bad (he also uses the word "keen" at least once every 2 pages-what's up with that?)You'll understand what I meanif you have read this.3.  He doesn't do everything in chronological order.  For example, he'll go on for a few pages about a movie De Niro was doing, than he'll suddenly go back five years and tell us about De Niro's relationship with one of his wives or something like that.  He could definately have done this in a way so that it isn't so grating on the reader.4.  He uses quotes that are at times unrelated to what he's talking about.5.  He repeats the same information multiple times.  For example, I think that he has John Belushi dying about 5 times in 2 chapters.  In fact chapters 22 and 23 three begin with almost the exact same sentence ("The death of John Belushi was a devastating blow for De Niro." and "Since the death of John Belushi, De Niro had been taking stock of his life."  Tell me that those two chapters don't sound like they are both about the same thing, De Niro dealing with Belushi's death.)6.  He uses unrelated things to make the book seem bigger.  For example, a little over two chapters are devoted to John Belushi's life, his relatationship with De Niro, his death, and the investigation after his death.7.  He doesn't have enough actual information about De Niro preparing and making his movies.  He tends to spend much more time quoting reviews that various critics gave of De Niro's performances.  In fact, I'd say that the critic quotes outnumber actual facts about making the movies 3 to 1.8.  He has absolutely no interviews that he specifically did for this book with anyone who would know anything about De Niro's life, preparing for roles, making his movies, anything!  Instead he relies on past interviews that other people have conducted with De Niro and people who know him.So, overall this was an interesting book since it is the first bio of Robert De Niro that I read.  However, that is the only thing it has going for it.  Unless you can't find ANYTHING at all better, don't read this.  If you have to read this because your library doesn't have any other bios on De Niro (the unfortunate situation that I fell into), then I guess this is okay.Oh, I almost forgot one more thing:9.  He gets a lot of his facts wrong.  For instance, he says that De Niro, playing Vito Corleone in Godfather II, was the only one to say the famous "offer he can't refuse" line.  While in fact, Brando says it in the first one when telling Tom Hagen what to do about Woltz, the movie producer, AND Michael (Pacino) also says it in the first one when Fredo asks how he will convince Moe Greene to sell the casino.  And those two are just off of my head (he does say that Pacino "alluded" to the famous line while telling Kay about Luca Brasi and the band leader during the wedding scene, but he says that that apparently doesn't count). Read more ›
  Robert DeNiro is, without a doubt, one of the most engrossing actors  ever.When I noticed that there was a new biography out by Dougan, I was  immediately interested in reading it.  However, the book has many faults:  inconsistent reference to "Robert DeNiro Snr, Robert DeNiro, Robert  DeNiro Jnr, Bobby DeNiro" -- to such an extent that the reader at  points has to guess to whom the name is referenced!  Secondly, the book  refers to a painting by Virginia Admiral as having sold for $100, but in  the picture caption after page 152 lists $1000 as the selling price.  This  is just what a reader does NOT need in a biography.  When some details are  obviously in disagreement, I become much more dubious about any other fact  that I don't already know.  Defeating, since one usually chooses to buy a  biography to learn new things about the subject.Also, while there are 16  pages of pictures, probably 75% of them are from the British Film Institute  -- very common acting pictures.  There are no pictures of DeNiro's  mother/father/children, and only one picture of each wife.  Disappointing.For a reader who knows relatively little about Robert  DeNiro and can overlook the minor inconsistencies, this book will suffice.  However, if you are as discerning with the quality of the literature you  read as the actors you choose to follow from the theatre, skip this one.
  Although the book tends to contradict itself, it does it's best to give us insight into the very elusive actor. The book is nothing more than a compilation of articles and interviews DeNiro has given during his career.  Personal recollections of those who've worked with him are thrown in in an  attempt to balance the reporting but it is far from a personal history of  the most talented actor working today. However, Andy Dugan does his best to  print both sides of the less flattering characterstics and adds personal  commentary of his own to allow the reader to make their own judgement of  what's true and what's slanted criticism. Because it is hard to find any  information about DeNiro it is definately worth reading.
Like many of the other efforts to render a biography of Robert De Niro, this book makes a valiant attempt but ultimately falls short of the mark. Unlike other biographies, (and despite several glaring inaccuracies which could have been easily remedied by a careful review on the part of the publisher and or researchers), the attempt seems at least to be an honest one. The author, English as he his, constructs as broad an image of this particular celebrity actor as would seem possible given his well-known, almost obsessive protection of his privacy. We learn of the broken marriage of his parents, his NY upbringing and his powerful motivation to express himself theatrically and the intensity of his focus and ambition as an actor.This book will likely serve as a strong inspiration for actors who hope to emulate Robert De Niro's method of acting and certainly an abundance of tips and motivations are expressed through countless interviews, circumstances and situations. This is where the book succeeds. It gives an account of the relentlessness in De Niro's pursuit of excellence, balanced with those areas where it is suggested he skated through his roles either by necessity or for the money. The book fails, (for this reader) by attempting to speculate on Robert De Niro's psychology. It's simply over-done in this biography and ultimately unfair. The author draws conclusions based on De Niro's family structure and upbringing that are based on hugely external observations. As there is not one direct interview or account by anyone to support the facts in this book, it is vastly inappropriate to draw the conclusions that the author does about his subject's motivations.But as indicated earlier, the attempt seems at least an honest one. As the author sets out to write a biography about an impossible subject, he's almost doomed from the start. Still, it's an interesting read if you take the personal subject matter with a massive grain of salt. You learn a bit more about Robert De Niro's film career than you did before, you get a better sense of his goals and motivations but you wind up feeling like you've dug through his dirty clothes hamper a little more than you would've liked to. Read more ›
  This biography was a struggle to read. I didn't learn anything new about one of our finest actors and I found the author's clumsy attempt to report "dirt" on De Niro's personal... Read more
  I'm a big fan of Robert DeNiro.This book help me to see him in different view.The way he's prepare for each role his endeless hard work and great performing. Read more
  It took me a long time and I mean a very long time about 6 mths. to actually get into this book but after I did I enjoyed it and found out alot of information that I never knew... Read more
  The writer has no first hand interviews of anyone who has or had a personal relationship with the actor.  He never delves into where the actor gets his characters souls from. Read more
  In chapter 8 (p65 paperback), Dougan says De Niro "is the only person in the Godfather films who utters the immortal phrase about non-refusable offers. Read more
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMens GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
If you are a publisher or author and hold the digital rights to a book, you can sell a digital version of it in our Kindle Store.
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV  Amazons Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
BiographyRobert De Niro (born 17.8.1943)Robert De Niro is widely regarded as one of the greatest actors of all time. He is best known for his roles in films such as Raging Bull and Taxi Driver. De Niro is widely respected for his commitment to method acting, and once worked for three months as a taxi driver to prepare him for his role as Travis Bickle.Robert De Niro: ChildhoodRobert De Niro was born in New York. His mother, Virginia Admiral, was a painter and his father, also named Robert De Niro, was also a painter and sculptor. His heritage is Italian and Irish, on his father's side and English, German, French and Dutch on his mother's side. De Niro's parents divorced when he was two and he grew up in Little Italy, Manhattan.After attending the Little Red School House, his mother sent him to the Fiorella H. La Guardia High School of Music and Art. Among his fellow pupils there was Al Pacino. He also attended the Stella Adler Conservatory and Lee Strasberg's Actor Studio.Aged 16, De Niro toured in a production of Chekhov's play The Bear.Robert De Niro: Acting CareerIn 1963, De Niro appeared in Brian De Palma's The Wedding Party. For the rest of the decade, de Niro mainly worked in off-Broadway theatre productions and a number of theatre workshops. The Wedding Party was not released until 1969, so his first official film appearance was in 1968's Greetings, another De Palma number.In 1973, his role as a terminally ill baseball player in Bang the Drum Slowly earned him a great deal of public attention. Later that year, his long-term collaborative relationship with Martin Scorsese began when he starred alongside Harvey Keitel in Mean Streets. This relationship saw him starring in films such as Taxi Driver (in which he plays the film's main protagonist, Travis Bickle), New York, New York, Raging Bull (the biopic of troubled boxing legend Jake La Motta), The King of Comedy, Goodfellas, Cape Fear and Casino.The next year, De Niro played the young Don Vito Corleone in the Godfather, Part II, a Francis Ford Coppola film. His performance earned him his second Oscar, for Best Supporting Actor.In 1978, De Niro's appearance as Michael Vronsky in The Deer Hunter earned him another Oscar Nomination, this time for Best Actor.In the 1980s, De Niro began to branch out into comedy roles. He had a small role in Terry Gilliam's Brazil as well as the popular action-comedy Midnight Run. De Niro went on to star alongside Billy Crystal in 1999's Analyze This and its sequel, Analyze That. A similar success was Meet the Parents, in 2000 and its follow-up Meet the Fockers, in 2004.Interspersed with these comedic successes, De Niro also starred in a slew of more serious movies. Most notably, De Niro appeared opposite Robin Williams in Awakenings, playing a patient given new life by medication. 1993 saw De Niro star alongside Tobey Maguire and Leonardo DiCaprio - then both relatively unknown - in This Boy's Life. In 1995, De Niro starred in Michael Mann's blockbuster, Heat.In 2006, De Niro turned down a role in The Departed in order to work as director on The Good Shepherd. He co-starred in the film, along with Matt Damon, Joe Pesci and Angelina Jolie.In 2008, De Niro was reunited with Al Pacino. Although the pair had starred in the same films before, this was the first time that they had ever shared screen-time together. Also starring the rapper 50 Cent, the film received a lukewarm reception from film critics.Robert De Niro: Personal LifeDe Niro has a son, Raphael, from his first wife, Diahnne Abbott. During the marriage, Robert also adopted Abbott's daughter Drena. He also has twin sons, Julian Henry and Aaron Kendrick, from a relationship with Toukie Smith and a son Elliot. Elliot is the product of De Niro's second marriage, to Grace Hightower.De Niro has been bestowed with Italian citizenship.Robert De Niro is a supporter of the Democratic Party and has been a vocal advocate of Barack Obama.
"I can't let it go. As long as I can afford to keep it, I will keep it." Actor Robert De Niro plans to keep his late father's New York art studio exactly the way...
Robert De Niro has turned his restaurants and hotels into galleries for his artist father's paintings.Before Robert De Niro, Sr. died, his proud son asked him to design the menu for his Tribeca Grill restaurant...
Robert De Niro is proud to keep his father's artwork on show.The veteran actor was surprised when his late dad Robert De Niro Sr. - an abstract artist who died in 1993 - agreed to...
Rachel Wiesz is in talks to star in 'Idol's Eyes'.The Oscar-winning actress is in negotiations to join Robert Pattinson and Robert De Niro in the heist action-thriller which is set to start production in Chicago...
Actor Robert De Niro has been opening up about his artist father ahead of his HBO documentary, 'Remembering the Artist: Robert De Niro, Sr.' Apart from being the father of a Hollywood icon, De Niro...
Robert De Niro has joined the cast of 'Idol's Eye' starring Robert Pattinson.The double Oscar-winner will star alongside the 'Twilight Saga' actor in the heist action-thriller which is set to start production in Chicago and...
Robert De Niro is known to be very discreet when it comes to his private life, but in a rare occasion he recalled past memories of his late father.The 70 year-old iconic actor is currently...
Robert De Niro wishes he had spoken more with his late gay father about his sexuality. The 'Meet the Parents' actor's dad - Robert De Niro Sr., a famous figurative painter - separated from his...
Hollywood icon Robert De Niro regrets missing the opportunity to really bond with his artist father and discuss his sexuality after realising his dad was gay.The Raging Bull star, 70, has delved into the late...
The ongoing lawsuit, filed by Paula Petrella, daughter of deceased screenwriter Frank Petrella, was granted another shot at fighting the film studio Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc over the 1980 Martin Scorsese-directed movie, 'Raging Bull', which she alleges...
The woman who holds the copyright to a 1963 screenplay has been told that she can pursue infringement claims against the studio behind 1980's Raging Bull. Paula Petrella, whose father Frank Petrella wrote the screenplay...
Robert De Niro and his production partners at Tribeca Film have picked up the distribution rights to rapper Nas' new Illmatic documentary.The movie star and his associates have acquired North American rights to Time Is...
Sometimes the best moments in life are those which are unplanned or unexpected and it seems this is also true in the movies. As it happens some of favorite movie scenes didn't exactly turn out...
‘Zero Motivation’ and ‘Point and Shoot’ have taken the top prizes at the Tribeca Film Festival. The former picked up the mainaward, that of Best Film, while the latter prospered in the documentary category."Zero Motivation"“Zero...
Actor John Turturro is stepping in for Robert De Niro on new Tv mini-series Criminal Justice, after the Oscar winner replaced James Gandolfini following his death last year (Jun13).In September (13), the Raging Bull legend...
Jerry Seinfeld and Robert De Niro are set to headline a special Tv tribute to veteran comedian Don Rickles.The Toy Story star, 87, will be feted by some of his close pals and Hollywood's biggest...
Rapper Nas paid tribute to Robert De Niro at the Tribeca Film Festival, where his documentary Time is Illmatic played as the opening night selection. According to Variety, the crowd at the Beacon Theater practically...
Acting icon Robert De Niro and crooner Michael Buble were honoured for their philanthropic efforts at Muhammad Ali's Celebrity Fight Night on Saturday (12Apr14).The 20th annual event attracted stars from movies, music and sports to...
Robert De Niro has sold 50% of Tribeca Enterprises – the company he co-founded and the presenter of the Tribeca Film Festival - to the Madison Square Garden Company, valuing Tribeca Enterprises at $45 million.Robert...
The Madison Square Company has purchased a 50 per cent stage in Tribeca Enterprises - owners of the film festival co-founded by Robert De Niro in the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks -...
Usher's sons are his ''most prized possession''.The 'Scream' hitmaker is father to Usher, six, and five-year-old Naviyd - who he had with ex-wife Tameka Foster - and delights in the talents the two boys are...
Dexter Fletcher has withdrawn from the Freddie Mercury biopic.The 48-year-old actor and director has decided to abandon his role as director after a number of disagreements with GK Films' Graham King - who is making...
Sir Elton John raised $5.1 million (£3.2 million) for charity from his 22nd Annual Elton John AIDS Foundation Academy Awards Viewing Party on Sunday (02Mar14). The Rocket Man singer and his partner David Furnish were...
Robert De Niro and his longtime collaborator Martin Scorsese were among the stars honoured for their humanitarian work in Los Angeles on Thursday (27Feb14).The inaugural Unite4:Humanity event was created by bosses at charity Unite4:good and...
Hollywood legend Robert De Niro fears he will never helm another movie as directing is so "tough".The Raging Bull star made his directorial debut with 1993's A Bronx Tale and he stepped behind the camera...
Robert De Niro has assured fans that plans to reunite with his Goodfellas director Martin Scorsese and co-stars Al Pacino and Joe Pesci in mob movie The Irishman are still in the works, four years...
Charlie Sheen has reached out to Robert De Niro for a picture opportunity after purchasing a photo booth that featured in his movie Last Vegas.The newly-engaged actor has taken to Twitter.com to urge De Niro...
Robert DeNiro, Lady Gaga, Lindsay Lohan and Mariah Carey were among the surprise guests on Jimmy Fallon's debut 'Tonight Show' last night (17.02.14).The former 'Saturday Night Live' star anchored his first show from New York...
Will Smith, Robert De Niro, Lady Gaga, Lindsay Lohan and U2 were among the stars who turned out on Monday (17Feb14) to help Tv presenter Jimmy Fallon launch a new era of America's The Tonight...
Actor Robert De Niro is set to celebrate the 20th anniversary of his film A Bronx Tale by taking part in a rare question-and-answer session in New York later this month (Feb14) .The GoodFellas star...
All you really need to do for the next 10 minutes is relax, grab a coffee, and flick through the gallery.
A documentary focussing on the brotherly relationship between renowned rock star Matt Berninger and his metal head brother Tom.
i dont know what to say but i love  everything that he dose every word that hi speaks and every move he take i like u deniro keep it real.............
I would like to see Mr.Deniro Make a Movie with Charlie Sheen, like the Analyze because everytime i will look at his pictured i am always laughing, and looking at charlie sheen would be a great comedy.
would want to make the auguries to BOB de niro for the new little one grandson arrived in the family!
 Jonah Hill Awkwardly Watched Wolf Of Wall Street With MotherJennifer Lopez And Casper Smart SplitKelly Osbourne Thanks Date For 'Unforgettable' Lgbt PromGot A Spare $20,000? Then You Could Die In 'Game Of Thrones'Kim Kardashian West Uses Married Name For Autograph Almost 20 Years On, Dave Coulier Is Still Hung Up On Alanis Morissette's "You Oughta Know ""Why Is Hugh Bouncing?": Hugh Jackman Jumps For Joy Ahead Of Tony AwardsJohn Lennon's Doodles Sell For $27k And Other Crazy Music Auction Prices [Pictures]Game Of Thrones Vs. The Sopranos: Is Popularity Indicative Of Quality? "Game Of Thrones" Topples "The Sopranos" As Hbo's Most Watched Show
Evan Rachel Wood's Representative Slams 'Preposterous' LawsuitJennifer Lopez Splits From Boyfriend - ReportFight For Your Right: Beastie Boys Collect $1.7M In Monster Copyright BattleLa Toya Jackson wants 'huge' weddingChris Brown's Celebrity Pals Gather For Post-prison PartyLupita Nyong'o To Reteam With Brad Pitt For New Movie 
Pharrell Williams - Full Show - #AmexUNSTAGED VideoJack White - Lazaretto VideoSharlto Copley - Maleficent Video Interview Sam Riley - Maleficent Video Interview Elle Fanning - Maleficent Video Interview  
Sharlto Copley - Maleficent Video InterviewSam Riley - Maleficent Video InterviewElle Fanning - Maleficent Video InterviewAngelina Jolie - Maleficent Video InterviewBlair Jollands - Interview 
Christopher Hall - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, United Kingdom -Jerry Lewis and Larry King - Jerry Lewis attends the Friars Club celebration ofWanda Sykes and Alex Sykes - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life AchievementSyd Wilder - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life Achievement Award honoring JaneMatthew Davies and Emma Willis - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, 
=======================================================
(born Aug. 17, 1943, New York, N.Y., U.S.) U.S. film actor. He made his debut in 1968 and played in minor films until his critically acclaimed performance in Bang the Drum Slowly (1973). He starred in Mean Streets (1973) and other films directed by Martin Scorsese, including Taxi Driver (1976), Raging Bull (1980, Academy Award), and GoodFellas (1990). Noted for his intensely committed performances, he also starred in The Godfather, Part II (1974, Academy Award), The Deer Hunter (1978), Once upon a Time in America (1984), Heat (1997), and Meet the Parents (2000). He directed his first film, A Bronx Tale, in 1993.
One of the greatest American actors of his generation, Robert De Niro (born 1943) is known for his total immersion in roles. Whether driving a cab to prepare for "Taxi Driver" or gaining 60 pounds to play boxer Jake La Motta in "Raging Bull", De Niro studies his characters intensely. The Oscar-winning actor is best known for his roles in gangster-related films such as "The Godfather, Part II".In a 1976 interview, De Niro explained his approach to preparing for a role. "Actors must expose themselves to the surroundings and keep their minds obsessed with that," he said. " … I always look at everything…. If you don't practice, you don't know your subject and it can't be natural … You've got to physically and mentally become that person you are portraying."Bobby MilkDe Niro was born in New York City on August 17, 1943. His father, Robert De Niro Sr., was a sculptor, painter and poet. His mother, Virginia Admiral, also sold paintings. His parents had a salon in Greenwich Village that attracted other artists and intellectuals. They divorced when their son was a young child. As he approached adolescence, De Niro was shy and sickly looking. His pale complexion earned him the nickname "Bobby Milk" in the ethnic neighborhood of "Little Italy," where he grew up. His first stage role, at age ten, was as the cowardly lion in a local production of The Wizard of Oz.At the age of 16, De Niro got his first paying role, in a production of Chekhov's The Bear . He was hooked. Dropping out of high school just a few credits short of graduation, he studied Method acting under Lee Strasberg and Stella Adler. For the next 14 years De Niro performed off-Broadway, in dinner theaters, in touring productions, and occasionally in television commercials and small films.Director Brian De Palma gave De Niro his start in films.. He cast the young New Yorker in the little-noticed, small-budget films The Wedding Party, Greetings, and Hi, Mom! In Greetings De Niro had the lead role as a draft dodger. Soon, actress Shelley Winters took him under her wing. She helped him land a part in the low-budget Roger Corman film Bloody Mama. He played one of the sons of her character, the legendary killer Ma Barker. De Niro prepared by spending weeks in the Ozark Mountains, perfecting an Arkansas dialect. De Niro next appeared in a string of poorly received films, including Jennifer on My Mind, Born to Win, and The Gang That Couldn't Shoot Straight. Though the movies were panned, some film critics started to notice his exceptional performances."You Talkin' to Me?"In 1973, De Niro, who was turning 30, finally won widespread acclaim with two remarkable performances. He portrayed a dying baseball pitcher in Bang the Drum Slowly . De Niro had never played baseball and wasn't an athlete but, through constant practice, intense study of ballplayers in person and on film, and reading books about baseball, he made his performance believable. Later that year, De Niro appeared as a nervous, explosive young hoodlum in Mean Streets, the first of many collaborations with director Martin Scorcese, a contemporary who also grew up on New York's Lower East Side. The authenticity of his performance was startling. It "looked as if a rogue had come in off the streets," wrote biographer David Thomson, and the portrayal seemed "an assertion of how out of conventional control he was."In 1974, De Niro was cast as the young Vito Corleone in Francis Coppola's blockbuster The Godfather, Part II. He prepared by studying the Sicilian dialect for weeks and by striving to capture the accent and mannerisms of Marlon Brando, who had played the older Corleone in the original Godfather. "De Niro is right to be playing the young Brando because he has the physical audacity, the grace and the instinct to become a great actor," wrote critic Pauline Kael. The breakthrough role, in which he speaks only 17 words of English, won De Niro the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.De Niro continued gaining critical acclaim with his role as the cab driver Travis Bickle in Scorcese's Taxi Driver in 1976. His Oscar-nominated portrait of a bigoted, vengeful Vietnam veteran was an iconic performance. To prepare for the role, De Niro lost 35 pounds and listened repeatedly to a taped reading of the diaries of assassin Arthur Bremer, who shot presidential candidate George Wallace in 1972. He also got a provisional cab driver's license and drove around New York for several weeks.De Niro's gutsy, disturbing performance drove the controversial film. "The genius of the acting consists of De Niro's refusal to simplify," wrote Thomson. "He never opts for sacred monster or shaman. The long, lone sequences establish an hallucinatory confessional with the audience…" Playing with his gun and practicing his bravado in front of a mirror - a scene the actor improvised - De Niro tries out the memorable line: "You talkin' to me?" The phrase became an enduring part of the American lexicon - shorthand for a fed-up, won't-take-it-anymore attitude and a code for white male rage. "It is a picture of a man on the brink of the abyss which is both chilling and comical," wrote biographer Andy Dougan.Disappeared into RolesOver the next quarter-century, De Niro would become one of the most prolific and celebrated actors in Hollywood. He was known for immersing himself in his roles - so much so that for many years he often went unrecognized in public. One of De Niro's acclaimed early portrayals came in the controversial, Oscar-winning Vietnam War drama The Deer Hunter, in which he played a redneck steelworker traumatized by his combat experiences. To grow into the role, he entered the world of Ohio Valley steel mills. "I talked with the mill workers, I drank and ate with them, and I played pool with them," De Niro explained. "I tried to come as close to being a steelworker as possible. I wanted to work a shift at the mill, but they wouldn't let me." De Niro's penchant for authenticity nearly cost him his life during the filming. Shooting combat scenes in Thailand, he and co-star John Savage were almost killed while doing their own stunt work, dropping from a flying helicopter's runners into a river.Critics were astounded by the intensity of De Niro's tight-lipped character. Thomson wrote: " The Deer Hunter would not have existed without De Niro's fierce generation of pain and honor…" De Niro was nominated for another Academy Award and might have won it were it not for overwhelming public sympathy for Peter Finch, who had starred in Network and then died before the Oscar voting.In 1980, De Niro finally won a Best Actor award from the Academy voters for his portrayal of boxer Jake La Motta in Scorcese's Raging Bull . Before filming began, he took a year's worth of boxing lessons and spent months at the real Jake La Motta's apartment, absorbing everything he could about the man. After the film's early scenes were shot with a lean, trim De Niro, production stopped while De Niro literally grew into the part of the fighter as an older, obese man. By eating his way across France and Italy, he gained 60 pounds in two months. De Niro explained after the filming: "I just can't fake acting. I know movies are an illusion and the first rule is to fake it, but not for me. I'm too curious. I want to deal with all the facts of the character, thin or fat…. Just by having the weight on, it really made me feel a certain way and behave in a certain way…. It was a little like going to a foreign land."The result was an intensely personal performance. "He put on not just weight, but the burden of degradation," noted Thomson. "While in the ring, he was a terrifying spectacle, as credible as any movie boxer has ever been…. In the scenes with Cathy Moriarty, and with the 'guys,' there were remarkable insights into sexual insecurity or ambivalence."Branching OutOnce established as a star, De Niro refused to settle for sure box-office hits. Continually testing his range, he made a number of unusual role choices, including a romantic comedy with Meryl Streep, Falling in Love, which bombed with critics and at the box office. Though he is most closely associated with a gangster persona, De Niro's roles have varied widely. They include a struggling musician in the unsuccessful Scorcese musical New York, New York and an incarnation of Lucifer in Alan Parker's black comedy Angel Heart (for which De Niro grew long hair and a beard and studied the most evil men in history). He also portrayed the Frankenstein creature in Mary Shelley's Frankenstein ;an unfunny would-be comedian in The King of Comedy, a drug-addicted ex-felon in Jackie Brown ; a repressed priest in True Confessions ; and a catatonic patient in Awakenings.De Niro specialized in difficult, complex characters who represented the dark side of human nature. In 1991, he received another Oscar nomination for his role as a loathsome ex-felon in Cape Fear. Thomson wrote: "His character was so intricately nasty, so repellent, and so clever, that one wondered if the actor hadn't developed too much devil worship." After appearing as gangster Al Capone in De Palma's The Untouchables, De Niro explained: "I prefer the so-called evil because it is more realistic. Good characters or characters who are only positive tend to be unbelievable and boring."Tedium was unlikely on film sets with De Niro. His intensity was contagious. "When De Niro walks on the set, you can feel his presence, but he never behaves like a movie star, just an actor," said Parker. "And when he acts, his sheer concentration permeates the whole set."Italian director Sergio Leone cast De Niro as a gangster in his epic Once Upon a Time in America . After the filming was completed Leone said: "I don't consider Bob so much an actor as an incarnation of the character he is playing. Until he feels like that he can't go on the set…. No one is better than De Niro at being studied and spontaneous at the same time."Appearing in flops and hits, De Niro remained productive and unpredictable. He was nominated for an Academy Award for his performance as a bounty hunter in the lightweight 1989 hit Midnight Run . He returned often to his favorite director Scorcese, playing a mob character in Goodfellas and a gambler in Casino . He played a gangster in Heat and a hit man in Ronin . He spoofed his own persona as a mob boss in the comedy Analyze This and as a hard-nosed ex-intelligence agent in Meet the Parents.Despite his fame, De Niro has remained extremely protective of his personal life and distrustful of interviewers and photographers. "I liken them to assassins," he once said. In 1976, De Niro married singer-actress Diahnne Abbott. They had a son and a daughter before divorcing. He also had twin sons, born via a surrogate mother, with actress Toukie Smith. De Niro was also romantically linked to model Naomi Campbell, singer Whitney Houston, and actress Uma Thurman. In 1997, he married flight attendant Grace Hightower.Tribeca Film CenterSeeking new challenges, De Niro founded the Tribeca Film Center in a renovated Manhattan coffee factory in 1989. On the first two floors he opened a restaurant, the Tribeca Grill, in which he displayed his father's paintings. De Niro eventually became part-owner of several upscale New York restaurants.From his new headquarters De Niro produced his first film, Neil Jordan's remake of We're No Angels, in which he also starred. In 1993, De Niro won critical acclaim for directing and playing opposite Chazz Palminteri in the latter's autobiographical film A Bronx Tale. Also that year, he produced a television series Tribeca, which was cancelled after seven episodes. In 1999, he produced the movie Entropy.Throughout his career, De Niro has tested his own limits-often going to extreme limits in order to be true to his character. To De Niro, acting has always been a way of expanding horizons. More than 60 film roles in 37 years attest to his willingness to take risks. "Acting is a cheap way to do things that you would not dare to do yourself," he once explained.BooksDougan, Andy, Untouchable: A Biography of Robert De Niro, Thunder's Mouth Press, 1996.Thomson, David, A Biographical Dictionary of Film, Knopf, 1994.PeriodicalsEntertainment Weekly, November 1, 1999.Esquire, December 1997.Newsweek, May 17, 1999.Online"The Robert De Niro Page," http://deniro.jvlnet.com."Robert De Niro," All Movie Guide,http://allmovie.com."Robert De Niro," http://www.geocities.com/Hollywood/Set/9401/. 
De Niro, Robert (də nĭr'ō), 1943-, American film actor, b. New York City. After studying for the stage, he acted in films directed by Brian De Palma. In 1973 he made his first major movies, Bang the Drum Slowly and Mean Streets. In these and other motion pictures he has shown an impressive dramatic range and expressiveness. His other films include The Godfather Part II (1974; Academy Award), Taxi Driver (1976), The Deer Hunter (1979), Raging Bull (1980; Academy Award), Goodfellas (1990), Cape Fear (1991), Casino (1995), Wag the Dog (1997), and The Good Shepherd (2006), a finely crafted espionage drama that De Niro also directed.
Considered one of the best actors of his generation, Robert De Niro built a durable star career out of his formidable ability to disappear into a character. The son of artists, De Niro was raised in New York's Greenwich Village. The young man made his stage debut at age 10, playing the Cowardly Lion in his school's production of The Wizard of Oz. Along with finding relief from shyness through performing, De Niro was also entranced by the movies, and he quit high school at age 16 to pursue acting. Studying under Stella Adler and Lee Strasberg, De Niro learned how to immerse himself in a character emotionally and physically. After laboring in off-off-Broadway productions in the early '60s, De Niro was cast alongside fellow novice Jill Clayburgh in film-school graduate Brian De Palma's The Wedding Party (1969). He followed this with small movies like Greetings, Hi, Mom!, Sam's Song, and Bloody Mama.
De Niro's professional life took an auspicious turn, however, when he was re-introduced to former Little Italy acquaintance Martin Scorsese at a party in 1972. Sharing a love of movies as well as their neighborhood background, De Niro and Scorsese hit it off. De Niro was immediately interested when Scorsese asked him about appearing in his new film, Mean Streets, conceived as a grittier, more authentic portrait of the Mafia than The Godfather. De Niro's appearance in the film made waves with critics, as did his completely different performance as a dying simple-minded catcher in the quiet baseball drama Bang the Drum Slowly (1973). Francis Ford Coppola was impressed enough by Mean Streets to cast De Niro as the young Vito Corleone in the early 1900s portion of The Godfather Part II. Closely studying Brando's Oscar-winning performance as Don Corleone in The Godfather, and perfecting his accent for speaking his lines in subtitled Sicilian, De Niro was so effective as the lethally ambitious and lovingly paternal Corleone that he took home a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for the role.
De Niro next headed to Europe to star in Bernardo Bertolucci's opus, 1900 (1976) before returning to the U.S. to collaborate with Scorsese on the far leaner (and meaner) production, Taxi Driver. After working for two weeks as a Manhattan cabbie and losing weight, De Niro transformed himself into disturbed "God's lonely man" Travis Bickle. One of the definitive films of the decade, Taxi Driver earned the Cannes Film Festival's top prize and several Oscar nominations, including Best Picture and De Niro's first nod for Best Actor. Controversy erupted about the film's violence, however, when would-be presidential assassin John W. Hinckley cited Taxi Driver as a formative influence in 1981.
De Niro and Scorsese would reteam for the lavish musical New York, New York (1977), and though the film was a complete flop, De Niro quickly recovered with another risky and ambitious project, Michael Cimino's The Deer Hunter (1978). One of the first wave of Vietnam movies, The Deer Hunter starred De Niro as one of three Pennsylvania steel-town friends thrown into the war's inferno who emerged as profoundly changed men. Though the film provoked an uproar over its portrayal of Viet Cong violence as (literally) Russian roulette, The Deer Hunter won several Oscars.
Returning to the realm of more personal violence, De Niro followed The Deer Hunter with his and Scorsese's masterpiece, Raging Bull, a tragic portrait of boxer [%Ray La Motta]. Along with his notorious 60-pound weight gain that rendered him unrecognizable as the middle-aged Jake, De Niro also trained so intensely for the outstanding fight scenes that La Motta himself stated that De Niro could have boxed professionally. Along with his physical dedication, De Niro won over critics with his ability to humanize La Motta without softening him. Raging Bull received eight Oscar nominations, including Best Picture.
Though he was well suited to star in Sergio Leone's epic homage to gangster films, Once Upon a Time in America (1984), Leone's tough, transcendent vision couldn't survive the studio's decision to hack 88 minutes out of the American release version. De Niro next took a breather from films to return to the stage, playing a drug dealer in the New York Public Theater production Cuba and His Teddy Bear. During his theater stint, De Palma made De Niro a movie offer he couldn't refuse when he asked him to play a small role in his film version of The Untouchables (1987). As the rotund, charismatic, bat-wielding Al Capone, De Niro was a memorable adversary for Kevin Costner's upstanding Elliot Ness, and The Untouchables became De Niro's first hit in almost a decade. De Niro followed The Untouchables with his first comedy success, Midnight Run (1988), costarring as a bounty hunter opposite Charles Grodin's bail-jumping accountant.
Though he earned an Oscar nomination for his touching performance as a patient in Penny Marshall's popular drama Awakenings (1990), movie fans were perhaps more thrilled by De Niro's return to the Scorsese fold, playing cruelly duplicitous Irish mobster Jimmy "The Gent" opposite Ray Liotta's turncoat Henry Hill in the critically lauded Mafia film Goodfellas (1990). De Niro worked with Scorsese again in the thriller remake Cape Fear (1991), sporting a hillbilly accent and pumped-up physique. It was Scorsese and De Niro's biggest hit together and earned another Oscar nod for the star. De Niro subsequently costarred as a geeky cop in the Scorsese-produced Mad Dog and Glory (1993).
De Niro also revealed that he had learned a great deal from his work with Scorsese with his own directorial debut, A Bronx Tale (1993). A well-observed story of a boy torn between his father and the local mob, A Bronx Tale earned praise, but De Niro was soon back to working with Scorsese, starring as Vegas kingpin Sam Rothstein in Casino (1995) -- based on the story of real-life handicapper Frank "Lefty" Rosenthal -- staged with Scorsese's customary visual brilliance and pairing De Niro with his Raging Bull brother and Goodfellas associate Joe Pesci.
Appearing in as many as three films a year after 1990, De Niro was particularly praised for his polished reserve in Michael Mann's glossy policer Heat (1995), which offered the rare spectacle of De Niro and Pacino sharing the screen, if only in two scenes. After indifferently received turns in The Fan (1996), Sleepers (1996), and Cop Land (1997), De Niro stepped outside his comfort zone to play an amoral political strategist in Barry Levinson's sharp satire Wag the Dog (1997) and a dangerously dimwitted crook in Quentin Tarantino's laid-back crime story Jackie Brown (1997). 
De Niro was front and center -- and knee deep in self-parody --  in the comedy Analyze This (1999), aided and abetted by a nicely low-key Billy Crystal as his reluctant psychiatrist. De Niro would continue to lampoon his own tough-guy image in the sequel Analyze That, as well as the popular Meet the Parents franchise. As the decade wore on, De Niro took on roles that failed to live up to his acclaimed earlier work, such as with lukewarm thrillers like The Score, Godsend, Righteous Kill, and Hide and Seek. However, De Niro continued to work on his ambitious and long-planned next foray behind the camera, the acclaimed CIA drama The Good Shepherd. ~ Lucia Bozzola, Rovi
Diahnne Abbott (m. 1976 – 1988) «start: (1976)–end+1: (1989)»"Marriage: Diahnne Abbott to Robert De Niro" Location: (linkback://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_De_Niro)
Grace Hightower (m. 1997) «start: (1997)»"Marriage: Grace Hightower to Robert De Niro" Location: (linkback://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_De_Niro)
Robert De Niro (/dəˈnɪroʊ/; born August 17, 1943) is an American actor, director and producer. His first major film roles were in Bang the Drum Slowly and Mean Streets, both in 1973. In 1974, he played the young Vito Corleone in The Godfather Part II for which he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.
His critically acclaimed, longtime collaboration with director Martin Scorsese began with 1973's Mean Streets, and earned De Niro an Academy Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of Jake LaMotta in the 1980 film Raging Bull, plus nominations for Taxi Driver (1976) and Cape Fear (1991). He received additional Academy Award nominations for Michael Cimino's The Deer Hunter (1978), Penny Marshall's Awakenings (1990), and David O. Russell's Silver Linings Playbook (2012). In 1990, his portrayal as Jimmy Conway in Martin Scorsese's Goodfellas earned him a BAFTA nomination.[1]
De Niro has earned four nominations for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy, for his work in New York, New York (1977), Midnight Run (1988), Analyze This (1999), and Meet the Parents (2000). He has also directed films such as A Bronx Tale (1993) and The Good Shepherd (2006). De Niro has received accolades for his career, including the AFI Life Achievement Award and the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award.
Robert De Niro was born in Greenwich Village,[2] New York City, the son of Virginia Holton Admiral, a painter and poet, and Robert De Niro, Sr., an abstract expressionist painter and sculptor.[3] His father was of Italian and Irish descent, and his mother was of English, German, French, and Dutch ancestry.[4][5] His Italian great-grandparents, Giovanni De Niro and Angelina Mercurio, emigrated from Ferrazzano, in the province of Campobasso, Molise, and his paternal grandmother, Helen O'Reilly, was the granddaughter of Edward O'Reilly, an immigrant from Ireland.
De Niro's parents, who had met at the painting classes of Hans Hofmann in Provincetown (Cape Cod), Massachusetts, divorced when he was three years old. De Niro was raised by his mother in the Little Italy neighborhood of Manhattan, and in Greenwich Village. His father lived within walking distance and Robert spent much time with him as he was growing up.[6] De Niro attended PS 41, a public elementary school in Manhattan, through the sixth grade, and then went to the private Elisabeth Irwin High School, the upper school of the Little Red School House, for the seventh and eighth grades.[7] He was accepted at the High School of Music and Art for the ninth grade, but only attended for a short time, transferring instead to a public junior high school.[8] He began high school at the private McBurney School,[9] attended the private Rhodes Preparatory School,[10] but never graduated.[11] Nicknamed "Bobby Milk" for his pallor, the youthful De Niro hung out with a group of street kids in Little Italy, some of whom have remained lifelong friends of his.[12] But the direction of his future had already been determined by his stage debut at age ten, playing the Cowardly Lion in his school's production of The Wizard of Oz.[2][13] Along with finding relief from shyness through performing, De Niro was also entranced by the movies, and he dropped out of high school at age sixteen to pursue acting.[12] De Niro studied acting at the Stella Adler Conservatory, as well as Lee Strasberg's Actors Studio.[11]
De Niro's first movie role, in collaboration with Brian De Palma, was in 1963, at the age of 20, when he appeared opposite his friend Jill Clayburgh in The Wedding Party; however, the film was not released until 1969. He then played in Roger Corman's 1970 Bloody Mama, which starred Shelly Winters as Ma Barker. He gained popular attention with his role as a dying Major League Baseball player in Bang the Drum Slowly (1973).[2] That same year, he began his collaboration with Martin Scorsese, when he played the smalltime crook Johnny Boy, alongside Harvey Keitel's Charlie, in Mean Streets (1973).[2]
In 1974, De Niro had a pivotal role in Francis Ford Coppola's The Godfather Part II, playing the young Vito Corleone – the director having remembered his previous auditions for the roles of Sonny Corleone, Michael Corleone, Carlo Rizzi and Paulie Gatto, in The Godfather. His performance earned him his first Academy Award, for Best Supporting Actor,[2] although Coppola accepted the award, as De Niro was not present at the Oscar ceremony. He became the first actor to win an Academy Award speaking mainly a foreign language, in this case, multiple Sicilian dialects[2] (although he delivered a few lines in English). De Niro and Marlon Brando, who played the older Vito Corleone in the first film, are the only actors to have won Oscars portraying the same fictional character. Brando and De Niro came together onscreen for the only time in The Score (2001).
After working with Scorsese in Mean Streets, he had a successful working relationship with the director in films such as Taxi Driver (1976), New York, New York (1977), Raging Bull (1980), The King of Comedy (1983), Goodfellas (1990), Cape Fear (1991), and Casino (1995). They also acted together in Guilty by Suspicion and provided their voices for the animated feature Shark Tale.
Taxi Driver was particularly important to De Niro's career: his iconic performance as Travis Bickle shot him to stardom and forever linked De Niro's name with Bickle's famous "You talkin' to me?" monologue, which De Niro largely improvised.[14] The role of Travis Bickle earned him his first Academy Award Nomination for Best Actor.
In 1976, De Niro appeared, along with Gérard Depardieu and Donald Sutherland, in Bernardo Bertolucci's epic biographical exploration of life in Italy before World War II, Novecento (1900), seen through the eyes of two Italian childhood friends at the opposite sides of society's hierarchy. In 1978, De Niro played Michael Vronsky in the acclaimed Vietnam War film The Deer Hunter, for which he was nominated for Best Actor in a Leading Role.
Fearing he had become typecast in mob roles, De Niro began expanding into occasional comedic roles in the mid-1980s and has had much success there as well, with such films as Brazil (1985), the hit action-comedy Midnight Run (1988), Analyze This (1999), opposite actor/comedian Billy Crystal, Meet the Parents (2000) and Meet the Fockers (2004), both opposite Ben Stiller.
Other films include "True Confessions" (1981), Falling in Love (1984), Once Upon a Time in America (1984), The Mission (1986), Angel Heart (1987), The Untouchables (1987), Goodfellas (1990), Awakenings (1990), Heat (1995), The Fan (1996), Sleepers (1996), Wag the Dog (1997), Jackie Brown and Ronin (1998). In 1997, he re-teamed with Harvey Keitel and Ray Liotta along with Sylvester Stallone in the crime drama Cop Land. De Niro played a supporting role, taking a back seat to Stallone, Keitel, and Liotta.
In 1993, he also starred in This Boy's Life, featuring then-rising child actors Leonardo DiCaprio and Tobey Maguire. Around this time, he was offered the role of Mitch Leary in In the Line of Fire, opposite Clint Eastwood. However, due to scheduling conflicts with A Bronx Tale, he turned the role down in favor of John Malkovich, who, himself, received an Academy Award nomination for the role. De Niro would later reference In Line of Fire, along with Dirty Harry and Magnum Force, two more of Eastwood's films, in Righteous Kill.
In 1995, De Niro starred in Michael Mann's police action-thriller Heat, along with fellow actor and long-time friend, Al Pacino. The duo drew much attention from fans, as both have generally been compared throughout their careers. Though Pacino and De Niro both starred in The Godfather Part II, they shared no screen time. De Niro and Pacino once again appeared together, in the crime thriller Righteous Kill.[15]
In 2000, De Niro played the role of Master Chief Billy Sunday opposite Cuba Gooding, Jr. in the George Tillman, Jr. biographical film Men of Honor, based on the life of Carl Brashear, the first African American to become a U.S. Navy Master Diver.
In 2004, De Niro provided the voice of Don Lino, the antagonist in the animated film Shark Tale, opposite Will Smith. He also reprised his role as Jack Byrnes in Meet the Fockers, and was featured in Stardust. All of the films were successful at the box office, but they received mixed reviews. When promoting Shark Tale, De Niro said that was his first experience with voice acting, which he commented, was an enjoyable time.
De Niro had to turn down a role in The Departed (Martin Sheen taking the role instead) due to commitments with preparing The Good Shepherd. He said, "I wanted to. I wish I could've been able to, but I was preparing The Good Shepherd so much that I couldn't take the time to. I was trying to figure a way to do it while I was preparing. It just didn't seem possible."[16]
In 2006, De Niro costarred with Matt Damon and Angelina Jolie in The Good Shepherd (which he also directed). The movie also reunited him onscreen with Joe Pesci, with whom De Niro had starred in Raging Bull, Goodfellas, A Bronx Tale, Once Upon a Time in America and Casino. In the same year, Robert appeared as himself in an episode of the BBC series Extras, as Ricky Gervais's character claimed it was his ambition to meet De Niro.
De Niro announced that he would appear in Martin Campbell's film version of the classic BBC crime series Edge of Darkness in 2010, alongside Mel Gibson; however, just after he arrived to begin shooting, De Niro walked from the set due to creative differences.[17] He was then replaced by Ray Winstone.[18][19] He appeared as Senator John McLaughlin in the action film Machete, directed by Robert Rodriguez and Ethan Maniquis. De Niro starred in the thriller Stone (2010), along with Edward Norton and Milla Jovovich. The sequel to Meet the Parents (2000) and Meet the Fockers (2004), Little Fockers, starring De Niro, Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson, Blythe Danner, Teri Polo, Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand, was released on December 22, 2010.
In 2011, De Niro appeared in the action film Killer Elite with Jason Statham and Clive Owen, in the film adaptation of the novel The Dark Fields, Limitless, with Bradley Cooper, directed by Neil Burger, and in New Year's Eve, the romantic comedy film directed by Garry Marshall.[20][21][21]
Thirty-four years after Bernardo Bertolucci's 1900, De Niro stars in one of three episodes of the film Manuale d'amore 3, with Monica Bellucci, directed by Italian director Giovanni Veronesi.[22][23]
In January 2011, CBS picked up De Niro's crime pilot, Rookies later to be renamed as NYC 22 only to have his new crime drama abruptly cancelled after airing only four episodes.[24] In 2011, he was the President of the Jury for the 64th Cannes Film Festival.[25]
In 2012, he starred in the movies Silver Linings Playbook, Freelancers, Red Lights, and Being Flynn. He received a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role in Silver Linings Playbook.
In 1993, De Niro made his directorial debut with A Bronx Tale. The film, written by Chazz Palminteri, was about Palminteri's turbulent childhood in the Bronx. De Niro agreed to direct the film after seeing Palminteri's one-man off-Broadway play. De Niro also played Lorenzo, the bus driver who struggles to keep his son away from local mobster Sonny, played by Palminteri.
De Niro did not direct another film until 2006's The Good Shepherd, which starred Matt Damon and Angelina Jolie. The Good Shepherd depicts the origins of the CIA, with Damon portraying one of the top counter-intelligence agents during World War II and the Cold War. De Niro has a small role as General Bill Sullivan, who recruits Damon's character into the world of counter-intelligence.
His capital ventures have included: cofounding the film studio TriBeCa Productions; the popular Tribeca Film Festival; Nobu and TriBeCa Grill, which he co-owns with a developer Paul Wallace and Broadway producer Stewart F. Lane,[26] The Greenwich Hotel,[27] located in Tribeca, and the restaurant inside the hotel, Locanda Verde, formally known as Ago, which is run by executive chef and co-owner, Andrew Carmellini.[28] According to the July 2010 issue of Gourmet magazine, De Niro is in negotiations with an internationally renowned chef, Natalia Jibladze, to launch a yet unnamed restaurant in Manhattan under his Tribeca trademark. He was in Malaysia recently, and while having lunch with the Malaysian Prime Minister's wife, was asked to open a Malay restaurant in Alor Setar, Kedah, Malaysia.[29]
In 1987 he was the President of the Jury at the 15th Moscow International Film Festival.[30] In June 2006 it was announced that De Niro had donated his film archive — including scripts, costumes, and props — to the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas at Austin. On April 27, 2009, it was announced that the De Niro collection at the Ransom Center was open to researchers and the public. De Niro has said that he is working with Martin Scorsese on a new project. "I'm trying to actually work... [screenwriter] Eric Roth and myself and Marty are working on a script now, trying to get it done."[16]
Praised for his commitment to roles, stemming from his background in method acting, De Niro gained 60 pounds (27 kg) and learned how to box for his portrayal of Jake LaMotta in Raging Bull;[2] ground his teeth for Cape Fear; lived in Sicily for The Godfather Part II; worked as a cab driver for a few weeks for Taxi Driver;[31] and learned to play the saxophone for New York, New York. He again put on weight for his performance as Al Capone in The Untouchables (1987).[32]
De Niro's brand of method acting includes employing whatever extreme tactic he feels is necessary to elicit the best performance from those with whom he is working. During the filming of The King of Comedy, for example, he directed a slew of anti-Semitic epithets at co-star Jerry Lewis in order to enhance and authenticate the anger demonstrated by his onscreen character. According to People magazine, the technique was successful. Lewis recalled, "I forgot the cameras were there... I was going for Bobby's throat."[33]
De Niro and his first wife Diahnne Abbott have a son, Raphael, a former actor who works in New York real estate.[34] De Niro also adopted Abbott's daughter from a previous relationship, Drena.
De Niro has twin sons, Julian Henry and Aaron Kendrik, conceived by in vitro fertilization and delivered by a surrogate mother in 1995, from a long-term live-in relationship with former model Toukie Smith.[35]
In 1997, De Niro married his second wife, actress Grace Hightower, at their Marbletown home.[36] Their son Elliot was born in 1998 and the couple split in 1999. The divorce was never finalized and in 2004 they renewed their vows.[36] In December 2011, Hightower and De Niro welcomed a daughter, Helen Grace, born via surrogate.[37][38]
In addition to his six children, De Niro has grandchildren. From his eldest daughter Drena he has one and from his son Raphael he has two.[39][40][41]
In October 2003, it was reported that De Niro had been diagnosed with prostate cancer. He underwent surgery at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in December of that year, and it has now gone into remission.[42]
De Niro, who has long resided in New York City, has been investing in the TriBeCa neighborhood in lower Manhattan since 1989. He has residences on the east and west sides of Manhattan. He also has an estate in Marbletown in upstate New York which acts as his primary residence.
In February 1998, during a film shoot in France, he was taken in for questioning by French police for nine hours and was then questioned by a magistrate over a prostitution ring. De Niro denied any involvement, saying he had never paid for sex, "and even if I had, it wouldn't have been a crime." In an interview with Le Monde, he said, "I will never return to France. I will advise my friends against going to France," and he would "send your Legion of Honor back to the ambassador, as soon as possible."[43]
De Niro was due to be granted Italian citizenship at the Venice Film Festival in September 2004. However, the Sons of Italy lodged a protest with Italian Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi, claiming De Niro had damaged the image of Italians and Italian Americans by frequently portraying them in criminal roles. Culture Minister Giuliano Urbani dismissed the objections, and the ceremony was rescheduled to go forward in Rome in October. Controversy flared again when De Niro failed to show for two media appearances in Italy that month, which De Niro blamed on "serious communication problems" that weren't "handled properly" on his end, stating, "The last thing I would want to do is offend anyone. I love Italy." The citizenship was conferred on De Niro on October 21, 2006, during the finale of the Rome Film Festival. De Niro is registered in the electoral district of Molise, the Italian homeland of his great-grandparents.
De Niro is a staunch supporter of the Democratic Party, and vocally supported Al Gore in the 2000 presidential election. De Niro publicly supported John Kerry in the 2004 presidential election. In 1998, he lobbied Congress against impeaching President Bill Clinton.[44]
While promoting his movie The Good Shepherd with co-star Matt Damon on the December 8, 2006 episode of Hardball with Chris Matthews at George Mason University, De Niro was asked whom he would like to see as President of the United States. De Niro responded, "Well, I think of two people: Hillary Clinton and Obama."
On February 4, 2008, De Niro supported Obama at a rally at the Izod Center in New Jersey before Super Tuesday.[45]
On March 19, 2012, De Niro and his wife held a fundraiser for President Obama's re-election campaign. At the event, De Niro made a controversial comment—viewed by political columnist John Hayward and Steven Kurlander of the Sun-Sentinel as racist—joking, "Callista Gingrich. Karen Santorum. Ann Romney. Now do you really think our country is ready for a white first lady?"[46][47] [48][49]
De Niro also hosted 9/11, a documentary about the September 11, 2001 attacks, shown on CBS and centering on video footage made by Jules and Gedeon Naudet, that focused on the role of firefighters following the attacks.
In 2011, De Niro supported the Initiative A Logo for Human Rights. Its goal was to create an internationally recognized logo to support the global human rights movement. [50]
De Niro at a ceremony to have his hands and shoe prints placed in cement in front of TCL Chinese Theatre in February 2013
This entry is from Wikipedia, the leading user-contributed encyclopedia. It may not have been reviewed by professional editors (see full disclaimer)
Britannica Concise Encyclopedia. © 1994-2014 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. All rights reserved.					Read more
The Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia, Sixth Edition Copyright © 2014, Columbia University Press. Licensed from Columbia University Press. All rights reserved. www.cc.columbia.edu/cu/cup/.
	This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License. It uses material from the Wikipedia article Robert De Niro. 
