=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Thomas Sean Connery was born on August 25, 1930 in Fountainbridge, Edinburgh. His mother, Euphamia C. Maclean, was a cleaning lady, and his father, Joseph Connery, was a factory worker and truck driver. He also has a brother named Neil Connery, who works as a plasterer in Edinburgh. Before going into acting, Sean had many different jobs, such as a Milkman, lorry driver, a laborer, artist's model for the Edinburgh College of Art, coffin polisher and bodybuilder. He also joined the Royal Navy, but was later discharged because of medical problems. At the age of 23, he had a choice between becoming a professional footballer or an actor, and even though he showed much promise in the sport, he chose acting and said it was one of his more intelligent moves.No Road Back (1957) was Sean's first major movie role, and it followed by several Tv-movies such as Anna Christie (1957), Macbeth (1961) and Anna Karenina (1961) and guest appearances on TV-series, and also films such as Hell Drivers (1957), Another Time, Another Place (1958), Darby O'Gill and the Little People (1959), The Frightened City (1961). In 1962 he appeared in The Longest Day (1962) with a host of other stars,His big breakthrough came in 1962 when he starred as secret agent James Bond in Dr. No (1962). He played James Bond in six more films: From Russia with Love (1963), Goldfinger (1964), Thunderball (1965), You Only Live Twice (1967), Diamonds Are Forever (1971), and Never Say Never Again (1983).After and during the success of the Bond-films he has maintained a successful career as an actor and has appeared in films, including Alfred Hitchcock's masterpiece Marnie (1964), The Hill (1965), Murder on the Orient Express (1974), The Man Who Would Be King (1975), The Wind and the Lion (1975), Time Bandits (1981), Highlander (1986), Der Name der Rose (1986), The Untouchables (1987) (which earned him an Oscar for best actor in a supporting role), Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade (1989), The Hunt for Red October (1990), Rising Sun (1993), The Rock (1996), Finding Forrester (2000), and The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen (2003).Sean married actress Diane Cilento in 1962 and they had a son, Jason Connery, born on January 11, 1963, he followed in his father's footsteps and also became an actor. The marriage ended in divorce in 1973. In 1975 he married Micheline Roquebrune and they have stayed married, they have no children together. He is also a grandfather. His son, Jason and his ex-wife, actress Mia Sara had a son, Dashiell Quinn Connery, in 1997.
      Was offered the role of Robert Elliott by Brian De Palma in Dressed to Kill (1980) and was enthusiastic about it, but declined on account of previously acquired commitments.
      Ranked #14 in Empire (UK) magazine's "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time" list. [October 1997]
      Wears a toupee in all the James Bond movies. He started losing his hair at the age of 21. Privately and in most other movies, he wears none.
      He has two small tattoos on his right arm. One says "Scotland forever", the other "Mum and Dad." He got them when he enlisted in the Royal Navy at the age of 16.
      Had radiation therapy for an undisclosed throat ailment in 1993. In a February 1995 interview with Entertainment Weekly, Connery said the treatment had been to remove benign tumors from his vocal chords after he found himself losing his voice while filming Rising Sun (1993).
      Major contributor to the Scottish National Party (SNP). This was stopped for a while when the ruling Labour government said people living outside of the United Kingdom would not be allowed to donate money to British political parties.
      Said in an interview that during the filming of Never Say Never Again (1983), he was taking martial arts lessons and in the process angered the instructor who in turn broke his wrist. Connery stayed with the wrist broken for a number of years thinking it was only a minor pain... the instructor was Steven Seagal.
      Recipient of 22nd Annual Kennedy Center Honors for lifetime contribution to arts and culture, presented by President Bill Clinton in Washington, D.C. on December 5, 1999.
      Used to live in Marbella, Spain, near a golf course where he played daily when not filming. He left following disagreements with the local press, and now resides in the Bahamas where he plays golf much less frequently.
      He has his own film production company (Fountainbridge Films). Fountainbridge is an area of Edinburgh where he was born.
      He was made a Knight Bachelor in the 2000 Queen's Millennium Honors List for his services to Film Drama. He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in an hour-long investiture ceremony at Edinburgh's Holyrood Palace in Scotland on July 5, 2000 accompanied by his wife, Micheline, and brother, Neil, were by his side.
      Noted to be one of James Bond's favorite actors in the novel "Scorpius." Connery previously played James Bond in seven films.
Gert Günther Hoffmann was his German voice for years and even though his voice was very low it fitted the charismatic and charming part of Connery perfectly. 'Gert Gunther Hoffmann' died in 1997. The following dubber's deep voice was incredibly equal to Connery's real one...Manfred Wagner died after dubbing two Sean Connery films, First Knight (1995) and The Rock (1996).
      He joined the Merchant Navy as a teenager but stomach ulcers forced him to leave. He received a disability pension for a period after this.
      After his service with the Merchant Navy, he worked as a nude model for Edinburgh art students.
      During his time as a milkman, Connery delivered to Fettes School in Edinburgh - the same school which James Bond attended in Ian Fleming's novels following his expulsion from Eton.
      Was paid a huge sum to return as James Bond for Diamonds Are Forever (1971), setting a record. It was donated to his Scottish charity.
      Caused an uproar in a December 1987 interview with Barbara Walters in which he said it was OK to hit a woman if she deserved it or needed it to keep her in line. He had said similar things in a November 1965 interview with Playboy magazine.
      He ranked first among the Male British movie actors in the Orange Film Survey of 10,000 voters.
      Turned down the role of Gandalf in The Lord of the Rings series (The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001), The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (2002), and The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003)) because he didn't want to film down in New Zealand for 18 months, and could not understand the novels.
      Declared in March 2003 that he would not return home until Scotland is an independent country. He believes this can still happen during his lifetime.
      Parodied on Saturday Night Live (1975) by Darrell Hammond, most famously as a bumbling contestant on the TV game show Jeopardy! (1984).
      Has played four kings: 'King' Daniel Dravot in The Man Who Would Be King (1975), King Agamemnon in Time Bandits (1981), King Richard in Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves (1991) and King Arthur in First Knight (1995).
      Whilst filming Playing by Heart (1998) he loved playing and even made a friendship with three and a half year old Piper Maru Anderson; daughter of an actress Gillian Anderson who played Meredith (a daughter of Sean's character).
      According to a poll, conducted by British film magazine Empire, he created the worst accent in the history of cinema in the movie The Untouchables (1987).
Ian Fleming, the creator of James Bond, originally did not like him being cast as Bond for Dr. No (1962) because he felt that he was too "unrefined". The actor whom Fleming embodied Bond in Fleming's mind was 'Cary Grant (I)'. Fleming later changed his mind and admitted he was ideally cast in the role.
      Turned down the role of the Architect in The Matrix Reloaded (2003) and The Matrix Revolutions (2003).
      Won the role of James Bond after producer Albert R. Broccoli attended a screening of Sean in Darby O'Gill and the Little People (1959). He was particularly impressed with the fistfight Sean has with a village bully at the climax of the film. Cubby later had his wife, writer Dana Broccoli, see the film and she confirmed his sex appeal.
      He and his son, actor Jason Connery, have both played Robin Hood. Sean played an aging Robin Hood opposite Audrey Hepburn in Robin and Marian (1976). Jason played Robin Hood, AKA: Robert of Huntingten, in the television series Robin of Sherwood (1984). Jason also played Ian Fleming in the television movie The Secret Life of Ian Fleming (1990). Fleming was the author of the James Bond novels that made Sean famous in 1962.
      Connery received excellent notices for his 1961 TV portrayal of Macbeth and longed to make a film of "The Scottish Play." His plans for a film in the early 1970s were terminated by the production of the 1971 Roman Polanski-Kenneth Tynan film of the play.
      Had a difficult time getting work after he abandoned the James Bond role a second time after Diamonds Are Forever (1971) for which he received a record salary. Director John Boorman thus was able to hire him very cheaply for his low-budget production of Zardoz (1974).
Harry Saltzman and Albert R. Broccoli, the original producers of the James Bond films, cast him because they liked how he was a big, tough-looking man who nonetheless moved gracefully ("like a cat").
      Premiere Magazine ranked him as #36 on a list of the Greatest Movie Stars of All Time in their Stars in Our Constellation feature (2005).
      Played James Bond in Thunderball (1965). 18 years later, he reprised the role in the film's remake, Never Say Never Again (1983). He is the only Bond actor to appear in both an official and non-official EON production.
      Turned down the title role in the original The Thomas Crown Affair (1968), which he later admitted was a huge mistake on his part.
      He pulled out of a film in September 2004, sparking rumors that he was going to retire. However three months later in an interview with "The Scotsman" newspaper from his home in the Bahamas, he said he is taking a year out to write his autobiography (something he had previously vowed never to do), and hopes to make another film.
      Pulled out of a seven-figure deal for a planned autobiography for the second time, in March 2005. The actor signed a deal in 2004 with ghostwriter Hunter Davies to produce an account of his life from Edinburgh milkman to international film superstar. Six months prior to his hook-up with Davies, Connery also canceled a similar deal with Scottish writer Meg Henderson, who said later: "He isn't the man I thought he was."
      Panama's President Mireya Moscoso presented him with a Manuel Amador Guerrero award, named after the country's first president. She said he was given the award for his "talent and versatility." Sir Sean was on a trip to Panama to visit various humanitarian programs conducted by the government. (10 March 2003)
      Was the original choice to play Sybock in Star Trek V: The Final Frontier (1989). The words in the film "Sha Ka Ree" are a play on his name.
Terry Gilliam did not intend to cast him as King Agamemnon in Time Bandits (1981), he simply wrote in the screenplay that when Agamemnon took off his helmet he looked "exactly like Sean Connery." To Gilliam's surprise, the script found its way into Connery's hands and Connery subsequently expressed interest in doing the film.
      His accent was the model for the voice of Stratos in the 2002 remake of He-Man & The Masters of the Universe.
      The Edinburgh Filmhouse rejected a proposal to rename itself "The Sean Connery Filmhouse" in November 2005 following complaints over Connery's status as a tax exile.
      His original idol was Welsh actor Stanley Baker because he played believable tough guys in quality British movies which he produced himself.
      He was presented with a lifetime achievement award at the European Film Awards in Berlin, presented to him by Jean-Jacques Annaud, who directed Connery in Der Name der Rose (1986). (3 December 2005)
      Was seriously considered for the role of King Philip of Macedonia in Oliver Stone's Alexander (2004).
      Underwent surgery at a New York hospital to remove a tumour from his kidney in January 2006. Connery's brother Neil said, "As far as I'm led to believe the tumour was benign. He seems to be quite upbeat about it."
      Was delighted to be honored with the American Film Institute's Lifetime Achievement Award, which he will receive on June 8 2006 in Los Angeles, as he was honored despite his reputation as a harsh critic of the movie industry. "It means a tremendous amount, especially because of some of the things I have said about Hollywood."
      Announced his retirement in an interview in New York City during the Tartan Week 2006 celebrations. "I have retired for good," he said.
      Presented with the Marrakech International Film Festival Award in Morocco by his friend and Just Cause (1995) co-star Laurence Fishburne. (8 December 2004)
      His performance as James Bond in the 007 films is ranked #5 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time.
      Was the original voice of Tack the Cobbler, the hero of Richard Williams's animated cult masterpiece The Princess and the Cobbler (1993). In the original version (from the work print and the resulting "Recobbled" fan-restoration), Tack was mute until the very end, when he spoke in Sean Connery's voice.
      Of his career choices in the '90s (pretty much his last decade in film), The Rock (1996) and Entrapment (1999) are the films he liked the most. On the other hand, The Avengers (1998) was a film he regretted doing at all.
      Turned down the role of John Hammond in Jurassic Park (1993). Coincidentally, his Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade (1989) co-star, Harrison Ford, was offered the role of Dr. Alan Grant. Not to mention, it would've reunited both of them with director Steven Spielberg.
      Turned down the role of Simon Gruber in Die Hard: With a Vengeance (1995) due to the diabolical nature of the character. Director John McTiernan, who directed Connery in The Hunt for Red October (1990), said he was the very first choice for that role.
      He pulled out of an interview for the Edinburgh Festival of Politics in August 2006 after George Reid, the presiding officer of the Scottish Parliament, vowed to ask him why he once told a magazine that some women want a "smack". Sir Sean, the Scottish National Party's most famous supporter, said it was "unacceptable" and it would have compromised the interview.
      Presented with the American Film Institute's Lifetime Achievement Award by his Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade (1989) co-star Harrison Ford, who told him, "John Wayne gave us the old West. James Stewart gave us our town. You gave us the world." (8 June 2006)
      He has never appeared in a "Skiing" James Bond picture. Though Goldfinger came close as it has sequences set in the lower Swiss mountains, all the ski, snow and ice Bond films belong to the other James Bond actors: George Lazenby (On Her Majesty's Secret Service (1969)); Roger Moore(The Spy Who Loved Me (1977); For Your Eyes Only (1981); A View to a Kill (1985)); Timothy Dalton (The Living Daylights (1987)); Pierce Brosnan (The World Is Not Enough (1999); Die Another Day (2002).
      Connery and Pierce Brosnan have both played King Arthur, the only Bond actors to do so. Connery played Arthur in First Knight (1995), Brosnan provided Arthur's voice in Quest for Camelot (1998). Additionally, Connery has also played another famous king; he played Richard the Lionhearted, King of England, in Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves (1991).
      Received a lifetime achievement award at the opening night of the Festa del Cinema, Rome's inaugural film festival. Connery was presented with the Marco Aurelio award in recognition of "his numerous cinematic endeavours over the years". (13 October 2006).
      December 2002: Voted "The Male Celebrity With The Sexiest Voice" in a survey carried out by a mobile phone company. Kylie Minogue topped the female category.
      He brought future James Bond, Roger Moore to a press screening in Paris for Diamonds Are Forever (1971).
      The extraordinary success of Goldfinger (1964), which was released in December 1964, and of 1965's Thunderball (1965) propelled Connery to the top of Quigley Publications' annual Top Ten Money Making Stars poll in 1965. He remains the only British male star to be the #1 box office star in America.
      Measured at exactly 6' 2.4" back in his body-building days, he is still the tallest actor to have played James Bond to date, George Lazenby and Timothy Dalton both being exactly 6' 2".
      Turned down Richard Chamberlain's role in Shogun (1980) because he would not act on television.
      Said his favorite memory from A Bridge Too Far (1977) was working with Dirk Bogarde, whom he had long admired.
      Received a Bafta Scotland Lifetime Achievement Award at the Cineworld complex in Edinburgh, Scotland. (25 August 2006).
      Turned down Patrick McGoohan's role as King Edward I in Braveheart (1995) because he was filming Just Cause (1995).
      With the death of Kieron Moore on July 15, 2007, he is the last surviving cast member of Darby O'Gill and the Little People (1959).
      Hinted in an interview that he may return to live in Scotland for the first time in more than fifty years. He reaffirmed his belief that the country can achieve full independence within his lifetime. (February 2008).
      If Never Say Never Again (1983) can be included as an official 007 installment, then Connery ties with Roger Moore for the most portrayals of James Bond - a total of 7 each. Otherwise Moore holds the record.
      He was awarded made a Knight Bachelor in the 2000 Queen's Millennium New Years Honours List for his services to the Film Industry.
      Of the six actors who have played James Bond, he is the only one who, like Bond, served in the Royal Navy.
      Is one of four Scottish actors to have received an Academy Award nomination. The others in chronological order are Deborah Kerr, Mary Ure and Tom Conti. As of 2011 he is the only one to have won an Academy Award (for his performance in The Untouchables (1987)).
      Variety Club of Great Britain film Actor Award for 1965 for his performances in The Hill and Goldfinger.
      Variety Club of Great Britain Special Award in 1963 for his portrayal of James Bond in Dr No and From Russia With Love.
      Connery and Albert R. Broccoli were on bad terms after he left the series. He declined to attend Broccoli's funeral.
      His father was of half Irish and half Scottish descent, and his mother was of Scottish ancestry.
      Will release his autobiography, "Being a Scot", on his birthday of August 25, 2008 in his hometown of Edinburgh, Scotland. [June 2008]
      I was called Sean long before I was an actor, I had an Irish buddy when I was 12 named Seamus -- pronounced Shay-mus. So they nicknamed us Seamus and Shawn and it stuck.
      I never disliked Bond, as some have thought. Creating a character like that does take a certain craft. It's simply natural to seek other roles.
      More than anything else, I'd like to be an old man with a good face, like [Alfred Hitchcock] or [Pablo Picasso].
      I've honestly not been too aware of my age until I went to the doctor for a full check-up. He said I had the heart of a young man - "but you're not young, you're 40".
      [on turning down the role of Gandolf in the first "Lord of the Rings" film] I had never read [J.R.R. Tolkien], and I didn't understand the script when they sent it to me. Bobbits? Hobbits?
      I'm an actor - it's not brain surgery. If I do my job right, people won't ask for their money back.
      I've never kept a record of anything. I gave away everything: all the posters, the memorabilia that would have been helpful - and financially rewarding.
      [on whether he would ever escape being identified as James Bond] It's with me 'til I go in the box.
      I care about Bond and what happens to him. You cannot be connected with a character for this long and not have an interest. All the Bond films had their good points.
      [3/03, about the impending US invasion of Iraq] I don't know who could be in favor of it, but it can't be stopped. It is inevitable.
      I'm fed up with the idiots, the ever-widening gap between people who know how to make movies and those who green-light them. I don't say they're all idiots - I'm just saying there's a lot of them. It would almost need a Mafia-like offer I couldn't refuse to do another movie.
      I said I never would [do an autobiography] and then I thought about it and I said, "I'm going to do it". Then I started. Yeah, and it cost me a stonking amount of money not to do it - because I'd already put the wheels in motion. He [Davies] started to run with the ball with all this stuff. I realized I was going to be spending the best part of my life, and probably the rest of my life, trying to correct these inaccuracies and I can't be bothered.
      [on Daniel Craig as the new James Bond] Craig's a great choice, really interesting - different. He's a good actor. It's a completely new departure.
      I thought Pierce Brosnan was a good choice. I liked GoldenEye (1995). Timothy Dalton never got a handle on the role. He took it seriously in the wrong way. The person who plays Bond has to be dangerous. If there isn't a sense of threat, you can't be cool.
      I think the fact that one's hair disappeared early made it easier. I never had a "transition problem". I've always played older. I played Harrison Ford's father and Dustin Hoffman's father. And this year, I'm going to be 65. I'm hardly going to get into a weight program and do "Tarzan". I could have the best body sculpting in the world, but I'm never going to be James Bond again.
      What happened was that I had polyps on my vocal cords for about six years. I had them lasered off each time. But then I had a little twinge of a problem while I was doing Rising Sun (1993). I couldn't get the timbre of my voice right. I couldn't get the variation and enunciation as comfortable as I wanted. So I went back to the doctor and he suggested radiation. I went for six weeks and didn't have any side effects or problems. Then I made the announcement that I had done radiation treatment. The publicists said not to do it, that it would set off an explosion. But I thought, "If you do radiation and it's a success, why not speak about it?"
      [on The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen (2003)] It was a nightmare. The director should never have been given $185 million.
      [3/06] I have retired for good. It's been a bit rough since Christmas but I'm perfectly OK and I feel well. In fact, I'm working on a history book.
      [on why he resigned the role of James Bond while filming You Only Live Twice (1967)] One of the reasons I stopped doing it was because I got really fed up with the space stuff and special effects. I just found it getting more and more influential in the movies.
      [during his speech after receiving the AFI Life Achievement award] Though my feet are tired, my heart is not.
      I had no grand plan. Everyone talks about how they knew the Bond films were going to be a success, but it simply isn't true.
      [on turning down the role of Gandalf in The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001)] Yeah, well, I never understood it. I read the book. I read the script. I saw the movie. I still don't understand it.
      It is said that a total ban on handguns, including .22s, would take away innocent pleasure from thousands of people. Is that more or less pleasure than watching your child grow up?
      [on being one of the biggest movie stars in the world] Well, that's only because of your price. And my current price? Well, ha, that's nobody's business but mine.
      [on _Indiana Jones 4 (2008)_] I am resting from acting - you might say I'm retired. It would take something really considerable to bring me back. Nothing has been discussed but I hear it's back on.
      I never trashed a hotel room or did drugs. I understand if you get caught in a fight, but to take it out on a room that implies some psychiatric disorder. The way I was brought up made me think about the person who has to clean up afterwards.
      I did smoke pot a few times but nothing else. I would never inject. I'm too fond of the drink. At times I can go two weeks or more without it, but then I'm quite enthusiastic to get back to the taste again.
      Dealing with this financial stuff was too much for me. It was back to education and I had to learn to understand it all myself.
Peter Mandelson, two times thrown out, is now representing Britain in Europe. In the olden times, they would have hung him up by his feet. The decisions in the UK are made by President Tony Blair and a couple of his cooks in the kitchen.
      It reads as though one had made great dramatic decisions, but in fact one didn't. I certainly had the drive from the beginning, but the targets and ambitions were much, much less.
      One of the things that strikes me is that no matter how difficult or underprivileged the situation you were living in as a child, it wasn't considered difficult. I don't think as children, you are aware of it. You have nothing to compare it to.
      "The time came for me to retire because of my rather unfortunate last movie . . . The cost to me in terms of frustration and avoiding going to jail for murder cannot have continued.
      Whenever I've tangled with a beautiful spy, have you noticed what invariably happens? Even if I know the girl is a nasty and dangerous little snake, I've still had to kiss her first and kill her later.
      [in 2004] The Scottish media all say, "Oh yeah, he's a tax exile". I have paid more tax than the government put together in that Parliament. I still pay full tax when I work in England and the same when I work in America.
      [on his knighthood being blocked by the Labour government for the second time in 1998] It's purely political. I have never made any secret of my association, affiliation with the Scottish National Party. I don't like the turn it's taken now when they drag up something, which is something from the past about my violence towards women which I have attempted to answer in so many ways. It might have been a stupid comment of mine to say to smack a woman or slap a woman, I think I said, and it was picked up much later by an unmentionable in America who really worked a flanker and presented a show as though I had actually admitted that it was okay to punch women. In fact, in the near future there will be some kind of revelation about quite a lot of that anyway, which I'm not going to go into now.
      I get asked the question so often, I thought it best to make an announcement. I thought long and hard about it and if anything could have pulled me out of retirement it would have been an Indiana Jones film. I love working with Steven [Steven Spielberg] and George [George Lucas], and it goes without saying that it is an honor to have Harrison [Harrison Ford] as my son. But in the end, retirement is just too damned much fun. I, do however, have one bit of advice for Junior: Demand that the critters be digital, the cliffs be low, and for goodness sake keep that whip by your side at all times in case you need to escape from the stunt coordinator! This is a remarkable cast, and I can only say, "Break a leg, everyone". I'll see you on May 22, 2008, at the theater!
      [on A View to a Kill (1985)] Bond should be played by an actor 35, 33 years old. I'm too old. Roger's too old, too!
      A silent gesture can convey more in a flash than a minute of spoken dialogue. Unlike most actors, who resist directors cutting their lines, I have spent my whole career filleting mine. There are few directors who have not seen my cuts as improvements. Steven Spielberg paid me the ultimate compliment on Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade (1989) by adopting nine out of ten of my ideas that traded dialogue for added visual interaction.
      Anyone contemplating a film career could do no better than read Alexander Mackendrick's book "On Film-making: An Introduction to the Craft of the Director."
      From the earliest days of cinema a fascination with Scottish historical themes fed the appetites of Hollywood. Macabre shockers, or what Robert Louis Stevenson called "regular crawlers", were especially popular. Not counting numerous shorts, five feature versions of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (1931) were produced in Hollywood between 1912 and 1941, though none surpassed Fredric March's Oscar-winning performance and his menacing facial transformation in Rouben Mamoulian's production of 1931.
      I realised that a top-class footballer could be over the hill by the age of 30, and I was already 23. I decided to become an actor and it turned out to be one of my more intelligent moves.
      It's funny, but the film buffs at UCLA are constantly dissecting Marnie (1964) these days to see how it was done. When it was first released, there was a lot of criticism of Alfred Hitchcock because he used a studio set for the dockside scene. But the backdrop looked just like the port of Bristol - if not Baltimore, where it's supposed to be at. I adored and enjoyed Hitchcock tremendously. He never lost his patience or composure on the set.
      It would appear I'm an inspiration for older men. Do I think I'm sexy? I've been told I am. I know that I find certain people attractive and they find me attractive and are presumptuous enough to think that's sexy. I can't answer for all those fat guys out there in their sixties. Are they more virile? Well, it's years since I went to bed with a sixtyish balding man. Look, I'm dealing with maturity alright. I'm much more interest in keeping enthusiastic than anything else.
      The idea of the hair was the iron grew sort of crew cut but something kinda put me off that. I would have looked sort of like Ernest Hemingway with the beard and short hair and it would have looked American. So I went Rod Stewart but shorter. They had another wig but that made me look like Sting. I really couldn't deal with it. Well, I could deal with it. I changed it. - On The Hunt for Red October (1990).
      I was going upstairs when I heard my own voice coming from one of the rooms. My grandchildren were watching Goldfinger (1964). So, I sat down with them and watched it for a bit. It was interesting. There was a certain elegance, a certain assurance to it that was quite comforting. There was a leisureliness that made you not want to rush to the next scene. Of course, I also saw things that could have been improved.
Timothy Dalton has Shakespearean training but he underestimated the role. The character has to be graceful and move well and have a certain measure of charm as well as be dangerous. Pierce Brosnan is a good actor - he added some new elements to it.
      I've always been told I was either too tall or too short, too Scottish or too Irish, too young, too old.
      [on his Marnie (1964) leading lady Tippi Hedren] She's underrated in a business where most actors are overrated.
Robin and Marian (1976) was supposed to be called "The Death of Robin Hood", but Americans don't like heroes who die or anything that might not smack of being a victory.
      I've honestly not been too aware of my age until I went to the doctor for a full check-up. He said I had the heart of a young man, "but you're not young, you're 40! [Evening Standard, 1971]
      I enjoy the excitement of working on a well-crewed and exciting picture. It's like a microcosm of society that really works. Because nothing works anywhere else.
      [1973, on 'James Bond' producers Harry Saltzman and Albert Broccoli] They're not exactly enamored of each other. Probably they're both sitting on $50 million and looking across the desk at each other and thinking, 'That bugger's got half of what should be all mine'.
      Let me straighten you out on this. The problem in interviews of this sort is to get across the fact, without breaking your arse, that one is NOT Bond, that one was functioning reasonably before Bond and that one is going to function reasonably after Bond. There are a lot of things I did before Bond - like playing the classics on stage - that don't seem to get publicized. So you see, this Bond image is a problem in a way and a bit of a bore, but one has to live with it. [David Zinman: Saturday Afternoon at the Bijou, 1973]
=======================================================
Sir Thomas Sean Connery Kt. (/ˈʃɔːn ˈkɒnəri/; 25 August 1930) is a Scottish actor and producer who has won an Academy Award, two BAFTA Awards (one of them being a BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award) and three Golden Globes (including the Cecil B. DeMille Award and a Henrietta Award). He was knighted by Elizabeth II in July 2000, and received the Kennedy Center Honors in the US.[1][2]
Connery is best known for portraying the character James Bond, starring in seven Bond films between 1962 and 1983 (six Eon Productions films and the non-Eon Thunderball remake, Never Say Never Again).[3] In 1988, Connery won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role in The Untouchables. His film career also includes such films as Marnie, The Name of the Rose, The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, The Hunt for Red October, Highlander, Murder on the Orient Express, Dragonheart, and The Rock.
Connery has been polled as "The Greatest Living Scot"[4] and "Scotland's Greatest Living National Treasure".[5] In 1989, he was proclaimed "Sexiest Man Alive" by People magazine and in 1999, at age 69, he was voted "Sexiest Man of the Century".
Thomas Sean Connery, named Thomas after his grandfather, was born in Fountainbridge, Edinburgh, Scotland. His mother, Euphemia McBain "Effie" (née McLean), was a cleaning woman, and his father, Joseph Connery, was a factory worker and lorry driver.[6][7] His paternal grandfather's parents emigrated to Scotland from Ireland in the mid-19th century.[8] The remainder of his family was of Scottish descent, and his maternal great-grandparents were native Scottish Gaelic speakers from Fife (unusually, for a speaker of the language) and Uig on the Isle of Skye.[9][10] His father was a Roman Catholic, and his mother was a Protestant. He has a younger brother, Neil (b. 1938). Connery claims he was called Sean, his middle name, long before becoming an actor, explaining that when he was young he had an Irish friend named Séamus and that those who knew them both had decided to call Connery by his middle name whenever both were present. He was generally referred to in his youth as "Tommy".[11] Although he was small in primary school, he grew rapidly around the age of 12, reaching his full adult height of 6 ft 2 in (188 cm) at 18. He was known during his teen years as "Big Tam", and has claimed to have lost his virginity to an adult woman in an ATS uniform at the age of 14.[12] [13]
Connery's first job was as a milkman in Edinburgh with St. Cuthbert's Co-operative Society.[14] He then joined the Royal Navy during which time he got two tattoos, of which his official website says "unlike many tattoos, his were not frivolous—his tattoos reflect two of his lifelong commitments: his family and Scotland. ... One tattoo is a tribute to his parents and reads 'Mum and Dad,' and the other is self-explanatory, 'Scotland Forever.'"[15]
Connery was later discharged from the navy on medical grounds because of a duodenal ulcer, a condition that affected most of the males in previous generations of his family.[16] Afterwards, he returned to the co-op, then worked as, among other things, a lorry driver, a lifeguard at Portobello swimming baths, a labourer, an artist's model for the Edinburgh College of Art, and after a suggestion by former Mr. Scotland, Archie Brennan,[17][18] a coffin polisher. The modelling earned him 15 shillings an hour.[18] Student artist Richard Demarco who painted several notable early pictures of Connery described him as "very straight, slightly shy, too, too beautiful for words, a virtual Adonis."[19]
Connery began bodybuilding at the age of 18, and from 1951 trained heavily with Ellington, a former gym instructor in the British army.[20] While his official website claims he was third in the 1950 Mr. Universe contest, most sources place him in the 1953 competition, either third in the Junior class[21] or failing to place in the Tall Man classification.[22] Connery stated that he was soon deterred from bodybuilding when he found that the Americans frequently beat him in competitions because of sheer muscle size and, unlike Connery, refused to participate in athletic activity which could make them lose muscle mass.[23]
Connery was a keen footballer, having played for Bonnyrigg Rose in his younger days. He was offered a trial with East Fife. While on tour with South Pacific, Connery played in a football match against a local team that Matt Busby, manager of Manchester United, happened to be scouting. According to reports, Busby was impressed with his physical prowess and offered Connery a contract worth £25 a week immediately after the game. Connery admits that he was tempted to accept, but he recalls, "I realised that a top-class footballer could be over the hill by the age of 30, and I was already 23. I decided to become an actor and it turned out to be one of my more intelligent moves."[24][25]
Looking to pick up some extra money, Connery helped out backstage at the King's Theatre in late 1951.[21] He became interested in the proceedings, and a career was launched. During a bodybuilding competition in 1953, one of the competitors mentioned that auditions were being held for a production of South Pacific;[21] and Connery landed a small part as one of the Seabees chorus boys. By the time the production reached Edinburgh, he had been given the part of Marine Cpl Hamilton Steeves and was understudying two of the juvenile leads, and his salary was raised from £12 to £14 10s a week.[26] The production returned the following year out of popular demand, and Connery was promoted to the featuring role of Lieutenant Buzz Adams, which Larry Hagman had portrayed in the West End.[26] While in Edinburgh, Connery was targeted by the notorious Valdor gang, one of the most ruthless gangs in the city. He was first approached by them in a billiard hall on Lothian Street where he prevented them from stealing from his jacket and was later followed by six gang members to a 15 ft high balcony at the Palais.[27] There Connery launched an attack single-handedly against the gang members, grabbing one by the throat and another by a biceps and cracked their heads together. From then on he was treated with great respect by the gang and gained a reputation as a "hard man".[28] Connery first met Michael Caine at a party during the production of South Pacific in 1954, and the two would later become close friends.[26] During the production of South Pacific at the Opera House, Manchester over the Christmas period of 1954, Connery developed a serious interest in the theatre through American director and actor Robert Henderson who loaned him copies of the Henrik Ibsen works Hedda Gabler. The Wild Duck, and When We Dead Awaken, and later listed works by the likes of Marcel Proust, Leo Tolstoy, Ivan Turgenev, Bernard Shaw, James Joyce, and William Shakespeare for him to digest.[29] Henderson urged him to take elocution lessons and got him parts at the Maida Vale Theatre in London, and he had already begun pursuing a film career, playing an extra in Herbert Wilcox's 1954 musical Lilacs in the Spring alongside Anna Neagle.[30]
Although Connery had secured several roles as extras, he was struggling to make ends meet, and was forced to accept a part-time job as a babysitter for journalist Peter Noble and his actress wife Mary, which earned him 10 shillings a night.[30] He met Hollywood actress Shelley Winters one night at Noble's house who described Connery as "one of the tallest and most charming and masculine Scotsmen" she'd ever seen, and later spent many evenings with the Connery brothers drinking beer. [30] Around this time Connery was residing at TV presenter Llew Gardner's house. Henderson got Connery a role in a £6 a week Q Theatre production of Agatha Christie's Witness for the Prosecution, during which he met and became friends with fellow-Scot Ian Bannen.[31] This role was followed by Point of Departure and A Witch in Time at Kew, a role as Pentheus opposite Yvonne Mitchell in The Bacchae at the Oxford Playhouse, and a role opposite Jill Bennett in Eugene O'Neill's production of Anna Christie.[31] During his time at the Oxford Theatre, Connery won a brief part as a boxer in the TV series The Square Ring, before being spotted by Canadian director Alvin Rakoff who gave him multiple roles in The Condemned, shot on location in Dover in Kent. In 1956, Connery appeared in the theatrical production of Epitaph, and played a minor role as a hoodlum in the "Ladies of the Manor" episode of the Dixon of Dock Green.[31] This was followed by small television parts in Sailor of Fortune and The Jack Benny Program.[31]
In the spring of 1957, Connery hired agent Richard Hatton who got him a role as Spike, a minor gangster with a speech impediment in Montgomery Tully's No Road Back alongside Skip Homeier, Paul Carpenter, Patricia Dainton and Norman Wooland.[32] In April 1957, the aforementioned Alvin Rakoff, after being disappointed by Jack Palance, decided to give the young actor his first chance in a leading role and cast Connery as Mountain McLintock in BBC TV's outstanding production of Requiem For A Heavyweight which also starred Warren Mitchell and Jacqueline Hill. He then played a rogue lorry driver Johnny Yates in Cy Endfield's Hell Drivers (1957) alongside Stanley Baker, Herbert Lom, Peggy Cummins and Patrick McGoohan.[33] Later in 1957 Connery appeared in Terence Young's poorly received MGM action picture Action of the Tiger opposite Van Johnson, Martine Carol, Herbert Lom and Gustavo Rojo; the film was shot on location in southern Spain.[34][35] He also had a minor role in Gerald Thomas's thriller Time Lock (1957) as a welder, appearing alongside Robert Beatty, Lee Patterson, Betty McDowall and Vincent Winter, which commenced filming on 1 December 1956 at Beaconsfield Studios.[36]
In 1958 he had a major role in the melodrama Another Time, Another Place (1958) as a British reporter named Mark Trevor, caught in a love affair opposite Lana Turner and Barry Sullivan. During filming, star Lana Turner's possessive gangster boyfriend, Johnny Stompanato, who was visiting from Los Angeles, believed she was having an affair with Connery. He stormed onto the set and pointed a gun at Connery, only to have Connery disarm him and knock him flat on his back. Stompanato was banned from the set. Connery later recounted that he had to lie low for a while after receiving threats from men linked to Stompanato's boss, Mickey Cohen.
In 1959, Connery landed a leading role in Robert Stevenson's Walt Disney Productions film Darby O'Gill and the Little People (1959) alongside Albert Sharpe, Janet Munro, and Jimmy O'Dea. The film is a tale about a wily Irishman and his battle of wits with leprechauns. Upon the film's initial release, A. H. Weiler of the New York Times praised the cast (save Connery whom he described as "merely tall, dark, and handsome") and thought the film an "overpoweringly charming concoction of standard Gaelic tall stories, fantasy and romance.".[37] In his book The Disney Films, film critic and historian Leonard Maltin stated that, "Darby O'Gill and the Little People is not only one of Disney's best films, but is certainly one of the best fantasies ever put on film."[38]
He also had a prominent television role in Rudolph Cartier's 1961 productions of Adventure Story and Anna Karenina for BBC Television, in the latter of which he co-starred with Claire Bloom.[39]
Connery's breakthrough came in the role of secret agent James Bond. He was reluctant to commit to a film series, but understood that if the films succeeded his career would greatly benefit.[25] He played the character in the first five Bond films: Dr. No (1962), From Russia with Love (1963), Goldfinger (1964), Thunderball (1965), and You Only Live Twice (1967) – then appeared again as Bond in Diamonds Are Forever (1971) and Never Say Never Again (1983). All seven films were commercially successful. James Bond, as portrayed by Connery, was selected as the third-greatest hero in cinema history by the American Film Institute.[40]
Connery's selection as James Bond owed a lot to Dana Broccoli, wife of Cubby Broccoli, who is reputed to have been instrumental in persuading Cubby that Sean Connery was the right man.[41] James Bond's creator, Ian Fleming, originally doubted Connery's casting, saying, "He's not what I envisioned of James Bond looks" and "I'm looking for Commander Bond and not an overgrown stunt-man," adding that Connery (muscular, 6' 2", and a Scot) was unrefined. Fleming's girlfriend told him Connery had the requisite sexual charisma. Fleming changed his mind after the successful Dr. No première; he was so impressed, he created a half-Scottish, half-Swiss heritage for Bond in the later novels.
Connery's portrayal of Bond owes much to stylistic tutelage from director Terence Young, polishing the actor while using his physical grace and presence for the action. Lois Maxwell, who played Miss Moneypenny, related that, "Terence took Sean under his wing. He took him to dinner, showed him how to walk, how to talk, even how to eat."[42] The tutoring was successful; Connery received thousands of fan letters a week, and the actor became one of the great male sex symbols of film.[25]
During the filming of Thunderball in 1965, Connery's life was in danger in the sequence with the sharks in Emilio Largo's pool, which he had been in fear of when he read the script. He insisted that Ken Adam build a special Plexiglas partition inside the pool, but, despite this, it was not a fixed structure and one of the sharks managed to pass through it. Connery had to abandon the pool immediately, seconds away from attack.[43]
Connery was forced to wear a toupee during each of the Bond movies because he had started balding at the age of 21.[44]
In 2005, From Russia with Love was adapted by Electronic Arts into a video game, titled James Bond 007: From Russia with Love, which featured all-new voice work by Connery as well as his likeness, and those of several of the film's supporting cast.
Although Bond had made him a star, Connery eventually tired of the role and the pressure the franchise put on him, saying "[I am] fed up to here with the whole Bond bit"[25] and "I have always hated that damned James Bond. I'd like to kill him".[45] Michael Caine said of the situation, "If you were his friend in these early days you didn't raise the subject of Bond. He was, and is, a much better actor than just playing James Bond, but he became synonymous with Bond. He'd be walking down the street and people would say, "Look, there's James Bond." That was particularly upsetting to him."[46] While making the Bond films, Connery also starred in other acclaimed films such as Alfred Hitchcock's Marnie (1964) and The Hill (1965). Apart from The Man Who Would Be King and The Wind and the Lion, both released in 1975, most of Connery's successes in the next decade were as part of ensemble casts in films such as Murder on the Orient Express (1974) with Vanessa Redgrave and John Gielgud and A Bridge Too Far (1977) co-starring Dirk Bogarde and Laurence Olivier. Connery shared a Henrietta Award with Charles Bronson for "World Film Favorite – Male" in 1972.
In 1981, Connery appeared in the film Time Bandits as Agamemnon. The casting choice derives from a joke Michael Palin included in the script, in which he describes the character removing his mask as being "Sean Connery — or someone of equal but cheaper stature".[47] When shown the script, Connery was happy to play the supporting role. In 1982, Connery narrated G'olé!, the official film of the 1982 FIFA World Cup.[48]
After his experience with Never Say Never Again in 1983 and the following court case, Connery became unhappy with the major studios and for two years did not make any films. Following the successful European production The Name of the Rose (1986), for which he won a BAFTA award, Connery's interest in more commercial material was revived. That same year, a supporting role in Highlander showcased his ability to play older mentors to younger leads, which would become a recurring role in many of his later films. The following year, his acclaimed performance as a hard-nosed Irish-American cop in The Untouchables (1987) earned him the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, his sole nomination throughout his career. His subsequent box-office hits included Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade (1989), in which he played Henry Jones Sr., the title character's father, The Hunt for Red October (1990) (where he was reportedly called in at two weeks' notice[49]), The Russia House (1990), The Rock (1996), and Entrapment (1999). In 1996, he voiced the role of Draco the dragon in the film Dragonheart. In 1998, Sean Connery received a BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award.
Connery's later films have included several box office and critical disappointments such as First Knight (1995), The Avengers (1998), and The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen (2003), but he also received positive reviews, including his performance in Finding Forrester (2000). He also received a Crystal Globe for outstanding artistic contribution to world cinema.
Connery stated in interviews that he was offered a role in The Lord of the Rings series,[50] declining it due to "not understanding the script." CNN reported that the actor was offered up to 15% of the worldwide box office receipts to play Gandalf, which had he accepted, could have earned him as much as $400 million for the trilogy.[51] Connery's disillusionment with the "idiots now making films in Hollywood" was cited as a reason for his eventual decision to retire from film-making.[52]
When Connery received the American Film Institute's Lifetime Achievement Award on 8 June 2006, he confirmed his retirement from acting. On 7 June 2007, he denied rumours that he would appear in the fourth Indiana Jones film, stating that "retirement is just too much damned fun".[53]
Connery returned to voice acting, playing the title character in the animated short Sir Billi the Vet, and in 2005 he recorded voiceovers for a new video game version of his Bond film From Russia with Love.[54] In an interview on the game disc, Connery stated that he was very happy that the producers of the game (EA Games) had approached him to voice Bond and that he hoped to do another one in the near future. In 2010, he reprised his role in an expanded 80-minute version of Sir Billi, serving also as executive producer.[55] In 2010, a bronze bust sculpture of Connery was placed in the capital city of Estonia.[56]
His last public appearance was on 11 September 2012 at the 2012 US Open tennis tournament, supporting tennis player and fellow Scotsman Andy Murray. Together with Alex Ferguson and Murray's mother Judy, he gatecrashed Murray's post-semi-final press conference.[57]
In the film Transformers: Dark of the Moon, the character Sentinel Prime's features were mostly based on Connery. When Leonard Nimoy was to voice the role, however, the effects were altered to incorporate Nimoy's acting as well.[58]
Director Sam Mendes confirmed that Connery was considered being cast in the Kincaide role taken by Albert Finney in Skyfall,[59] but stated the idea was shelved as being distracting to the film.
During the production of South Pacific in the mid-1950s, Connery dated a "dark-haired beauty with a ballerina's figure", Carol Sopel, but was warned off by her Jewish family.[60] He then dated a blonde named Julie Hamilton; given his rugged appearance and rough charm she initially thought he was a most appalling person and was not attracted to him until she saw him in a kilt, declaring him to be the most beautiful thing she'd ever seen in her life.[61] He also shared a mutual attraction with black jazz singer Maxine Daniels, whom he met at the Empire Theatre. He made a pass at her, but she informed him that she was already happily married with a baby daughter.[62] Connery was married to actress Diane Cilento from 1962 to 1973. They had a son, actor Jason Connery. Connery has been married to Moroccan-French painter Micheline Roquebrune (born 1929) since 1975.[63]
Connery, a keen golfer, owned the Domaine de Terre Blanche[64] in the South of France for twenty years (from 1979) where he planned to build his dream golf course on the 266 acres (108 ha) of land, but the dream [65] was not realised until he sold it to German billionaire Dietmar Hopp in 1999. He has been awarded the rank of Shodan (1st dan) in Kyokushin karate.[66]
Connery was knighted in July 2000.[67] He had been nominated for a knighthood in 1997 and 1998, but these nominations were vetoed by Donald Dewar due to Connery's political views.[67][45]
Sean Connery has a villa in Kranidi, Greece. His neighbour is King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands, with whom he shares a helicopter platform.[68]
Connery is a supporter of Rangers F.C. despite following fierce Old Firm rivals Celtic F.C. during boyhood.[69]
Connery is a member of the Scottish National Party (SNP),[70][71][dead link] a centre-left political party campaigning for Scottish independence, and has supported the party financially[72] and through personal appearances. His funding of the SNP ceased in 2001, when the UK Parliament passed legislation that prohibited overseas funding of political activities in the UK.[72] In 2008, Connery said in the Scottish Sunday Express that he believed Scotland would become an independent country within his lifetime and praised the work of the SNP in a minority government after their victory in the 2007 Scottish Parliament election. Connery released documents in 2003 showing that he had paid £3.7 million in UK taxes between 1997/98 and 2002/03.[73] Connery swore never to return to live in Scotland unless it became an independent state.[74] In 2010 he made an appearance at the Edinburgh Film Festival.[75]
In 1993, news that Connery was undergoing radiation treatment for an undisclosed throat ailment sparked media reports that the actor was suffering from throat cancer following years of heavy smoking, and he was falsely declared dead by the Japanese and South African news agencies. Connery immediately appeared on the Late Show with David Letterman to deny all of this. In a February 1995 interview with Entertainment Weekly, he said that the radiation treatment was to remove nodules from his vocal cords. (His father, a heavy smoker, died from throat cancer in 1972.) In 2003, he had surgery to remove cataracts from both eyes. On 12 March 2006, he announced he was recovering from surgery in January to remove a kidney tumour. In 2008, he chipped a bone in his shoulder after falling while playing golf. In October 2009, he told Wine Spectator magazine that he had been diagnosed with a heart condition.[76]
Cohen, Susan; Cohen, Daniel (1985). Hollywood hunks and Heroes. New York City, New York: Exeter Books. p. 33. ISBN 0-671-07528-4. OCLC 12644589. 
Sellers, Robert (December 1999). Sean Connery: a celebration. Robert Hale. ISBN 978-0-7090-6125-0. Retrieved 14 July 2011. 
Yule, Andrew (1992). Sean Connery:Neither Shaken Nor Stirred. Little, Brown Book Group. ISBN 978-0-7515-4097-0. 
Categories: 1930 births20th-century Scottish male actors21st-century Scottish male actorsActors awarded British knighthoodsBAFTA fellowsBest Actor BAFTA Award winnersBest Supporting Actor Academy Award winnersBest Supporting Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersBonnyrigg Rose Athletic F.C. playersBritish karatekaCecil B. DeMille Award Golden Globe winnersCommandeurs of the Ordre des Arts et des LettresEuropean Film Awards winners (people)Grand Officers of the Order of Manuel Amador Guerrero (Panama)James BondKennedy Center honoreesKnights BachelorKyokushin kaikan practitionersLégion d'honneur recipientsPeople from EdinburghRoyal Navy sailorsScottish bodybuildersScottish film producersScottish male film actorsScottish male stage actorsScottish male television actorsScottish male voice actorsScottish nationalistsScottish people of Irish descentLiving peopleHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from February 2013Pages using citations with accessdate and no URLPages using citations with format and no URLArticles with dead external links from April 2014Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesUse British English from May 2012Use dmy dates from July 2013Articles with hCardsCommons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
                Age can do nothing to prevent Sean Connery from repeatedly being voted 'The sexiest male on Earth'. So what does his wife think about all this attention, his past romps with Bond girls and the endless offers for her husband to star with some of today's most alluring leading ladies?Oscar winning actor and producer, Sir Thomas Sean Connery is best known for playing Agent 007 James Bond. He was born in the city of Edinburgh to Joseph Connery and Euphamia “Effie” Maclean. Connery's first job was as a milkman and after this he went in to the Royal Navy but due to his stomach ulcer was discharged on medical grounds. He went back for a brief spell as a milkman, and then took on an array of other jobs: still behind the wheel but travelling somewhat faster, he was a truck driver, then a labourer. After this he downed tools to become an artist's model at Edinburgh College of Art - still pursuing dead-end jobs he took on the role of coffin polisher, and then making use of his athletic build, a lifeguard. At the age of 23, in only a pair of swimming trunks, an oiled and pumped up Connery was placed third in the tall men's division of the 1953 Mr. Universe contest. It was here that another competitor, Johnny Isaacs, suggested to Connery that he should go along for a casting for the stage production of South Pacific. This was the crossroads for Connery and the lights were on green for him to go across onto television work that eventually led to films. One of his first prominent roles was in 'Darby O'Gill and the Little People' (1956). In 1961 Connery co-starred with Claire Bloom in a BBC television production of 'Anna Karenina'. Over in America, Connery's first role was as a porter in an episode of The Jack Benny Show. Connery has never lost his good looks or his Scottish accent despite his years or the nationality of the character he played. He claimed sticking to a Scottish accent was out of respect for his country. In 1962 he became the second husband of Daine Cilento (until '73). Their son, also an actor, Jason Connery was born the following year. The same year, Connery landed the first of seven roles playing James Bond in the film 'Dr. No' adapted from the novel of the same name by Ian Fleming. Harry Sltzman discovered Connery, an unknown. Cary Grant thought he was too old for the part, as did James Mason. David Niven was passed over, although he did do a parody Bond in the '67 spoof of Casino Royal. Connery was the first person to play Bond in front of a camera – the production's limited budget meant that only an unknown would fit the bill. The last time Connery acted as Bond was in '83's ironically titled 'Never Say Never Again'. After 'Diamonds Are Forever' (1971) Connery concluded his role as 007 wasn't forever and swore never to return to the character - he was reportedly tempted with a huge salary and the promise of full control over all aspects of the production of Never Say Never Again. Ian Fleming considered 6’ 2” Connery too muscular and “unrefined”. Terence Young, the film's director, took Connery under his wing and showed him the etiquette of gentlemen: how to walk, talk, eat and so on. After the film's premiere, Fleming had changed his mind about his rough diamond principal and went on to give James Bond a half-Scottish and half-Swiss heritage for later incarnations. Connery's masculine, swarthy and sophisticated portrayal of Bond continued with 'From Russia With Love' (1963), said to be his favourite Bond film; 'Goldfinger' (1964) and 'Thunderball' (1956). But it was in 'You Only Live Twice' (1967) that saw Connery quit the role. He was said to be tired of the repetitive plots and the public's demands on him - he didn't want to be typecast either. So in 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service' (1969) George Lazenby took on the unwanted part. Lazenby was perceived to be a flop (very out of character for a womanising secret agent), so hard man Connery was tempted back into the United Artists' fold with a record salary for its time, a cool £1.25 million, coupled with an agreement he would have carte blanche to produce two other films. 'Diamonds Are Forever' (1971) was his final official appearance - unlike the film's title, this now polished diamond was not forever going to be Bond. Sticking to his guns, Connery turned down an alleged £5 million for 'Live And Let Die' (1973) - instead Roger Moore played the deathly nonchalant part and went on to play Bond in a further six films; thus launching the great debate: “Whom is the best Bond?” Two years after a bitter and painful divorce from his first wife, Connery married a second time to French artist Micheline Roquebrune in 1975. In 1999 President Bill Clinton presented Connery with the Kennedy Centre Honours from the United States. Although not a resident of his homeland, Connery is proud of his heritage and has supported the Scottish National Party with personal appearances and financial backing - he believes the new Scottish Parliament will grow to independence within his lifetime. Although his Knighthood was awarded in 2000, officially the delay was due to his comments in several interviews condoning the physical abuse of women and not for his support for an independent Scotland. In the re-make of 'Thunderball', Connery went back on his promise and did reprise his version of Bond in 'Never Say Never Again' (1983) - a title derived from Connery's earlier vow. Famed for his role as James Bond, Connery still managed to pursue his career in other roles with much success. Taking advantage of the deal struck with United Artists, he played law enforcer Detective Sergeant Johnson in 'The Offence' (1973) - however he thought the studio buried the film. In 'The Man Who Would Be King' (1973) Connery stepped foot where no other white man had since Alexander, playing Daniel Dravot alongside Michael Caine and Christopher Plummer in an adventure where two former British soldiers set themselves up as deities in Kafiristan. Later, he was part of an ensemble cast in 'Murder on the Orient Express' (1974) working with Albert Finney, Lauren Bacall, Ingrid Bergman and Vanessa Redgrave and in Richard Attenborough's 'A Bridge Too Far' opposite Sir Laurence Olivier, Dirk Bogard, James Caan, Michael Caine, Edward Fox, Elliot Gould, Gene Hackman, Anthony Hopkins and Ryan O’Neal. The film won 3 BAFTAs. The following year, Connery demonstrated to critics and audiences his ability and range as an actor with his portrayal of a Berber chieftain in 'The Wind and the Lion' (1975). 'The Name of the Rose' (1986) won Connery a BAFTA for ‘Best Actor’ and this proved to be the vehicle that drove him to a revival of credible parts. In the same year he played an old wise mentor in 'Highlander' and a role which he returned to on one other occasion, playing Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez, a swordsman who teaches the film's Scotsman how to kill an immortal. With 'The Untouchables' (1987) Connery played hard-nosed cop Jim Malone who taught Kevin Costner as Eliot Ness how to bring down Al Capone, played by Robert De Niro. Connery won himself and the film its only Oscar for ‘Best Supporting Actor’. 'Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade' saw Connery play Harrison Ford's father - a role that earned him a BAFTA Film Award nomination. Indiana Jones was inspired from Connery's Bond, so although he is only 12 years older than Ford, it was homage to this. Connery went on to fill the box office tills with 'The Hunt for Red October' (1990) for which earned a nomination for ‘Best Actor’ in the BAFTA Film Awards; 'The Russia House' (1990); 'The Rock' (1996) where he won London Critics’ Circle Film Award for ‘Actor of the Year’, and ‘Best On-Screen Duo’ from MTV Movie Awards, playing an imprisoned secret service agent, and 'Entrapment' (1999). These were followed by a leading role in 'League of Extraordinary Gentlemen' (2003) which suffered at the box office and with critics but Connery's performance was met with positive reviews. Between The Russia House and The Rock in 1993, news spread that Connery underwent radiation treatment for a throat aliment, fuelling rumours he had throat cancer - something his father died from in 1972 - Japanese and South African news agencies falsely reported his death leaving Connery to make an immediate appearance on the David Letterman show – alive! The ‘Lifetime Achievement Award’ from the Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films USA went to Connery in 1995. In 1998 The BAFTA Awards presented him with the ‘Academy Fellowship’. In 2004, Connery gave an interview with The Scotsman newspaper from his home in the Bahamas explaining that he was resting from acting whilst penning his autobiography. This book was later shelved after the publishers were said to be too invasive of Connery's personal life. At New York’s Tartan Day celebrations in 2006 Connery confirmed his retirement from acting and said he was writing a history book. In the spring of that year, Connery was recovering after having a tumour removed from his kidney. The American Film Institute honoured him with a ‘Lifetime Achievement Award’ in 2006. In the following New Year, he told The Scotsman he may join the cast of the fourth Indian Jones film. Connery says: “I will permanently retire the day I die!” Later in 2006, Connery returned to voice acting in the short film 'Sir Billi the Vet', which is about an eccentric vet working in a remote Scottish village. He will be reprising this role in 2011. He will also serve as an executive producer on the movie. On 7 June 2007, he denied the rumours that he would be appearing in the fourth Indiana Jones film. On 25 August 2008, his 78th birthday, he released his autobiography 'Being a Scot'. In April 2011, Connery's publicist announced that the actor has retired from making public appearances. Connery is currently a supporter of Rangers FC after supporting Celtic for a long time. Speaking about his change in allegiance he said he always supports the team that plays best and there is no religious reason behind it.
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
While one might dispute the actual number of people who would qualify for star status, no one would dispute the premise that Sean Connery is one of them.  Moreover, he is not merely a star - he is a super-star.
He began his theatrical career as an extra in the chorus, playing bit parts, and modeling.  From those modest beginnings, he has become an international film icon.  Many believe that his talent and appeal continue to improve with time.
His humble beginnings, growing up in a working class neighborhood in Edinburgh, gave no indication of the achievements that were destined to come.  Sean was born into a working class family in August of 1930.  The oldest of two boys, he spent much of his youth working at menial jobs, just to get by.  He left school at an early age and went to work fulltime.
At sixteen, he enlisted in the Royal Navy.  Like many young men in the Navy, he opted for a tattoo.  However, unlike many tattoos, his were not frivolous - his tattoos reflect two of his lifelong commitments: his family and Scotland.  After six decades, his tattoos still reflect those two ideas: One tattoo is a tribute to his parents and reads "Mum and Dad," and the other is self explanatory, "Scotland Forever."
After three years of Naval service, a long bout with a stomach ulcer shortened his "naval career".  He returned to Edinburgh and seemed to settle into a life of hard work: bricklayer, lifeguard, and coffin polisher.  Sean spent much of his free time bodybuilding, a pastime that eventually started his acting career.  His hobby of bodybuilding culminated in a bid for the 1950 Mr. Universe title where he placed third.
From his early acting days until his first superstar role, Sean's stardom was certainly not an over-night success story.  From his first work in modeling, bit theatrical parts, and chorus appearances, it was almost eight years before he was cast opposite Lana Turner in Another Time, Another Place (1958).  It would be another four years before he first uttered those unforgettable words, "Bond, James Bond."
Connery skyrocketed to international fame as the suave, confident (and many say definitive) Secret Agent 007 in six of Ian Fleming's Bond movies over the next decade: Dr. No (1962), Goldfinger (1964), From Russia, With Love (1964), Thunderball (1965), and You Only Live Twice (1967), and Diamonds are Forever (1971).
He then broadened his career with an Agatha Christie whodunit, Murder on the Orient Express (1974), John Huston's adaptation of Rudyard Kipling's adventure, The Man Who Would Be King (1975), the medieval romance, Robin and Marian (1976), and Peter Hyams' sci-fi film, Outland (1981).  He resurfaced as a much wiser and more mature Bond in the 1983 adventure, Never Say Never Again. For a complete list of his films, see the filmography page.
The 90's brought such great films as The Hunt for Red October (1990, as a Russian sub commander); and 1993's Rising Sun (as an expert in all things Japanese); Dragonheart (1996); and the successful contemporary action dramas Just Cause (1995); and The Rock (1996).  In 1999, Connery starred in and produced (Fountainbridge Films) Entrapment, a love story-thriller, costarring Catherine Zeta-Jones.  The year 2000 brought what many have said to be one of his best films, Finding Forrester.  Sean's latest movie "The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen" was released in 2003.
Many critics and fans alike have said that the quality of his acting has only improved with age. Certainly his personal appeal has. In 1989, at almost 60 years of age he was voted People Magazine's "Sexiest Man Alive." When advised of the award, Sean seemed to be unaffected as he replied, "Well there aren't many sexy dead men, are there."
Sir Sean steps out in traditional kilt- MacLean of Duart Hunting Clan Tartan - with an excerpt from famed Scot poet Robert Burns' "Address to Edinburgh".
Decorate your computer desktop with a film themed wallpaper featuring selected images from Bond to Forrester.
=======================================================
Biography:Born on Aug. 25, 1930 in Edinburgh, Scotland, Connery was raised in a working class home by his father, Joseph, a factory worker and truck driver, and his mother, Euphamia, a housekeeper. When he was 13 years old, Connery began working as a milkman for St. Cuthbert's Co-operative Society, making deliveries in the morning before going to school. In ... Continue Bio >>Photo Gallery:
=======================================================
(born Aug. 25, 1930, Edinburgh, Scot.) Scottish actor. He worked at odd jobs and entered bodybuilding competitions before making his London stage debut in the chorus of South Pacific (1951). After several minor roles, Connery starred as James Bond in the film version of Ian Fleming's Dr. No (1962) and went on to play secret agent 007 in six other films. A compelling character actor as well as a perennial sex symbol, he acted in films such as The Man Who Would Be King (1975), The Name of the Rose (1986), The Untouchables (1987, Academy Award), and Finding Forrester (2000).
From humble beginnings as a school dropout, Sean Connery (born 1930) became a major movie star at the age of 32 when he was cast as the sophisticated secret agent James Bond. Connery went on to distinguish himself in a number of major motion pictures, including his Oscar-winning performance in "The Untouchables".An unlikely candidate to play Ian Fleming's snobbish 007, Connery became so well known as this character that he nearly didn't break out of the mold. Despite his many years of work on the stage and screen, Connery was still being thought of as "the guy who played James Bond" into the early 1980s. But throughout his career, the stubborn Scot has taken on movie roles that interested him, regardless of how they fit his image. As a result of this shrewd thinking, he now has quite an impressive list of roles in his repertoire and critics talk more about his exceptional acting ability than his inability to break out of a role. With more than 60 movies to his credit, Connery has become one of the world's most prominent movie stars.A Depression-Era ChildhoodThomas Sean Connery began his life in the humblest of surroundings. He was the eldest of two sons, born in an Edinburgh, Scotland, tenement to Joseph and Euphamia Connery. During World War II, when he was 13, he dropped out of school to help support his family. "The war was on, so my whole education was a wipeout," Connery reminisced in Rolling Stone. "I had no qualifications at all for a job, and unemployment has always been very high in Scotland, anyway, so you take what you get. I was a milkman, laborer, steel bender, cement mixer-virtually anything." After several years of this, Connery decided to better his lot, and he joined the British Royal Navy. He received a medical discharge three years later, when he came down with a case of stomach ulcers.Returning to Edinburgh, Connery began to lift weights and develop his physique. He became a lifeguard and even modeled for an art college. Then in 1953, the toned Connery traveled to London to compete in the Mr. Universe competition. This trip was to mean more to him than the third place prize he won. While he was there, he heard about auditions for the musical South Pacific. He decided he wanted to try out, took a crash course in dancing and singing, and was cast for a role in the chorus.Chose Acting over SoccerThis small part became a crucial turning point for Connery. At the time, he was teetering between wanting to be an actor and a professional soccer player. But actor Robert Henderson, who was also in South Pacific, encouraged him to consider a career in acting. Connery took Henderson's advice: as a soccer player, one is limited by age; a good actor could play challenging roles forever.The unschooled Connery looked up to Henderson as a mentor. He commented in Premiere that "[Henderson] gave me a list of all these books I should read. I spent a year in every library in Britain and Ireland, Scotland and Wales…. I spent my days at the library and the evenings at the theater." He also went to matinees and talked to a lot of other actors, people he met over the year-long touring run of South Pacific. "That's what opened me to a whole different look at things," said Connery. "It didn't give me any more intellectual qualifications, but it gave me a terrific sense of the importance of a lot of things I certainly would never have gotten in touch with." It is also where he picked up his stage name, Sean Connery. When asked how he wanted to be billed for the musical, he gave his full name, Thomas Sean Connery. After being told that was too long, he opted for Sean Connery, not knowing how long he was going to be an actor. The name stuck.After South Pacific, Connery began broadening his horizons by working on the stage. He was also notable in his first television role, a British production of Rod Serling's Requiem for a Heavyweight. After garnering critical acclaim for this role, he received several film offers. In the years from 1955 to 1962, he made a string of B movies, including Action of the Tiger (1957).It was there he met Terence Young, who was to be the director of the Bond films. Young recalls in Rolling Stone that Action of the Tiger "was not a good picture. But Sean was impressive in it, and when it was all over, he came to me and said, in a very strong Scottish accent, 'Sir, am I going to be a success?' I said, 'Not after this picture, you're not. But,' I asked him, 'Can you swim?' He looked rather blank and said, yes, he could swim-what's that got to do with it? I said, 'Well, you'd better keep swimming until I can get you a proper job, and I'll make up for what I did this time.' And four years later, we came up with Dr. No."Bond, James BondConnery was still doing B movies when he was called in to interview for Dr. No, the first James Bond film. But he had matured quite a bit as an actor and exuded a kind of crude animal force, which Young compared to a young Kirk Douglas or Burt Lancaster. Producer Harry Saltzman felt that he had the masculinity the part required. In the course of a conversation he punctuate his words with physical movement. Everyone there agreed he was perfect for the role. Connery was signed without a screen test.Dr. No was an instant success, propelling the little known Connery into fame and sex-symbol status virtually overnight, a situation that the serious-minded and very private Connery did not like. Equally distressing to him was the way the media handled his transition into the role. He commented in Rolling Stone: "I'd been an actor since I was twenty-five but the image the press put out was that I just fell into this tuxedo and started mixing vodka martinis. And, of course, it was nothin' like that at all. I'd done television, theater, a whole slew of things. But it was more dramatic to present me as someone who had just stepped in off the street."Connery also performed many of his own stunts in Dr. No. He has continued this practice in many of his movies because it often speeds up the production. One of the stunts in Dr. No almost killed him. They had rehearsed a scene where he drives his convertible under a crane. At a slow speed, his head cleared by a few inches. When they actually shot the scene, the car was going 50 m.p.h., bouncing up and down. Luckily for Connery, the car hit the last bounce before he went under the crane and he emerged unhurt.In 1962 Connery married his first wife, Diane Cilento. She was also an actress, having played the part of Molly in Tom Jones. Apparently their relationship was loving, yet tempestuous. Connery's friend Michael Caine reported in Rolling Stone: "I remember once I was with them in Nassau. Diane was cooking lunch, and Sean and I went out. Of course, we got out and one thing led to another, you know, and we got back for lunch two hours later. Well, we opened the door and Sean said, 'Darling, we're home'-and all the food she'd cooked came flying through the air at us. I remember the two of us standin' there, covered in gravy and green beans." The couple divorced in 1974 and their only son, Jason, is now a movie actor.Between 1962 and 1967, Connery made five James Bond movies-Dr. No, From Russia with Love, Goldfinger (which was, at that time, the fastest money-maker in movie history, netting more than $10 million in its first few months), Thunderball, and You Only Live Twice. He was tiring of the grueling pace of producing a new feature every year, and of the constant publicity and invasion of privacy. During the filming of Thunderball Connery was working long days and doing press interviews at night.He was also arguing with the Bond movies' producer, Albert (Cubby) Broccoli, because he wanted to slow the pace of the series-completing a feature every 18 months instead of each year. He threatened to cut out of the contract after completing You Only Live Twice, and agreed to accept a salary that was lower than normal.But the nation was Bond-crazy and the films were a gold mine. Connery agreed to star in Diamonds Are Forever in 1971, demanding a salary of $1.25 million, plus a percentage. At that time, it was an unprecedented sum of money for such a role. After completing the film, Connery said "never again" to Bond roles and donated all of his salary to the Scottish International Education Trust, an organization he'd founded to assist young Scots in obtaining an education. (This is not the only example of Connery's generosity to charities. In 1987, he donated 50,000 British pounds to the National Youth Theatre in England after reading an article on the failing institution.)Life After BondAfter his split with Broccoli, he continued to pursue a variety of movie roles with his main concern being that he find them interesting. He would also do films if he felt his help was needed. He reportedly offered to be in Time Bandits for a very modest salary because he heard the producer was running into financial difficulties. With a few exceptions, however, most of the films Connery did in the decade following Diamonds Are Forever were not noteworthy.Then, in the early 1980s, a strange thing happened. At the age of fifty-three, Connery was asked to reprise the role he had made famous, in Never Say Never Again. The movie rights to this film had been won in a long court battle by Kevin McClory, an enterprising Irishman whom Connery admired a great deal for being able to beat the system. The movie was also scheduled to go head-to-head with Octopussy, a Broccoli Bond epic featuring the new 007, Roger Moore. It seems that twist was too much to resist, and Connery signed up. Another possibility is that Connery's second wife, Micheline Roquebrune, whom he had met on the golf course in Morocco in 1970 and married in 1975, convinced him to give the role another try.Connery drew rave reviews as an aging Bond trying to get back in shape for a daring mission. "At fifty-three, he may just be reaching the peak of his career," reported Kurt Loder in Rolling Stone. "Connery reminds you anew what star quality is all about. A good deal of that quality is on display in Never Say Never Again, a carefully crafted and quite lively addition to the lately listless Bond series." Instead of furthering any Bond typecasting by doing this film, Connery seemed to squash it.Roles Increased with AgeIn the years since, his performances seem to be getting better and better. In The Untouchables, Connery took the supporting role of Malone, a world-weary, but savvy, street cop. "It's a part that gives him ample opportunity to demonstrate his paradoxical acting abilities," wrote Benedict Nightingale in the New York Times, "his knack for being simultaneously rugged and gentle, cynical and innocent, hard and soft, tough and almost tender." For his portrayal of Malone, Connery won an Academy Award.Connery was also very strong in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, where he played the scholarly father of the ever-adventurous Jones, entangling himself in a lot of adventure and intrigue. Peter Travers commented in Rolling Stone that "Connery, now fifty-eight, has been movie-star virility incarnate. Here in his scholar's tweeds, with an undisguised horror of creepy-crawly things … and armed only with an umbrella and a fountain pen, Connery plays gloriously against type."Similarly, in his other recent roles-a monk in The Name of the Rose (1986), a deranged Russian submarine commander in The Hunt for Red October (1990), the knowledgeable police detective in Rising Sun (1993), an aging attorney in Just Cause (1995), King Arthur in First Knight (1995)-Connery continues to prove his versatility and maturity as an actor. Even as he passed age 65, Connery showed he can hold his own against Hollywood's hottest upstarts with his role as the ex-con who had once escaped from Alcatraz in the 1996 action thriller The Rock, costarring Nicolas Cage and Ed Harris.Connery has worked hard throughout his career and taken professional risks with his roles. For these efforts, he has become a greatly respected actor, almost a legend in the screen world. Patrick commented that "You suddenly realize [Connery is] the closest thing we now have to Clark Gable, an old-time movie star. Everyone knows him and likes him. It's shocking-every age group, men and women. There's something very likable about him on screen." In 1998 Connery received the Fellowship Award, the British Academy of Film and Television Arts highest honor. Yet, in spite of this, he remains a very conscientious worker, always trying to improve the movie he's in rather than sabotage others' performances to make himself look better. When asked whether he can now write his own ticket when he decides to star in a movie, he replied in "Premiere": "I have enough power in terms of casting approval and director approval. But I don't think it's something someone can brandish like a sword. I sense myself as much more a responsible filmmaker in terms of what's good for the overall picture, and for the actors as well, because I have had all this experience, and I've seen a lot of waste."Further ReadingThe Film Encyclopedia, Harper, 1990.American Film, May 1989.Entertainment Weekly, February 17, 1995.Interview, July 1989.Newsweek, June 8, 1987; May 29, 1989.New York Times, November 12, 1965; June 7, 1987.Parade, May 20, 1992.People, October 17, 1983.Premiere, April, 1990; February 1992; August 1993.Rolling Stone, October 27, 1983; June 15, 1989.Time, November 1, 1982; August 2, 1993.Vanity Fair, June 1993.
One of the few movie "superstars" truly worthy of the designation, actor Sean Connery was born to a middle-class Scottish family in the first year of the worldwide Depression. Dissatisfied with his austere surroundings, Connery quit school at 15 to join the navy (he still bears his requisite tattoos, one reading "Scotland Forever" and the other "Mum and Dad"). Holding down several minor jobs, not the least of which was as a coffin polisher, Connery became interested in bodybuilding, which led to several advertising modeling jobs and a bid at Scotland's "Mr. Universe" title. Mildly intrigued by acting, Connery joined the singing-sailor chorus of the London roduction of South Pacific in 1951, which whetted his appetite for stage work. Connery worked for a while in repertory theater, then moved to television, where he scored a success in the BBC's re-staging of the American teledrama Requiem for a Heavyweight. The actor moved on to films, playing bit parts (he'd been an extra in the 1954 Anna Neagle musical Lilacs in the Spring) and working up to supporting roles. Connery's first important movie role was as Lana Turner's romantic interest in Another Time, Another Place (1958) -- although he was killed off 15 minutes into the picture. 
After several more years in increasingly larger film and TV roles, Connery was cast as James Bond in 1962's Dr. No; he was far from the first choice, but the producers were impressed by Connery's refusal to kowtow to them when he came in to read for the part. The actor played the secret agent again in From Russia With Love (1963), but it wasn't until the third Bond picture, Goldfinger (1964), that both Connery and his secret-agent alter ego became a major box-office attraction. While the money steadily improved, Connery was already weary of Bond at the time of the fourth 007 flick Thunderball (1965). He tried to prove to audiences and critics that there was more to his talents than James Bond by playing a villain in Woman of Straw (1964), an enigmatic Hitchcock hero in Marnie (1964), a cockney POW in The Hill (1965), and a loony Greenwich Village poet in A Fine Madness (1966). 
Despite the excellence of his characterizations, audiences preferred the Bond films, while critics always qualified their comments with references to the secret agent. With You Only Live Twice (1967), Connery swore he was through with James Bond; with Diamonds Are Forever (1971), he really meant what he said. Rather than coast on his celebrity, the actor sought out the most challenging movie assignments possible, including La Tenda Rossa/The Red Tent (1969), The Molly Maguires (1970), and Zardoz (1973). This time audiences were more responsive, though Connery was still most successful with action films like The Wind and the Lion (1974), The Man Who Would Be King (1975), and The Great Train Robbery (1979). With his patented glamorous worldliness, Connery was also ideal in films about international political intrigue like The Next Man (1976), Cuba (1979), The Hunt for Red October (1990), and The Russia House (1990). One of Connery's personal favorite performances was also one of his least typical: In The Offence (1973), he played a troubled police detective whose emotions -- and hidden demons -- are agitated by his pursuit of a child molester. 
In 1981, Connery briefly returned to the Bond fold with Never Say Never Again, but his difficulties with the production staff turned what should have been a fond throwback to his salad days into a nightmarish experience for the actor. At this point, he hardly needed Bond to sustain his career; Connery had not only the affection of his fans but the respect of his industry peers, who honored him with the British Film Academy award for The Name of the Rose (1986) and an American Oscar for The Untouchables (1987) (which also helped make a star of Kevin Costner, who repaid the favor by casting Connery as Richard the Lionhearted in Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves [1991] -- the most highly publicized "surprise" cameo of that year). 
While Connery's star had risen to new heights, he also continued his habit of alternating crowd-pleasing action films with smaller, more contemplative projects that allowed him to stretch his legs as an actor, such as Time Bandits (1981), Five Days One Summer (1982), A Good Man in Africa (1994), and Playing by Heart (1998). Although his mercurial temperament and occasionally overbearing nature is well known, Connery is nonetheless widely sought out by actors and directors who crave the thrill of working with him, among them Harrison Ford, Steven Spielberg, and George Lucas, who collaborated with Connery on Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade (1989), where the actor played Jones' father. Connery served as executive producer on his 1992 vehicle Medicine Man (1992), and continued to take on greater behind-the-camera responsibilities on his films, serving as both star and executive producer on Rising Sun (1993), Just Cause (1995), and The Rock (1996). He graduated to full producer on Entrapment (1999), and, like a true Scot, he brought the project in under budget; the film was a massive commercial success and paired Connery in a credible onscreen romance with Catherine Zeta-Jones, a beauty 40 years his junior. He also received a unusual hipster accolade in Trainspotting (1996), in which one of the film's Gen-X dropouts (from Scotland, significantly enough) frequently discusses the relative merits of Connery's body of work. Appearing as Allan Quartermain in 2003's comic-to-screen adaptation of The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, the seventy-three year old screen legend proved that he still had stamina to spare and that despite his age he could still appear entirely believeable as a comic-book superhero. Still a megastar in the 1990s, Sean Connery commanded one of moviedom's highest salaries -- not so much for his own ego-massaging as for the good of his native Scotland, to which he continued to donate a sizable chunk of his earnings. ~ Hal Erickson, Rovi
Sir Thomas Sean Connery Kt. (born 25 August 1930)[2] is a Scottish actor and producer who has won an Academy Award, two BAFTA Awards (one of them being a BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award) and three Golden Globes (including the Cecil B. DeMille Award and a Henrietta Award).
Connery is best known for portraying the character James Bond, starring in seven Bond films between 1962 and 1983 (six Eon Productions films and the non-canonical Thunderball remake, Never Say Never Again).[3] In 1988, Connery won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role in The Untouchables.[4] His film career also includes such films as Marnie, The Name of the Rose, The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, The Hunt for Red October, Highlander, Murder on the Orient Express, Dragonheart, and The Rock. He was knighted in July 2000.[5][6] Connery has been polled as "The Greatest Living Scot"[7] and "Scotland's Greatest Living National Treasure".[8] In 1989, he was proclaimed "Sexiest Man Alive" by People magazine and in 1999, at age 69, he was voted "Sexiest Man of the Century".
Thomas Sean Connery, named Thomas after his grandfather, was born in Fountainbridge, Edinburgh, Scotland. His mother, Euphemia McBain "Effie" (née McLean), was a cleaning woman, and his father, Joseph Connery, was a factory worker and lorry driver.[9][10] His paternal grandfather's parents emigrated to Scotland from Ireland in the mid-19th century.[11] The remainder of his family was of Scottish descent, and his maternal great-grandparents were native Scottish Gaelic speakers from Fife (unusually, for a speaker of the language) and Uig on the Isle of Skye.[12][13] His father was a Roman Catholic, and his mother was a Protestant. He has a younger brother, Neil (b. 1938). Connery claims he was called Sean, his middle name, long before becoming an actor, explaining that when he was young he had an Irish friend named Séamus and that those who knew them both had decided to call Connery by his middle name whenever both were present. He was generally referred to in his youth as "Tommy".[14] Although he was small in primary school, he grew rapidly around the age of 12, reaching his full adult height of 6 ft 2 inches (188 cm) at 18. He was known during his teen years as "Big Tam", and has claimed to have lost his virginity to an adult woman in an ATS uniform at the age of 14.[15][16]
Connery's first job was as a milkman in Edinburgh with St. Cuthbert's Co-operative Society.[17] He then joined the Royal Navy during which time he got two tattoos, of which his official website says "unlike many tattoos, his were not frivolous—his tattoos reflect two of his lifelong commitments: his family and Scotland. ...One ...reads "Mum and Dad," and the other "Scotland Forever."[18][19]
Connery was later discharged from the navy on medical grounds because of a duodenal ulcer, a condition that affected most of the males in previous generations of his family.[20] Afterwards, he returned to the co-op, then worked as, among other things, a lorry driver, a lifeguard at Portobello swimming baths, a labourer, an artist's model for the Edinburgh College of Art, after a suggestion by former Mr. Scotland, Archie Brennan.[21][22] and a coffin polisher. The modelling earned him 15 shillings an hour,[22] Student artist Richard Demarco who painted several notable early pictures of Connery described him as "very straight, slightly shy, too, too beautiful for words, a virtual Adonis."[23]
Connery began bodybuilding at the age of 18 and from 1951 time trained heavily with Ellington, a former gym instructor in the British army.[24] While his official website claims he was third in the 1950 Mr. Universe contest, most sources place him in the 1953 competition, either third in the Junior class[25] or failing to place in the Tall Man classification.[26] One of the other competitors mentioned that auditions were being held for a production of South Pacific;[25] and Connery landed a small part. While in Edinburgh, Connery was targeted by the notorious Valdor gang, one of the most ruthless gangs in the city. He was first approached by them in a billiard hall on Lothian Street where he prevented them from stealing from his jacket and was later followed by six gang members to a 15 ft high balcony at the Palais.[27] There Connery launched an attack single-handedly against the gang members, grabbing one by the throat and another by a biceps and cracked their heads together. From then on he was treated with great respect by the gang and gained a reputation as a "hard man".[28]
Connery was a keen footballer, having played for Bonnyrigg Rose in his younger days. He was offered a trial with East Fife. While on tour with South Pacific, Connery played in a football match against a local team that Matt Busby, manager of Manchester United, happened to be scouting. According to reports, Busby was impressed with his physical prowess and offered Connery a contract worth £25 a week immediately after the game. Connery admits that he was tempted to accept, but he recalls, "I realised that a top-class footballer could be over the hill by the age of 30, and I was already 23. I decided to become an actor and it turned out to be one of my more intelligent moves."[29][30]
Looking to pick up some extra money, Connery helped out backstage at the King's Theatre in late 1951.[25] He became interested in the proceedings, and a career was launched.
In 1957, Connery played Spike, a minor gangster with a speech impediment in Montgomery Tully's No Road Back alongside Skip Homeier, Paul Carpenter, Patricia Dainton and Norman Wooland.[31] He then played a rogue lorry driver Johnny Yates in Cy Endfield's Hell Drivers (1957) alongside Stanley Baker, Herbert Lom, Peggy Cummins and Patrick McGoohan.[27] Later in 1957 Connery appeared in Terence Young's poorly received MGM action picture Action of the Tiger opposite Van Johnson, Martine Carol, Herbert Lom and Gustavo Rojo; the film was shot on location in southern Spain.[32][33] He also had a minor role in Gerald Thomas's thriller Time Lock (1957) as a welder, appearing alongside Robert Beatty, Lee Patterson, Betty McDowall and Vincent Winter, which commenced filming on 1 December 1956 at Beaconsfield Studios.[34]
In 1958 he had a major role in the melodrama Another Time, Another Place (1958) as a British reporter named Mark Trevor, caught in a love affair opposite Lana Turner and Barry Sullivan. During filming, star Lana Turner's possessive gangster boyfriend, Johnny Stompanato, who was visiting from Los Angeles, believed she was having an affair with Connery. He stormed onto the set and pointed a gun at Connery, only to have Connery disarm him and knock him flat on his back. Stompanato was banned from the set.[35] Connery later recounted that he had to lie low for a while after receiving threats from men linked to Stompanato's boss, Mickey Cohen.
In 1959, Connery landed a leading role in Robert Stevenson's Walt Disney Productions film Darby O'Gill and the Little People (1959) alongside Albert Sharpe, Janet Munro, and Jimmy O'Dea. The film is a tale about a wily Irishman and his battle of wits with leprechauns. Upon the film's initial release, A. H. Weiler of the New York Times praised the cast (save Connery whom he described as "merely tall, dark, and handsome") and thought the film an "overpoweringly charming concoction of standard Gaelic tall stories, fantasy and romance.".[36] In his book The Disney Films, film critic and historian Leonard Maltin stated that, "Darby O'Gill and the Little People is not only one of Disney's best films, but is certainly one of the best fantasies ever put on film."[37]
He also had a prominent television role in Rudolph Cartier's 1961 production of Anna Karenina for BBC Television, in which he co-starred with Claire Bloom.[38]
Connery's breakthrough came in the role of secret agent James Bond. He was reluctant to commit to a film series, but understood that if the films succeeded his career would greatly benefit.[30] He played the character in the first five Bond films: Dr. No (1962), From Russia with Love (1963), Goldfinger (1964), Thunderball (1965), and You Only Live Twice (1967) – then appeared again as Bond in Diamonds Are Forever (1971) and Never Say Never Again (1983). All seven films were commercially successful.
Sean Connery's selection as James Bond owed a lot to Dana Broccoli, wife of Cubby Broccoli, who is reputed to have been instrumental in persuading Cubby that Sean Connery was the right man.[39][40] James Bond's creator, Ian Fleming, originally doubted Connery's casting, saying, "He's not what I envisioned of James Bond looks" and "I'm looking for Commander Bond and not an overgrown stunt-man," adding that Connery (muscular, 6' 2", and a Scot) was unrefined. Fleming's girlfriend told him Connery had the requisite sexual charisma. Fleming changed his mind after the successful Dr. No première; he was so impressed, he created a half-Scottish, half-Swiss heritage for James Bond in the later novels.
Connery's portrayal of Bond owes much to stylistic tutelage from director Terence Young, polishing the actor while using his physical grace and presence for the action. Robert Cotton wrote in one Connery biography that Lois Maxwell (the first Miss Moneypenny) noticed, "Terence took Sean under his wing. He took him to dinner, showed him how to walk, how to talk, even how to eat." Cotton wrote, "Some cast members remarked that Connery was simply doing a Terence Young impression, but Young and Connery knew they were on the right track."[41] The tutoring was successful; Connery received thousands of fan letters a week, and the actor became one of the great male sex symbols of film.[30]
In 2005, From Russia with Love was adapted by Electronic Arts into a video game, titled James Bond 007: From Russia with Love, which featured all-new voice work by Connery as well as his likeness, and those of several of the film's supporting cast.
Although Bond had made him a star, Connery eventually tired of the role and the pressure the franchise put on him, saying that he was "fed up to here with the whole Bond bit".[30] While making the Bond films, Connery also starred in other acclaimed films such as Alfred Hitchcock's Marnie (1964) and Murder on the Orient Express (1974). Apart from The Man Who Would Be King and The Wind and the Lion, both released in 1975, most of Connery's successes in the next decade were as part of ensemble casts in films such as Murder on the Orient Express (1974) with Vanessa Redgrave and John Gielgud and A Bridge Too Far (1977) co-starring Dirk Bogarde and Laurence Olivier.[42]
In 1981, Connery appeared in the film Time Bandits as Agamemnon. The casting choice derives from a joke Michael Palin included in the script, in which he describes the character removing his mask as being "Sean Connery — or someone of equal but cheaper stature".[43] When shown the script, Connery was happy to play the supporting role. In 1982, Connery narrated G'olé!, the official film of the 1982 FIFA World Cup.[44]
After his experience with Never Say Never Again in 1983 and the following court case, Connery became unhappy with the major studios and for two years did not make any films. Following the successful European production The Name of the Rose (1986), for which he won a BAFTA award, Connery's interest in more commercial material was revived. That same year, a supporting role in Highlander showcased his ability to play older mentors to younger leads, which would become a recurring role in many of his later films. The following year, his acclaimed performance as a hard-nosed Irish-American cop in The Untouchables (1987) earned him the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, his sole nomination throughout his career. His subsequent box-office hits included Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade (1989), in which he played Henry Jones Sr., the title character's father, The Hunt for Red October (1990) (where he was reportedly called in at two weeks' notice), The Russia House (1990), The Rock (1996), and Entrapment (1999). In 1996, he voiced the role of Draco the dragon in the film Dragonheart. In 1998, Sean Connery received a BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award.
In recent years, Connery's films have included several box office and critical disappointments such as First Knight (1995), The Avengers (1998), and The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen (2003), but he also received positive reviews, including his performance in Finding Forrester (2000). He also later received a Crystal Globe for outstanding artistic contribution to world cinema.
Connery stated in interviews for the film (included on the DVD release) that he was offered a role in The Lord of the Rings series,[45] declining it due to "not understanding the script." CNN reported that the actor was offered up to 15% of the worldwide box office receipts to play Gandalf, which had he accepted, could have earned him as much as $400 million for the trilogy.[46] After the series went on to become a huge hit, Connery decided to accept the lead role in League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, despite not "understanding" it either. In July 2005, it was reported that he had decided to retire from film-making, following disillusionment with the "idiots now making films in Hollywood" and the turmoil making the 2003 film.[47]
In September 2004, media reports indicated that Connery intended to retire after pulling out of Josiah's Canon, which was set for a 2005 release. In a December 2004 interview with The Scotsman newspaper from his home in the Bahamas, Connery explained he had taken a break from acting to concentrate on writing his autobiography. However Connery pulled out of writing the work and refunded the advance paid him by the publisher Harper Collins.[48]
At the Tartan Day celebrations in New York in March 2006, Connery again confirmed his retirement from acting, and stated that he was writing a history book. On 25 August 2008, his 78th birthday, Connery unveiled his book Being a Scot, co-written with Murray Grigor.
He was planning to star in an $80 million movie about Saladin and the Crusades that would be filmed in Jordan before the producer Moustapha Akkad was killed in the 2005 Amman bombings. When Connery received the American Film Institute's Lifetime Achievement Award on 8 June 2006, he again confirmed his retirement from acting. On 7 June 2007, he denied rumours that he would appear in the fourth Indiana Jones film, stating that "retirement is just too much damned fun".[49]
Connery returned to voice acting, playing the title character in the animated short Sir Billi the Vet,[50] and in 2005 he recorded voiceovers for a new video game version of his Bond film From Russia with Love.[51] In an interview on the game disc, Connery stated that he was very happy that the producers of the game (EA Games) had approached him to voice Bond and that he hoped to do another one in the near future. In 2010, he reprised his role as the title character in the animated film Sir Billi, serving also as executive producer.[52]
In the film Transformers: Dark of the Moon, the character Sentinel Prime's features were mostly based on Connery. When Leonard Nimoy was to voice the role, however, the effects were altered to incorporate Nimoy's acting as well.[54]
Director Sam Mendes confirmed that Connery was considered being cast in the Kincaide role taken by Albert Finney in Skyfall[55] but stated the idea was shelved as being distracting to the film.
Connery dated a woman named Julie Hamilton in the 1950s; given his rugged appearance and rough charm she initially thought he was a most appalling person and was not attracted to him until she saw him in a kilt.[56] He also shared a mutual attraction with black jazz singer Maxine Daniels, whom he met at the Empire Theatre. He made a pass at her, but she informed him that she was already happily married with a baby daughter.[57] Connery was married to actress Diane Cilento from 1962 to 1973. They had a son, actor Jason Connery. Connery has been married to Moroccan-French painter Micheline Roquebrune (born 1929) since 1975.[58]
Connery, a keen golfer, owned the Domaine de Terre Blanche[59] in the South of France for twenty years (from 1979) where he planned to build his dream golf course on the 266 acres (108 ha) of land, but the dream [60] was not realised until he sold it to German billionaire Dietmar Hopp in 1999. Connery has also always had an interest in football. Connery supported Celtic in the 1960s, but began supporting their Old Firm rivals Rangers in the 1990s.[61] Commenting on his change of allegiance, Connery stated "I've always supported the team I thought played the best soccer ... religious affiliations in sport mean nothing to me."[61] He has been awarded the rank of Shodan (1st dan) in Kyokushin karate.[62]
Connery was knighted in July 2000.[63] He had been nominated for a knighthood in 1997 and 1998, but these nominations were vetoed by Donald Dewar due to Connery's political views.[63]
Sean Connery has a villa in Kranidi, Greece. His neighbour is the Dutch crown-prince with whom he shares a helicopter platform.[64]
Connery is a member of the Scottish National Party (SNP),[65][66][dead link] a centre-left political party campaigning for Scottish independence, and has supported the party financially[67] and through personal appearances. His funding of the SNP ceased in 2001, when the UK Parliament passed legislation that prohibited overseas funding of political activities in the UK.[67] In 2008, Connery said in the Scottish Sunday Express he believed that Scotland will become an independent country within his lifetime and praised the work of the SNP in a minority government after their victory in the 2007 Scottish Parliament election. Connery has been criticised for commenting on UK politics while living as a tax exile in the Bahamas,[68][69] although he released documents in 2003 showing that he had paid £3.7 million in UK taxes between 1997/98 and 2002/03.[70] Connery swore never to return to live in Scotland unless it becomes an independent state,.[71] In 2010 he made an appearance at the Edinburgh Film Festival.[72]
In 1993, news that Connery was undergoing radiation treatment for an undisclosed throat ailment sparked media reports that the actor was suffering from throat cancer following years of heavy smoking, and he was falsely declared dead by the Japanese and South African news agencies. Connery immediately appeared on the Late Show with David Letterman to deny all of this. In a February 1995 interview with Entertainment Weekly, he said that the radiation treatment was to remove nodules from his vocal cords. (His father, a heavy smoker, died from throat cancer in 1972.) In 2003, he had surgery to remove cataracts from both eyes. On 12 March 2006, he announced he was recovering from surgery in January to remove a kidney tumour. In 2008, he chipped a bone in his shoulder after falling while playing golf. In October 2009, he told Wine Spectator magazine that he has been diagnosed with a heart condition.[73]
Yule, Andrew (2009), Sean Connery:Neither Shaken Nor Stirred, Little, Brown Book Group, ISBN 978-0-7515-4097-0
This entry is from Wikipedia, the leading user-contributed encyclopedia. It may not have been reviewed by professional editors (see full disclaimer)
Britannica Concise Encyclopedia. © 1994-2014 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. All rights reserved.					Read more
	This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License. It uses material from the Wikipedia article Sean Connery. 
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesHow to Deal with a Passive Aggressive SpouseHow to Successfully Divorce a Narcissist6 Signs Youre Headed for DivorceHelpful Tips for Forgiving Your SpouseWhat is Parental Alienation Syndrome?
Sean and Micheline Connery at the 76th Annual Academy Awards in Hollywood, California on February 29, 2004.
Top Related Searchesmajesty queen elizabethlondon daily mirrorqueen elizabeth iithomas sean connerymicheline roquebrunediane cilento
Sean Connery's first marriage was one of differing personalities and interests. Sean's second marriage to Micheline Roquebrune has been based on similar interests. Here is information about the long lasting marriage of Sean and Micheline.
Micheline Roquebrune: Abt. 1929.How Sean and Micheline Met:Micheline and Sean met in Morocco at a golf tournament.
"Marriage Revealed. Sean Connery, 44, Superspy James Bond in Diamonds Are Forever, Goldfinger and four other 007 fantasies; and Micheline Roquebrune, 39, a Tunisian-born French matron; in Casablanca, two months ago; he for the second time, she for the third."
London Daily Mirror: "It said the marriage was kept secret and the couple refused to say when or where the wedding took place. But a close friend said they married about four months ago in Casablanca."
Marilyn Beck: "Sean Connery says that golf -- which has probably ruined more marriages than infidelity -- was a component that brought him together with his new wife, Micheline Roquebrune."
Children:Sean has one son.Jason Joseph Connery: Jason was born in 1963 in London, England. His mother is Diane Cilento. Jason is an actor, producer, and director. Jason has one son, Dashiell Quinn.
Sir Sean Connery: Actor, director, and producer. Winner of numerous honors and awards, Sean was knighted by Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II in July 2000. 1962-1967; 1971, 1983: Portrayed James Bond. 
Quotes About the Marriage of Sean Connery and Micheline Roquebrune:Micheline: "When I met Sean, I knew I was taking on the whole package. Everyone wants him and I have to accept and understand that."
Source: Paul Scott. "Sean Connery: The Story of a Brilliant But Deeply Flawed Man." DailyMail.co.uk. 8/08/08. 
Sean: "When Diane and I separated I vowed I would never again speak about marriage or marrying. But I will tell you that I am now married again."
"Although his [Sean's] Knighthood was awarded in 2000, officially the delay was due to his comments in several interviews condoning physical abuse of woman and not, for his support for an independent Scotland."
Source: "Sean Connery Biography." TheBiographyChannel.co.uk.Previous Marriages:According to news reports in 1975, Micheline had two previous marriages.
Sean was previously married to Australian Diane Cilento. Diane was born on October 5, 1933 in New Guinea. She moved to Australia when she was six years old. Diane was an actress and she met Sean during the BBC production of "Anna Christie." Diane's  December 6, 1962 marriage to Sean on Gibraltar was her second marriage. Sean and Diane divorced on September 6, 1973. Diane has a daughter from her first marriage to writer Andrew Volpe. Sean and Diane had one son. Diane married writer Anthony Shaffer in 1985. Anthony and Diane's marriage lasted until his death in 2001. Diane lives in Australia, is a published author, and owned Karnak Playhouse, an open-air theater. Diane died on October 6, 2011 at the age of 78.
Robert Peel: "Because of their contrasting backgrounds and upbringing, the connerys' approach to life is quite different. Sean is sober, sensitive, reserved. Diane is outspoken, vivacious, the practical joker ..."
Source: Robert Peel. "Sean Connery -- The Private Life of the Amazing James Bond." Family Weekly. 8/02/1964. pgs 6-7.
Stephen Boyd about Sean considering giving up acting: "Only diane's faith in him prevented Sean from capitulating and going into another profession."
Source: Robert Peel. "Sean Connery -- The Private Life of the Amazing James Bond." Family Weekly. 8/02/1964. pgs. 6-7.
Further ReadingMarriages of Other James Bond ActorsOfficial Sean Connery Web SiteMicheline's GalleryMore on Sean ConnerySean Connery ArticlesSean Connery Biography
Related ArticlesJohn Travolta on 'Be Cool' and Chili PalmerSean Connery Stuart Townsend Jason Flemyng from The League of Extraordinary...Sean Connery Peta Wilson Jason Flemyng from The League of Extraordinary Gen...Harrison Ford, Sean Connery, Karen Allen Indiana JonesThe League of Extraordinary Gentlemen Movie Photo Gallery - Sean Connery Sh... 
Your Complete Guide to Wedding AnniversariesTop 10 Marriage MistakesTop 10 Listening TipsTips on Having THE TalkYour Quick Guide to Getting a Marriage License
Gift Ideas for All Your Wedding AnniversariesYour Complete Guide to 10th Wedding AnniversariesHow to Celebrate Your 50th Wedding AnniversaryHow to Celebrate Your 40th Wedding AnniversaryCelebrating You First Wedding Anniversary
Before You Get MarriedMarriage License & LawsBuild a Healthy MarriageAnniversariesInfluential MarriagesSave Your MarriageRomanceMarriage MaintenanceMarital ProblemsCalling it QuitsStages of MarriageTypes of MarriagesGift GivingMarriage HistoryGlossaryBlog
MarriageAbout.comPeople & RelationshipsMarriageInfluential MarriagesEntertainmentMicheline Roquebrune and Sean Connery Marriage ProfileAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
=======================================================
BODY { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: 13px; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: 11px; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline; }
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:18px; font-weight:normal; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.left_nav { font-family: Arial, sans-serif; font-size:100%; margin:0; line-height:1.05em; width:100%; border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding-bottom:10px; }
div.left_nav h2 { margin:0 0 0 0; color: #000000; font-weight: bold; line-height: 1.25em; font-size: 100%; font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; padding: 3px 6px; background-color: #EAF3FE; }
div.left_nav h3 { font-family: arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0.5em 0 0.4em 0.5em; color: #E47911; font-weight: bold; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; }
div.left_nav hr { margin: 1em 0.5em; border-top:0; border-left:0; border-right:0; border-bottom: 1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.left_nav a:link, div.left_nav a:visited { color: #003399; text-decoration: none; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; }
div.left_nav p.seeMore { padding-left:0.9em; text-indent:-0.9em; margin-top: 0.35em; margin-bottom: 1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:arial,verdana,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
h1.t9,h2.t9,h3.t9,h4.t9,h5.t9,h6.t9,h1.t10,h2.t10,h3.t10,h4.t10,h5.t10,h6.t10,h1.t11,h2.t11,h3.t11,h4.t11,h5.t11,h6.t11,h1.t12,h2.t12,h3.t12,h4.t12,h5.t12,h6.t12 { font-family: Arial, Verdana, "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, sans-serif;}
A different version of this web site containing similar content optimized for screen readers and mobile devices may be found at the web address: www.amazon.com/access
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMens GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV  Amazons Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
html,body{font-size:100%;height:100%;font-family:arial,verdana,sans-serif;}html,body,form,h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6,p,ul{margin:0;padding:0;}body{-ms-text-size-adjust:100%;-webkit-text-size-adjust:100%;-moz-text-size-adjust:100%;text-size-adjust:100%;}img{border:0;display:block;}ul{list-style-type:none;}a{color:#0000cc;}a:hover{text-decoration:;}a:visited{color:;}#p{font-size:0.813em;margin:0 auto;width:1024px;}.landing #p{height:100%;margin:0 auto;}.landing #CHROME,.landing #IE,.landing #IE6,.landing #IE7,.landing #IE8,.landing #IE9,.landing #SAFARI,.landing #isMacOS,.landing #AOL,.landing #AOL91,.landing #AOL95,.landing #AOL96{height:100%;}.landing #h{min-height:275px;max-height:456px;height:60%;position:relative;width:716px;margin:0 auto 0 auto;background:none;}.landing #IE7 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:455px;}.landing #IE8 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:456px;}.landing #IE9 #h{min-height:258px;max-height:456px;}#h{padding-top:0px;margin-bottom:12px;background:none;}#IE #h{position:relative;z-index:1;zoom:100%;}.landing #IE6 #h{height:550px;}.landing #AOL #h{height:555px;}#l{width:92px;float:left;padding-left:0px;padding-right:43px;clear:both;margin-top:;}#p.r #w{padding-right:325px;}#p.l #w{padding-left:135px;}#c{float:left;width:100%;background-color:#fff;margin-top:;}#IE6 #c{width:98%;}.cw{margin-left:;padding-left:;padding-right:10px;width:auto;}#p.r .cw{margin-right:;}#r{width:308px;float:left;border-left:1px solid #e5e5e5;padding-left:8px;padding-right:8px;margin-top:;}#IE6 #r{position:relative;}.rw{margin:10px;}#f{clear:both;background:none;min-width:650px;}.landing #f{background:none;}#hw,#center_wrap,#fw{margin:0 auto;width:auto;max-width:;min-width:650px;}.landing #hw,.landing #center_wrap,.landing #fw{margin:auto;min-width:100%;}.clear{clear:both;height:0;overflow:hidden;}.lr-sep{border-top:1px solid #e5e5e5;margin:10px 0 0;width:149px;height:0;overflow:hidden;}.lhrgt,.lhrlt{display:block;cursor:pointer;text-decoration:none;outline:none;}.lhrgt:hover,.lhrlt:hover,.lhrgt span:hover,.lhrlt span:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.lhrgt .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat -1px -8px;margin:4px 0 0 5px;height:7px;width:7px;}#IE .lhrgt .sprite{margin-top:5px;}.lhrlt .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat 0 0;margin:5px 5px 0 0;height:7px;width:7px;}.lhrgt span,.lhrlt span{float:left;}.acc{position:absolute;text-indent:-1000em;overflow:hidden;}.hac{display:inline;margin:0;font-size:1em;font-weight:normal;}.obscure{position:absolute!important;clip:rect(1px 1px 1px 1px);clip:rect(1px,1px,1px,1px);}.sprite{text-indent:-9999px;display:block;overflow:hidden;}#h .cntr{padding-left:10px;float:left;}#h .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:8px;}#f .cntr{padding-left:10px;float:left;}#f .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:8px;}#isMobile #c{float:none;padding-left:10px;padding-right:10px;width:auto;}#isMobile #h{height:auto;margin:0;max-height:none;min-height:0;padding-top:0;}.landing #isMobile #c,.landing #isMobile .cw{padding:0;}.landing #isMobile #h{padding-top:0px;}.article #p{font-size:;margin:;width:;}.article #p.r #w{padding-right:332px;}.article #p.l #w{padding-left:;}.article #h{padding-top:;margin-bottom:;background:;}.article #c{margin-top:;}.article .cw{margin-left:15px;padding-left:;padding-right:;width:;}.article #p.r .cw{margin-right:5px;}.article #r{width:;padding-left:15px;padding-right:;margin-top:;}.article #f{background:;min-width:;}.article #hw,.article #center_wrap,.article #fw{margin:;width:;max-width:;min-width:;}.article #h .cntr{padding-left:;}.article #h .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:;}.article #f .cntr{padding-left:;}.article #f .cntr .cntr-c{padding-left:;}.landing{background-color:#ffffff;;;}.CSB{position:relative;width:653px;float:left;}.CSB .csbtds{padding-top:0px;padding-right:0px;padding-bottom:0px;padding-left:0px;background:transparent;}.csbs{background-color:#fff;border:1px solid black;color:#000000;font-size:1.308em;font-weight:normal;font-family:arial,verdana,sans-serif;height:28px;width:100%;position:relative;padding:5px 3px 4px 6px;}.landing .csbs{border:;}.ghost{color:#b9b9b9;}.csbb{background:url("http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites2/wow-search-button.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;cursor:pointer;font-weight:normal;font-size:1.462em;margin:0 0 0 10px;padding:0;display:block;white-space:nowrap;line-height:40px;height:40px;position:relative;text-shadow:0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.7);border:none;width:80px;}.csbb:hover{background:url("http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites2/wow-search-button.png") no-repeat scroll -80px 0 transparent;}.CSB td{vertical-align:top;}.CSB a,.CSB a:hover,.CSB a:active,.CSB a:visited{text-decoration:none;color:#fff;}#IE6 .CSB form{zoom:100%;}#IE6 .csbs,#IE7 .csbs,#IE8 .csbs{line-height:28px;}.landing .CSB{position:absolute;bottom:187px;left:33px;width:622px;}.landing #IE7 .CSB{bottom:184px;}.landing #ACC{width:529px;}.landing #ACC .acs.sel{background:#CFECFF;}.landing #IE7 .GLOG{background-position:-43px -23px;}.GLOG{background:transparent url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) no-repeat -43px -23px;width:96px;height:16px;bottom:0;right:0;top:-18px;position:absolute;}.GLOG.bgnone{background:none;}.leftBrandLogo{background:transparent url() no-repeat ;width:185px;height:115px;left:-185px;top:-35px;position:absolute;text-indent:-9999px;}.rightBrandLogo{background:transparent url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/logos/2-a_google_logo_right.png) no-repeat 0px 0px;width:185px;height:115px;right:-184px;top:-35px;position:absolute;text-indent:-9999px;}#ACC{position:absolute;display:none;background:white;border:1px solid #CFECFF;padding:0 9px 0 0;width:561px;z-index:3;font-size:1.308em;top:-1px;left:1px;margin-left:-1px;}#ACC .acs{color:#3c3c3c;display:block;text-decoration:none;padding:3px 3px 4px 6px;width:100%;}#ACC .acs.sel{background:#CFECFF;}#IE6 #ACC .acs{zoom:100%;}.ACPAR{position:relative;z-index:2;}#ACC .CSERD{color:#00c;display:inline-block;padding:1px 0;margin-left:4px;}#ACC .sel .CSERD{color:#fff;}#IE .CSB td{vertical-align:middle;}#IE7 .ACPAR{clear:both;}#IE7 #ACC .acs,#IE8 #ACC .acs{padding-left:6px;}.csbSearchBox{border:1px solid transparent;}.csbSearchBox:hover{border-color:transparent;}.landing .csbSearchBox{border:1px solid transparent;}.landing .csbSearchBox:hover{border-color:transparent;}body #h .cntr,body #f .cntr{padding-top:25px;}body .leftBrandLogo{display:none;}body .GLOG{display:none;}span.clearbutton{position:relative;}span.clearbutton input{padding-right:26px;-webkit-user-modify:read-write-plaintext-only;}span.clearbutton span{position:absolute;display:block;top:-2px;right:5px;width:20px;height:19px;background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/sprites/gsa_sprite.png) 0 -59px;cursor:pointer;visibility:visible;}span.clearbutton span.show{visibility:visible;}span.clearbutton span.hide{visibility:hidden;}#isMobile #ACC{-webkit-tap-highlight-color:rgba(255,255,255,0);}#isMobile .CSB{padding-right:10px;position:absolute;}#isMobile .GLOG.bgnone{display:none;}.landing #isMobile .CSB{float:none;margin:;padding:0;position:static;}.landing #isMobile .CSB #inner{margin:0 auto;max-width:;padding:;}.PS{clear:both;position:absolute;left:33px;bottom:-26px;font-weight:bold;width:622px;}.PS .popSites .psHead{font-size:1.2308em;color:;text-align:;margin-bottom:11px;}.PS .furl{background-color:transparent;height:100px;margin:6px 9px 0 0;width:60px;display:block;float:left;}.PS .furl2{margin-bottom:-57px;}.PS .popSites{display:inline-block;}.PS a{color:#00F;text-decoration:none;outline:0;}.PS a.furl{background-position:0 0;background-repeat:no-repeat;}.PS .popSites ul li{float:left;}.PS a.furl .iconText{bottom:23px;color:#3B3B3B;font-size:12px;padding-top:62px;text-shadow:0px 1px 1px #FFF;text-align:center;}#IE6 .PS,#IE7 .PS{z-index:-1;}#IE7 .PS .popSites{display:inline;}#CHROME .PS .furl{margin:5px 9px 0 0;}#IE7 .PS .popSites>ul{display:inline-block;}.flogo{bottom:30px;float:right;}.flogo .sprite{background:url(http://o.aolcdn.com/os/aol-search/gsa/logos/2-a_wow_logo_bottom.png) no-repeat 0 0;height:89px;width:107px;}.generror .flogo .sprite,.landing .flogo .sprite{background-position:0px 0px;height:125px;width:200px;text-indent:-9999px;}#f{bottom:0;vertical-align:bottom;position:absolute;width:100%;left:0;}.flanding{height:21.5px;padding:8.5px 16px 0 16px;display:block;clear:both;color:#5B5A5A;font-size:0.923em;background-color:#eeeeee;}.flanding ul,.flanding .extraL{float:right;}.flanding ul a{color:#5B5A5A;}.flanding ul a:visited{color:#5B5A5A;}.flanding ul a:hover{color:;}.flanding .copy{float:left;}
=======================================================
A spellbinding true story — Raised on Fear by Lee Cox  http://wp.temphost.us/book/purchase/Igniting hope and purpose in peoples lives. The EVE Foundation is impacting teens and adults who have been abused. Our programs open up conversations about hardship and abuse and inspire a positive view of the future, empowering people to go beyond the hurt and pain and to live life with an inspired purpose. http://wp.temphost.us/programs/Who We Are We are committed to a future where children are born into a world of love and acceptance.  
"I grew up in a world of unpredictability and violence. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence." Raised on Fear is a true story by Lee Cox. A self healing, must-read. Buy today and get free shipping.
From Chapter One – “I grew up in a world of violence and unpredictability. I learned to protect myself the best I could. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal, and to cover my fear with anger and violence.
No one knew the abuse that went on in our home, as we all learned to keep it hidden. No one knew my wish to make it stop. And later, no one knew the fear that overwhelmed me and drove me to hit and hurt the ones I loved most.”
This book exposes the thinking, beliefs and actions of a child who grows up to find himself being the abuser in his family. We follow his story from before childhood to the beginning of his journey to stop his violent and abusive behaviors.
Lee Cox offers powerful insights into his journey of healing himself. When he shares his story, his courage, candor and honesty inspire his audience to help stop domestic abuse. Lee speaks to: Students, Teachers, Law Enforcement, Domestic Violence Professionals, Civic organizations, Self Help groups and Community Leaders. Contact the EVE Foundation to have Lee speak at your next event.
“I grew up in a world of unpredictability and violence. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence.” Raised on Fear is a true story by Lee Cox. A self healing, must-read. Buy today and get free shipping.
“I grew up in a world of violence and unpredictability. I learned to take care of myself because no one else would. I learned to lie, to conceal and to cover my fear with anger and violence.”
The EVE Foundation is impacting teens and adults who have been abused. Our programs open up conversations about hardship and abuse and inspire a positive view of the future, empowering people to go beyond the hurt and pain and to live life with an inspired purpose. It is our mission to make a real difference with humans by educating and continually re-igniting their flame of hope, inspiration, and purpose, so they can heal themselves.
The EVE Foundation is committed to a future where children are born into a world of love and acceptance. We contribute to that future through programs designed to inspire healing, responsibility, empowerment and hope. Our target audience is at risk teens, abusers and the abused.
Committed to raising money to fund local organizations who focus on child abuse prevention. We achieve this by collecting, repairing, cleaning and selling donated items.
Group of men and women working to make our communities better places to live though programs of service in Americanism, Community  Service, Youth Activities, and it’s national project, the Prevention of Child Abuse.
=======================================================
Sponsors | Privacy Policy | Technical Questions | Editorial Questions | Usage Policy | Directors & Staff | Site Map  | RSS Feeds 
=======================================================
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #0E658E), color-stop(.5, #0C577A), color-stop(.5, #014D71), to(#003E5C)); 
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #b28b06), color-stop(.5, #9c7705), color-stop(.5, #9c7705), to(#5c4100)); 
	background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0, #edbf21), color-stop(.5, #c89b0f), color-stop(.5, #c89b0f), to(#906706)); 
.stab{font-family: 'Days One', sans-serif; text-shadow: 1px 1px 2px #ffffff; filter: dropshadow(color=#ffffff, offx=1, offy=1);  width:500px; line-height:36px; padding-bottom:5px; color:#4c4136; font-size:36px;font-weight:bold; text-transform:uppercase;}
                            Memoro is an international non-profit project, an open archive of audio or video interviews of people born before 1950.
                    You can easily contribute: a camera, a smartphone, a webcam or an audio-recorder is enough. 
                            If you are an Association, a Museum or an Archive, share your contents with more 
                            We need your help to improve the project, to collect more memories and preserve them for the future, to develop Memoro projects in new Countries, to keep the site free from advertising.
