=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Administration AboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor Information Arts, Health & Society AboutProgramsProspective StudentsSummer ResidenciesResearch Database Media & Communication AboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & Scholarships Admission Online ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer Students Students OverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest Documents Faculty Faculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and Positions 
Admission» Application & Deadlines» Tuition & Scholarships» Questions & Answers» Financial Aid» AccreditationStudents» Overview» Student Email» Student News» Event Calendar» Student Directory» Students Gateway» Request DocumentsAlumni» Overview» Alumni Association» Alumni Directory» Alumni News» Event Calendar» Request Transcripts» Giving to EGSFaculty» Faculty Overview» Faculty News» Event Calendar» Video Lectures» Jobs and PositionsMedia» EGS Publications» EGS on Facebook» EGS on YouTube» EGS on Google+» EGS on Flickr» EGS on Twitter» Conferences & Festivals» Library / Encyclopedia» Research DatabaseResources» News» Event Calendar» Information Technology» Health Services» A-Z Index» Sitemap» Contacts
Thomas Hobbes was born at Westport, adjoining Malmesbury in Wiltshire, on April 5, 1588. His father was the vicar of a parish. His uncle, who was a tradesman and alderman of Malmesbury, provided for Hobbes' education. When he was 14 years old he went to Magdalen Hall in Oxford to study, already an excellent student of Latin and Greek. He left Oxford in 1608, and became the private tutor for the eldest son of Lord Cavendish of Hardwick (later known as the Earl of Devonshire). He traveled with his pupil in 1610 to France, Italy, and Germany. He then went to London to continue his studies, where he met other leading scholars like Francis Bacon, Herbert of Cherbury, and Ben Johnson.
Hobbes maintained his connection to the Cavendish family, however, in 1628 the Cavendish son died, and Hobbes had to find another pupil. In 1629 he left for the continent again for a two year journey with his new student. When he returned in 1631 he began to tutor the younger Cavendish son. It was around this time that Hobbes' philosophy began to take form. His manuscript Short Tract on First Principles was most likely written in 1630. In this piece he uses the geometrical form, inspired by Euclid, to shape his argument.
From 1634 to 1637 Hobbes returned to the continent with the young Earl of Devonshire. In Paris he spent time with Mersenne and the scientific community that included Descartes and Gassendi. In Florence, he conversed with Galileo. When he returned to England he wrote Elements of law Natural and Politic, which outlined his new theory. The first thirteen chapters of this work was published in 1650 under the title Human Nature, and the rest of the work as a separate volume entitled De Corpore Politico. In 1640 he went to France to escape the civil war brewing in England. He would stay in France for the next eleven years, taking an appointment to teach mathematics to Charles, Prince of Wales, who came to Paris in 1646.
At this time Hobbes friend Mersenne was encouraging scholars to respond to Descates' forthcoming treatise Meditationes de prima philosophia. In 1641 Hobbes sent his critique to Descartes in Holland, and they were published in Objectiones with the publication of the treatise. The two men continued their discourse, exchanging letters on the Dioptrique, which had been published in 1637. Hobbes disagreed with Descartes' theory that the mind, independent from material reality, was the primal certainty. Hobbes instead used motion as the basis for his philosophy of nature, mind and society. His correspondence with Descartes led to a paper on his views on physics and a Tractatus Opticus to works published by Mersenne.
By 1640 Hobbes had plans for his future philosophical work, expecting it to take shape in the form of three treatises. He planned to begin with matter, or body, then look at human nature, and then society. However, inspired by the political unrest in his home country, he began instead with the third treatise on society. De Cive was published in Paris in 1642. When the Commonwealth had reestablished a stable government in England, Hobbes published the same text in English under the title Philosophical Rudiments concerning Government and Society. The book was highly controversial, and criticized by both sides of the English civil war. He supported the king over parliament, but also denied the king his divine right. Oxford University dismissed faculty under the premise of being "Hobbits". Hobbes also ventured controversial views on God and religion, and the Roman Catholic Church put his books on the Index. In England ther
In 1651 Hobbes returned to England, fearing that France was no longer a safe haven for the exiled English court. This same year saw the publication of Leviathan, Hobbes' most influential work. In the introduction to the book Hobbes describes the state as an organism, showing how each part of the state functions similarly to parts of a human body. As the state is created by human beings, he first sets out to describe human nature. He advises that we may look into ourselves to see a picture of general humanity. He believes that all acts are ultimately self-serving, even when they seem benevolent, and that in a state of nature, prior to any formation of government, humans would behave completely selfishly. He remarks that all humans are essentially mentally and physically equal, and because of this, we are naturally prone to fight each other. He cites three natural reasons that humans fight: competition over material good, general distrust, and the glory of powerful positions. Hobbes comes to the conclusion that humanity's natural condition is a state of perpetual war, constant fear, and lack of morality.
In the Leviathan, Hobbes writes that morality consists of Laws of Nature. These Laws, arrived at through social contract, are found out by reason and are aimed to preserve human life. Hobbes comes to his laws of nature deductively, still using a model of reasoning derived from geometry. From a set of five general principles, he derives 15 laws. The five general principles are (1) that human beings pursue only their own self-interest, (2) that all people are equal (3) the three natural causes of quarrel, (4) the natural condition of perpetual war, and (5) the motivation for peace. The first three Laws of Nature he derives from these principles describe the basic foundation for putting an end to the state of nature. The other twelve laws develop the first three further, and are more precise about what kind of contracts are necessary to establish and preserve peace.
Hobbes saw the responsibility of governments to be the protection of people from their own selfishness, and he thought the best government would have the power of a sea monster, or leviathan. He saw the king as a necessary figure of leadership and authority. He felt that democracy would never work because people are only motivated by self-interest. He saw humanity as being motivated by a constant desire for power, and to give power to the individual would result in a war of every one against the other that would make life "solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short."
After returning to England in 1651, Hobbes had spent a couple of years in London, before retreating to the home of his former pupil the Earl of Devonshire. In 1654 Hobbes was surprised by an unauthorized publication of a tract entitled Of Liberty and Necessity, which he had written in response to an attack by the bishop Bramhall on Leviathan. Bramhall was enraged by Hobbes response, and Hobbes was prompted to write a further and more elaborate defense in The Questions concerning Liberty, Necessity, and Chance, which was published in 1656. In 1655 Hobbes published De Corpore, the first part of his philosophical system. This work looks at the logical, mathematical and physical principles that create the foundation of his philosophy. The second part of his system, De Homine, was published in 1656.
In 1667 Leviathan was mentioned in a bill passed in the Commons against blasphemous literature. Although the bill did not pass both houses, Hobbes was scared into studying the law of heresy, and wrote a short treatise arguing that there was no court that might judge him. He was forbidden to publish on the topic of religion. Many of his works were kept from publication, however a Latin translation of Leviathan was published in Amsterdam in 1668. Around this time he also wrote Dialogue between a Philosopher and a Student of the Common Laws of England. Among the titles that remained unpublished during his lifetime are the tract on Heresy, and Behemoth: the History of the Causes of the Civil Wars of England. He continued to write, and he wrote his autobiography, in Latin verse, when he was eighty-four years old. In his final years he completed Latin translations of the Iliad and the Odyssey, and in 1675 he left London for the last time to live with the Cavendish family in Derbyshire. Hobbes died at Hardwick on December 4, 1679.
» Giorgio Agamben» Pierre Alferi» Hubertus von Amelunxen» Alisa Andrasek» Alain Badiou» Judith Balso» Jason Barker» Jean Baudrillard» Philippe Beck» Geoffrey Bennington» Robert Bramkamp» Benjamin Bratton» Catherine Breillat» Judith Butler» Eduardo Cadava» Hélène Cixous» Simon Critchley» Diane Davis» Claire Denis» Manthia Diawara» Suzanne Doppelt» Anne Dufourmantelle» Elie During» Atom Egoyan» Bracha Ettinger» Mike Figgis» Alessandro De Francesco» John Frazer» Christopher Fynsk» Heiner Goebbels» Antony Gormley» Peter Greenaway» Boris Groys» Werner Hamacher» Barbara Hammer» Graham Harman» Michael Hardt» Martin Hielscher» Brian Holmes» Mitchell Joachim» Tom Kalin» Friedrich Kittler» Chris Kraus» Manuel De Landa» Katarzyna Lazari-Radek» Neil Leach» Sylvère Lotringer» Geert Lovink» Catherine Malabou» Lev Manovich» Elissa Marder» Clem Marshall » Colum McCann» Achim Menges» Jean-Luc Nancy» François Noudelmann» Mathieu Potte-Bonneville» Peter Price» Stephen & Timothy Quay» Jacques Rancière» Laurence Arthur Rickels» Denise Riley» Avital Ronell» Wolfgang Schirmacher» Volker Schlöndorff» Michael Schmidt» Patrik Schumacher» Peter Singer» DJ Spooky - Paul Miller» Bruce Sterling» Caspar Stracke» Elia Suleiman» Leslie Thornton» Ilija Trojanow» Margarethe von Trotta» Agnès Varda» Paul Virilio» Victor Vitanza» Samuel Weber» Klaus Wyborny» Caveh Zahedi» Siegfried Zielinski» Slavoj Zizek» Thomas Zummer» Alenka Zupancic
AdministrationAboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor InformationMedia & CommunicationAboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & ScholarshipsAdmissionOnline ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer StudentsStudentsOverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest DocumentsAlumniOverviewAlumni AssociationAlumni DirectoryAlumni NewsEvent CalendarRequest TranscriptsGiving to EGSFacultyFaculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and PositionsResourcesNewsEvent CalendarInformation TechnologyHealth ServicesA-Z IndexSitemapContactsMediaEGS PublicationsEGS on FacebookEGS on YouTubeEGS on Google+EGS on FlickrEGS on TwitterConferences & FestivalsLibrary / EncyclopediaResearch Database
=======================================================
Modern founder of the social contract tradition; life in the state of nature is "solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short"
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury (5 April 1588 – 4 December 1679), in some older texts Thomas Hobbs of Malmsbury,[1] was an English philosopher, best known today for his work on political philosophy. His 1651 book Leviathan established the foundation for most of Western political philosophy from the perspective of social contract theory.[2]
Though on rational grounds a champion of absolutism for the sovereign, Hobbes also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought: the right of the individual; the natural equality of all men; the artificial character of the political order (which led to the later distinction between civil society and the state); the view that all legitimate political power must be "representative" and based on the consent of the people; and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid.[3]
He was one of the founders of modern political philosophy and political science.[4][5] His understanding of humans as being matter and motion, obeying the same physical laws as other matter and motion, remains influential; and his account of human nature as self-interested cooperation, and of political communities as being based upon a "social contract" remains one of the major topics of political philosophy.
In addition to political philosophy, Hobbes also contributed to a diverse array of other fields, including history, geometry, the physics of gases, theology, ethics, and general philosophy.
Thomas Hobbes was born at Westport, now part of Malmesbury in Wiltshire, England, on 5 April 1588.[6] Born prematurely when his mother heard of the coming invasion of the Spanish Armada, Hobbes later reported that "my mother gave birth to twins: myself and fear."[6] His childhood is almost a complete blank, and his mother's name is unknown.[7] His father, also named Thomas, was the vicar of Charlton and Westport. Thomas Hobbes Sr. had an older brother, Francis Hobbes, who was a wealthy merchant with no family of his own. Thomas Hobbes, the younger, had one brother Edmund who was about two years older than he. Thomas Sr. abandoned his wife, two sons and a daughter, leaving them in the care of his brother, Francis, when he was forced to flee to London after being involved in a fight with a clergyman outside his own church. Hobbes was educated at Westport church from the age of four, passed to the Malmesbury school and then to a private school kept by a young man named Robert Latimer, a graduate of the University of Oxford. Hobbes was a good pupil, and around 1603 he went up to Magdalen Hall, which is most closely related to Hertford College, Oxford.[8][9][10][11] The principal John Wilkinson was a Puritan, and he had some influence on Hobbes.
At university, Hobbes appears to have followed his own curriculum; he was "little attracted by the scholastic learning". He did not complete his B.A. degree until 1608, but he was recommended by Sir James Hussey, his master at Magdalen, as tutor to William, the son of William Cavendish, Baron of Hardwick (and later Earl of Devonshire), and began a lifelong connection with that family.[12]
Hobbes became a companion to the younger William and they both took part in a grand tour of Europe in 1610. Hobbes was exposed to European scientific and critical methods during the tour in contrast to the scholastic philosophy which he had learned in Oxford. His scholarly efforts at the time were aimed at a careful study of classic Greek and Latin authors, the outcome of which was, in 1628, his great translation of Thucydides' History of the Peloponnesian War, the first translation of that work into English from a Greek manuscript. It has been argued that three of the discourses in the 1620 publication known as Horea Subsecivae: Observations and Discourses, also represent the work of Hobbes from this period.[13]
Although he associated with literary figures like Ben Jonson and thinkers such as Francis Bacon, he did not extend his efforts into philosophy until after 1629. His employer Cavendish, then the Earl of Devonshire, died of the plague in June 1628. The widowed countess dismissed Hobbes but he soon found work, again as a tutor, this time to Gervase Clifton, the son of Sir Gervase Clifton, 1st Baronet. This task, chiefly spent in Paris, ended in 1631 when he again found work with the Cavendish family, tutoring the son of his previous pupil. Over the next seven years as well as tutoring he expanded his own knowledge of philosophy, awakening in him curiosity over key philosophic debates. He visited Florence in 1636 and later was a regular debater in philosophic groups in Paris, held together by Marin Mersenne. From 1637 he considered himself a philosopher and scholar.[citation needed]
Hobbes's first area of study was an interest in the physical doctrine of motion and physical momentum. Despite his interest in this phenomenon, he disdained experimental work as in physics. He went on to conceive the system of thought to the elaboration of which he would devote his life. His scheme was first to work out, in a separate treatise, a systematic doctrine of body, showing how physical phenomena were universally explicable in terms of motion, at least as motion or mechanical action was then understood. He then singled out Man from the realm of Nature and plants. Then, in another treatise, he showed what specific bodily motions were involved in the production of the peculiar phenomena of sensation, knowledge, affections and passions whereby Man came into relation with Man. Finally he considered, in his crowning treatise, how Men were moved to enter into society, and argued how this must be regulated if Men were not to fall back into "brutishness and misery". Thus he proposed to unite the separate phenomena of Body, Man, and the State.[citation needed]
Hobbes came home, in 1637, to a country riven with discontent which disrupted him from the orderly execution of his philosophic plan. However, by the end of the Short Parliament in 1640, he had written a short treatise called The Elements of Law, Natural and Politic. It was not published and only circulated among his acquaintances in manuscript form. A pirated version, however, was published about ten years later. Although it seems that much of The Elements of Law was composed before the sitting of the Short Parliament, there are polemical pieces of the work that clearly mark the influences of the rising political crisis. Nevertheless, many (though not all) elements of Hobbes's political thought were unchanged between The Elements of Law and Leviathan, which demonstrates that the events of the English Civil War had little effect on his contractarian methodology. It should be noted, however, that the arguments in Leviathan were modified from The Elements of Law when it came to the necessity of consent in creating political obligation. Namely, Hobbes wrote in The Elements of Law that Patrimonial kingdoms were not necessarily formed by the consent of the governed, while in Leviathan he argued that they were. This was perhaps a reflection either of Hobbes's thoughts concerning the engagement controversy or of his reaction to treatises published by Patriarchalists, such as Sir Robert Filmer, between 1640 and 1651.[citation needed]
When in November 1640 the Long Parliament succeeded the Short, Hobbes felt he was a marked man by the circulation of his treatise and fled to Paris. He did not return for eleven years. In Paris he rejoined the coterie about Mersenne, and wrote a critique of the Meditations on First Philosophy of Descartes, which was printed as third among the sets of "Objections" appended, with "Replies" from Descartes in 1641. A different set of remarks on other works by Descartes succeeded only in ending all correspondence between the two.
Hobbes also extended his own works somewhat, working on the third section, De Cive, which was finished in November 1641. Although it was initially only circulated privately, it was well received, and included lines of argumentation to be repeated a decade later in the Leviathan. He then returned to hard work on the first two sections of his work and published little except for a short treatise on optics (Tractatus opticus) included in the collection of scientific tracts published by Mersenne as Cogitata physico-mathematica in 1644. He built a good reputation in philosophic circles and in 1645 was chosen with Descartes, Gilles de Roberval and others, to referee the controversy between John Pell and Longomontanus over the problem of squaring the circle.
The English Civil War broke out in 1642, and when the Royalist cause began to decline in the middle of 1644 there followed an exodus of the king's supporters to Europe. Many came to Paris and were known to Hobbes. This revitalised Hobbes's political interests and the De Cive was republished and more widely distributed. The printing began in 1646 by Samuel de Sorbiere through the Elsevier press at Amsterdam with a new preface and some new notes in reply to objections.
In 1647 Hobbes took up a position as mathematical instructor to the young Charles, Prince of Wales,[14] who had come over from Jersey around July. This engagement lasted until 1648 when Charles went to Holland.
The company of the exiled royalists led Hobbes to produce an English book to set forth his theory of civil government in relation to the political crisis resulting from the war. The State, it now seemed to Hobbes, might be regarded as a great artificial man or monster (Leviathan), composed of men, with a life that might be traced from its generation under pressure of human needs to its dissolution through civil strife proceeding from human passions. The work closed with a general "Review and Conclusion", in direct response to the war, which raised the question of the subject's right to change allegiance when a former sovereign's power to protect was irrevocably lost. Hobbes also criticised religious doctrines on rationalistic grounds in the Commonwealth.
During the years of the composition of Leviathan, Hobbes remained in or near Paris. In 1647 a serious illness disabled him for six months. On recovering from this near fatal disorder, he resumed his literary task, and carried it steadily forward to completion by 1650. Meanwhile, a translation of De Cive was being produced; scholars disagree over whether Hobbes translated the work himself or not.
In 1650 a pirated edition of The Elements of Law, Natural and Politic was published. It was divided into two separate small volumes (Human Nature, or the Fundamental Elements of Policie and De corpore politico, or the Elements of Law, Moral and Politick). In 1651 the translation of De Cive was published under the title of Philosophicall Rudiments concerning Government and Society. Meanwhile, the printing of the greater work proceeded, and finally it appeared about the middle of 1651, under the title of Leviathan, or the Matter, Forme, and Power of a Common Wealth, Ecclesiasticall and Civil, with a famous title-page engraving in which, from behind hills overlooking a landscape, there towered the body (above the waist) of a crowned giant, made up of tiny figures of human beings and bearing sword and crozier in the two hands.
The work had immediate impact. Soon Hobbes found himself more lauded and decried than any other thinker of his time. However, the first effect of its publication was to sever his link with the exiled royalists, forcing him to appeal to the revolutionary English government for protection. The exiles might very well have killed him; the secularist spirit of his book greatly angered both Anglicans and French Catholics. Hobbes fled back to England, arriving in London in the winter of 1651. Following his submission to the Council of State he was allowed to subside into private life in Fetter Lane.
In Leviathan, Hobbes set out his doctrine of the foundation of states and legitimate governments and creating an objective science of morality. This gave rise to social contract theory. Leviathan was written during the English Civil War; much of the book is occupied with demonstrating the necessity of a strong central authority to avoid the evil of discord and civil war.
Beginning from a mechanistic understanding of human beings and the passions, Hobbes postulates what life would be like without government, a condition which he calls the state of nature; much of this was based on Hugo Grotius' works. In that state, each person would have a right, or license, to everything in the world. This, Hobbes argues, would lead to a "war of all against all" (bellum omnium contra omnes). The description contains what has been called one of the best known passages in English philosophy, which describes the natural state mankind would be in, were it not for political community: [15]
In such condition, there is no place for industry; because the fruit thereof is uncertain: and consequently no culture of the earth; no navigation, nor use of the commodities that may be imported by sea; no commodious building; no instruments of moving, and removing, such things as require much force; no knowledge of the face of the earth; no account of time; no arts; no letters; no society; and which is worst of all, continual fear, and danger of violent death; and the life of man, solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short.
— "Chapter XIII.: Of the Natural Condition of Mankind As Concerning Their Felicity, and Misery.". Leviathan. 
In such a state, people fear death, and lack both the things necessary to commodious living, and the hope of being able to toil to obtain them. So in order to avoid it people accede to a social contract and establish a civil society. According to Hobbes, society is a population beneath a sovereign authority, to whom all individuals in that society cede some rights for the sake of protection. Any abuses of power by this authority can not be resisted because the sovereign power of the protector comes because of people surrendering their own sovereign power for protection and thereby they are the authors of all decisions made by the sovereign.[16] "he that complaineth of injury from his sovereign complaineth that whereof he himself is the author, and therefore ought not to accuse any man but himself, no nor himself of injury because to do injury to one's self is impossible". There is no doctrine of separation of powers in Hobbes's discussion.[17] According to Hobbes, the sovereign must control civil, military, judicial, and ecclesiastical powers.
Hobbes now turned to complete the fundamental treatise of his philosophical system. He worked so steadily that De Corpore was first printed in 1654. Also in 1654, a small treatise, Of Liberty and Necessity, was published by Bishop John Bramhall, addressed at Hobbes. Bramhall, a strong Arminian, had met and debated with Hobbes and afterwards wrote down his views and sent them privately to be answered in this form by Hobbes. Hobbes duly replied, but not for publication. But a French acquaintance took a copy of the reply and published it with "an extravagantly laudatory epistle." Bramhall countered in 1655, when he printed everything that had passed between them (under the title of A Defence of the True Liberty of Human Actions from Antecedent or Extrinsic Necessity). In 1656 Hobbes was ready with The Questions concerning Liberty, Necessity and Chance, in which he replied "with astonishing force" to the bishop. As perhaps the first clear exposition of the psychological doctrine of determinism, Hobbes's own two pieces were important in the history of the free-will controversy. The bishop returned to the charge in 1658 with Castigations of Mr Hobbes's Animadversions, and also included a bulky appendix entitled The Catching of Leviathan the Great Whale.
Hobbes opposed the existing academic arrangements, and assailed the system of the original universities in "Leviathan". He went on to publish "De Corpore", which contained not only tendentious views on mathematics, but also an unacceptable proof of the squaring of the circle. This all led mathematicians to target him for polemics and sparked John Wallis to become one of his most persistent opponents. From 1655, the publishing date of "De Corpore", Hobbes and Wallis went round after round trying to disprove each other's positions. After years of debate, the spat over proving the squaring of the circle gained such notoriety that this feud has become one of the most infamous in mathematical history.
Hobbes has been accused of atheism, or (in the case of Bramhall) of teachings which could lead to atheism. This was an important accusation, and Hobbes himself wrote, in his answer to Bramhall's "the catching of the Leviathan" that "atheism, impiety, and the like are words of the greatest defamation possible".[18] Hobbes always defended himself from such accusations.[19] In more recent times also, much has been made of his religious views by scholars such as Richard Tuck and J. G. A. Pocock, but there is still widespread disagreement about the exact significance of Hobbes's unusual views on religion.
As Martinich (1995, p. 31) has pointed out, in Hobbes's time, the term "atheist" was frequently applied to people who believed in God, but not divine providence, or to people who believed in God, but also maintained other beliefs which were inconsistent with such belief. He says that this "sort of discrepancy has led to many errors in determining who was an atheist in the early modern period". In this extended early modern sense of atheism, Hobbes did indeed take positions which were in strong disagreement with church teachings of his time. For example, Hobbes argued repeatedly that there are no incorporeal substances, and that all things, including human thoughts, and even God, heaven, and hell are corporeal, matter in motion. He argued that "though Scripture acknowledge spirits, yet doth it nowhere say, that they are incorporeal, meaning thereby without dimensions and quantity".[20] (In this view, Hobbes claimed to be following Tertullian, whose views were not condemned in the First Council of Nicaea.) He also, like Locke, stated that true revelation can never be in disagreement with human reason and experience,[21] although he also argues that people should accept revelation and its interpretations also for the reason that they should accept the commands of their sovereign, in order to avoid war.
In 1658, Hobbes published the final section of his philosophical system, completing the scheme he had planned more than twenty years before. De Homine consisted for the most part of an elaborate theory of vision. The remainder of the treatise dealt cursorily with some of the topics more fully treated in the Human Nature and the Leviathan. In addition to publishing some controversial writings on mathematics and physics, Hobbes also continued to produce philosophical works. From the time of the Restoration he acquired a new prominence; "Hobbism" became a byword for all that respectable society ought to denounce. The young king, Hobbes' former pupil, now Charles II, remembered Hobbes and called him to the court to grant him a pension of £100.
The king was important in protecting Hobbes when, in 1666, the House of Commons introduced a bill against atheism and profaneness. That same year, on 17 October 1666, it was ordered that the committee to which the bill was referred "should be empowered to receive information touching such books as tend to atheism, blasphemy and profaneness... in particular... the book of Mr. Hobbes called the Leviathan".[22] Hobbes was terrified at the prospect of being labelled a heretic, and proceeded to burn some of his compromising papers. At the same time, he examined the actual state of the law of heresy. The results of his investigation were first announced in three short Dialogues added as an Appendix to his Latin translation of Leviathan, published at Amsterdam in 1668. In this appendix, Hobbes aimed to show that, since the High Court of Commission had been put down, there remained no court of heresy at all to which he was amenable, and that nothing could be heresy except opposing the Nicene Creed, which, he maintained, Leviathan did not do.
The only consequence that came of the bill was that Hobbes could never thereafter publish anything in England on subjects relating to human conduct. The 1668 edition of his works was printed in Amsterdam because he could not obtain the censor's licence for its publication in England. Other writings were not made public until after his death, including Behemoth: the History of the Causes of the Civil Wars of England and of the Counsels and Artifices by which they were carried on from the year 1640 to the year 1662. For some time, Hobbes was not even allowed to respond, whatever his enemies tried. Despite this, his reputation abroad was formidable, and noble or learned foreigners who came to England never forgot to pay their respects to the old philosopher.
His final works were a curious mixture: an autobiography in Latin verse in 1672, and a translation of four books of the Odyssey into "rugged" English rhymes that in 1673 led to a complete translation of both Iliad and Odyssey in 1675.
In October 1679, Hobbes suffered a bladder disorder, which was followed by a paralytic stroke from which he died on 4 December 1679. He is said to have uttered the last words "A great leap in the dark" in his final moments of life.[23] He was interred within St. John the Baptist Church in Ault Hucknall in Derbyshire, England.
1620. Three of the discourses in the Horae Subsecivae: Observation and Discourses (A Discourse of Tacitus, A Discourse of Rome, and A Discourse of Laws).[13]
1626. De Mirabilis Pecci, Being the Wonders of the Peak in Darby-shire, (a poem first published in 1636)
1629. Eight Books of the Peloponnesian Warre, translation with an Introduction of Thucydides's History of the Peloponnesian War
1630. A Short Tract on First Principles, British Museum, Harleian MS 6796, ff. 297–308: critical edition with commentary and French translation by Jean Bernhardt: Court traité des premiers principes, Paris, PUF, 1988 (authorship doubtful: this work is attributed by some critics to Robert Payne).[24]
1637 A Briefe of the Art of Rhetorique (in Molesworth's edition the title is The Whole Art of Rhetoric)
1640. Elements of Law, Natural and Politic (circulated only in handwritten copies, first printed edition, without Hobbes's permission in 1650)
1644. Part of the Praefatio to Mersenni Ballistica (in F. Marini Mersenni minimi Cogitata physico-mathematica. In quibus tam naturae quàm artis effectus admirandi certissimis demonstrationibus explicantur)
1644. Opticae, liber septimus, (written in 1640) in Universae geometriae mixtaeque mathematicae synopsis, edited by Marin Mersenne (reprinted by Molesworth in OL V pp. 215–248 with the title Tractatus Opticus)
1646. A Minute or First Draught of the Optiques (Harley MS 3360; Molesworth published only the dedication to Cavendish and the conclusion in EW VII, pp. 467–471)
1647. Elementorum Philosophiae Sectio Tertia De Cive (second expanded edition with a new Preface to the Reader)
1650. Human Nature: or The fundamental Elements of Policie (first thirteen chapters of The Elements of Law, Natural and Politic, published without Hobbes's authorization)
Human Nature, or the Fundamental Elements of Policie (chapters 14–19 of Part One of the Elements of 1640)
1656. Elements of Philosophy, The First Section, Concerning Body (anonymous English translation of De Corpore)
1656. The Questions concerning Liberty, Necessity and Chance (reprint of Of Libertie and Necessitie, a Treatise, with the addition of Bramhall's reply and Hobbes's reply to Bramahall's reply)
1657. Stigmai, or Marks of the Absurd Geometry, Rural Language, Scottish Church Politics, and Barbarisms of John Wallis
1662. Mr. Hobbes Considered in his Loyalty, Religion, Reputation, and Manners. By way of Letter to Dr. Wallis (English autobiography)
1666. A Dialogue between a Philosopher and a Student of the Common Laws of England (published in 1681)
1671. Three Papers Presented to the Royal Society Against Dr. Wallis. Together with Considerations on Dr. Walllis his Answer to them
1671. Rosetum Geometricum, sive Propositiones Aliquot Frustra antehac tentatae. Cum Censura brevi Doctrinae Wallisianae de Motu
1674. Principia et Problemata Aliquot Geometrica Antè Desperata, Nunc breviter Explicata & Demonstrata
1679. Thomae Hobbessii Malmesburiensis Vita. Authore seipso (Latin autobiography, translated in English in 1680)
1681. Behemoth, or The Long Parliament (written in 1668, unpublished at the request of the King, first pirated edition 1679)
1682. Some Principles and Problems in Geometry (English translation of Principia et Problemata, 1674)
MacDonald, Hugh & Hargreaves, Mary. Thomas Hobbes, a Bibliography, London: The Bibliographical Society, 1952.
Sacksteder, William (1982). Hobbes Studies (1879–1979): A Bibliography, Bowling Green: Philosophy Documentation Center.
Garcia, Alfred (1986). Thomas Hobbes: bibliographie internationale de 1620 à 1986 Caen: Centre de Philosophie politique et juridique Université de Caen.
Thomae Hobbes Malmesburiensis Opera Philosophica quae Latina Scripsit, Studio et labore Gulielmi Molesworth, (Londini, 1839–1845). 5 volumes. Reprint: Aalen, 1966 (= OL).
The English Works of Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury; Now First Collected and Edited by Sir William Molesworth, Bart., (London: Bohn, 1839–45). 11 volumes. Reprint London, 1939-–; reprint: Aalen, 1966 (= EW).
An Historical Narration concerning Heresy, and the Punishment thereof Considerations upon the Reputation, Loyalty, Manners, and Religion of Thomas Hobbes
Volume 5. The Questions concerning Liberty, Necessity and Chance, clearly stated and debated between Dr Bramhall Bishop of Derry and Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury.
Behemoth: the History of the Causes of the Civil Wars of England, and of the Counsels and Artifices By Which They Were Carried On From the Year 1640 to the Year 1660
The Whole Art of Rhetoric (Hobbes's translation of his own Latin summary of Aristotle's Rhetoric published in 1637 with the title A Briefe of the Art of Rhetorique)
The Art of Rhetoric Plainly Set Forth. With Pertinent Examples For the More Easy Understanding and Practice of the Same (this work is not of Hobbes but by Dudley Fenner, The Artes of Logike and Rethorike, 1584)
The Elements of Law, Natural and Politics, edited with a preface and critical notes by Ferdinand Tönnies, London, 1889 (first complete edition).
Short Tract on First Principles, in "The Elements of Law Natural and Politics", Appendix I, pp. 193–210 (this work is now attributed by some critics to Robert Payne).
Tractatus opticus II, (1639, British Library, Harley MS 6796, ff. 193–266) first partial edition in "The Elements of Law Natural and Politics", Appendix II, pp. 211–226; first complete edition (but with the omission of the diagrams) by Franco Alessio, Rivista critica di storia dela filosofia, 18, 1963, pp. 147–228.
Critique du 'De mundo' de Thomas White, edited by Jean Jacquot and Harold Whitmore Jones, Paris, 1973, with three appendixes:
Notes in English on an ancient redaction of some chapters of De Corpore (July 1643; pp. 448–460: MS 5297, National Library of Wales).
Notes for the Logica and Philosophia prima of the De Corpore (pp. 461–513: Chatsworth MS A10 and the notes of Charles Cavendish on a draft of the De Corpore: British Library, Harley MS 6083).
Of the Life and History of Thucydides, in Hobbes's Thucydides, edited by Richard Schlatter, New Brunswick, pp. 10–27, 1975.
Three Discourses: a Critical Modern Edition of Newly Identified Work of the Young Hobbes (TD), edited by Noel B. Reynolds and Arlene Saxonhouse, Chicago, 1975.
Thomas Hobbes' A minute or First Draught of the Optiques, (British Library, Harley MS 3360) Critical Edition by Elaine C. Stroud, Ph.D. dissertation, The University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1983.
Of Passions, Edition of the unpublished manuscript Harley 6093 by Anna Minerbi Belgrado, in: Rivista di storia della filosofia, 43, 1988, pp. 729–738.
The Correspondence of Thomas Hobbes, edited by Noel Malcolm, Oxford: the Clarendon Edition, vol. 6–7, 1994 (I: 1622–1659; II: 1660–1679).
De Corpore, Part I. Computatio Sive Logica. Edited with an Introductory Essay by L C. Hungerland and G. R. Vick. Translation and Commentary by A. Martinich. New York Abaris Books, 1981.
Thomas White's De mundo Examined, translation by H. W. Jones, Bradford: Bradford University Press, 1976 (the appendixes of the Latin edition (1973) are not enclosed).
Clarendon Edition of the Works of Thomas Hobbes, Oxford: Clarendon Press (10 volumes published of 27 planned).
Traduction des Œuvres Latines de Hobbes, under the direction of Yves Charles Zarka, Paris: Vrin (8 volumes published of 17 planned).
Brandt, Frithiof (1928). Thomas Hobbes' Mechanical Conception of Nature, Copenhagen: Levin & Munksgaard.
Jesseph, Douglas M.(1999), Squaring the Circle. The War Between Hobbes and Wallis, Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Leijenhorst, Cees (2002). The Mechanisation of Aristotelianism. The Late Aristotelian Setting of Thomas Hobbes' Natural Philosophy, Leiden: Brill.
Macpherson, C. B. (1962). The Political Theory of Possessive Individualism: Hobbes to Locke, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Malcolm, Noel. (2007). Reason of State, Propaganda, and the Thirty Years' War: An Unknown Translation by Thomas Hobbes, New York: Oxford University Press.
Martinich, A. P. (2003) "Thomas Hobbes," The Dictionary of Literary Biography, Volume 281: British Rhetoricians and Logicians, 1500–1660, Second Series, Detroit: Gale, pp. 130–144.
Martinich, A. P. (1992) The Two Gods of Leviathan: Thomas Hobbes on Religion and Politics, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Narveson, Jan; Trenchard, David (2008). "Hobbes, Thomas (1588 –1679)". In Hamowy, Ronald. The Encyclopedia of Libertarianism. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE; Cato Institute. pp. 226–7. ISBN 978-1-4129-6580-4. LCCN 2008009151. OCLC 750831024. 
Pettit, Philip (2008). Made with Words. Hobbes on Language, Mind, and Politics, Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Robinson, Dave & Groves, Judy (2003). Introducing Political Philosophy, Icon Books. ISBN 1-84046-450-X.
Shapin, Steven and Shaffer, Simon (1995), Leviathan and the Air-Pump. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Skinner, Quentin. (1996). Reason and Rhetoric in the Philosophy of Hobbes, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Strauss, Leo (1936). The Political Philosophy of Hobbes; Its Basis and Its Genesis, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Strauss, Leo (1959). "On the Basis of Hobbes's Political Philosophy," in What Is Political Philosophy?, Glencoe, IL: Free Press, chap. 7.
Categories: 1588 births1679 deaths17th-century Latin-language writers17th-century philosophers17th-century English writersAlumni of Magdalen Hall, OxfordAtomistsEarly modern philosophersEmpiricistsEnglish expatriates in FranceEnglish political philosophersMaterialistsPeople from MalmesburyPhilosophers of lawPolitical realistsPolitical theoristsThomas HobbesHidden categories: Articles with inconsistent citation formatsUse British English from August 2011Use dmy dates from August 2011Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesInfobox philosopher maintenanceAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2014Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
=======================================================
Thomas Hobbes's father, also named Thomas Hobbes, was the vicar of Charlton and Westport, close to Malmesbury in Wiltshire. Thomas Hobbes senior was described by Aubrey in [13] as:-
... one of the ignorant Sir Johns of Queen Elizabeth's time; could only read the prayers of the church and the homilies; and valued not learning, as not knowing the sweetness of it.
Thomas Hobbes senior had an older brother, Francis Hobbes, who was a wealthy merchant with no family of his own. Thomas Hobbes, the subject of this biography, had one brother Edmund who was about two years older than he him. Thomas began his schooling in Westport Church when he was four years old. However, when he was seven years old, his father had an argument with another vicar at the door of his church. Blows were exchanged and Hobbes' father ran off. It is unclear what role his mother played in his upbringing after that, but he was certainly brought up by his uncle Francis after this.
From age eight Hobbes, who was by this time proficient at reading and arithmetic, attended Mr Evan's school in Malmesbury, then later Robert Latimer's private school in Westport. Hobbes showed his brilliance at this school and was an outstanding Greek and Latin scholar by the time he left this school at age fourteen, having already translated Euripides' Medea from Greek into Latin iambics. Aubrey in [13] tells us that as a young boy Hobbes was sometimes playful, but also sometimes withdrawn and melancholy. Often at school [13]:-
After leaving Robert Latimer's school, he entered Magdalen Hall, Oxford in 1603 where he continued to be supported financially by his uncle Francis. At that time the teaching at Oxford was dominated by a study of Aristotle and Hobbes soon found that his opinions differed sharply from what was being taught [13]:-
He did not much care for logic, yet he learned it, and thought himself a good disputant. He took great delight there to go to the bookbinders' shops and lie gaping on maps.
He graduated with a B.A. in 1608 and on the recommendation of Sir James Hussey, Principal of Magdalen Hall, he became the tutor of William Cavendish, later the Second Earl of Devonshire. For around two years Hobbes did little in the way of academic studies, being more of a companion to Cavendish who was only a little younger that he was. In 1610 Hobbes went with Cavendish on a European tour and they visited France, Germany, and Italy. He learnt French and Italian on this trip, but more importantly, it reinvigorated his desire for learning and he decided that he would pursue a study of classics. On his return Hobbes took up studying Greek and Latin again. He had progressed from being a tutor to Cavendish to being his secretary and having few duties he had plenty of time to devote to his studies.
In 1626, on the death of his father, William Cavendish inherited the title the Earl of Devonshire, but two years later William died and Hobbes lost a friend as well as his secretarial post. William Cavendish's son was only eleven years old and Hobbes' services were no longer required by the Cavendish family at this time. 
Hobbes was tutor to the son of Sir Gervase Clinton of Nottinghamshire, from 1628 to 1631. During this period, in 1629, he published his translation of Thucydides which he had been working on for several years. So far we have not mentioned any interest by Hobbes in mathematics, and perhaps even more surprisingly no particular interest in philosophy. In fact Hobbes was about forty years old before he became fascinated by mathematics. Although Aubrey's description of Hobbes encountering mathematics for the first time is, like so much of Aubrey, rather overdone, nevertheless his description in [13] is well worth recording:-
He was forty years old before he looked on geometry; which happened accidentally. Being in a gentleman's library Euclid's Elements lay open, and 'twas the forty-seventh proposition in the first book. He read the proposition. 'By God,' said he, 'this is impossible!' So he reads the demonstration of it, which referred him back to such a proof; which referred him back to another, which he also read. ... at last he was demonstratively convinced of that truth. This made him in love with geometry.
He undertook a second trip to the continent from 1629 to 1631 with his new pupil. In 1631 the Cavendish family requested his services again and he returned from Paris to become tutor to the third Earl of Devonshire, a position he held from 1631 to 1642. During this time he again visited the continent, being there from 1634 to 1637. On the continent he met Galileo, Mersenne, Gassendi and Roberval and became enthusiastic about the mechanical universe and began building his philosophical position relating everything to motion. In fact his views at this time appeared to be very much in line with the latest scientific ideas of the period. Back in England in 1637 Hobbes worked on The Elements of Law, Natural and Politic which was not published at the time. He described his mechanistic approach to perception in this work as follows:-
Whatsoever accidents or qualities our senses make us think there be in the world, they be not there, but are seemings and apparitions only; the things that really are in the world without us, are those motions by which these seemings are caused.
When the Civil War began in 1640 Hobbes feared for his life, especially as he was a well known Royalist, and he fled to save his life. He lived in Paris from 1640 where again he made contact with Mersenne's circle of scholars. There he wrote his objections to Descartes' Meditations and he published De Cive (Concerning Citizenship) in 1642 which contained his ideas on the relation between the church and the state. After this he worked on optics, which was one of his favourite topics. Malet [28] writes:-
Hobbes's theory of optical images [was] developed in his optical magnum opus "A minute of first draught of the optiques" (1646) and published in abridged version in "De homine" (1658). ... Hobbes's theory of vision and images serves him to ground his philosophy of man on his philosophy of body. Furthermore, since this part of Hobbes's work on optics is the most thoroughly geometrical, it reveals a good deal about the role of mathematics in Hobbes's philosophy.
Hobbes published a new expanded edition of De Cive in 1647, then three years later, in 1650, his earlier work The Elements of Law, Natural and Politic was published without his permission. It appeared in two parts as Humane Nature (Human nature) and De Corpore Politico (Of the body politic).
Hobbes was the mathematics tutor of the Prince of Wales between 1646 and 1648. He remained on the continent until 1651, the year his most famous work Leviathan was published then, late in that year, he returned to England. In fact he was now in some difficulties with all sides of the political spectrum. In England the Royalists, with Charles I dead, seemed to have lost their struggle for power. Passages near the end of the Leviathan appeared to indicate that Hobbes was trying to make his peace with the English government, which angered the Royalists. In fact in these passages Hobbes was remaining consistent with his view that one showed allegiance to a ruler only so long as that ruler could provide protection. Hobbes had also attacked the Roman Catholic Church which made his position in Paris pretty untenable.
Hobbes' masterpiece Leviathan set out his ideas with great clarity. He argued that people want to live in peace and security and to attain this they must organise themselves into communities for protection. Since there will always be some in the community who cannot be trusted, people must set up a government with their authority to make and enforce laws necessary to protect the community. It is, Hobbes argues, the rational way for people to behave so moral behaviour is rational. Although Hobbes was himself a Christian, these arguments were seen as many as removing the need for God as the giver of moral code, for Hobbes argues that it follows by reason alone. Another aspect of the work which caused many to attack it was Hobbes' vitriolic arguments against the university system.
Before this Hobbes had been seen by many as promoting a mechanistic scientific approach which was much in tune with those who would form the Royal Society. Indeed he had argued that since what we know and understand only comes through our senses and all objects that our senses can detect are material, we can only view the world in a material way. He promoted an approach through language and mathematics to analyse experience which he claimed would lead to a complete mechanistic understanding of the world. The certainty of mathematics would lead to correct and indisputable conclusions about society and about man. His argument that all was material was seen as denying the existence of the immaterialistic soul and intellect. Seth Ward, the Savilian Professor of Astronomy at Oxford, wrote:-
... he hath much injured the mathematics, and the very name of demonstration, by bestowing upon it some of his discourses, which are exceedingly short of that evidence and truth which is required to make a discourse able to bear that reputation.
At this stage, however, although Hobbes had published little in the way of mathematics, he certainly was considered by some as a leading mathematician on a par with Roberval and Fermat.
In 1655 Hobbes published De Corpore (On the Body) which, was one part of his trilogy of philosophy. He had already published De Cive (1642) and the third part, De Homine (On man), would appear in 1658. De Corpore contained a large amount of mathematical material; in fact Chapters 12 to 20 are devoted entirely to the topic. Hobbes saw mathematics as an essential part of knowledge, but he also saw his own materialistic approach as revolutionising the subject and he set out to reform mathematics in this work. His approach is certainly consistently materialistic, denying abstract ideas; for Hobbes mathematics is the study of quantity, and quantities are the measures of 3-dimensional bodies. His definition of a point in De Corpore (which totally differs from that of Euclid) is as follows:-
If the magnitude of a body which is moved (although it must always have some) is considered to be none, the path by which it travels is called a line, and the space it travels along a length, and the body itself is called a point. This is the sense in which the earth is usually called a point and the path of its annual revolution the ecliptic line.
Lines, therefore, are the paths of moving points, surfaces are the paths of moving lines, volumes are the result of moving surfaces. He then proceeded to study ratios and angles, then acceleration, projectiles and the ideas of Galileo followed by a study of indivisibles and the ideas of Cavalieri, the rectification of the spiral, and finally squaring the circle. It is fair to say that much of Hobbes' mathematical ideas are generalised from Galileo's study of mechanics and of motion. The new method of indivisibles, as put forward by Cavalieri, was accepted by Hobbes but he rejected Wallis's version as given in Arithmetica infinitorum.
... it is clear that he hoped to assert preeminence in the learned world largely on the basis of the solution of the problem of squaring the circle.
Hobbes had originally planned De Corpore without this result and, having added it late on, it did not really fit with the material surrounding it. Before De Corpore reached completion, however, Hobbes' friends pointed out an error in his squaring the circle argument. Hobbes did not remove the "proof" but renamed it "From a false hypothesis, a false quadrature". He then added a second proof which he quickly changed to only claim it was "an approximate quadrature". Finally he attempted a third exact proof but when the book was being printed he realised that it too, of course, was wrong. He had to leave the incorrect claim but added at the end of the chapter:-
... the reader should take those things that are said to be found exactly of the dimension of the circle ... as instead said problematically.
This was a phrase that Wallis would pour scorn on when he attacked Hobbes' ideas. Although Hobbes did not believe that the "proofs" in De Corpore proved the result, he would go on to publish several "proofs" of squaring the circle over the next 25 years which he did believe to be correct.
Wallis attacked the whole of Hobbes' mathematical work of De Corpore and a vigorous argument between the two arose which lasted for 25 years. To Hobbes mathematics was geometry and only geometry, and Wallis's Algebra he described as:-
Hobbes claimed that the algebraic symbols could denote different things such as lines, surfaces or volumes, and therefore were unreliable in mathematical proofs. Hobbes responded to the attack by Wallis and others of De Corpore by publishing Six Lessons to the Professors of Mathematics in the University of Oxford in 1656. 
In 1660 Hobbes attacked the 'new' methods of mathematical analysis. In Dialogus Physicus, sive de Natura Aeris (1661) he attacked Boyle and those setting up the Royal Society which, as a matter of interest, never elected Hobbes as a Fellow (it is probably that since he was perceived as an atheist entry would have been impossible). Wallis replied with telling mathematical arguments, but also with unfair charges of disloyalty. Hobbes ended the argument about disloyalty with Mr. Hobbes Considered in His Loyalty, Religion, Reputation, and Manners (1662). Hobbes could win arguments when his morality was attacked, but when it came to mathematics Wallis had a clear upper hand understanding mathematics far more deeply than Hobbes.
Over the years Hobbes attempted to solve a number of outstanding mathematical problems. Jesseph, in [22], studies:-
... Hobbes's attempts to resolve three important mathematical controversies of the seventeenth century: the debates over the status of analytic geometry, disputes over the nature of ratios, and the problem of the 'angle of contact' between a curve and tangent.
Although Hobbes is highly regarded as a philosopher, his mathematics has been essentially laughed at. However some have seen more in it than just errors. De Morgan wrote that Hobbes:-
... was not the ignoramus in geometry that he is sometimes supposed. His writings, erroneous as they are in many things, contain acute remarks on points of principle.
... an amateur of mathematics in the original and best sense of the word, and through his role as a minor stimulant of others' success he merits a modest place in its annals.
Hobbes defended his mathematical works to the end of his life. His errors were demonstrated so clearly that by 1670 essentially everyone considered him a mathematical illiterate, yet still he wrote articles in his defence even though it is doubtful whether anyone continued to read them. Let us end with the summary of what Hobbes believed that he had achieved in mathematics, written near the end of his life. Hobbes writes about himself in the third person (see for example [5]):-
In mathematics, he corrected some principles of geometry. he solved some most difficult problems, which had been sought in vain by the diligent scrutiny of the greatest geometers since the very beginnings of geometry; namely these:
To exhibit a line equal to the arc of a circle, and a square equal to the area of a circle, and this by various methods.
He was the first to construct and demonstrate these, and many other things besides, which (because they will appear in his writings are less important) I pass over.
He was 91 years of age when he died, a remarkable age for someone in that period. At age 87 he completed translating the Iliad and the Odyssey into English verse and left London, where he had lived for many years, and spent his final years with the Cavendish family with whom he had been so closely connected throughout his life. At age 91, shortly before his death, he was working on yet another book on squaring the circle. The dedication contains the sentence:-
And so, after I had given sufficient attention to the problem by different methods, which were not understood by the professors of geometry, I added this newest one.
Let us end this biography with a final thought. If Hobbes' mathematics was worthless why has so much effort been expounded on it even in the last few years (as the references show). There is no doubt that Hobbes' mathematics is wrong, but strangely, that does not seem to make it worthless! As a philosopher he was a leading figure, having a major influence on political thought. 
=======================================================
        British Broadcasting CorporationHome   Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help   
Hobbes was an English philosopher whose political philosophy dominated the 17th century and continues to have a major influence today.
Thomas Hobbes was born in Malmesbury, Wiltshire, on 5 April 1588, the son of a clergyman. His father left the family in 1604 and never returned, so a wealthy uncle sponsored Hobbes' education at Oxford University.
In 1608, Hobbes became tutor to William Cavendish, later earl of Devonshire. The Cavendish family were to be Hobbes' patrons throughout his life. In 1610, Cavendish and Hobbes travelled to Europe together, visiting Germany, France and Italy. After Cavendish died, Hobbes obtained another position but later became tutor to Cavendish's son. During these years he travelled to Europe twice more, meeting leading thinkers including the astronomer Galileo Galilei and the philosopher Rene Descartes.
In 1640, with England on the brink of civil war, the Royalist Hobbes fled to Paris, fearing the reaction of the Long Parliament to his writing. He remained in exile for 11 years. Between 1646 and 1648, Hobbes was a mathematics tutor to Charles, Prince of Wales (the future Charles II) who was also in exile.
In 1651, Hobbes' best-known work 'Leviathan' or, 'The Matter, Form, and Power of a Commonwealth Ecclesiastical and Civil' was published. For Hobbes, the only way for man to lift himself out of his natural state of fear and violence was to give up his freedom and make a social contract with others to accept a central authority. Hobbes felt that a monarchy provided the best authority. He also argued that as sovereign power was absolute, the sovereign must also be head of the national religion. He was, as a result, hostile to the Roman Catholic Church.
This made him unpopular with the French authorities and in 1651 he returned to England. He continued to write, producing works on mathematics and physics as well as philosophy, and engaging in academic disputes. In 1660, his former pupil returned to England as Charles II and granted Hobbes a pension.
In 1666, parliament ordered 'Leviathan' to be investigated for atheist tendencies. Hobbes was terrified of being labelled a heretic and burned many of his papers. Charles II interceded on his behalf, but the condition seems to have been that Hobbes published nothing further on overtly political subjects.
In 1672, Hobbes published an autobiography in Latin verse and translations of the 'Iliad' and the 'Odyssey' in 1675-1676. He died on 4 December 1679 at Hardwick Hall in Derbyshire, one of the Cavendish family's homes.
        Search term:     BBC navigation  News Sport Weather  Capital  TV Radio More…       CBBC CBeebies Comedy Food History   Learning Music Science Nature Local   Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Full A-Z of BBC sites        BBC links    Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC     Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help     Ad Choices Cookies Contact the BBC     Parental Guidance      BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  
=======================================================
The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy is copyright © 2014 by The Metaphysics Research Lab, Center for the Study of Language and Information (CSLI), Stanford University
=======================================================
=======================================================
The English philosopher Thomas Hobbes (1588-1679) is best known for his political thought, and deservedly so. His vision of the world is strikingly original and still relevant to contemporary politics. His main concern is the problem of social and political order: how human beings can live together in peace and avoid the danger and fear of civil conflict. He poses stark alternatives: we should give our obedience to an unaccountable sovereign (a person or group empowered to decide every social and political issue). Otherwise what awaits us is a “state of nature” that closely resembles civil war – a situation of universal insecurity, where all have reason to fear violent death and where rewarding human cooperation is all but impossible.
One controversy has dominated interpretations of Hobbes. Does he see human beings as purely self-interested or egoistic? Several passages support such a reading, leading some to think that his political conclusions can be avoided if we adopt a more realistic picture of human nature. However, most scholars now accept that Hobbes himself had a much more complex view of human motivation. A major theme below will be why the problems he poses cannot be avoided simply by taking a less “selfish” view of human nature.
Hobbes is the founding father of modern political philosophy. Directly or indirectly, he has set the terms of debate about the fundamentals of political life right into our own times. Few have liked his thesis, that the problems of political life mean that a society should accept an unaccountable sovereign as its sole political authority. Nonetheless, we still live in the world that Hobbes addressed head on: a world where human authority is something that requires justification, and is automatically accepted by few; a world where social and political inequality also appears questionable; and a world where religious authority faces significant dispute. We can put the matter in terms of the concern with equality and rights that Hobbes’s thought heralded: we live in a world where all human beings are supposed to have rights, that is, moral claims that protect their basic interests. But what or who determines what those rights are? And who will enforce them? In other words, who will exercise the most important political powers, when the basic assumption is that we all share the same entitlements?
We can see Hobbes’s importance if we briefly compare him with the most famous political thinkers before and after him. A century before, Nicolo Machiavelli had emphasized the harsh realities of power, as well as recalling ancient Roman experiences of political freedom. Machiavelli appears as the first modern political thinker, because like Hobbes he was no longer prepared to talk about politics in terms set by religious faith (indeed, he was still more offensive than Hobbes to many orthodox believers), instead, he looked upon politics as a secular discipline divorced from theology. But unlike Hobbes, Machiavelli offers us no comprehensive philosophy: we have to reconstruct his views on the importance and nature of freedom; it remains uncertain which, if any, principles Machiavelli draws on in his apparent praise of amoral power politics.
Writing a few years after Hobbes, John Locke had definitely accepted the terms of debate Hobbes had laid down: how can human beings live together, when religious or traditional justifications of authority are no longer effective or persuasive? How is political authority justified and how far does it extend? In particular, are our political rulers properly as unlimited in their powers as Hobbes had suggested? And if they are not, what system of politics will ensure that they do not overstep the mark, do not trespass on the rights of their subjects?
So, in assessing Hobbes’s political philosophy, our guiding questions can be: What did Hobbes write that was so important? How was he able to set out a way of thinking about politics and power that remains decisive nearly four centuries afterwards? We can get some clues to this second question if we look at Hobbes’s life and times.
Hobbes’s biography is dominated by the political events in England and Scotland during his long life. Born in 1588, the year the Spanish Armada made its ill-fated attempt to invade England, he lived to the exceptional age of 91, dying in 1679. He was not born to power or wealth or influence: the son of a disgraced village vicar, he was lucky that his uncle was wealthy enough to provide for his education and that his intellectual talents were soon recognized and developed (through thorough training in the classics of Latin and Greek). Those intellectual abilities, and his uncle’s support, brought him to university at Oxford. And these in turn – together with a good deal of common sense and personal maturity – won him a place tutoring the son of an important noble family, the Cavendishes. This meant that Hobbes entered circles where the activities of the King, of Members of Parliament, and of other wealthy landowners were known and discussed, and indeed influenced. Thus intellectual and practical ability brought Hobbes to a place close to power – later he would even be math tutor to the future King Charles II. Although this never made Hobbes powerful, it meant he was acquainted with and indeed vulnerable to those who were. As the scene was being set for the Civil Wars of 1642-46 and 1648-51 – wars that would lead to the King being executed and a republic being declared – Hobbes felt forced to leave the country for his personal safety, and lived in France from 1640 to 1651. Even after the monarchy had been restored in 1660, Hobbes’s security was not always certain: powerful religious figures, critical of his writings, made moves in Parliament that apparently led Hobbes to burn some of his papers for fear of prosecution.
Thus Hobbes lived in a time of upheaval, sharper than any England has since known. This turmoil had many aspects and causes, political and religious, military and economic. England stood divided against itself in several ways. The rich and powerful were divided in their support for the King, especially concerning the monarch’s powers of taxation. Parliament was similarly divided concerning its own powers vis-à-vis the King. Society was divided religiously, economically, and by region. Inequalities in wealth were huge, and the upheavals of the Civil Wars saw the emergence of astonishingly radical religious and political sects. (For instance, “the Levellers” called for much greater equality in terms of wealth and political rights; “the Diggers,” more radical still, fought for the abolition of wage labor.) Civil war meant that the country became militarily divided. And all these divisions cut across one another: for example, the army of the republican challenger, Cromwell, was the main home of the Levellers, yet Cromwell in turn would act to destroy their power within the army’s ranks. In addition, England’s recent union with Scotland was fragile at best, and was almost destroyed by King Charles I’s attempts to impose consistency in religious practices. We shall see that Hobbes’s greatest fear was social and political chaos – and he had ample opportunity both to observe it and to suffer its effects.
Although social and political turmoil affected Hobbes’s life and shaped his thought, it never hampered his intellectual development. His early position as a tutor gave him the scope to read, write and publish (a brilliant translation of the Greek writer Thucydides appeared in 1629), and brought him into contact with notable English intellectuals such as Francis Bacon. His self-imposed exile in France, along with his emerging reputation as a scientist and thinker, brought him into contact with major European intellectual figures of his time, leading to exchange and controversy with figures such as Descartes, Mersenne and Gassendi. Intensely disputatious, Hobbes repeatedly embroiled himself in prolonged arguments with clerics, mathematicians, scientists and philosophers – sometimes to the cost of his intellectual reputation. (For instance, he argued repeatedly that it is possible to “square the circle” – no accident that the phrase is now proverbial for a problem that cannot be solved!) His writing was as undaunted by age and ill health as it was by the events of his times. Though his health slowly failed – from about sixty, he began to suffer “shaking palsy,” probably Parkinson’s disease, which steadily worsened – even in his eighties he continued to dictate his thoughts to a secretary, and to defend his quarter in various controversies.
Hobbes gained a reputation in many fields. He was known as a scientist (especially in optics), as a mathematician (especially in geometry), as a translator of the classics, as a writer on law, as a disputant in metaphysics and epistemology; not least, he became notorious for his writings and disputes on religious questions. But it is for his writings on morality and politics that he has, rightly, been most remembered. Without these, scholars might remember Hobbes as an interesting intellectual of the seventeenth century; but few philosophers would even recognize his name.
What are the writings that earned Hobbes his philosophical fame? The first was entitled The Elements of Law (1640); this was Hobbes’s attempt to provide arguments supporting the King against his challengers.De Cive [On the Citizen] (1642) has much in common with Elements, and offers a clear, concise statement of Hobbes’s moral and political philosophy. His most famous work is Leviathan, a classic of English prose (1651; a slightly altered Latin edition appeared in 1668). Leviathan expands on the argument of De Cive, mostly in terms of its huge second half that deals with questions of religion. Other important works include: De Corpore [On the Body] (1655), which deals with questions of metaphysics;De Homine [On Man] (1657); and Behemoth (published 1682, though written rather earlier), in which Hobbes gives his account of England’s Civil Wars. But to understand the essentials of Hobbes’s ideas and system, one can rely on De Cive and Leviathan. It is also worth noting that, although Leviathan is more famous and more often read, De Cive actually gives a much more straightforward account of Hobbes’s ideas. Readers whose main interest is in those ideas may wish to skip the next section and go straight to ethics and human nature.
As well as the political background just stressed, two influences are extremely marked in Hobbes’s work. The first is a reaction against religious authority as it had been known, and especially against the scholastic philosophy that accepted and defended such authority. The second is a deep admiration for (and involvement in) the emerging scientific method, alongside an admiration for a much older discipline, geometry. Both influences affected how Hobbes expressed his moral and political ideas. In some areas it’s also clear that they significantly affected the ideas themselves.
Hobbes’s contempt for scholastic philosophy is boundless. Leviathan and other works are littered with references to the “frequency of insignificant speech” in the speculations of the scholastics, with their combinations of Christian theology and Aristotelian metaphysics. Hobbes’s reaction, apart from much savage and sparkling sarcasm, is twofold. In the first place, he makes very strong claims about the proper relation between religion and politics. He was not (as many have charged) an atheist, but he was deadly serious in insisting that theological disputes should be kept out of politics. (He also adopts a strongly materialist metaphysics, that – as his critics were quick to charge – makes it difficult to account for God’s existence as a spiritual entity.) For Hobbes, the sovereign should determine the proper forms of religious worship, and citizens never have duties to God that override their duty to obey political authority. Second, this reaction against scholasticism shapes the presentation of Hobbes’s own ideas. He insists that terms be clearly defined and relate to actual concrete experiences – part of his empiricism. (Many early sections of Leviathan read rather like a dictionary.) Commentators debate how seriously to take Hobbes’s stress on the importance of definition, and whether it embodies a definite philosophical doctrine. What is certain, and more important from the point of view of his moral and political thought, is that he tries extremely hard to avoid any metaphysical categories that don’t relate to physical realities (especially the mechanical realities of matter and motion). Commentators further disagree whether Hobbes’s often mechanical sounding definitions of human nature and human behavior are actually important in shaping his moral and political ideas – see Materialism versus self-knowledge below.
Hobbes’s determination to avoid the “insignificant” (that is, meaningless) speech of the scholastics also overlaps with his admiration for the emerging physical sciences and for geometry. His admiration is not so much for the emerging method of experimental science, but rather for deductive science – science that deduces the workings of things from basic first principles and from true definitions of the basic elements. Hobbes therefore approves a mechanistic view of science and knowledge, one that models itself very much on the clarity and deductive power exhibited in proofs in geometry. It is fair to say that this a priori account of science has found little favor after Hobbes’s time. It looks rather like a dead-end on the way to the modern idea of science based on patient observation, theory-building and experiment. Nonetheless, it certainly provided Hobbes with a method that he follows in setting out his ideas about human nature and politics. As presented in Leviathan, especially, Hobbes seems to build from first elements of human perception and reasoning, up to a picture of human motivation and action, to a deduction of the possible forms of political relations and their relative desirability. Once more, it can be disputed whether this method is significant in shaping those ideas, or merely provides Hobbes with a distinctive way of presenting them.
Hobbes’s moral thought is difficult to disentangle from his politics. On his view, what we ought to do depends greatly on the situation in which we find ourselves. Where political authority is lacking (as in his famous natural condition of mankind), our fundamental right seems to be to save our skins, by whatever means we think fit. Where political authority exists, our duty seems to be quite straightforward: to obey those in power.
But we can usefully separate the ethics from the politics if we follow Hobbes’s own division. For him ethics is concerned with human nature, while political philosophy deals with what happens when human beings interact. What, then, is Hobbes’s view of human nature?
Reading the opening chapters of Leviathan is a confusing business, and the reason for this is already apparent in Hobbes’s very short “Introduction.” He begins by telling us that the human body is like a machine, and that political organization (“the commonwealth”) is like an artificial human being. He ends by saying that the truth of his ideas can be gauged only by self-examination, by looking into our selves to adjudge our characteristic thoughts and passions, which form the basis of all human action. But what is the relationship between these two very different claims? For obviously when we look into our selves we do not see mechanical pushes and pulls. This mystery is hardly answered by Hobbes’s method in the opening chapters, where he persists in talking about all manner of psychological phenomena – from emotions to thoughts to whole trains of reasoning – as products of mechanical interactions. (As to what he will say about successful political organization, the resemblance between the commonwealth and a functioning human being is slim indeed. Hobbes’s only real point seems to be that there should be a “head” that decides most of the important things that the “body” does.)
Most commentators now agree with an argument made in the 1960′s by the political philosopher Leo Strauss. Hobbes draws on his notion of a mechanistic science, that works deductively from first principles, in setting out his ideas about human nature. Science provides him with a distinctive method and some memorable metaphors and similes. What it does not provide – nor could it, given the rudimentary state of physiology and psychology in Hobbes’s day – are any decisive or substantive ideas about what human nature really is. Those ideas may have come, as Hobbes also claims, from self-examination. In all likelihood, they actually derived from his reflection on contemporary events and his reading of classics of political history such as Thucydides.
This is not to say that we should ignore Hobbes’s ideas on human nature – far from it. But it does mean we should not be misled by scientific imagery that stems from an in fact non-existent science (and also, to some extent, from an unproven and uncertain metaphysics). The point is important mainly when it comes to a central interpretative point in Hobbes’s work: whether or not he thinks of human beings as mechanical objects, programmed as it were to pursue their self-interest. Some have suggested that Hobbes’s mechanical world-view leaves no room for the influence of moral ideas, that he thinks the only effective influence on our behavior will be incentives of pleasure and pain. But while it is true that Hobbes sometimes says things like this, we should be clear that the ideas fit together only in a metaphorical way. For example, there’s no reason why moral ideas shouldn’t “get into” the mechanisms that drive us round (like so many clock-work dolls perhaps?). Likewise, there’s no reason why pursuing pleasure and pain should work in our self-interest. (What self-interest is depends on the time-scale we adopt, and how effectively we might achieve this goal also depends on our insight into what harms and benefits us). If we want to know what drives human beings, on Hobbes’s view, we must read carefully all he says about this, as well as what he needs to assume if the rest of his thought is to make sense. The mechanistic metaphor is something of a red herring and, in the end, probably less useful than his other starting point inLeviathan, the Delphic epithet: nosce teipsum, “know thyself.”
There are two major aspects to Hobbes’s picture of human nature. As we have seen, and will explore below, what motivates human beings to act is extremely important to Hobbes. The other aspect concerns human powers of judgment and reasoning, about which Hobbes tends to be extremely skeptical. Like many philosophers before him, Hobbes wants to present a more solid and certain account of human morality than is contained in everyday beliefs. Plato had contrasted knowledge with opinion. Hobbes contrasts science with a whole raft of less reliable forms of belief – from probable inference based on experience, right down to “absurdity, to which no living creature is subject but man” (Leviathan, v.7).
Hobbes has several reasons for thinking that human judgment is unreliable, and needs to be guided by science. Our judgments tend to be distorted by self-interest or by the pleasures and pains of the moment. We may share the same basic passions, but the various things of the world affect us all very differently; and we are inclined to use our feelings as measures for others. It becomes dogmatic through vanity and morality, as with “men vehemently in love with their own new opinions…and obstinately bent to maintain them, [who give] their opinions also that reverenced name of conscience” (Leviathan, vii.4). When we use words which lack any real objects of reference, or are unclear about the meaning of the words we use, the danger is not only that our thoughts will be meaningless, but also that we will fall into violent dispute. (Hobbes has scholastic philosophy in mind, but he also makes related points about the dangerous effects of faulty political ideas and ideologies.) We form beliefs about supernatural entities, fairies and spirits and so on, and fear follows where belief has gone, further distorting our judgment. Judgment can be swayed this way and that by rhetoric, that is, by the persuasive and “colored” speech of others, who can deliberately deceive us and may well have purposes that go against the common good or indeed our own good. Not least, much judgment is concerned with what we should do now, that is, with future events, “the future being but a fiction of the mind” (Leviathan, iii.7) and therefore not reliably known to us.
For Hobbes, it is only science, “the knowledge of consequences” (Leviathan, v.17), that offers reliable knowledge of the future and overcomes the frailties of human judgment. Unfortunately, his picture of science, based on crudely mechanistic premises and developed through deductive demonstrations, is not even plausible in the physical sciences. When it comes to the complexities of human behavior, Hobbes’s model of science is even less satisfactory. He is certainly an acute and wise commentator of political affairs; we can praise him for his hard-headedness about the realities of human conduct, and for his determination to create solid chains of logical reasoning. Nonetheless, this does not mean that Hobbes was able to reach a level of “scientific” certainty in his judgments that had been lacking in all previous reflection on morals and politics.
The most consequential aspect of Hobbes’s account of human nature centers on his ideas about human motivation, and this topic is therefore at the heart of many debates about how to understand Hobbes’s philosophy. Many interpreters have presented the Hobbesian agent as a self-interested, rationally calculating actor (those ideas have been important in modern political philosophy and economic thought, especially in terms of rational choice theories). It is true that some of the problems that face people like this – rational egoists, as philosophers call them – are similar to the problems Hobbes wants to solve in his political philosophy. And it is also very common for first-time readers of Hobbes to get the impression that he believes we’re all basically selfish.
There are good reasons why earlier interpreters and new readers tend to think the Hobbesian agent is ultimately self-interested. Hobbes likes to make bold and even shocking claims to get his point across. “I obtained two absolutely certain postulates of human nature,” he says, “one, the postulate of human greed by which each man insists upon his own private use of common property; the other, the postulate of natural reason, by which each man strives to avoid violent death” (De Cive, Epistle Dedicatory). What could be clearer? – We want all we can get, and we certainly want to avoid death. There are two problems with thinking that this is Hobbes’s considered view, however. First, quite simply, it represents a false view of human nature. People do all sorts of altruistic things that go against their interests. They also do all sorts of needlessly cruel things that go against self-interest (think of the self-defeating lengths that revenge can run to). So it would be uncharitable to interpret Hobbes this way, if we can find a more plausible account in his work. Second, in any case Hobbes often relies on a more sophisticated view of human nature. He describes or even relies on motives that go beyond or against self-interest, such as pity, a sense of honor or courage, and so on. And he frequently emphasizes that we find it difficult to judge or appreciate just what our interests are anyhow. (Some also suggest that Hobbes’s views on the matter shifted away from egoism after De Cive, but the point is not crucial here.)
The upshot is that Hobbes does not think that we are basically or reliably selfish; and he does not think we are fundamentally or reliably rational in our ideas about what is in our interests. He is rarely surprised to find human beings doing things that go against self-interest: we will cut off our noses to spite our faces, we will torture others for their eternal salvation, we will charge to our deaths for love of country. In fact, a lot of the problems that befall human beings, according to Hobbes, result from their being too littleconcerned with self-interest. Too often, he thinks, we are too much concerned with what others think of us, or inflamed by religious doctrine, or carried away by others’ inflammatory words. This weakness as regards our self-interest has even led some to think that Hobbes is advocating a theory known as ethical egoism. This is to claim that Hobbes bases morality upon self-interest, claiming that we ought to do what it is most in our interest to do. But we shall see that this would over-simplify the conclusions that Hobbes draws from his account of human nature.
This is Hobbes’s picture of human nature. We are needy and vulnerable. We are easily led astray in our attempts to know the world around us. Our capacity to reason is as fragile as our capacity to know; it relies upon language and is prone to error and undue influence. When we act, we may do so selfishly or impulsively or in ignorance, on the basis of faulty reasoning or bad theology or others’ emotive speech.
What is the political fate of this rather pathetic sounding creature – that is, of us? Unsurprisingly, Hobbes thinks little happiness can be expected of our lives together. The best we can hope for is peaceful life under an authoritarian-sounding sovereign. The worst, on Hobbes’s account, is what he calls the “natural condition of mankind,” a state of violence, insecurity and constant threat. In outline, Hobbes’s argument is that the alternative to government is a situation no one could reasonably wish for, and that any attempt to make government accountable to the people must undermine it, so threatening the situation of non-government that we must all wish to avoid. Our only reasonable option, therefore, is a “sovereign” authority that is totally unaccountable to its subjects. Let us deal with the “natural condition” of non-government, also called the “state of nature,” first of all.
The state of nature is “natural” in one specific sense only. For Hobbes political authority is artificial: in the “natural” condition human beings lack government, which is an authority created by men. What is Hobbes’s reasoning here? He claims that the only authority that naturally exists among human beings is that of a mother over her child, because the child is so very much weaker than the mother (and indebted to her for its survival). Among adult human beings this is invariably not the case. Hobbes concedes an obvious objection, admitting that some of us are much stronger than others. And although he’s very sarcastic about the idea that some are wiser than others, he doesn’t have much difficulty with the idea that some are fools and others are dangerously cunning. Nonetheless, it’s almost invariably true that every human being is capable of killing any other. Even the strongest must sleep; even the weakest might persuade others to help him kill another. (Leviathan, xiii.1-2) Because adults are “equal” in this capacity to threaten one another’s lives, Hobbes claims there is no natural source of authority to order their lives together. (He is strongly opposing arguments that established monarchs have a natural or God-given right to rule over us.)
Thus, as long as human beings have not successfully arranged some form of government, they live in Hobbes’s state of nature. Such a condition might occur at the “beginning of time” (see Hobbes’s comments on Cain and Abel, Leviathan, xiii.11, Latin version only), or in “primitive” societies (Hobbes thought the American Indians lived in such a condition). But the real point for Hobbes is that a state of nature could just as well occur in seventeenth century England, should the King’s authority be successfully undermined. It could occur tomorrow in every modern society, for example, if the police and army suddenly refused to do their jobs on behalf of government. Unless some effective authority stepped into the King’s place (or the place of army and police and government), Hobbes argues the result is doomed to be deeply awful, nothing less than a state of war.
Why should peaceful cooperation be impossible without an overarching authority? Hobbes provides a series of powerful arguments that suggest it is extremely unlikely that human beings will live in security and peaceful cooperation without government. (Anarchism, the thesis that we should live without government, of course disputes these arguments.) His most basic argument is threefold. (Leviathan, xiii.3-9) (i) He thinks we will compete, violently compete, to secure the basic necessities of life and perhaps to make other material gains. (ii) He argues that we will challenge others and fight out of fear (“diffidence”), so as to ensure our personal safety. (iii) And he believes that we will seek reputation (“glory”), both for its own sake and for its protective effects (for example, so that others will be afraid to challenge us).
This is a more difficult argument than it might seem. Hobbes does not suppose that we are all selfish, that we are all cowards, or that we are all desperately concerned with how others see us. Two points, though. First, he does think that some of us are selfish, some of us cowardly, and some of us “vainglorious” (perhaps some people are of all of these!). Moreover, many of these people will be prepared to use violence to attain their ends – especially if there’s no government or police to stop them. In this Hobbes is surely correct. Second, in some situations it makes good sense, at least in the short term, to use violence and to behave selfishly, fearfully or vaingloriously. If our lives seem to be at stake, after all, we’re unlikely to have many scruples about stealing a loaf of bread; if we perceive someone as a deadly threat, we may well want to attack first, while his guard is down; if we think that there are lots of potential attackers out there, it’s going to make perfect sense to get a reputation as someone who shouldn’t be messed with. In Hobbes’s words, “the wickedness of bad men also compels good men to have recourse, for their own protection, to the virtues of war, which are violence and fraud.” (De Cive, Epistle Dedicatory) As well as being more complex than first appears, Hobbes’s argument becomes very difficult to refute.
Underlying this most basic argument is an important consideration about insecurity. As we shall see Hobbes places great weight on contracts (thus some interpreters see Hobbes as heralding a market society dominated by contractual exchanges). In particular, he often speaks of “covenants,” by which he means a contract where one party performs his part of the bargain later than the other. In the state of nature such agreements aren’t going to work. Only the weakest will have good reason to perform the second part of a covenant, and then only if the stronger party is standing over them. Yet a huge amount of human cooperation relies on trust, that others will return their part of the bargain over time. A similar point can be made about property, most of which we can’t carry about with us and watch over. This means we must rely on others respecting our possessions over extended periods of time. If we can’t do this, then many of the achievements of human society that involve putting hard work into land (farming, building) or material objects (the crafts, or modern industrial production, still unknown in Hobbes’s time) will be near impossible.
One can reasonably object to such points: Surely there are basic duties to reciprocate fairly and to behave in a trustworthy manner? Even if there’s no government providing a framework of law, judgment and punishment, don’t most people have a reasonable sense of what is right and wrong, which will prevent the sort of contract-breaking and generalized insecurity that Hobbes is concerned with? Indeed, shouldn’t our basic sense of morality prevent much of the greed, pre-emptive attack and reputation-seeking that Hobbes stressed in the first place? This is the crunch point of Hobbes’s argument, and it is here (if anywhere) that one can accuse Hobbes of “pessimism.” He makes two claims. The first concerns our duties in the state of nature (that is, the so-called “right of nature”). The second follows from this, and is less often noticed: it concerns the danger posed by our different and variable judgments of what is right and wrong.
On Hobbes’s view the right of nature is quite simple to define. Naturally speaking – that is, outside of civil society – we have a right to do whatever we think will ensure our self-preservation. The worst that can happen to us is violent death at the hands of others. If we have any rights at all, if (as we might put it) nature has given us any rights whatsoever, then the first is surely this: the right to prevent violent death befalling us. But Hobbes says more than this, and it is this point that makes his argument so powerful. We do not just have a right to ensure our self-preservation: we each have a right to judge what will ensure our self-preservation. And this is where Hobbes’s picture of humankind becomes important. Hobbes has given us good reasons to think that human beings rarely judge wisely. Yet in the state of nature no one is in a position to successfully define what is good judgment. If I judge that killing you is a sensible or even necessary move to safeguard my life, then – in Hobbes’s state of nature – I have a right to kill you. Others might judge the matter differently, of course. Almost certainly you’ll have quite a different view of things (perhaps you were just stretching your arms, not raising a musket to shoot me). Because we’re all insecure, because trust is more-or-less absent, there’s little chance of our sorting out misunderstandings peacefully, nor can we rely on some (trusted) third party to decide whose judgment is right. We all have to be judges in our own causes, and the stakes are very high indeed: life or death.
For this reason Hobbes makes very bold claims that sound totally amoral. “To this war of every man against every man,” he says, “this also is consequent [i.e., it follows]: that nothing can be unjust. The notions of right and wrong, justice and injustice have no place [in the state of nature].” (Leviathan, xiii.13) He further argues that in the state of nature we each have a right to all things, “even to one another’s body’ (Leviathan, xiv.4). Hobbes is dramatizing his point, but the core is defensible. If I judge that I need such and such – an object, another person’s labor, another person’s death – to ensure my continued existence, then in the state of nature, there is no agreed authority to decide whether I’m right or wrong. New readers of Hobbes often suppose that the state of nature would be a much nicer place, if only he were to picture human beings with some basic moral ideas. But this is naïve: unless people share the same moral ideas, not just at the level of general principles but also at the level of individual judgment, then the challenge he poses remains unsolved: human beings who lack some shared authority are almost certain to fall into dangerous and deadly conflict.
There are different ways of interpreting Hobbes’s view of the absence of moral constraints in the state of nature. Some think that Hobbes is imagining human beings who have no idea of social interaction and therefore no ideas about right and wrong. In this case, the natural condition would be a purely theoretical construction, and would demonstrate what both government and society do for human beings. (A famous statement about the state of nature in De Cive (viii.1) might support this interpretation: “looking at men as if they had just emerged from the earth like mushrooms and grown up without any obligation to each other…”) Another, complementary view reads Hobbes as a psychological egoist, so that – in the state of nature as elsewhere – he is merely describing the interaction of ultimately selfish and amoral human beings.
Others suppose that Hobbes has a much more complex picture of human motivation, so that there is no reason to think moral ideas are absent in the state of nature. In particular, it’s historically reasonable to think that Hobbes invariably has civil war in mind, when he describes our “natural condition.” If we think of civil war, we need to imagine people who’ve lived together and indeed still do live together – huddled together in fear in their houses, banded together as armies or guerrillas or groups of looters. The problem here isn’t a lack of moral ideas – far from it – rather that moral ideas and judgments differ enormously. This means (for example) that two people who are fighting tooth and nail over a cow or a gun can both think they’re perfectly entitled to the object and both think they’re perfectly right to kill the other – a point Hobbes makes explicitly and often. It also enables us to see that many Hobbesian conflicts are about religious ideas or political ideals (as well as self-preservation and so on) – as in the British Civil War raging while Hobbes wrote Leviathan, and in the many violent sectarian conflicts throughout the world today.
In the end, though, whatever account of the state of nature and its (a) morality we attribute to Hobbes, we must remember that it is meant to function as a powerful and decisive threat: if we do not heed Hobbes’s teachings and fail to respect existing political authority, then the natural condition and its horrors of war await us.
Hobbes thinks the state of nature is something we ought to avoid, at any cost except our own self-preservation (this being our “right of nature,” as we saw above). But what sort of “ought” is this? There are two basic ways of interpreting Hobbes here. It might be a counsel of prudence: avoid the state of nature, if you’re concerned to avoid violent death. In this case Hobbes’s advice only applies to us (i) if we agree that violent death is what we should fear most and should therefore avoid; and (ii) if we agree with Hobbes that only an unaccountable sovereign stands between human beings and the state of nature. This line of thought fits well with an egoistic reading of Hobbes, but we’ll see that it faces serious problems.
The other way of interpreting Hobbes is not without problems either. This takes Hobbes to be saying that we ought, morally speaking, to avoid the state of nature. We have a duty to do what we can to avoid this situation arising, and a duty to end it, if at all possible. Hobbes often makes his view clear, that we have such moral obligations. But then two difficult questions arise: Why these obligations? And why are they obligatory?
Hobbes frames the issues in terms of an older vocabulary, using the idea of natural law that many ancient and medieval philosophers had relied on. Like them, he thinks that human reason can discern some eternal principles to govern our conduct. These principles are independent of (though also complementary to) whatever moral instruction we might get from God or religion. In other words, they are laws given by nature rather than revealed by God. But Hobbes makes radical changes to the content of these so-called laws of nature. In particular, he doesn’t think that natural law provides any scope whatsoever to criticize or disobey the actual laws made by a government. He thus disagrees with those Protestants who thought that religious conscience might sanction disobedience of “immoral” laws, and with Catholics who thought that the commandments of the Pope have primacy over those of national political authorities.
Although he sets out nineteen laws of nature, it is the first two that are politically crucial. A third, that stresses the important of keeping to contracts we have entered into, is important in Hobbes’s moral justifications of obedience to the sovereign. (The remaining sixteen can be quite simply encapsulated in the formula, “do as you would be done by.” While the details are important for scholars of Hobbes, they do not affect the overall theory and will be ignored here.)
Every man ought to endeavor peace, as far as he has hope of obtaining it, and when he cannot obtain it, that he may seek and use all helps and advantages of war. (Leviathan, xiv.4)
This repeats the points we have already seen about our “right of nature,” so long as peace does not appear to be a realistic prospect. The second law of nature is more complicated:
That a man be willing, when others are so too, as far-forth as for peace and defense of himself he shall think it necessary, to lay down this right to all things, and be contented with so much liberty against other men, as he would allow other men against himself. (Leviathan, xiv.5)
What Hobbes tries to tackle here is the transition from the state of nature to civil society. But how he does this is misleading and has generated much confusion and disagreement. The way that Hobbes describes this second law of nature makes it look as if we should all put down our weapons, give up (much of) our “right of nature,” and jointly authorize a sovereign who will tell us what is permitted and punish us if we don’t obey. But the problem is obvious. If the state of nature is anything like as bad as Hobbes has argued, then there’s just no way people could ever make an agreement like this or put it into practice.
At the end of Leviathan, Hobbes seems to concede this point, saying “there is scarce a commonwealth in the world whose beginnings can in conscience be justified” (“Review and Conclusion,” 8). That is: governments have invariably been foisted upon people by force and fraud, not by collective agreement. But Hobbes means to defend every existing government that is powerful enough to secure peace among its subjects – not just a mythical government that’s been created by a peaceful contract out of a state of nature. His basic claim is that we should behave as if we had voluntarily entered into such a contract with everyone else in our society – everyone else, that is, except the sovereign authority.
In Hobbes’s myth of the social contract, everyone except the person or group who will wield sovereign power lays down their “right to all things.” They agree to limit drastically their right of nature, retaining only a right to defend their lives in case of immediate threat. (How limited this right of nature becomes in civil society has caused much dispute, because deciding what is an immediate threat is a question of judgment. It certainly permits us to fight back if the sovereign tries to kill us. But what if the sovereign conscripts us as soldiers? What if the sovereign looks weak and we doubt whether he can continue to secure peace…?) The sovereign, however, retains his (or her, or their) right of nature, which we have seen is effectively a right to all things – to decide what everyone else should do, to decide the rules of property, to judge disputes and so on. Hobbes concedes that there are moral limits on what sovereigns should do (God might call a sovereign to account). However, since in any case of dispute the sovereign is the only rightful judge – on this earth, that is – those moral limits make no practical difference. In every moral and political matter, the decisive question for Hobbes is always: who is to judge? As we have seen, in the state of nature, each of us is judge in our own cause, part of the reason why Hobbes thinks it is inevitably a state of war. Once civil society exists, the only rightful judge is the sovereign.
If we had all made a voluntary contract, a mutual promise, then it might seem half-way plausible to think we have an obligation to obey the sovereign (although even this requires the claim that promising is a moral value that overrides all others). If we have been conquered or, more fortunately, have simply been born into a society with an established political authority, this seems quite improbable. Hobbes has to make three steps here, all of which have seemed weak to many of his readers. First of all, he insists that promises made under threat of violence are nonetheless freely made, and just as binding as any others. Second, he has to put great weight on the moral value of promise keeping, which hardly fits with the absence of duties in the state of nature. Third, he has to give a story of how those of us born and raised in a political society have made some sort of implied promise to each other to obey, or at least, he has to show that we are bound (either morally or out of self-interest) to behave as if we had made such a promise.
In the first place, Hobbes draws on his mechanistic picture of the world, to suggest that threats of force do not deprive us of liberty. Liberty, he says, is freedom of motion, and I am free to move whichever way I wish, unless I am literally enchained. If I yield to threats of violence, that is my choice, for physically I could have done otherwise. If I obey the sovereign for fear of punishment or in fear of the state of nature, then that is equally my choice. Such obedience then comes, for Hobbes, to constitute a promise that I will continue to obey.
Second, promises carry a huge moral weight for Hobbes, as they do in all social contract theories. The question, however, is why we should think they are so important. Why should my (coerced) promise oblige me, given the wrong you committed in threatening me and demanding my valuables? Hobbes has no good answer to this question (but see below, on egoistic interpretations of Hobbes’s thinking here). His theory suggests that (in the state of nature) you could do me no wrong, as the right of nature dictates that we all have a right to all things. Likewise, promises do not oblige in the state of nature, inasmuch as they go against our right of nature. In civil society, the sovereign’s laws dictate what is right and wrong; if your threat was wrongful, then my promise will not bind me. But as the sovereign is outside of the original contract, he sets the terms for everyone else: so his threats create obligations.
As this suggests, Hobbesian promises are strangely fragile. Implausibly binding so long as a sovereign exists to adjudicate and enforce them, they lose all power should things revert to a state of nature. Relatedly, they seem to contain not one jot of loyalty. To be logically consistent, Hobbes needs to be politically implausible. Now there are passages where Hobbes sacrifices consistency for plausibility, arguing we have a duty to fight for our (former) sovereign even in the midst of civil war. Nonetheless the logic of his theory suggests that, as soon as government starts to weaken and disorder sets in, our duty of obedience lapses. That is, when the sovereign power needs our support, because it is no longer able to coerce us, there is no effective judge or enforcer of covenants, so that such promises no longer override our right of nature. This turns common sense on its head. Surely a powerful government can afford to be challenged, for instance by civil disobedience or conscientious objection? But when civil conflict and the state of nature threaten, in other words when government is failing, then we might reasonably think that political unity is as morally important as Hobbes always suggests. A similar question of loyalty also comes up when the sovereign power has been usurped – when Cromwell has supplanted the King, when a foreign invader has ousted our government. Right from the start, Hobbes’s critics saw that his theory makes turncoats into moral heroes: our allegiance belongs to whoever happens to be holding the gun(s). Perversely, the only crime the makers of a coup can commit is to fail.
Why does this problem come about? To overcome the fact that his contract is a fiction, Hobbes is driven to construct a “sort of” promise out of the fact of our subjugation to whatever political authority exists. He stays wedded to the idea that obedience can only find a moral basis in a “voluntary” promise, because only this seems to justify the almost unlimited obedience and renunciation of individual judgment he’s determined to prove. It is no surprise that Hobbes’s arguments creak at every point: nothing could bear the weight of justifying such an overriding duty.
All the difficulties in finding a reliable moral obligation to obey might tempt us back to the idea that Hobbes is some sort of egoist. However, the difficulties with this tack are even greater. There are two sorts of egoism commentators have attributed to Hobbes: psychological and ethical. The first theory says that human beings always act egoistically, the second that they ought to act egoistically. Either view might support this simple idea: we should obey the sovereign, because his political authority is what keeps us from the evils of the natural condition. But the basic problem with such egoistic interpretations, from the point of view of Hobbes’s system of politics, is shown when we think about cases where selfishness seems to conflict with the commands of the sovereign – for example, where illegal conduct will benefit us or keep us from danger. For a psychologically egoist agent, such behavior will be irresistible; for an ethically egoist agent, it will be morally obligatory. Now, providing the sovereign is sufficiently powerful and well-informed, he can prevent many such cases arising by threatening and enforcing punishments of those who disobey. Effective threats of punishment mean that obedience is in our self-interest. But such threats will not be effective when we think our disobedience can go undetected. After Orwell’s 1984 we can imagine a state that is so powerful that no reasonable person would ever think disobedience could pay. But for Hobbes, such a powerful sovereign was not even conceivable: he would have had to assume that there would be many situations where people could reasonably hope to “get away with it.” (Likewise, under non-totalitarian, liberal politics, there are many situations where illegal behavior is very unlikely to be detected or punished.) So, still thinking of egoistic agents, the more people do get away with it, the more reason others have to think they can do the same. Thus the problem of disobedience threatens to “snowball,” undermining the sovereign and plunging selfish agents back into the chaos of the state of nature.
In other words, sovereignty as Hobbes imagined it, and liberal political authority as we know it, can only function where people feel some additional motivation apart from pure self-interest. Moreover, there is strong evidence that Hobbes was well aware of this. Part of Hobbes’s interest in religion (a topic that occupies half of Leviathan) lies in its power to shape human conduct. Sometimes this does seem to work through self-interest, as in crude threats of damnation and hell-fire. But Hobbes’s main interest lies in the educative power of religion, and indeed of political authority. Religious practices, the doctrines taught in the universities (!), the beliefs and habits inculcated by the institutions of government and society: how these can encourage and secure respect for law and authority seem to be even more important to Hobbes’s political solutions than his theoretical social contract or shaky appeals to simple self-interest.
What are we to conclude, then, given the difficulties in finding a reliable moral or selfish justification for obedience? In the end, for Hobbes, everything rides on the value of peace. Hobbes wants to say both that civil order is in our “enlightened” self-interest, and that it is of overwhelming moral value. Life is never going to be perfect for us, and life under the sovereign is the best we can do. Recognizing this aspect ofeveryone’s self-interest should lead us to recognize the moral value of supporting whatever authority we happen to live under. For Hobbes, this moral value is so great – and the alternatives so stark – that it should override every threat to our self-interest except the imminent danger of death. The million-dollar question is then: is a life of obedience to the sovereign really the best human beings can hope for?
Hobbes has definite ideas about the proper nature, scope and exercise of sovereignty. Much that he says is cogent, and much of it can reduce the worries we might have about living under this drastically authoritarian sounding regime. Many commentators have stressed, for example, the importance Hobbes places upon the rule of law. His claim that much of our freedom, in civil society, “depends on the silence of the laws” is often quoted (Leviathan, xxi.18). In addition, Hobbes makes many points that are obviously aimed at contemporary debates about the rights of King and Parliament – especially about the sovereign’s rights as regards taxation and the seizure of property, and about the proper relation between religion and politics. Some of these points continue to be relevant, others are obviously anachronistic: evidently Hobbes could not have imagined the modern state, with its vast bureaucracies, massive welfare provision and complicated interfaces with society. Nor could he have foreseen how incredibly powerful the state might become, meaning that “sovereigns” such as Hitler or Stalin might starve, brutalize and kill their subjects, to such an extent that the state of nature looks clearly preferable.
However, the problem with all of Hobbes’s notions about sovereignty is that – on his account – it is not Hobbes the philosopher, nor we the citizens, who decide what counts as the proper nature, scope or exercise of sovereignty. He faces a systematic problem: justifying any limits or constraints on the sovereign involves making judgments about moral or practical requirements. But one of his greatest insights, still little recognized by many moral philosophers, is that any right or entitlement is only practically meaningful when combined with a concrete judgment as to what it dictates in some given case. Hobbes’s own failure, however understandable, to foresee the growth of government and its powers only supports this thought: that the proper nature, scope or exercise of sovereignty is a matter of complex judgment. Alone among the people who comprise Hobbes’s commonwealth, it is the sovereign who judges what form he should appear in, how far he should reach into the lives of his subjects, and how he should exercise his powers.
It should be added that the one part of his system that Hobbes concedes not to be proven with certainty is just this question: who or what should constitute the sovereign power. It was natural for Hobbes to think of a King, or indeed a Queen (he was born under Elizabeth I). But he was certainly very familiar with ancient forms of government, including aristocracy (government by an elite) and democracy (government by the citizens, who formed a relatively small group within the total population). Hobbes was also aware that an assembly such as Parliament could constitute a sovereign body. All have advantages and disadvantages, he argues. But the unity that comes about from having a single person at the apex, together with fixed rules of succession that pre-empt dispute about who this person should be, makes monarchy Hobbes’s preferred option.
In fact, if we want to crack open Hobbes’s sovereign, to be able to lay down concrete ideas about its nature and limits, we must begin with the question of judgment. For Hobbes, dividing capacities to judge between different bodies is tantamount to letting the state of nature straight back in. “For what is it to divide the power of a commonwealth, but to dissolve it; for powers divided mutually destroy each other.” (Leviathan, xxix.12; cf De Cive, xii.5) Beyond the example of England in the 1640s, Hobbes hardly bothers to argue the point, although it is crucial to his entire theory. Always in his mind is the Civil War that arose when Parliament claimed the right to judge rules of taxation, and thereby prevented the King from ruling and making war as he saw fit, and when churches and religious sects claimed prerogatives that went against the King’s decisions.
Especially given modern experiences of the division of powers, however, it’s easy to see that these examples are extreme and atypical. We might recall the American constitution, where powers of legislation, execution and case-by-case judgment are separated (to Congress, President and the judiciary respectively) and counter-balance one another. Each of these bodies is responsible for judging different questions. There are often, of course, boundary disputes, as to whether legislative, executive or judicial powers should apply to a given issue, and no one body is empowered to settle this crucial question of judgment. Equally obviously, however, such disputes have not led to a state of nature (well, at least if we think of the US after the Civil War). For Hobbes it is simply axiomatic that disputation as to who should judge important social and political issues spells the end of the commonwealth. For us, it is equally obvious that only a few extreme forms of dispute have this very dangerous power. Dividing the powers that are important to government need not leave a society more open to those dangerous conflicts. Indeed, many would now argue that political compromises which provide different groups and bodies with independent space to judge certain social or political issues can be crucial for preventing disputes from escalating into violent conflict or civil war.
What happens, then, if we do not follow Hobbes in his arguments that judgment must, by necessity or by social contract or both, be the sole province of the sovereign? If we are optimists about the power of human judgment, and about the extent of moral consensus among human beings, we have a straightforward route to the concerns of modern liberalism. Our attention will not be on the question of social and political order, rather on how to maximize liberty, how to define social justice, how to draw the limits of government power, and how to realize democratic ideals. We will probably interpret Hobbes as a psychological egoist, and think that the problems of political order that obsessed him were the product of an unrealistic view of human nature, or unfortunate historical circumstances, or both. In this case, I suggest, we might as well not have read Hobbes at all.
If we are less optimistic about human judgment in morals and politics, however, we should not doubt that Hobbes’s problems remain our problems. But hindsight shows grave limitations to his solutions. Theoretically, Hobbes fails to prove that we have an almost unlimited obligation to obey the sovereign. His arguments that sovereignty – the power to judge moral and political matters, and enforce those judgments – cannot be divided are not only weak; they are simply refuted by the (relatively) successful distribution of powers in modern liberal societies. Not least, the horrific crimes of twentieth century dictatorships show beyond doubt that judgment about right and wrong cannot be a question only for our political leaders.
If Hobbes’s problems are real and his solutions only partly convincing, where will we go? It might reasonably be thought that this is the central question of modern political thought. We will have no doubt that peaceful coexistence is one of the greatest goods of human life, something worth many inconveniences, sacrifices and compromises. We will see that there is moral force behind the laws and requirements of the state, simply because human beings do indeed need authority and systems of enforcement if they are to cooperate peacefully. But we can hardly accept that, because human judgment is weak and faulty, that there can be only one judge of these matters – precisely because that judge might turn out to be very faulty indeed. Our concern will be how we can effectively divide power between government and people, while still ensuring that important questions of moral and political judgment are peacefully adjudicated. We will be concerned with the standards and institutions that provide for compromise between many different and conflicting judgments. And all the time, we will remember Hobbes’s reminder that human life is never without inconvenience and troubles, that we must live with a certain amount of bad, to prevent the worst: fear of violence, and violent death.
Edwards, Alistair (2002) “Hobbes” in Interpreting Modern Political Philosophy: From Machiavelli to Marx, eds. A Edwards and J Townshend (Palgrave Macmillan, Houndmills)
Hobbes, Thomas (1998 [1642]) On the Citizen, ed & trans Richard Tuck and Michael Silverthorne (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge)
The best edition of Hobbes’s magnum opus, including extensive additional material and many important variations (ignored by all other editions) between the English text and later Latin edition.
=======================================================
Thomas Hobbes lived in a time of uncertainty; a time when social, political, and philosophical orders were crumbling before his eyes.  He was born in 1588 in Wiltshire, England, to a father with a penchant for the drink.  His father worked as a fairly unaccomplished vicar.  When Hobbes was only four his father was engaged in a fight outside of his own church, and eventually fled in fear, abandoning his three children and leaving them to be raised by his brother.
When Hobbes was fifteen he began his study at Oxford, where he focused mainly on travel and cartography.  Five years after graduating from Oxford he gained a job tutoring the son of the Earl of Devonshire and began an intense study of the Greek and Roman Classics, particularly poetry, history, and philosophy.  During his time as a tutor the world of upper class society was opened to him, and he was able to travel abroad with his pupil and his family.  It was probably during his first trip to France and Italy in 1610 that Hobbes was exposed to the radical new ideas of Galileo and Kepler, the first of many signs that the old philosophical order was changing.While the seeds of Hobbes' philosophy were laid during this first trip abroad, upon his return he directed his energies to Classical studies.  In 1629 he published his first work, a translation of Thucydides' History of the Peloponnesian War.  Hobbes revealed much later in his autobiography that Thucydides appealed to him because of the historian's exposure of the crumblings of democracy.  During this same year Hobbes traveled abroad again to Paris, becomming enamored with Euclid's Elements.  In this geometry Hobbes saw a methodology that he would later apply to his philosophy, whereby one could go through arguments step-by-step, and arrive at logically sound conclusions.  After being recalled to England one year later to teach the son of his late pupil, he published his first philosophical work, A Short Tract on First Principles, in which he applied this geometric methodology to the question, "What is sense?"In a third trip abroad he met Galileo and became inspired by the idea that motion was the underlying force in all of reality.  He then planned an ambitious three part project of explaining nature, man, and citizenship based around this idea of motion.  Yet when he came back to England in 1637 unrest gripped the country as the parliament and monarchists struggled for power.  Rather than publish the part on nature first in 1640 he published The Elements of Law, Natural and Politic, which dealt first with man and second with citizenship.  In this work he argued in favor of the royalists, and when the situation became particularly unruly, he fled to Paris.In Paris Hobbes worked on and expanded his work on man and citizenship (De Cive, 1647), and eventually became a mathematics instructor to prince of Wales (later Charles II).  Then in 1651 he published his seminal work, Leviathan, which drew upon his previous political philosophy and added his additional philosophy concerning religion.  Hobbes' argument that the subjects of a commonwealth could choose a new form of government when theirs no longer protected them offended royalists in exile following the death of Charles I.  They believed Hobbes was trying to curry favor with the new government.  Yet Hobbes found little favor in France: his lengthy and at times virulent attack on the papacy made him powerful enemies in Catholic France, and Hobbes eventually returned to England at the end of that year.His return to England did not mark the end of controversy for Hobbes.  In Leviathan and elsewhere Hobbes attacked the philosophy of Aristotle and the university system that perpetuated what he believed were false (and dangerous) doctrines.  He became involved in a series of spats with professors concerning the place of motion in natural and political philosophy, as well as problems of geometry and physiology.Following the Restoration of 1660, Charles II, Hobbes' former employer, invited Hobbes into the King's court and even paid him a monthly stipend.  While Hobbes was still a controversial figure amongst members of the court, the King enjoyed Hobbes' intellect and sense of humor, and even had a portrait of Hobbes hung in the royal closet.The last major controversy of his life came in 1666 when the parliament introduced a bill criminalizing atheism.  While Hobbes explicitly distanced himself from atheism in Leviathan, many parts of it were contrary to established religious doctrine (Catholic or not).  The bill was never passed, but Hobbes was no longer allowed to publish anything concerning man or religion.  Hobbes then lived out his last days writing his autobiography and returning to his Classical studies.  In 1675 he published an English translation of Homer's Odyssey, and a year later one of the Iliad.  He worked until his last days, promising his publisher another work in English shortly before he died in 1679.
=======================================================
.media td{text-align:center;vertical-align:bottom;padding:.5em;padding-top:1em;max-width:180px;width:25%;}.media a{text-decoration:none;font-size:9pt;}.media img{box-shadow:1px 1px 5px #111;-webkit-box-shadow:1px 1px 5px #111;-moz-box-shadow:1px 1px 5px #111;clear:both;text-align:center;vertical-align:middle;background:#fff;padding:5px;margin:5px;border:1px solid #bbb;}.media small{color:#008000;font-size:8pt;clear:both;}.media a, .media small{width:99%;white-space:nowrap;overflow:hidden;text-overflow:ellipsis;-o-text-overflow:ellipsis;-ms-text-overflow:ellipsis;display:inline-block;vertical-align:top;}#IE .media a, #IE .media small{white-space:normal;clear:both;}.media li{margin-left:1em;}.media li img{margin-left:0px;}.hide{position:absolute;text-indent:-1000em;}.clear{clear:both;height:0;}.sep{border-top:1px solid #e5e5e5;margin-top:10px;height:0;}.sprite{text-indent:-9999px;display:block;}.hide, .clear, .sep, .sprite{overflow:hidden;}.clip{position:absolute !important;clip:rect(1px 1px 1px 1px);clip:rect(1px,1px,1px,1px);}.ghost{color:#b9b9b9;}.suggestPanel{position:absolute;display:none;background-color:#fff;text-align:left;border:1px solid #7F9DB9;font-size:12pt;}.suggest_link{padding:2px 6px;overflow:hidden;}.suggest_link_over{padding:2px 6px;overflow:hidden;background-color:#0F6FBC;color:#fff;cursor:pointer;}#ifSpellSuggest{display:inline;}.wdgt> *{margin-bottom:8px;}.wdgt b{background:#CC0000;color:#fff;padding:0px 4px;font-weight:bolder;margin-right:8px;box-shadow:1px 1px 3px #aaa;-webkit-box-shadow:1px 1px 3px #aaa;-moz-box-shadow:1px 1px 3px #aaa;text-shadow:1px 1px 0 #444;}.wdgt a{text-decoration:underline;font-weight:normal;}small.status{vertical-align:text-top;font-size:72%;font-weight:bold;margin:0px 6px 0px -3px;}#infolang{color:#6490CB;font-size:10px;white-space:nowrap;padding:5px 0px;margin:0px;min-width:;background:#f6f8f7 url(http://gfx2.info.com+'/bkg_bar.gif') 80 repeat-x;}#infolang option{border-color:red;background-color:#D2E4FC;color:#6490CB;}#infolang form, #infolang select{padding:0px;margin:0px;vetical-align:top;font-size:10px;}#infolang a{text-decoration:none;color:#6490CB;}#infolang a:hover{text-decoration:underline;color:black;}#f{white-space:nowrap;clear:both;margin-bottom:1em;}#f a, #f a:visited{text-decoration:none;font-weight:normal;}#f a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}#f .links{margin:0 auto 0 auto;display:block;clear:both;text-align:center;}#f .links a{margin:0px 9px;}#f .copy{text-align:center;padding-top:.8em;color:#808080;margin-bottom:2em;}#f .copy .g{margin-left:3em;display:inline;}#f .links, #f .sep{border:0;color:#E5E5E5;}.INFO{float:left;width:154px;height:60px;padding-top:6px;text-align:right;}.INFO img{display:inline;}html, body{font-size:100%;height:100%;font-family:arial, verdana, sans-serif;}html, body, form, h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6, p, ul, table{margin:0;padding:0;}img{border:0;display:block;}ul{list-style-type:none;}a{color:#1D49B2;}a:hover{text-decoration:*;}a:visited{color:*;}#p{font-size:.82em;margin:0 auto;min-width:650px;padding-left:14px;width:992px;}#l{width:150px;float:left;clear:both;margin-top:*;text-align:right;}#r{width:240px;float:left;padding-left:8px;margin-top:*;border-left:1px solid #e5e5e5;overflow:hidden;}#IE6 #r{position:relative;}.rw{margin:10px;}#p.l #w{padding-left:174px;}#p.r #w{padding-right:250px;}#cw{float:left;margin-top:*;width:100%;}#IE6 #cw{width:98%;}#cw .sep{margin:10px 0px 0 -12px;}.cw{margin-left:*;padding-left:*;padding-right:10px;width:auto;}#p.r .cw{margin-right:*;}#hw, #c, #fw{margin:0 auto;width:auto;}#fw{height:90px;}#f .links{padding-top:2em;}.P4 ul li h3, .F3 ul li h3 {display:inline;margin:0;font-size:1em;font-weight:normal;}#l form{margin:1em 0px;}#l label{clear:both;display:block;line-height:1.8em;}#l input{float:right;}.tabs a, .tabs a:visited, .tabs a:active{display:block;font-size:1.2em;outline:none;color:#1d49b2;}.tabs .on a, .tabs .on a:visited, .tabs .on a:active{font-size:1.2em;padding-left:8px;color:#000;}.tabs a{text-decoration:none;padding:0 0 0 8px;}.tabs a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.tabs li{margin:3px 0;line-height:27px;}.tabs .on{display:block;font-weight:bold;border-left:none;}#IE9 .tabs .on, #CHROME .tabs .on, #SAFARI .tabs .on, #IE8 .tabs .on{padding-top:1px;}#IE9 .tabs a{padding-top:1px;}.xtr .sep{margin:11px 10px;}.xtr ul{margin-top:2em;}.xtr li{margin:3px 0;line-height:22px;padding-right:16px;}.xtr a, .xtr a:visited, .xtr a:active{color:#515151;line-height:16px;}.xtr a{padding:0 0 0 9px;text-decoration:none;}.xtr a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.xtr p{padding:0 0 0 8px;margin:0 0 6px;font-weight:bold;}input{-webkit-appearance:none;-webkit-border-radius:0;}#h .sb, #f .sb{float:left;}#h .sb .sb-c, #f .sb .sb-c{padding-left:8px;}#h .sb{padding-top:25px;}.attrib{display:inline-block;}.attrib img{margin-top:3px;}.MSRW{color:#626262;font-size:0.9em;font-weight:normal;margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0;}.qkwSearchBox{border:1px solid transparent;}.qkwSearchBox:hover{border-color:transparent;}.qkwSearchBox input[type="text"]:focus, .qkwSearchBox input[type="search"]:focus{outline:0;outline:thin dotted \9;border-color:#6490cb;-webkit-box-shadow:inset 0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.075), 0 0 8px #6490cb;-moz-box-shadow:inset 0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.075), 0 0 8px #6490cb;box-shadow:inset 0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.075), 0 0 8px #6490cb;}.qkw{color:#000 !important;font-size:1.4em;font-weight:normal;font-family:arial, verdana, sans-serif;width:100%;position:relative;height:28px !important;padding:5px 3px 4px 6px !important;border:1px solid #6490CB !important;background:transparent;}#IE6 .qkw, #IE7 .qkw, #IE8 .qkw{line-height:28px;}.sqkw{cursor:pointer;font-weight:normal;font-size:1.5em;margin:0 0 0 10px;padding:0;display:block;white-space:nowrap;position:relative;text-shadow:0 1px 3px rgba(0,0,0,40);border:none;width:80px !important;line-height:40px;height:40px;}.sqkw:hover{text-shadow:0 1px 1px rgba(0,0,0,0.7);}.QKW{position:relative;width:731px !important;float:left;}.QKW .sqkw_{display:inline;color:#fff;border:0;height:39px !important;background:#6490CB;}.QKW .sqkw_:hover{color:#6490CB;}.QKW td{vertical-align:top;}.QKW a, .QKW a:hover, .QKW a:active, .QKW a:visited{text-decoration:none;color:#fff;}#IE6 .QKW form{zoom:100%;}#IE .QKW td{vertical-align:middle;}.P{clear:both;text-align:center;white-space:nowrap;margin:15px 0px 15px -8px;max-width:608px;font-size:1.24em;color:#000;}.P a{text-decoration:none;color:#1d49b2;}.P a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.P a:visited{color:#660099;}.P span, .P span a{font-weight:bold;}.P a, .P span{padding:6px 8px;margin:0 5px;zoom:100%;}.P span.nextRes, .P span.prevRes{padding:0px;margin:0px;}#c{margin-top:8px;}#c .more a:link{text-decoration:none;font-size:1em;}#c .more a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.AYLF a, .aylfResult a{text-decoration:none;color:#1d49b2;font-size:1.1em;text-transform:capitalize;}.AYLF a:visited, .aylfResult a:visited{color:#660099;}.AYLF a:active, .aylfResult a:active{color:#000;}.AYLF a:hover, .AYLF a span:hover, .aylfResult a:hover, .aylfResult a span:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.AYLF li, .aylfResult li{margin:8px 0;}#r .AYLF{margin-bottom:12px;}.AYLF-h{}.AYLF-h ul{margin:6px 0px 0px 0px;}.AYLF-h ul li{display:inline;padding-right:15px;line-height:20px;}.AYLF-h a{text-decoration:none;font-size:1.1em;}.AYLF-h a a:visited{color:#660099;}.AYLF-h a a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.AYLF-h3c{margin-top:4px;}.AYLF-h3c a{text-decoration:none;font-size:1.1em;}.AYLF-h3c a a:visited{color:#660099;}.AYLF-h3c a a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.AYLF-h3c table{clear:both;padding-top:4px;table-layout:fixed;width:100%;}.AYLF-h3c td{text-transform:capitalize;text-overflow:ellipsis;white-space:nowrap;overflow:hidden;}.AYLF-h3c tr{clear:none;}#r ul{margin:-4px 0 0;}#r li.more{float:right;margin:0px;margin-bottom:14px;display:inline-block;*width:50%;zoom:1;*display:inline;}#r img{width:99px;height:auto;max-height:133px;opacity:0;-moz-transition:opacity 2s;-webkit-transition:opacity 2s;-o-transition:opacity 2s;transition:opacity 2s;}#r p.d{color:#444;line-height:16px;display:inline-block;}#r a.more{text-decoration:none;clear:none;display:inline;vertical-align:text-bottom;*width:5%;zoom:1;*display:inline;}#r .media h3{margin-bottom:8px;}#r .media li{margin:0px;padding:0px;vertical-align:top;display:inline-block;zoom:1;*display:inline;}#r .media li.more{margin-top:6px;margin-bottom:16px;}.F3{}.F3{margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0;padding-right:256px;clear:both;}.F3 ul li{margin:14px 0px;max-width:600px;word-wrap:break-word;clear:both;}.F3 ul li a, .F3 ul li a:visited{font-size:1.24em;color:#1d49b2;text-decoration:underline;outline:none;font-weight:normal;}.F3 ul li a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.F3 ul li a, .F3 ul li p.u, .F3 ul li small{width:100%;white-space:nowrap;overflow:hidden;text-overflow:ellipsis;-o-text-overflow:ellipsis;-ms-text-overflow:ellipsis;display:inline-block;vertical-align:top;}#IE .F3 ul li a, #IE .F3 ul li p.u, #IE .F3 ul li small{white-space:normal;clear:both;}.F3 ul li h3{font-weight:bold;}.F3 .sites{overflow:auto;width:100%;}.F3 ul.site{clear:none;padding:4px 0 0 17px;float:left;}.F3 ul.site li{margin:0;width:auto;}.F3 ul.sitel{padding-left:15px;}.F3 .indent{clear:both;}.F3 .hostIndent{clear:both;margin-left:15px;}.F3 .moreResults{padding-top:5px;color:#77c;}.F3 a.ltxt{font-size:1em;color:#77c;text-decoration:none;}.F3 a.ltxt:hover{text-decoration:underline;}.F3 a.ltxt:visited{color:#551a8b;}.F3 a.ltxt:hover{text-decoration:underline;}#p.r .F3{padding-right:0;}#w p, #r p{font-size:1em;}#w ul li p.d, #r ul li p.d{line-height:16px;}#w ul li p.u, #r ul li p.u{color:#009933;text-decoration:none;font-style:normal;height:17px;line-height:16px;}.P4T{margin-top:0;margin-bottom:8px;}.P4B{margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0;}.P4 h3, .F3 h3.small{font-size:1em;font-weight:normal;margin:0 3px 3px 3px;}.P4 h3 a:visited, .F3 h3.small a:visited{color:#1c00c0;}.P4 h3 .hlp, .P4 h3 .txt, .F3 h3.small .hlp, .F3 h3.small .txt{font-size:0.9em;text-decoration:none;color:#6f6f6f;float:right;}.P4{background-color:#f2f9ff;zoom:100%;line-height:1.167;max-width:863px;padding:1px 0px 3px 12px;margin-left:-12px;}.P4 ul a, .P4 ul a:hover, .P4 .desc b{text-decoration:none;}.P4 a{cursor:pointer;display:block;}.P4 ul li:first-child{margin-top:0px;}.P4 ul li{margin-top:9px;margin-bottom:0px;}.P4 ul a{outline:none;}.P4 .P4Link{margin:-3px 0 0;}.P4 ul li h3 a{font-size:1.24em;text-decoration:underline;word-wrap:break-word;color:#1c00c0;}.P4 ul li h3 a:hover, .P4 a:hover .title{text-decoration:underline;}.P4 ul li h3 a:visited, .P4 a:visited .title{color:#1c00c0;}.P4 .desc{display:block;zoom:100%;}.P4 .pdesc{font-size:1em;color:#000000;height:18px;line-height:18px;}#w .P4 ul li p.u{color:#21883B;padding-top:2px;display:inline;}.P4 .sl1col{height:1em;margin-top:4px;width:560px;overflow:hidden;text-overflow:ellipsis;color:#343434;}.P4 .sl1col a{white-space:nowrap;margin-left:15px;}.P4 .sl{line-height:15px;}.P4 .sl li{display:inline;margin:0;}.P4 .sl a{font-size:1em;color:#1c00c0;}.P4 .sl a:focus{outline:thin dotted;}.P4 .sl a:visited{color:#1c00c0;}.P4 .sl a:hover{text-decoration:underline;}table.sl2col{margin:0px;padding:0px;border-spacing:0;border-collapse:collapse;margin-top:2px;}.sl2col td{padding-left:15px;}ul.sl2col{margin-left:15px;width:100%;}ul.sl2col li{width:50%;margin:0px;padding:0px;display:inline-block;vertical-align:top;}#IE7 ul.sl2col li{*display:inline;*zoom:1;}.rated{font-size:11px;line-height:10px;color:#383838;display:inline-block;}#IE .rated, #IE .rated> div{zoom:1;*display:inline;margin:0px 4px;}.rated a:link, .rated a:visited, .rated a:hover{text-decoration:none;color:#3435f3;background:none;border:none;font-size:10px;display:inline;}.rated div.x{margin:0px 4px;}#IE .rated div.x{display:table-cell;vertical-align:middle;}.rated div{height:9px;background:url(http://gfx2.info.com/stars.png) repeat-x scroll right bottom transparent;display:inline-block;width:55px;}.rated .x div{background-position:0px 0px;}.nores,.off,.offf{display:none}#topResults,#bottomResults{width:95%}.P4{background:none}.aylfResult a:link{text-decoration:underline !important}#insp_result_spelling_0{display:inline-table;margin-left:.5em}.P4 a{display:inline} // fix yaho sitelinks.P4 h3 .hlp, .P4 h3 .txt, .F3 h3.small .hlp, .F3 h3.small .txt{margin:0px;padding:0px;}@media (max-device-width: 768px){#c {margin-left:8px} .attrib, #f .QKW, #f .links, #f .INFO, #f .copy .g{display:none !important;} .INFO, .INFO img{height:28px !important;width:auto;} .INFO{padding-left:4px;} #p{font-size: none;margin:0px;padding:0px;width:100%;min-width:100% !important;} #h .sb{padding:0px;} .sb-c{padding:0px !important;height:40px;} .QKW{width:auto !important;float:left;position:absolute;} .P4{max-width:none;margin:0px;padding:0px;} #p.r #w, #p.l #w{padding:0px;}  #w{padding:0px !important;} #l{float: none;text-align:center;width: 100%;display:block;} .tabs{display:none;} .tabs li{border:1px solid red;min-width:12%;float:left;}#fw{height:20px} #f .sb{width:100%;font-size:80%;} #f .copy .g{margin:none;margin-top:1em;white-space:none;display:block;} .sqkw{font-size:.9em;width:44px !important;}}}.nores{margin:4em;font-size:110%;font-family: verdana,sans-serif}.nores p{margin:1em 0}.nores ul{list-style:disc;line-height:1.5em}.nores li{margin-left:4em}
A browser that support JavaScript is required to see most content on this site. Check how to enable JavaScript.
