=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Isaac Asimov (/ˈaɪzɨk ˈæzɨmɒv/ EYE-zək AZ-ə-mov;[2] born Isaak Yudovich Ozimov; circa January 2, 1920[1] – April 6, 1992) was an American author and professor of biochemistry at Boston University, best known for his works of science fiction and for his popular science books. Asimov was one of the most prolific writers of all time, having written or edited more than 500 books and an estimated 90,000 letters and postcards.[3] His books have been published in 9 of the 10 major categories of the Dewey Decimal Classification.[4]
Asimov is widely considered a master of hard science fiction and, along with Robert A. Heinlein and Arthur C. Clarke, he was considered one of the "Big Three" science fiction writers during his lifetime.[5] Asimov's most famous work is the Foundation Series;[6] his other major series are the Galactic Empire series and the Robot series. The Galactic Empire novels are explicitly set in earlier history of the same fictional universe as the Foundation series. Later, beginning with Foundation's Edge, he linked this distant future to the Robot and Spacer stories, creating a unified "future history" for his stories much like those pioneered by Robert A. Heinlein and previously produced by Cordwainer Smith and Poul Anderson.[7] He wrote hundreds of short stories, including the social science fiction "Nightfall", which in 1964 was voted by the Science Fiction Writers of America the best short science fiction story of all time. Asimov wrote the Lucky Starr series of juvenile science-fiction novels using the pen name Paul French.[8]
Asimov also wrote mysteries and fantasy, as well as much nonfiction. Most of his popular science books explain scientific concepts in a historical way, going as far back as possible to a time when the science in question was at its simplest stage. He often provides nationalities, birth dates, and death dates for the scientists he mentions, as well as etymologies and pronunciation guides for technical terms. Examples include Guide to Science, the three-volume set Understanding Physics, and Asimov's Chronology of Science and Discovery, as well as works on astronomy, mathematics, the Bible, William Shakespeare's writing, and chemistry.
Asimov was a long-time member and vice president of Mensa International, albeit reluctantly; he described some members of that organization as "brain-proud and aggressive about their IQs".[9] He took more joy in being president of the American Humanist Association.[10] The asteroid 5020 Asimov, a crater on the planet Mars,[11] a Brooklyn, New York elementary school, and a literary award are named in his honor.
Asimov was born between October 4, 1919 and January 2, 1920[1] in Petrovichi in the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (to the south-west from Smolensk) to Anna Rachel (Berman) Asimov and Judah Asimov, a family of Jewish millers. While his exact date of birth is uncertain, Asimov himself celebrated it on January 2.[1]
The family name derives from a word for winter crops in which his great-grandfather dealt. This word is spelled озимые (ozimye) in Russian, and азімыя (azimiya) in Belarusian.[12] Accordingly, his name originally was Исаак Озимов (Isaak Ozimov) in Russian, however, he was later known in Russia as Ayzek Azimov (Айзек Азимов),[13] a Russian Cyrillic adaptation of the American English pronunciation.
Asimov had two younger siblings; a sister, Marcia (born Manya,[14] June 17, 1922 – April 2, 2011),[15] and a brother, Stanley (July 25, 1929 – August 16, 1995),[16] who was vice-president of New York Newsday.[17][18]
His family emigrated to the United States when he was three years old. Since his parents always spoke Yiddish and English with him, he never learned Russian.[19] Growing up in Brooklyn, New York City, Asimov taught himself to read at the age of five[20] and remained fluent in Yiddish as well as English.[21] Asimov wrote of his father, "My father, for all his education as an Orthodox Jew, was not Orthodox in his heart", and "he didn't recite the myriad prayers prescribed for every action, and he never made any attempt to teach them to me".[22]
His parents owned a succession of candy stores, and everyone in the family was expected to work in them. He became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 1928 at the age of eight.
Asimov began reading science fiction pulp magazines at a young age.[23] His father, as a matter of principle, forbade reading the pulps, as he considered them to be trash, but Asimov persuaded him that the science fiction magazines had "Science" in the title, so they were educational. Around the age of 11, he began to write his own stories, and by age 19, after he discovered science fiction fandom, he was selling stories to the science fiction magazines. John W. Campbell, then editor of Astounding Science Fiction, had a strong formative influence on Asimov and eventually became a personal friend.[24]
Asimov attended New York City public schools, including Boys High School in Brooklyn.[25] Graduating at 15, he went on to Seth Low Junior College, a branch of Columbia University in Brooklyn, designed to absorb some of the Jewish and Italian-American students who applied to Columbia College, then the institution's primary undergraduate school for men with quotas on the number of admissions from those ethnic groups. Originally a zoology major, Asimov changed his subject to chemistry after his first semester as he disapproved of "dissecting an alley cat". After Seth Low Junior College closed in 1938, Asimov finished his BS degree at University Extension (later the Columbia University School of General Studies) in 1939. When he failed to secure admission to medical school, he applied to the graduate program in chemistry at Columbia; initially rejected and then only accepted on a probationary basis, Asimov completed his MA in chemistry in 1941 and earned a PhD in biochemistry in 1948. In between, he spent three years during World War II working as a civilian at the Philadelphia Navy Yard's Naval Air Experimental Station. After the war ended, he was drafted into the U.S. Army, serving for almost nine months before receiving an honorable discharge. In the course of his brief military career, he rose to the rank of corporal on the basis of his typing skills, and narrowly avoided participating in the 1946 atomic bomb tests at Bikini Atoll.
After completing his doctorate, Asimov joined the faculty of the Boston University School of Medicine, with which he remained associated thereafter.[26] From 1958, this was in a nonteaching capacity, as he turned to writing full-time (his writing income had already exceeded his academic salary). Being tenured, he retained the title of associate professor, and in 1979, the university honored his writing by promoting him to full professor of biochemistry. Asimov's personal papers from 1965 onward are archived at the university's Mugar Memorial Library, to which he donated them at the request of curator Howard Gotlieb. The collection fills 464 boxes, or 71 m of shelf space.
Asimov married Gertrude Blugerman (1917, Canada–1990, Boston) on July 26, 1942. They had two children, David (born 1951) and Robyn Joan (born 1955). In 1970, they separated and Asimov moved back to New York, this time to Manhattan, where he lived for the rest of his life. He immediately began seeing Janet O. Jeppson, and married her two weeks after his divorce from Gertrude in 1973.[27]
Asimov was a claustrophile: he enjoyed small, enclosed spaces.[28] In the third volume of his autobiography, he recalls a childhood desire to own a magazine stand in a New York City Subway station, within which he could enclose himself and listen to the rumble of passing trains while reading.[29]
Asimov was afraid of flying,[30] only doing so twice in his entire life (once in the course of his work at the Naval Air Experimental Station, and once returning home from the army base in Oahu in 1946).[30] Consequently, he seldom traveled great distances. This phobia influenced several of his fiction works, such as the Wendell Urth mystery stories and the Robot novels featuring Elijah Baley. In his later years, Asimov found enjoyment traveling on cruise ships; on several cruises he was part of the entertainment program, giving science-themed talks aboard ships such as the RMS Queen Elizabeth II.[30]
Asimov was an able public speaker and was a frequent fixture at science fiction conventions, where he was friendly and approachable.[30] He patiently answered tens of thousands of questions and other mail with postcards, and was pleased to give autographs. He was of medium height, stocky, with mutton chop whiskers, and a distinct New York accent. His physical dexterity was very poor. He never learned to swim or ride a bicycle; however, he did learn to drive a car after he moved to Boston. In his humor book Asimov Laughs Again, he describes Boston driving as "anarchy on wheels".[31]
Asimov's wide interests included his participation in his later years in organizations devoted to the comic operas of Gilbert and Sullivan[30] and in The Wolfe Pack,[32] a group of devotees of the Nero Wolfe mysteries written by Rex Stout. Many of his short stories mention or quote Gilbert and Sullivan.[33] He was a prominent member of the Baker Street Irregulars, the leading Sherlock Holmes society [30] having been admitted after writing an essay arguing that Professor Moriarty's work "The Dynamics of An Asteroid" involved the willful destruction of an ancient civilized planet. He was also a member of the all-male literary banqueting club, the Trap Door Spiders, which served as the basis of his fictional group of mystery solvers the Black Widowers.[34] (He later used his essay on Moriarty's work as the basis for a Black Widowers story, "The Ultimate Crime," which appeared in More Tales of the Black Widowers.[35][36])
In 1984, the American Humanist Association (AHA) named him the Humanist of the Year. He was one of the signers of the Humanist Manifesto.[37] From 1985 until his death in 1992, he served as president of the AHA, an honorary appointment. His successor was his friend and fellow writer Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. He was also a close friend of Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry, and earned a screen credit on Star Trek: The Motion Picture for advice he gave during production.
Asimov was a founding member of the Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal, now known as the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry[38][39][40] and is listed in its Pantheon of Skeptics.[41]
Asimov suffered a heart attack in 1977, and had triple bypass surgery in December 1983. When he died in New York City on April 6, 1992, his brother Stanley reported heart and kidney failure as the cause of death.[42] He was survived by his second wife, Janet, and his children from his first marriage. Ten years after his death, Janet Asimov's edition of Asimov's autobiography, It's Been a Good Life, revealed that the myocardial and renal complications were the result of an infection by HIV, which he had contracted from a blood transfusion received during his bypass operation.[43] Janet Asimov wrote in the epilogue of It's Been a Good Life that Asimov's doctors advised him against going public, warning that the anti-AIDS prejudice would likely extend to his family members. Asimov's family considered disclosing his condition just after his death, but the controversy that erupted the same year when Arthur Ashe announced his own HIV infection (also contracted from a blood transfusion during heart surgery) convinced them otherwise. Ten years later, after most of Asimov's doctors had died, Janet and Robyn Asimov agreed that the HIV story should be made public.[44]
Asimov's career can be divided into several periods. His early career, dominated by science fiction, began with short stories in 1939 and novels in 1950. This lasted until about 1958, all but ending after publication of The Naked Sun. He began publishing nonfiction in 1952, co-authoring a college-level textbook called Biochemistry and Human Metabolism. Following the brief orbit of the first man-made satellite Sputnik I by the USSR in 1957, his production of nonfiction, particularly popular science books, greatly increased, with a consequent drop in his science fiction output. Over the next quarter century, he wrote only four science fiction novels. Starting in 1982, the second half of his science fiction career began with the publication of Foundation's Edge. From then until his death, Asimov published several more sequels and prequels to his existing novels, tying them together in a way he had not originally anticipated, making a unified series. There are, however, many inconsistencies in this unification, especially in his earlier stories.[45]
Asimov believed his most enduring contributions would be his "Three Laws of Robotics" and the Foundation series (see Yours, Isaac Asimov, p. 329). Furthermore, the Oxford English Dictionary credits his science fiction for introducing the words 'positronic' (an entirely fictional technology), 'psychohistory' (which is also used for a different study on historical motivations) and 'robotics' into the English language. Asimov coined the term 'robotics' without suspecting that it might be an original word; at the time, he believed it was simply the natural analogue of words such as mechanics and hydraulics, but for robots. Unlike his word 'psychohistory', the word 'robotics' continues in mainstream technical use with Asimov's original definition. Star Trek: The Next Generation featured androids with "positronic brains", giving Asimov credit for conceiving this fictional technology.
Asimov first began reading the science fiction pulp magazines sold in his family's confectionery store in 1929. In the mid-1930s he came into contact with science fiction fandom, particularly the circle that became the Futurians. He began writing his first science fiction story, "Cosmic Corkscrew", in 1937; finished it on June 19, 1938, inspired by a visit to the offices of Astounding Science Fiction; and personally submitted it to Astounding editor John W. Campbell two days later. Campbell rejected "Cosmic Corkscrew", but encouraged Asimov to keep trying, and Asimov did. In October, he sold the third story he finished, "Marooned Off Vesta", to Amazing Stories, then a monthly edited by Raymond A. Palmer, and it appeared in the March 1939 issue.[46] Two more of his stories appeared that year, "The Weapon Too Dreadful to Use" in the May Amazing and "Trends" in the July Astounding.[46] For 1940, ISFDB catalogs seven stories in four different pulp magazines, including one in Astounding.[46]
In September 1941, Astounding published the 32nd story Asimov wrote, "Nightfall", which has been described as one of "the most famous science-fiction stories of all time".[47] In 1968 the Science Fiction Writers of America voted "Nightfall" the best science fiction short story ever written.[42] In his short story collection Nightfall and Other Stories, he wrote, "The writing of 'Nightfall' was a watershed in my professional career ... I was suddenly taken seriously and the world of science fiction became aware that I existed. As the years passed, in fact, it became evident that I had written a 'classic'."
"Nightfall" is an archetypal example of social science fiction, a term coined by Asimov to describe a new trend in the 1940s, led by authors including Asimov and Heinlein, away from gadgets and space opera and toward speculation about the human condition.
By 1941, Asimov had begun selling regularly to Astounding, which was then the field's leading magazine. From 1943 to 1949, all of his published science fiction appeared in Astounding.
In 1942, he published the first of his Foundation stories—later collected in the Foundation trilogy: Foundation (1951), Foundation and Empire (1952), and Second Foundation (1953)—which recount the collapse and rebirth of a vast interstellar empire in a universe of the future. Taken together, they are his most famous work of science fiction, along with the Robot series. Many years later, due to pressure by fans on Asimov to write another,[26] he continued the series with Foundation's Edge (1982) and Foundation and Earth (1986), and then went back to before the original trilogy with Prelude to Foundation (1988) and Forward the Foundation (1992). The series features his fictional science of psychohistory, in which the future course of the history of large populations can be predicted.
His positronic robot stories—many of which were collected in I, Robot (1950)—were begun at about the same time. They promulgated a set of rules of ethics for robots (see Three Laws of Robotics) and intelligent machines that greatly influenced other writers and thinkers in their treatment of the subject. Asimov notes in one of his biographical pieces that he was largely inspired by the almost relentless tendency of robots up to that time to fall consistently into a Frankenstein plot in which they destroyed their creators.
The robot series has led to film adaptations. With Asimov's collaboration, in about 1977 Harlan Ellison wrote a screenplay of I, Robot that Asimov hoped would lead to "the first really adult, complex, worthwhile science fiction film ever made". The screenplay has never been filmed and was eventually published in book form in 1994. The 2004 movie I, Robot, starring Will Smith, was based on an unrelated script by Jeff Vintar titled Hardwired, with Asimov's ideas incorporated later after the rights to Asimov's title were acquired.[48] (Ironically, the title was not original to Asimov but had previously been used for a story by Eando Binder.) Also, one of Asimov's robot short stories, "The Bicentennial Man", was expanded into a novel The Positronic Man by Asimov and Robert Silverberg, and this was adapted into the 1999 movie Bicentennial Man, starring Robin Williams.
Besides movies, his Foundation and Robot stories have inspired other derivative works of science fiction literature, many by well-known and established authors such as Roger MacBride Allen, Greg Bear, Gregory Benford, and David Brin. These appear to have been done with the blessing, and often at the request of, Asimov's widow, Janet Asimov.
In 1948, he also wrote a spoof chemistry article, "The Endochronic Properties of Resublimated Thiotimoline". At the time, Asimov was preparing his own doctoral dissertation, and for the oral examination to follow that. Fearing a prejudicial reaction from his graduate school evaluation board at Columbia University, Asimov asked his editor that it be released under a pseudonym, yet it appeared under his own name. During his oral examination shortly thereafter, Asimov grew concerned at the scrutiny he received. At the end of the examination, one evaluator turned to him, smiling, and said, "What can you tell us, Mr. Asimov, about the thermodynamic properties of the compound known as thiotimoline". The hysterically laughing Asimov was led out of the room then. After a five-minute or so wait, he was summoned back into the Examination Room and congratulated as "Dr. Asimov".[49]
In 1949, the book publisher Doubleday's science fiction editor Walter I. Bradbury accepted Asimov's unpublished novelette "Grow Old Along With Me" (40,000 words) for publication, but requested that it be extended to a full novel of 70,000 words. The book appeared under the Doubleday imprint in January 1950 with the title of Pebble in the Sky. The Doubleday company went on to publish five more original science fiction novels by Asimov in the 1950s, along with the six juvenile Lucky Starr novels, the latter under the pseudonym of "Paul French". Doubleday also published collections of Asimov's short stories, beginning with The Martian Way and Other Stories in 1955. The early 1950s also saw the Gnome Press company publishing one collection of Asimov's positronic robot stories as I, Robot and his Foundation stories and novelettes as the three books of the Foundation trilogy. More positronic robot stories were republished in book form as The Rest of the Robots.
When new science fiction magazines, notably Galaxy magazine and The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction, appeared in the 1950s, Asimov began publishing short stories in them as well. He would later refer to the 1950s as his "golden decade". A number of these stories are included in his Best of anthology, including "The Last Question" (1956), on the ability of humankind to cope with and potentially reverse the process of entropy. It was his personal favorite and considered by many to be equal to "Nightfall". Asimov wrote of it in 1973:
Why is it my favorite? For one thing I got the idea all at once and didn't have to fiddle with it; and I wrote it in white-heat and scarcely had to change a word. This sort of thing endears any story to any writer.
Then, too, it has had the strangest effect on my readers. Frequently someone writes to ask me if I can give them the name of a story, which they 'think' I may have written, and tell them where to find it. They don't remember the title but when they describe the story it is invariably "The Last Question". This has reached the point where I recently received a long-distance phone call from a desperate man who began, 'Dr. Asimov, there's a story I think you wrote, whose title I can't remember—' at which point I interrupted to tell him it was "The Last Question" and when I described the plot it proved to be indeed the story he was after. I left him convinced I could read minds at a distance of a thousand miles.
In December 1974, former Beatle Paul McCartney approached Asimov and asked him if he could write the screenplay for a science-fiction movie musical. McCartney had a vague idea for the plot and a small scrap of dialogue; he wished to make a film about a rock band whose members discover they are being impersonated by a group of extraterrestrials. The band and their impostors would likely be played by McCartney's group Wings, then at the height of their career. Intrigued by the idea, although he was not generally a fan of rock music, Asimov quickly produced a "treatment" or brief outline of the story. He adhered to McCartney's overall idea, producing a story he felt to be moving and dramatic. However, he did not make use of McCartney's brief scrap of dialogue, and probably as a consequence, McCartney rejected the story. The treatment now exists only in the Boston University archives.
Beginning in 1977, Asimov lent his name to Isaac Asimov's Science Fiction Magazine (now Asimov's Science Fiction) and penned an editorial for each issue. There was also a short-lived Asimov's SF Adventure Magazine and a companion Asimov's Science Fiction Anthology reprint series, published as magazines (in the same manner as the stablemates Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine's and Alfred Hitchcock's Mystery Magazine's "anthologies").
During the late 1950s and 1960s, Asimov shifted gears somewhat, and substantially decreased his fiction output (he published only four adult novels between 1957's The Naked Sun and 1982's Foundation's Edge, two of which were mysteries). At the same time, he greatly increased his nonfiction production, writing mostly on science topics; the launch of Sputnik in 1957 engendered public concern over a "science gap", which Asimov's publishers were eager to fill with as much material as he could write.
Meanwhile, the monthly Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction invited him to continue his regular nonfiction column, begun in the now-folded bimonthly companion magazine Venture Science Fiction Magazine, ostensibly dedicated to popular science, but with Asimov having complete editorial freedom. The first of the F&SF columns appeared in November 1958, and they followed uninterrupted thereafter, with 399 entries, until Asimov's terminal illness. These columns, periodically collected into books by his principal publisher, Doubleday, helped make Asimov's reputation as a "Great Explainer" of science, and were referred to by him as his only pop-science writing in which he never had to assume complete ignorance of the subjects at hand on the part of his readers. The popularity of his first wide-ranging reference work, The Intelligent Man's Guide to Science, which was nominated for a National Book Award, also allowed him to give up most of his academic responsibilities and become essentially a full-time freelance writer.
Asimov wrote several essays on the social contentions of his time, including "Thinking About Thinking" and "Science: Knock Plastic" (1967).
The great variety of information covered in Asimov's writings once prompted Kurt Vonnegut to ask, "How does it feel to know everything?" Asimov replied that he only knew how it felt to have the 'reputation' of omniscience—"Uneasy".[50] In the introduction to his story collection Slow Learner, Thomas Pynchon admitted that he relied upon Asimov's science popularizations (and the Oxford English Dictionary) to provide his knowledge of entropy.
Asimov also contributed science article entries to several encyclopaedias, including Groliers, The Encyclopaedia Americana, The Encyclopædia Britannica, and the World Book Encyclopaedia Yearbook.
The feelings of friendship and respect between Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke were demonstrated by the so-called "Clarke-Asimov Treaty of Park Avenue", put together as they shared a cab ride in New York. This stated that Asimov was required to insist that Clarke was the best science fiction writer in the world (reserving second-best for himself), while Clarke was required to insist that Asimov was the best science writer in the world (reserving second-best for himself).[51] Thus, the dedication in Clarke's book Report on Planet Three (1972) reads: "In accordance with the terms of the Clarke-Asimov treaty, the second-best science writer dedicates this book to the second-best science-fiction writer."
Asimov coined the term "robotics" in his 1941 story "Liar!",[52] though he later remarked that he believed then that he was merely using an existing word, as he stated in Gold ("The Robot Chronicles"), though while acknowledging the Oxford Dictionary reference, he incorrectly states that the word was first printed about one-third of the way down the first column of page 100, Astounding Science Fiction, March 1942 printing of his short story "Runaround".[53][54]
Asimov also coined the term "spome" in a paper entitled, "There's No Place Like Spome" in Atmosphere in Space Cabins and Closed Environments,[55] originally presented as a paper to the American Chemical Society on September 13, 1965. It refers to any system closed with respect to matter and open with respect to energy capable of sustaining human life indefinitely.
Asimov coined the term "psychohistory" in his Foundation stories to name a fictional branch of science which combines history, sociology, and mathematical statistics to make general predictions about the future behavior of very large groups of people, such as the Galactic Empire. It was first introduced in the five short stories (1942–1944) which would later be collected as the 1951 novel Foundation. Somewhat later, the term "psychohistory" was applied by others to research of the effects of psychology on history.
In addition to his interest in science, Asimov was also greatly interested in history. Starting in the 1960s, he wrote 14 popular history books, most notably The Greeks: A Great Adventure (1965), The Roman Republic (1966), The Roman Empire (1967), The Egyptians (1967) and The Near East: 10,000 Years of History (1968).
He published Asimov's Guide to the Bible in two volumes—covering the Old Testament in 1967 and the New Testament in 1969— and then combined them into one 1,300-page volume in 1981. Complete with maps and tables, the guide goes through the books of the Bible in order, explaining the history of each one and the political influences that affected it, as well as biographical information about the important characters. His interest in literature manifested itself in several annotations of literary works, including Asimov's Guide to Shakespeare (1970), Asimov's Annotated Paradise Lost (1974), and The Annotated Gulliver's Travels (1980).
Asimov was also a noted mystery author and a frequent contributor to Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine. He began by writing science fiction mysteries such as his Wendell Urth stories, but soon moved on to writing "pure" mysteries. He only published two full-length mystery novels, but wrote 66 stories about the Black Widowers, a group of men who met monthly for dinner, conversation, and a puzzle. He got the idea for the Widowers from his own association in a stag group called the Trap Door Spiders and all of the main characters (with the exception of the waiter, Henry, whom he admitted resembled Wodehouse's Jeeves) were modeled after his closest friends.[56]
Toward the end of his life, Asimov published a series of collections of limericks, mostly written by himself, starting with Lecherous Limericks, which appeared in 1975. Limericks: Too Gross, whose title displays Asimov's love of puns, contains 144 limericks by Asimov and an equal number by John Ciardi. He even created a slim volume of Sherlockian limericks (and embarrassed one fan by autographing her copy with an impromptu limerick that rhymed "Nancy" with "romancy"). Asimov featured Yiddish humor in Azazel, The Two Centimeter Demon. The two main characters, both Jewish, talk over dinner, or lunch, or breakfast, about anecdotes of "George" and his friend Azazel. Asimov's Treasury of Humor is both a working joke book and a treatise propounding his views on humor theory. According to Asimov, the most essential element of humor is an abrupt change in point of view, one that suddenly shifts focus from the important to the trivial, or from the sublime to the ridiculous.
Particularly in his later years, Asimov to some extent cultivated an image of himself as an amiable lecher. In 1971, as a response to the popularity of sexual guidebooks such as The Sensuous Woman (by "J") and The Sensuous Man (by "M"), Asimov published The Sensuous Dirty Old Man under the byline "Dr. 'A'" (although his full name was printed on the paperback edition, first published 1972).
Asimov published two volumes of autobiography: In Memory Yet Green (1979) and In Joy Still Felt (1980). A third autobiography, I. Asimov: A Memoir, was published in April 1994. The epilogue was written by his widow Janet Asimov a decade after his death. It's Been a Good Life (2002), edited by Janet, is a condensed version of his three autobiographies. He also published three volumes of retrospectives of his writing, Opus 100 (1969), Opus 200 (1979), and Opus 300 (1984).
In 1987, the Asimovs co-wrote How to Enjoy Writing: A Book of Aid and Comfort. In it they offer advice on how to maintain a positive attitude and stay productive when dealing with discouragement, distractions, rejection, and thick-headed editors. The book includes many quotations, essays, anecdotes, and husband-wife dialogues about the ups and downs of being an author.
Asimov and Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry developed a unique relationship during Star Trek's initial launch in the late 1960s. Asimov wrote a critical essay on Star Trek's scientific accuracy for TV Guide magazine. Roddenberry retorted respectfully with a personal letter explaining the limitations of accuracy when writing a weekly series. Asimov corrected himself with a follow-up essay to TV Guide claiming despite its inaccuracies, that Star Trek was a fresh and intellectually challenging science fiction television show. The two remained friends to the point where Asimov even served as an advisor on a number of Star Trek projects.
In 1973, Asimov published a proposal for calendar reform, called the World Season Calendar. It divides the year into four seasons (named A–D) of 13 weeks (91 days) each. This allows days to be named, e.g., "D-73" instead of December 1 (due to December 1 being the 73rd day of the 4th quarter). An extra 'year day' is added for a total of 365 days.[57]
Asimov won more than a dozen annual awards for particular works of science fiction and a half dozen lifetime awards.[58] He also received 14 honorary doctorate degrees from universities.[citation needed]
1963 –  special Hugo Award for "adding science to science fiction" for essays published in the Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction
1964 –  The Science Fiction Writers of America voted "Nightfall" (1941) the all-time best science fiction short story[42]
1965 –  James T. Grady Award of the American Chemical Society (now called the James T. Grady-James H. Stack Award for Interpreting Chemistry)
1986 –  The Science Fiction Writers of America named him its 8th SFWA Grand Master (presented 1987).[63]
1996 –  A 1946 Retro-Hugo for Best Novel of 1945 was given at the 1996 WorldCon to "The Mule", the 7th Foundation story, published in Astounding Science Fiction[58]
1997 –  The Science Fiction and Fantasy Hall of Fame inducted Asimov in its second class of two deceased and two living persons, along with H. G. Wells and following editors Hugo Gernsback and John W. Campbell.[64]
2010 –  In the US Congress bill about the designation of the National Robotics Week as an annual event, a tribute to Isaac Asimov is as follows:
"Whereas the second week in April each year is designated as `National Robotics Week', recognizing the accomplishments of Isaac Asimov, who immigrated to America, taught science, wrote science books for children and adults, first used the term robotics, developed the Three Laws of Robotics, and died in April, 1992: Now, therefore, be it resolved..."[65]
One of the most common impressions of Asimov's fiction work is that his writing style is extremely unornamented. In 1980, science fiction scholar James Gunn, professor emeritus of English at the University of Kansas wrote of I, Robot:[66]
Except for two stories—"Liar!" and "Evidence"—they are not stories in which character plays a significant part. Virtually all plot develops in conversation with little if any action. Nor is there a great deal of local color or description of any kind. The dialogue is, at best, functional and the style is, at best, transparent ... The robot stories and, as a matter of fact, almost all Asimov fiction—play themselves on a relatively bare stage.
Gunn observes places where Asimov's style rises to the demands of the situation; he cites the climax of "Liar!" as an example. Sharply drawn characters occur at key junctures of his storylines: Susan Calvin in "Liar!" and "Evidence", Arkady Darell in Second Foundation, Elijah Baley in The Caves of Steel, and Hari Seldon in the Foundation prequels. Asimov addresses this criticism at the beginning of his book Nemesis:[67]
I made up my mind long ago to follow one cardinal rule in all my writing—to be 'clear'. I have given up all thought of writing poetically or symbolically or experimentally, or in any of the other modes that might (if I were good enough) get me a Pulitzer prize. I would write merely clearly and in this way establish a warm relationship between myself and my readers, and the professional critics—Well, they can do whatever they wish.
Other than books by Gunn and Patrouch, a relative dearth of "literary" criticism exists on Asimov (particularly when compared to the sheer volume of his output). Cowart and Wymer's Dictionary of Literary Biography (1981) gives a possible reason:
His words do not easily lend themselves to traditional literary criticism because he has the habit of centering his fiction on plot and clearly stating to his reader, in rather direct terms, what is happening in his stories and why it is happening. In fact, most of the dialogue in an Asimov story, and particularly in the Foundation trilogy, is devoted to such exposition. Stories that clearly state what they mean in unambiguous language are the most difficult for a scholar to deal with because there is little to be interpreted.
In fairness, Gunn's and Patrouch's respective studies of Asimov both take the stand that a clear, direct prose style is still a style. Gunn's 1982 book goes into considerable depth commenting upon each of Asimov's novels published to that date. He does not praise all of Asimov's fiction (nor does Patrouch), but he does call some passages in The Caves of Steel "reminiscent of Proust". When discussing how that novel depicts night falling over futuristic New York City, Gunn says that Asimov's prose "need not be ashamed anywhere in literary society".
Although he prided himself on his unornamented prose style (for which he credited Clifford D. Simak as an early influence), Asimov also enjoyed giving his longer stories complicated narrative structures, often by arranging chapters in nonchronological ways. Some readers have been put off by this, complaining that the nonlinearity is not worth the trouble and adversely affects the clarity of the story. For example, the first third of The Gods Themselves begins with Chapter 6, then backtracks to fill in earlier material.[68] (John Campbell advised Asimov to begin his stories as late in the plot as possible. This advice helped Asimov create "Reason", one of the early Robot stories. See In Memory Yet Green for details of that time period.) Patrouch found that the interwoven and nested flashbacks of The Currents of Space did serious harm to that novel, to such an extent that only a "dyed-in-the-kyrt[69] Asimov fan" could enjoy it. Asimov's tendency to contort his timelines is perhaps most apparent in his later novel Nemesis, in which one group of characters lives in the "present" and another group starts in the "past", beginning 15 years earlier and gradually moving toward the time period of the first group.
Asimov was also criticized for the general absence of sexuality and of extraterrestrial life in his science fiction.
Asimov once explained that his reluctance to write about aliens came from an incident early in his career when Astounding's editor John Campbell rejected one of his science fiction stories because the alien characters were portrayed as superior to the humans. The nature of the rejection led him to believe that Campbell may have based his bias towards humans in stories on a real-world racial bias. Unwilling to write only weak alien races, and concerned that a confrontation would jeopardize his and Campbell's friendship, he decided he would not write about aliens at all.[25] Nevertheless, in response to these criticisms, he wrote The Gods Themselves, which contains aliens and alien sex. The book won the Nebula Award for Best Novel in 1972,[60] and the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 1973.[61] Asimov said that of all his writings, he was most proud of the middle section of The Gods Themselves, the part that deals with those themes.[70]
In the Hugo Award-winning novella "Gold", Asimov describes an author clearly based on himself who has one of his books (The Gods Themselves) adapted into a "compu-drama", essentially photo-realistic computer animation. The director criticizes the fictionalized Asimov ("Gregory Laborian") for having an extremely nonvisual style, making it difficult to adapt his work, and the author explains that he relies on ideas and dialogue rather than description to get his points across.
Others have criticized him for a lack of strong female characters in his early work. In his autobiographical writings, such as Gold ("Women and Science Fiction"), he acknowledges this and responds by pointing to inexperience. His later novels, written with more female characters but in essentially the same prose style as his early SF stories, brought this matter to a wider audience. For example, the August 25, 1985 Washington Post's "Book World" section reports of Robots and Empire as follows:[citation needed]
In 1940, Asimov's humans were stripped-down masculine portraits of Americans from 1940, and they still are. His robots were tin cans with speedlines like an old Studebaker, and still are; the Robot tales depended on an increasingly unworkable distinction between movable and unmovable artificial intelligences, and still do. In the Asimov universe, because it was conceived a long time ago, and because its author abhors confusion, there are no computers whose impact is worth noting, no social complexities, no genetic engineering, aliens, arcologies, multiverses, clones, sin or sex; his heroes (in this case R. Daneel Olivaw, whom we first met as the robot protagonist of The Caves of Steel and its sequels), feel no pressure of information, raw or cooked, as the simplest of us do today; they suffer no deformation from the winds of the Asimov future, because it is so deeply and strikingly orderly.
The Naked Sun (1957) deals with social issues as a core part of its central setting and motivation, depicts genetic engineering in the guise of eugenics as a fundamental part of that society, and presents the reader with inverted arcologies where a single person is the focal point of the artificial environment, as well as a hero who hails from a "normal" arcology on Earth. Meanwhile, totally artificial birth, although not specifically cloning, is the aim of the leaders of the society, sexual want is the major driving force of the main female character (albeit veiled in 1950s sensibilities), and the entire story is used to make the point that too much order is ultimately a stagnant dead end to be avoided.[citation needed]
Isaac Asimov was an atheist, a humanist, and a rationalist.[71] He did not oppose religious conviction in others, but he frequently railed against superstitious and pseudoscientific beliefs that tried to pass themselves off as genuine science. During his childhood, his father and mother observed Orthodox Jewish traditions, though not as stringently as they had in Petrovichi; they did not, however, force their beliefs upon young Isaac. Thus, he grew up without strong religious influences, coming to believe that the Torah represented Hebrew mythology in the same way that the Iliad recorded Greek mythology. As his books Treasury of Humor and Asimov Laughs Again record, Asimov was willing to tell jokes involving God, Satan, the Garden of Eden, Jerusalem, and other religious topics, expressing the viewpoint that a good joke can do more to provoke thought than hours of philosophical discussion.
For a brief while, his father worked in the local synagogue to enjoy the familiar surroundings and, as Isaac put it, "shine as a learned scholar"[72] versed in the sacred writings. This scholarship was a seed for his later authorship and publication of Asimov's Guide to the Bible, an analysis of the historic foundations for both the Old and New Testaments. For many years, Asimov called himself an atheist; however, he considered the term somewhat inadequate, as it described what he did not believe rather than what he did. Eventually, he described himself as a "humanist" and considered that term more practical. He did, however, continue to identify himself as a nonobservant Jew[73] as stated in his introduction to Jack Dann's anthology of Jewish science fiction, Wandering Stars: "I attend no services and follow no ritual and have never undergone that curious puberty rite, the bar mitzvah. It doesn't matter. I am Jewish."
When asked in an interview in 1982 if he was an atheist, Asimov replied, "I am an atheist, out and out. It took me a long time to say it. I've been an atheist for years and years, but somehow I felt it was intellectually unrespectable to say one was an atheist, because it assumed knowledge that one didn't have. Somehow it was better to say one was a humanist or an agnostic. I finally decided that I'm a creature of emotion as well as of reason. Emotionally I am an atheist. I don't have the evidence to prove that God doesn't exist, but I so strongly suspect he doesn't that I don't want to waste my time."[74]
In his last volume of autobiography, Asimov wrote, "If I were not an atheist, I would believe in a God who would choose to save people on the basis of the totality of their lives and not the pattern of their words. I think he would prefer an honest and righteous atheist to a TV preacher whose every word is God, God, God, and whose every deed is foul, foul, foul."[75] The same memoir states his belief that Hell is "the drooling dream of a sadist" crudely affixed to an all-merciful God; if even human governments were willing to curtail cruel and unusual punishments, wondered Asimov, why would punishment in the afterlife not be restricted to a limited term? Asimov rejected the idea that a human belief or action could merit infinite punishment. If an afterlife existed, he claimed, the longest and most severe punishment would be reserved for those who "slandered God by inventing Hell".[76]
Asimov became a staunch supporter of the Democratic Party during the New Deal, and thereafter remained a political liberal. He was a vocal opponent of the Vietnam War in the 1960s and in a television interview during the early 1970s he publicly endorsed George McGovern. He was unhappy about what he considered an "irrationalist" viewpoint taken by many radical political activists from the late 1960s and onwards. In his second volume of autobiography, In Joy Still Felt, Asimov recalled meeting the counterculture figure Abbie Hoffman; Asimov's impression was that the 1960s' counterculture heroes had ridden an emotional wave which, in the end, left them stranded in a "no-man's land of the spirit" from which he wondered if they would ever return.
He vehemently opposed Richard Nixon, considering him "a crook and a liar". He followed the unfolding events of Watergate day-to-day, and was pleased when the president was forced to resign. He was dismayed over the pardon extended to Nixon by his successor: "I was not impressed by the argument that it has spared the nation an ordeal. To my way of thinking, the ordeal was necessary to make certain it would never happen again."[77]
Though Jewish by birth, Asimov appeared to hold an equivocal attitude towards Israel. In his first autobiography, he indicates his support for the safety of Israel, though remaining careful to insist he is by no means a Zionist."[78] However, in his third autobiography, he clarifies his position by stating his opposition to the creation of a Jewish state, on the grounds that he is opposed to the concept of nation states in general, and supports the notion of a single humanity. He especially worries about the safety of Israel given that it has been created among hostile neighbours, and that Jews have merely created for themselves another "Jewish ghetto".[79]
Asimov considered himself a feminist even before Women's Liberation became a widespread movement; he joked that he wished women to be free "because I hate it when they charge".[80] More seriously, he argued that the issue of women's rights was closely connected to that of population control. Furthermore, he believed that homosexuality must be considered a "moral right" on population grounds, as must all consenting adult sexual activity that does not lead to reproduction.[81] He issued many appeals for population control, reflecting a perspective articulated by people from Thomas Malthus through Paul R. Ehrlich.[82]
In a 1988 interview by Bill Moyers, Asimov proposed computer-aided learning, where people would use computers to find information on subjects in which they were interested.[83] He thought this would make learning more interesting, since people would have the freedom to choose what to learn, and would help spread knowledge around the world. Also, the one-to-one model would let students learn at their own pace.
Asimov's defense of civil applications of nuclear power even after the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant incident damaged his relations with some of his fellow liberals. In a letter reprinted in Yours, Isaac Asimov,[81] he states that although he would prefer living in "no danger whatsoever" than near a nuclear reactor, he would still prefer a home near a nuclear power plant than in a slum on Love Canal or near "a Union Carbide plant producing methyl isocyanate" (referring to the Bhopal disaster).
In the closing years of his life, Asimov blamed the deterioration of the quality of life that he perceived in New York City on the shrinking tax base caused by the middle-class flight to the suburbs. His last nonfiction book, Our Angry Earth (1991, co-written with his long-time friend, science fiction author Frederik Pohl), deals with elements of the environmental crisis such as global warming and the destruction of the ozone layer.
Asimov stated, both in his autobiography and in several essays, that he enjoyed the writings of J. R. R. Tolkien. He paid tribute to The Lord of the Rings in a "Black Widowers" story. (In his letter to Charlotte and Denis Plimmer, who had previously interviewed him for Daily Telegraph Magazine, Tolkien said that he enjoyed the science fiction of Isaac Asimov.)
He admired a number of his contemporaries, in particular fellow science-fiction author and science writer Arthur C. Clarke, with whom he entered into the lighthearted "Treaty of Park Avenue," which stipulated that Clarke was free to refer to himself as the best science fiction writer in the world (Asimov being second-best), provided he admitted that Asimov was the best science writer in the world (Clarke being second-best). He freely acknowledged a number of his fellow writers as superior to himself in talent, saying of Harlan Ellison, "He is (in my opinion) one of the best writers in the world, far more skilled at the art than I am."
Paul Krugman, a Nobel laureate in economics, has stated Asimov's concept of psychohistory inspired him to become an economist.[84]
It has been pointed out that most science fiction writers since the 1950s have been affected by Asimov, either modeling their style on his or deliberately avoiding anything like his style.[85][unreliable source?]
To Tell The Truth, CBS, approximately 1968, playing the "real" Isaac Asimov. Only one panel member guessed correctly, on the grounds that Asimov wore glasses and somebody writing so many books would have to wear glasses.
"David Frost" interview program, August 1969. Frost asked Asimov if he had ever tried to find God and, after some initial evasion, Asimov answered, "God is much more intelligent than I am—let him try to find me."[87]
Including all titles, charts, and edited collections, there are currently 515 items in Asimov's bibliography—not counting his individual short stories, individual essays, and criticism. For his 100th, 200th, and 300th books (based on his personal count), Asimov published Opus 100 (1969), Opus 200 (1979), and Opus 300 (1984), celebrating his writing.
Asimov's books span all major categories of the Dewey Decimal Classification except for category 100, philosophy and psychology.[4] Although Asimov did write several essays about psychology,[88] and forewords for the books The Humanist Way (1988) and In Pursuit of Truth (1982),[71] which were classified in the 100s category, none of his own books was classified in that category.
According to UNESCO's Index Translationum database, Asimov is the world's 17th most-translated author, just behind Arthur Conan Doyle and ahead of Pope John Paul II.[89]
An online exhibit in West Virginia University Libraries' virtually complete Asimov Collection displays features, visuals, and descriptions of some of his over 600 books, games, audio recordings, videos, and wall charts. Many first, rare, and autographed editions are in the Libraries' Rare Book Room. Book jackets and autographs are presented online along with descriptions and images of children's books, science fiction art, multimedia, and other materials in the collection.[90]
For a listing of Asimov's books in chronological order within his future history, see the Foundation series list of books.
The Robot series was originally separate from the Foundation series. The Galactic Empire novels were published as independent stories, set earlier in the same future as Foundation. Later in life, Asimov synthesized the Robot series into a single coherent "history" that appeared in the extension of the Foundation series.
Forward the Foundation. 1993. ISBN 0-553-40488-1.  (occurs after Prelude to Foundation and before Foundation)
Foundation and Empire. 1952. ISBN 0-553-29337-0. , Published with the title 'The Man Who Upset the Universe' as a 35c Ace paperback, D-125, in about 1952
Fantastic Voyage II: Destination Brain (1987) (not a sequel to Fantastic Voyage, but a similar, independent story)
The Ugly Little Boy (1992), with Robert Silverberg (aka: Child of Time) (short story written by Asimov, novelized by Silverberg)
Collections of Asimov's essays – originally published as monthly columns in the Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction
Asimov On Astronomy (updated version of essays in previous collections) (1974) ISBN 978-0-517-27924-3
Asimov On Science: A 30 Year Retrospective 1959-1989 (features the first essay in the introduction) (1989)
The Human Body: Its Structure and Operation (1963) ISBN 978-0-451-02430-5, ISBN 978-0-451-62707-0 (revised)
The title varied with each of the four editions, the last being Asimov's New Guide to Science (1984) ISBN 978-0-14-017213-3
Is Anyone There? (Science Essay Collection) (1967), ISBN 0-385-08401-3 – where he used the term Spome
Asimov's Chronology of Science and Discovery (1989), second edition adds content thru 1993, ISBN 978-0-06-270113-8
It's Been a Good Life, (2002), condensation of Asimov's three volume biography by his widow, Janet Jeppson Asimov
Asimov's Biographical Encyclopedia of Science and Technology (1st Revised Edition) (1972), ISBN 0-385-17771-2
The Roving Mind (1983) (collection of essays). New edition published by Prometheus Books, 1997, ISBN 1-57392-181-5
Asimov appears as a major character in Paul Malmont's historical novel The Astounding, the Amazing, and the Unknown (2011).
Goldman, Stephen H., "Isaac Asimov", in Dictionary of Literary Biography, Vol. 8, Cowart and Wymer eds., (Gale Research, 1981), pp. 15–29.
Patrouch, Joseph F. (1977). The Science Fiction of Isaac Asimov. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday. ISBN 0-385-08696-2. 
White, Michael (2005). Isaac Asimov: A Life of the Grand Master of Science Fiction. Carroll & Graf Publishers. ISBN 0-7867-1518-9. 
Isaac Asimov Home Page, a vast repository of information about Asimov, maintained by Asimov enthusiast Edward Seiler
15-Book Reading Order as Suggested by Asimov From "Author's Note" of "Prelude to Foundation" Doubleday 1988 hardcover edition
The short film Interview with Isaac Asimov (1975) is available for free download at the Internet Archive [more]
Исаак Озимов (Russian); Айзек Азимов (Russian); French, Paul (pseudonym); Dale, George E. (pseudonym)
Categories: 1919 births1992 deathsPeople from Shumyachsky DistrictRussian JewsSoviet emigrants to the United StatesAmerican people of Russian-Jewish descentAmerican science fiction writersAmerican science writersAlternate history writersAmerican atheistsAmerican biochemistsAmerican essayistsAmerican humoristsJewish American writersAmerican memoiristsAmerican mystery writersAmerican non-fiction environmental writersAmerican non-fiction writersAmerican writers of Russian descentAmerican skepticsBoston University facultyColumbia University alumniColumbia University School of General Studies alumniColumbia School of Engineering and Applied Science alumniFellows of the American Academy of Arts and SciencesFuturiansHistorians of astronomyHistorians of scienceCritics of religionsHugo Award winning writersHumor researchersIsaac AsimovJewish atheistsNew York DemocratsNebula Award winnersPeople from BrooklynScience fiction fansScience Fiction Hall of Fame inducteesSFWA Grand MastersWorld federalistsWorldcon Guests of HonorFellows of the Committee for Skeptical InquiryJewish American novelistsUnited States Army soldiersAmerican military personnel of World War IIYiddish-speaking peopleMensans20th-century American novelistsAmerican male novelistsJewish skepticsCardiovascular disease deaths in New YorkDeaths from surgical complicationsAIDS-related deaths in New YorkPeople with HIV/AIDSAmerican humanistsHidden categories: Use mdy dates from May 2011Articles containing Russian-language textArticles containing Belarusian-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2013Articles with unsourced statements from March 2011All articles lacking reliable referencesArticles lacking reliable references from November 2010Articles to be expanded from April 2011All articles to be expandedWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Isaac Asimov was born Isaak Judah Ozimov, on January 2, 1920, in Petrovichi shtetl, near Smolensk, Russia. He was the oldest of three children. His father, named Judah Ozimov, and his mother, named Anna Rachel Ozimov (nee Berman), were Orthodox Jews. Ozimov family were millers (the name Ozimov comes from the eponymous sort of wheat in Russian). In 1923 Isaac with his parents immigrated to the USA and settled in Brooklyn, New York. There his parents temporarily changed his birthday to September 7, 1919, in order to sent him to school a year earlier. Their family name was changed from Ozimov to Asimov.Asimov was an avid reader before the age of 5. He spoke Yiddish and English at home with his parents and spoke only a few word in Russian. He began his formal education in 1925 in the New York Public School system. From 1930-1932 he was placed in the rapid advance course. In 1935 he graduated from high school, in 1939 received a B.S. and in 1941 he earned his M. Sc. in Chemistry from Columbia University. From 1942-1945 Asimov was a chemist at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard's Naval Air experimental station. After the war ended, he was drafted into the U.S. Army and was transfered to the island of Oahu and was destined to participate in the atomic bomb tests at Bikini Atoll in July 1946. He narrowly avoided that by receiving an honorable discharge in May 1946. In 1948 he completed his post-graduate studies and earned his Ph. D. in Chemistry. In 1949 he began his teaching career at the Medical School of Boston University, becoming assistant professor in 1951, and associate professor in 1955. In 1958 Asimov became a full-time writer and gave up his teaching duties because his income from his literary works was much greater than his professor's salary. He was fired, but he retained his title and later returned as a lecturer and was promoted ti the rank of full professor in 1979. Asimov was considered one of the best lecturers at Boston University.Young Isaac Asimov was raised as a non-religious person. His parents observed the Orthodox Judaism, but did not force their belief upon young Asimov. He did not have affiliation with a temple, did not have a bar mizvah and called himself an atheist, then used the term "humanist" in his later life. He did not oppose genuine religious convictions in others but opposed superstitious or unfounded beliefs. Asimov defined his intellectual position as a Humanist and rationalist. He opposed the Vietnam war in the 1960s and was a supporter of the Democratic party. He embraced environmental issues, and supported feminism, joking that he wished women to be free "because I hate it when they charge". He was also humorous about many of his memberships in various clubs and foundations. Asimov did not approve exclusionary societies, he left Mensa after he found that many of the members were arrogant. He liked individuality and stayed in groups where he enjoyed giving speeches. As a free thinker, Asimov saw sci-fi literature serving as a pool where ideas and hypotheses are expressed with unrestricted intellectual freedom.Young Asimov was fascinated with science fiction magazines which were sold at his parent's general store. Around the age of 11 he wrote eight chapters of a fiction about adventures of young boys in a small town. His first publication was "Marooned Off Vesta" in the Amazing Stories magazine in 1939. Asimov shot to fame in 1941 with 'Nightfall', a story of a planet where night comes once every 2049 years. 'Nightfall' has been described as one of the best science fiction stories ever written. Asimov wrote over five hundred literary works. He is credited for introducing the words "positronic", "psychohistory", and "robotics" into the English language. He penned such classics as "I, Robot" and the "Foundation" series, which are considered to be the most impressive of his writings. He also founded "Isaac Asimov's Science Fiction Magazine", which became a best-selling publication.Asimov was afraid of needles and the sight of blood. Although he had the highest score on the intelligence test he had the lowest score on the physical-conditioning test. He never learned how to swim or ride a bicycle. The author who described spaceflights suffered from fear of flying. In his entire life he had to fly only twice during his military service. Acrophobia was revealed when he took his date and first love on a roller coaster in 1940, and was terrified. This fobia complicated the logistics and limited the range over which he traveled; it also found reflection in some of his literary works. He avoided traveling long distances. Instead he enjoyed cruise ships like the RMS Queen Elizabeth 2, where he occasionally entertained passengers with his science-themed talks. He impressed public with his highly entertaining speeches as well as with his sharp sense of timing; he never looked at the clock, but he spoke for precisely the time allocated. Asimov's sense of time prevented him from ever being late to a meeting. Once he discovered that his parents changed his date of birth, he insisted that the official records of his birthday be corrected to January 2, 1920, the date he personally celebrated throughout his life.Asimov met Gertrude Blugherman on a blind date on Valentine's Day in February of 1942, they got married in July of the same year. The Asimovs had two children, son David (born in 1951), and daughter Robyn Joan (born in 1955). Asimov had known Janet Opal Jeppson since 1959. She was a psychoanalyst and also a writer of science fiction for children. Correspondence with her convinced Asimov that she was the right kind of person for him. He and Gertrude were separated in 1970, and he moved in with Janet Jappeson almost at once. His first marriage ended in divorce in 1973. That same year he and Janet Jeppson were married at Janet's home by an official of Ethical Culture Society. Asimov had no children by his second marriage.In 1983 Asimov contracted HIV infection from a tainted blood transfusion received during a triple bypass surgery. He eventually developed AIDS and wanted to go public about his AIDS but his doctors convinced Asimov to remain silent. The specific cause of death was heart and renal failure as complications of AIDS. He died on April 6, 1992, in Boston, Massachussets, and was cremated. His ashes were scattered.Ten years after Asimov's death, his widow, Janet Jeppson Asimov, revealed that his death was a consequence of an unfortunately contracted AIDS.
      No accurate records exist of his date of birth. He celebrated 2 January 1920, which was the latest possible date, but it might have been as early as 4 October 1919.
      His family moved to the US in the last year that this was easy to do. If they had waited until the next year, they most likely would not have been allowed to leave.
      When he entered school his mother gave his birthdate as 7 September 1919 so he could start a year earlier. He later insisted on correcting the record; had he not done so, he would have been considered too old when his turn for the draft came up in November 1945.
      His brother Stan (1929-1995) was a journalist and rose to a vice-presidency at the Long Island newspaper "Newsday".
      He is the only author to have a published book in every Dewey Decimal library category apart from Philosophy.
      It has recently been admitted by Janet Jeppson Asimov, his wife, that Isaac acquired HIV during a bypass operation in 1983. He had kept it hidden at the behest of his doctors. It is believed that the primary cause of death wasn't AIDS, however, but kidney and heart failure.
      Received Hugo Awards for his hovels "The Mule", "The Gods Themselves" and "Foundation's Edge" as well as for his novelettes "The Bicentennial Man" and "Gold". His memoirs "I. Asimov: A Memoir" also earned him a Hugo Award.
      Received Nebula Awards for his novel "The Gods Themselves" and his novelette "The Bicentennial Man".
      Biography in: "The Scribner Encyclopedia of American Lives". Volume 3, 1991-1993, pages 35-37. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 2001.
      Attributed his ability to research and write about almost any subject to an ample memory. He could retain most of the things that he read or was told. He added however that his memory was not photographic, and he often had trouble with visual details.
      His Foundation series won the Hugo award for "Best all-time series" in 1966, beating J.R.R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings.
      Someday they'll come and find me slumped over that electric typewriter with my nose in the keys.
      Intelligence is an extremely subtle concept. It's a kind of understanding that flourishes if it's combined with a good memory, but exists anyway even in the absence of good memory. It's the ability to draw consequences from causes, to make correct inferences, to foresee what might be the result, to work out logical problems, to be reasonable, rational, to have the ability to understand the solution from perhaps insufficient information. You know when a person is intelligent, but you can be easily fooled if you are not yourself intelligent.
      I type 90 words per minute on the typewriter; I type 100 words per minute on the word processor. But, of course, I don't keep that up indefinitely--every once in a while I do have to think a few seconds.
      When I sit down at the typewriter, I write. Someone once asked me if I had a fixed routine before I start, like setting up exercises, sharpening pencils, or having a drink of orange juice. I said, "No, the only thing I do before I start writing is to make sure that I'm close enough to the typewriter to reach the keys."
      Science-fiction writers foresee the inevitable, and although problems and catastrophes may be inevitable, solutions are not.
      Individual science-fiction stories may seem as trivial as ever to the blinder critics and philosophers of today - but the core of science fiction, its essence . . . has become crucial to our salvation if we are to be saved at all.
      Things do change. The only question is that since things are deteriorating so quickly, will society and man's habits change quickly enough?
      Part of the inhumanity of the computer is that, once it is competently programmed and working smoothly, it is completely honest.
      [The Three Laws of Robotics, published 1950] One, a robot may not injure a human being, or through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. Two, a robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law. Three, a robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Laws.
      Nothing interferes with my concentration. You could put on an orgy in my office and I wouldn't look up. Well, maybe once.
      The saddest aspect of life right now is that science gathers knowledge faster than society gathers wisdom.
      To insult someone we call him "bestial." For deliberate cruelty and nature, "human" might be the greater insult.
      The most exciting phrase to hear in science, the one that heralds new discoveries, is not "Eureka!" [I found it!] but "That's funny . . . "
      To all my gentle readers who have treated me with love for over 30 years, I must say farewell. It has always been my ambition to die in harness with my head face down on a keyboard and my nose caught between two of the keys, but that's not the way it worked out. I have had a long and happy life and I have no complaints about the ending, thereof, and so farewell -- farewell.
=======================================================
Born on January 2, 1920 in Russia, Isaac Asimov was an American writer specializing in the genre of science fiction. He is considered one of the three great masters of science fiction and remained a significant figure of science fiction for over five decades.  Also a professor of biochemistry at Boston University, Isaac Asimov has over 500 published volumes in addition to 90,000 letters, postcards and other scientific books for laymen.
He was the son of Judah Asimov and Anna Asimov who immigrated to the United States when Isaac was three. Growing up in Brooklyn, New York, Asimov’s childhood was spent reading passionately. He explored all the libraries within his reach and was a perfect description of the term bookworm.  Asimov graduated from Columbia University in 1939 with a degree in chemistry and then also obtained a PhD from the same university in 1948. He later accepted the offer of lectureship at Boston University where he was made an associate professor of biochemistry in 1955.
Asimov’s literary career started when his contributions to science fiction magazines started publishing in 1939. Night Fall, a short story Asimov wrote in 1941 proved to be his ladder to literary success. The story is based on a planet where night appears only once in every 2049 years. Till now it is considered by some to be the best science fiction short story ever to surface. His first book, Pebble in the Sky was published in 1950. His most famous set of novels is a trilogy namely Foundation, Foundation and Empire and Second Foundation (1951-1953). This space based trilogy narrates the tale of a futuristic galactic empire. I Robot (1950) which was also filmed in 2004 is another brilliant piece of work by Asimov which focuses on developing rules and ethics for artificially intelligent machines. Some other noted fictional works by Isaac Asimov include The Stars, like Dust (1951), The Currents of Space (1952), The Caves of Steel (1954), The Naked Sun (1957), Earth Is Room Enough (1957), Foundation’s Edge (1982), and The Robots of Dawn (1983).
Asimov was also author to many non-fiction writings of which the first was The Chemicals of Life (1954). Some more of his written scientific efforts include Inside the Atom (1956), The World of Nitrogen (1958), Life and Energy (1962), The Human Brain (1964), The Neutrino (1966), Science, Numbers, and I (1968), Our World in Space (1974), and Views of the Universe (1981). Furthermore, in addition to writing two autobiographies, Asimov also published the quarterly Isaac Asimov’s Science Fiction Magazine which was founded by Davis Magazines. Famous for stating the Three Laws of Robotics, Isaac Asimov’s contributions to scientific literature have been acknowledged by esteemed awards such as Hugo, Nebula and many honorary degrees.
Asimov was married twice. His first wife whom he married in 1942, Gertrude Blugerman bore him two children.  They separated in 1970 which led to a divorce in 1973. In the same year he tied the knot again with Janet Opal Jeppson, a writer and psychoanalyst. Jeppson wrote Norby Chronicles, a science fiction novel for young readers in collaboration with Isaac. Asimov died on April 6, 1992 in New York due to a kidney failure. However, ten years after his death, his wife Janet revealed he had AIDS which he contracted accidentally during his bypass surgery.
Isaac Asimov. (2012). FamousAuthors.org. Retrieved 04:07, June 6, 2014 from http://www.famousauthors.org/isaac-asimov
' Isaac Asimov', FamousAuthors.org,(2012) http://www.famousauthors.org/isaac-asimov [accessed June 6, 2014]
" Isaac Asimov," FamousAuthors.org, http://www.famousauthors.org/isaac-asimov (accessed June 6, 2014).
Isaac Asimov [Internet]. FamousAuthors.org; 2012 [cited 2014 June 6]. Available from: http://www.famousauthors.org/isaac-asimov.
Famous Authors: Ruskin Bond http://t.co/DrMaUNtVih Yesterday at 10:04 pmFamous Authors: Enid Blyton http://t.co/p0bIHr5yDu June 2, 2014 8:40 pmFamous Authors: Alexander Pushkin http://t.co/4HD9zNFOlS May 28, 2014 7:31 pmFamous Authors: Catherine Cookson http://t.co/By5hbuyX5t May 28, 2014 7:25 pmFamous Authors: Georges Simenon http://t.co/geLJBBisk7 May 28, 2014 7:19 pm
Read more:Dean KoontzDean Koontz is one of the most prolific writers in the genre of thrillers of 80's and 90's. He also...Close
=======================================================
Isaac Asimov Biography - life, family, children, story, death, history, school, young, book, information, born, college
.Comments_messagebox {text-align:center;color:#C52525;background-color:#FFEAEA;border:1px dotted #DB8686;width:100%;padding:10px;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;margin-bottom:15px;}#Comments_form input { margin-left:10px;margin-right:10px;margin-top:5px;display:block;width:150px;}#Comments_form textarea { margin-left:10px;display:block;width:95%;height:140px;}#Comments_form div.Comments_name {float:left;}#Comments_form div.Comments_mail {float:left;position:relative;}#Comments_form div.Comments_showmail {margin-left:8px;color:gray;font-size:8pt;}#Comments_form div.Comments_text {clear:left;}#Comments_form div.Comments_captcha { float:left;}#Comments_form img.Comments_captcha { margin-left:10px;margin-top:15px;border:1px solid #BCC6D6;padding:2px;}#Comments_form .Comments_showmail label {display:inline;margin:2px;width:auto;}#Comments_form .Comments_showmail input {display:inline;margin:0px;width:auto;border:none;background-color:transparent;}div.Comments_form {width:96%; padding:10px 20px; margin: auto;}div.Comments_commentsbox {width:100%;margin:auto;padding:8px;margin-bottom:8px;line-height:normal;}#Comments_section h4 {margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px;}div.Comments_comment {width:96%; border-top: 4px solid #C4DAE5; border-right: 1px solid #E8F1F7; border-left: 1px solid #E8F1F7; padding:2px; padding-top:8px;  margin: auto; background-repeat:repeat-x;background-position:top;margin-bottom:12px; background-color:#FBFBFB;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_info {height:28px;overflow:hidden;position:relative;top:-17px;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_link  { z-index:2;text-align:center;width:13px;position:relative;left:5px;top:-17px;}div.Comments_comment a.Comments_link   { font-family:Tahoma,Arial;font-weight:bold;text-decoration:none;color:#CC0000;font-size:7pt;border:none;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_balloon { z-index:1;width:23px;height:21px;position:relative;top:0px;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_date {float:right;font-family:Tahoma,Arial;font-size:7pt;color:gray;display:inline;position:relative;top:-20px;left:-7px;opacity:0.5;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_moderate {float:right;display:inline;position:relative;top:-19px;left:-2px;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_user { font-family:Tahoma,Arial;font-size:8pt;display:inline;position:relative;top:-19px;left:29px;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_user a { font-weight:bold;text-decoration:none;color:#006699; }div.Comments_comment div.Comments_text { margin-left:30px;color:#666666;position:relative;top:-10px;font-size:96%;}div.Comments_comment div.Comments_clear {clear:both;line-height:1px;height:1px;display:inline;}div.Comments_comment {background-image:url('/images/comments.back.1.png')}div.Comments_comment_alt {background-image:url('/images/comments.back.2.png')}#qaComments {text-align:left;}
After reading, reading & reading, we should create > 5000 books behind for our next generations to read & to learn all our mistakes in life.
"When we do experiments, we wait for the data. When we grow a fruit tree, we wait for the fruits. Science is data; finding it; looking at it, thinking about it. For much of the world data seems quite dull, but for the scientist, data contains hidden within it small sparks which can set the imagination on fire. Each spark of data generates new ideas, new seeds, which will grow in yet undiscovered gardens of research. If we know our own intentions well, there will always be ideas and seeds enough for our grand grand children to harvest and sow again to make the world a little more beautiful each morning." from www.studentvision.org2Big JakeJul 27, 2011 @ 1:01 amHis autobiography ran to 3 big books.  After his death, his 2nd wife edited the 3 books into a single volume, thereby excising all the rather intimate remarks which Isaac had no problem revealing initially, but which his 2nd wife preferred that later readers be unaware of.  I suspect her version will prevail as it is more likely to stay in print. But if you can find the original 3 books, you will be well rewarded by a more rounded life story.
He had 2 children by his first wife; daughter Robin was his clear favorite.  Son David is apparently developmentally disabled and lives off of a trust fund his father set up a number of years before he died. He is barely mentioned in the initial autobiography. Comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about this topic:Name:E-mail:Show my email publiclyType the code shown:Public Comment:&nbsp (50-4000 characters)  
=======================================================
Isaac Asimov was an American professor of biochemistry and a renowned author of science fiction and popular science books. Read this biography to know more about his life.
place of death: New York City, New York, U.S. father:  Anna Rachel (Berman) Asimov mother: Judah Asimov siblings: Marcia, Stanley  Spouses: Gertrude Blugerman (1942-1973), Janet Opal Jeppson (1973-1992) children: Robyn Asimov,  David Asimov education: Columbia University,  PhD. Biochemistry, 1948 Founder/Co-Founder: Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal (CSICOP)
Works & Achievements: Introduced the era of Science Fiction writing, He was voted the best short science fiction story of all time in 1964
awards: Thomas Alva Edison Foundation Award Howard W. Blakeslee Award Boston University's Publication Merit Award Special Hugo Award 
Isaac Asimov is best known as the most successful writer of science fiction and popular science books. Asimov opened the doors for the new age of science fiction writing which the world had never tasted before him. Asimov is credited with having edited over 500 books. Asimov's most successful work was on hard science fiction and his most notable book is the 'Foundation Series'. Asimov is also widely popular for his easy Physics, astronomy and mathematics books alongside his works on the Bible, William Shakespeare and chemistry. Asimov was a brilliant professor of biochemistry at Boston University. Besides being a prolific writer, Asimov was also an integral part of (President) the American Humanist Association. Asimov is also known for his work as a civilian at the Philadelphia Navy Yard's Naval Air Experimental Station during the World War II. "Robotics" was a term coined by Asimov which went on to become a branch of technology.
There is much confusion surrounding Isaac Asimov’s exact date of birth. Isaac Asimov was born anywhere between 4 October 1919 and 2 January 1920 in Petrovichi in Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic presently known as Russia to a Jewish miller family. His mother was Anna Rachel Berman Asimov while Judah Asimov was his father. He is known to have celebrated his birthday on 2 January. His name in purely Russian is spelt as Isaak Ozimov. Isaac was 3 years old when his family shifted to the United States. His parents being Yiddish and English speakers, Asimov never learnt how to speak proper Russian.
Asimov was highly interested in science fiction as a young kid. He extensively read popular pulp magazines which his father asked him not to read because Asimov’s father felt the magazines were useless. However, Asimov got his way with his father making him see the ‘science’ factor alive in the magazines which made them educational in nature. Asimov’s great interest in this field made him take up the pen at the age of 11 when he first started writing stories. When he turned 19, Asimov had honed the art of writing professional science fiction and his stories were sold to science fiction magazines of his time. Asimov discovered community of people who were hugely interested in science fiction and they were called SF fandom or Science fiction fandom. Asimov got heavily influenced by the editor of ‘Astounding Science Fiction’, John W. Campbell who later became a personal friend of Asimov.
Asimov received his formal education from several schools registered under New York City Public Schools which included Boys High School, in Brooklyn, New York. He moved to Seth Low Junior College studying for two years before joining Columbia University where he completed his remaining education for gaining his master’s degree. In 1939 Asimov received his graduation. He returned to Columbia University in 1948 to gain his Ph.D. in biochemistry.
Before earning his Ph.D., Asimov spent 3 years working as a civilian at the Philadelphia Navy Yard's Naval Air Experimental Station during the World War II. As the war came to an end Asimov was offered a job in the US Army where he served for about 9 months before leaving the job after receiving an honourable discharge. Asimov spent a great military career which was short lived yet he gained high rank rising to become a corporal for his excellent typing skills. In 1946, Asimov barely escaped participation in the atomic bomb tests at Bikini Atoll.
In 1948 Asimov completed his Doctorate degree after which he was appointed to the faculty of the Boston University School of Medicine. He remained here for a long time before deciding to run his non teaching role at the University as he had already become an active writer from 1958. Asimov kept serving as an associate professor (he only held the title) but his full time commitment was with writing. Boston University’s Mugar Memorial Library has archived all the personal papers noted and written out by Asimov from the period spanning from 1965 to his end days with the University. Asimov had even donated all these papers to the University on curator Howard Gottlieb’s request. The Asimov collection comprises of 464 boxes, or seventy-one meters of shelf space. In 1979 Asimov was honoured by Boston University for his tremendous writing career and contributions and he was made the Professor of biochemistry.
Asimov used to extensively read science fiction as his family used to sell science fiction pulp magazines at their confectionery store in 1929. His contact with the science fiction community was built in the 1930s. In 1937 Asimov wrote his first science fiction story, “Cosmic Corkscrew” but was unable to complete it. In June 1938 Asimov visited the offices of Astounding Science Fiction which made him think of completing his story. On 19 June 1938 Asimov completed his “Cosmic Corkscrew” and went in person to submit his story to John W. Campbell, editor of Astounding. Asimov’s story was rejected but he was encouraged by Campbell to keep trying. Asimov soon came up with his third story, “Marooned Off Vesta” which he sold to Amazing Stories magazine in October. This story was published in the March issue of Amazing magazine in 1939. Asimov continued his writing and often sold his stories to various science fiction pulp magazines.
In 1941 Asimov brought out his 32nd story named “Nightfall” which became very popular and is often known to be the most famous science fiction stories of all time.  Nightfall (was voted as “the best science fiction story ever” in 1968 by Science Fiction Writers of America) was the introduction of a new genre of writing which was more of a social science fiction bringing in a new trend in the 1940s. It was later brought out in a short story collection, ‘Nightfall and Other Stories’. By 1941 Asimov had sold (regularly) great many stories to Astounding magazine which led the science fiction field. All of Asimov’s published science fiction stories and other writings were featured in Astounding from 1943 to 1949.
In 1942 Asimov brought out the very first of his numerous Foundation series stories. His later works of the Foundation series include the Foundation Trilogy: Foundation (1951), Foundation and Empire (1952), and Second Foundation (1953). His Foundation series novels were about a Galactic Empire and the story of their collapse and rebirth set in a future universe. Foundation series is arguably the best sci-fi (popular short form for science fiction) work done by Asimov. Robot series (written much later) is also a brilliant work by Asimov. Such was the genius of Asimov that he wrote his robotic series simultaneously with the Foundation series. ‘I, Robot’ (made into a film in 2004 starring Hollywood actor Will Smith) was published in 1950 talking about positronic brain in robots (a fictional device) and their stories. This revolutionized the scientific world and encouraged many future writers to write on this. Asimov’s robot series stories formulated rules and codes of ethics for robots. In 1942 Asimov brought out his very famous ‘The Three Laws of Robotics’ which he introduced in his short story ‘Runaround’. The Laws are:
1.         A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. 
2.         A robot must obey any orders given to it by human beings, except where such orders would conflict with the First Law. 
3.         A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law.
‘The Bicentennial Man’ was also a very popular story of the robot series which was later made into a Hollywood film starring Robin Williams.
In the late 1950s and 60s Asimov stopped writing fictions. He published four adult novels two of which were mysteries. He increased his non-fiction writing after the launch of Sputnik in 1957. Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction had asked Asimov to regularly contribute for their monthly edition in the non-fiction column. Another bimonthly companion magazine ‘Venture Science Fiction Magazine’ which had dedicated themselves purely in serving popular science and Asimov got his full freedom as the magazine’s editor. First F&SF columns appeared in November 1958. Asimov also dedicatedly wrote about social issues and observations of his time in his essays "Thinking About Thinking" and "Science: Knock Plastic" (1967). He wrote many other essays dealing with society.
Asimov wrote about bible in two parts bringing out ‘Asimov's Guide to the Bible’ in two volumes, one covering the Old Testament in 1967 and the other covering the New Testament in 1969.
Asimov was greatly interested in English Literature which guided him to write and publish ‘Asimov's Guide to Shakespeare’ in 1970, ‘Asimov's Annotated Paradise Lost’ in 1974 and ‘The Annotated Gulliver's Travels’ in 1980.
Asimov wrote many different genre books of which 1987’s ‘How to Enjoy Writing: A Book of Aid and Comfort’ is a notable one which Asimov had co written. This book talked about ways to build positive attitudes and how to deal with discouragement distractions, rejection and thick-headed editors. Several husband-wife dialogues surrounding an author’s ups and downs, quotations, essays, anecdotes were included in the book.
Asimov coined the term “Robotics” (which came out for the first time in 1941 story, Liar). Asimov also termed the word “Spome” in one of his papers, “There’s No Place Like Spome” which was originally presented as a paper to the American Chemical Society on September 13, 1965. Spome is a type of any system which is closed to matter but open to energy and is able to sustain human life indefinitely.
Asimov was greatly interested in History which made him write 14 popular history books, some of the notable ones being, ‘The Greeks: A Great Adventure’ (1965), ‘The Roman Republic’ (1966), ‘The Roman Empire’ (1967), ‘The Egyptians’ (1967) and ‘The Near East: 10,000 Years of History’ (1968).
On 26 July 1942 Asimov married Gertrude Blugerman with whom he had two children, David (born in 1951) and Robyn Joan (born in 1955). In 1970 Asimov separated from Gertrude before getting divorced in 1973. Asimov married Janet O. Jeppson in the same year.
Asimov had very different habits. He liked to listen to the noise of trains passing by during his reading hours so he often enclosed himself. He was always afraid of flying. Asimov was a very good public speaker and he was very friendly to converse and discuss topics with.
In 1977 Asimov had a heart attack for which he went for triple bypass surgery in December 1983. He died in New York City on 6 April 1992. Asimov’s brother Stanley had reported heart and kidney failure which had possibly caused Asimov’s death.
 1937:  Asimov wrote his first science fiction story, “Cosmic Corkscrew” but was unable to complete it
 1938:  – In June Asimov visited the offices of Astounding Science Fiction which made him think of completing “Cosmic Corkscrew”
 1938:  On 19 June Asimov completed his “Cosmic Corkscrew” and went in person to submit his story to John W. Campbell
 1941:  Asimov brought out his 32nd story named “Nightfall” which became very popular and is often known to be the most famous science fiction stories of all time
 1942:  Asimov brought out his very famous ‘The Three Laws of Robotics’ which he introduced in his short story ‘Runaround’
 1948 : Asimov completed his Doctorate degree after which he was appointed to the faculty of the Boston University School of Medicine
 1950:  ‘I, Robot’ (made into a film in 2004 starring Hollywood actor Will Smith) was published which talked about positronic brain in robots (a fictional device) and their stories
 1965:  – He termed the word “Spome” in one of his papers, “There’s No Place Like Spome” which was originally presented as a paper to the American Chemical Society on September 13
 1967:  - Asimov dedicatedly wrote about social issues and observations of his time in his essays "Thinking About Thinking" and "ScienceKnock Plastic"
 1967-1969 : ‘Asimov's Guide to the Bible’ was brought out in two volumes, one covering the Old Testament in 1967 and the other covering the New Testament in 1969
 1968:  – His story ‘Nightfall’ was voted by Science Fiction Writers of America as the best science fiction story ever written
 1979:  Asimov was honoured by Boston University for his tremendous writing career and contributions and he was made the Professor of biochemistry
2013 Isaac Asimov Memorial Debate: The Existence of NothingViews: 289008 | Likes: 3696 | Dislikes: 84Foundation 2014 (Asimov)Views: 753568 | Likes: 1014 | Dislikes: 46830 Renowned Writers Speaking About GodViews: 107300 | Likes: 1533 | Dislikes: 65 
=======================================================
Isaac AsimovBorn: 2-Jan-1920Birthplace: Petrovichi, RussiaDied: 6-Apr-1992Location of death: New York CityCause of death: AIDSRemains: Cremated (ashes scattered)Gender: MaleReligion: AtheistRace or Ethnicity: WhiteSexual orientation: StraightOccupation: AuthorParty Affiliation: DemocraticNationality: United StatesExecutive summary: FoundationMilitary service: US Army (1945-46, served 9mo in Hawaii)Science fiction author Isaac Asimov is one of the best-known and most successful authors to emerge from the Golden Age of science fiction.  The author of nearly 500 books (albeit many of them anthologies or collaborative efforts), he managed to publish an astonishingly broad array of works: mystery, poetry, science, humor, horror, literary criticism, mythology -- even guides to the Bible and Shakespeare.  In fact, Asimov managed to insert himself into every single category of the Dewey Decimal System except Philosophy. Asimov's best known works are the short story "Nightfall" (1941, acclaimed as the best science fiction story ever written), and the various installments in his Foundation and Robot series (Foundation's Edge, I, Robot, etc.).  It was Asimov's "Three Laws of Robotics" and his concept of the positronic brain that inspired Gene Roddenberry to create Data, the Star Trek: The Next Generation android.  It has been said that Isaac Asimov defined the voice of science fiction, setting the norm that all others followed or varied from.
Isaac Asimov was born in Petrovichi, Russia (near Smolensk) in 1920, around 2 January.  Although his parents, Anna Rachel and Judah Asimov, were Jews, they did not raise the young Isaac to be religious.  The family emigrated to the U.S. when he was three years old and soon owned and operated the first in a series of candy stores.  As a youngster, growing up in Brooklyn, New York, Asimov soon showed himself to be remarkably bright, with an extraordinary memory. By the time he was five he had taught himself to read.  And despite the family's frequent moves  (selling one candy store in order to buy another in a new location), he was always at the head of his class, and frequently being promoted.  He skipped half of kindergarten, half a year of first grade, and half a year of third grade.  Being quick to perceive the lesson before the teacher had gotten more than part way through it, he often became bored in class and tried to alleviate the situation by talking to his neighbor -- something for which he was frequently in trouble.
Although intellectually proficient, he was at the same time socially and physically awkward.  He never learned how to ride a bike or swim, and if he spent even ten minutes out in the sun his skin would burn fiercely (which may explain his pronounced preference for artificial lighting).  He was also a claustrophiliac, having a peculiar liking for small, enclosed spaces.  At age nine he began working in the family store (where he discovered science fiction novels), by eleven he had begun his first novel, The Greenville Chums at College.  Although he never completed the novel (dismissing it as not good enough), he had firmly established in internal identity as a writer at an early age.
In high school he contributed to the school newspaper; and in 1935, as a fifteen year old at Seth Low Junior College, he had one of his letters published in his favorite magazine, Astounding Science Fiction.  In 1939, the same year he graduated from Columbia University (with a BA in Chemistry), he had three short stories published in national sci-fi pulps -- one in Astounding ("Trends") and two more in Amazing Stories ("Marooned off Vesta", "The Weapon Too Dreadful To Use").  A mere two and a half years later he had published at least 30 stories; among them was "Night Fall", the now-classic story that brought him instant recognition as a serious author.
With the advent of World War II, Asimov moved to Philadelphia to work as a junior chemist at the U.S. Naval Air Experimental Station, where he rubbed elbows with Robert A. Heinlein and L. Sprague de Camp.  Impressively, despite the work load, he managed to publish 8-10 stories per year.  Still, there remained an imbalance in his personal life.  His shyness and social awkwardness, and his busy work schedule, meant he was unable to meet the right girl (or perhaps any girl). Thus on Valentine's Day, in 1942, friends fixed him up on a blind date with a girl named Gertrude Blugerman. The two were instantly attracted to each other, and were married five and a half months later.  The relationship, which produced a son and a daughter, lasted some thirty years before finally ending in divorce, after which Asimov soon remarried, to science fiction author Janet O. Jeppson.
1942 was also a significant year professionally for it marked the year that Asimov began both his now famous Foundation stories -- eventually collected and published in Foundation Trilogy: Foundation (1951), Foundation and Empire (1952), and Second Foundation (1953) -- and the robot stories that would give rise to another science fiction classic, I, Robot.  The robot series would later inspire at least two films:  Bicentennial Man (1999), and I, Robot (2004).
Despite his civilian work for the Navy, in 1945 Asimov was inducted into the Army where, not surprisingly, he earned the highest score in his company on the intelligence test -- and the lowest score on the physical-conditioning test.  After the war, and after his discharge in July of 1946, Asimov returned to Columbia.  By 1948 he had earned his doctorate degree in chemistry, and he took a teaching position in biochemistry at Boston University.  Although granted tenure (while an assistant professor) in 1955, Asimov gave up his teaching duties in 1958, preferring to write rather than be forced to churn out "mediocre" research.  Still, in an unusual twist, he retained his place on the faculty and in 1979 -- despite his having left to pursue interests more dear to his heart -- the university promoted him to the rank of full professor.
After withdrawing from his work at the university, he began to write a substantial amount of non-fiction, while his science fiction output dwindled.  Over the next twenty-five years he produced very few short stories and only four sci-fi novels.  Purportedly he felt he simply could not match the level of work being produced by the genre's "New Wave" authors, a group which included Brian Aldiss and J. G. Ballard.
What science fiction Asimov did produce in this era varied markedly in quality, from the disappointing Fantastic Voyage movie tie-in novels to the impressive The Gods Themselves (1972) which won a Hugo and a Nebula.  Meanwhile, Asimov wrote a considerable number of mystery stories in the 70s.  1977 saw the creation of Isaac Asimov's Science Fiction Magazine which went on to extraordinary commercial and critical success -- a development due, at least in part, to the fact that the name Asimov was by now synonymous with the highest quality science fiction.  Although his name graced the cover, Asimov left the editing work to others; however, he contributed a 1,500-word editorial in every issue as well as answering letters.
Finally in 1982, Asimov fans were at last able rejoice as a new novel, Foundation's Edge. From this point on Asimov began to publish numerous sequels to his earlier major works, trying to tie the Foundation and Robot story lines together to create a resultant new and deeper meaning.  Tragically, this fresh burst of productivity would be delimited by the consequences of a heart bypass surgery performed in 1983 -- blood used in an infusion was tainted with the HIV virus, and in 1992 Isaac Asimov died of AIDS. Since his passing, unpublished Asimov works have continued to be released, including Forward the Foundation (1993), and I. Asimov (1994), and in 1997 he was inducted posthumously into the Science Fiction and Fantasy Hall of Fame.
During his lifetime Asimov was the recipient of at least eight Hugo awards and two Nebulas, and he was also awarded the 1957 Thomas Alva Edison Foundation Award for his book Building Blocks of the Universe, the Howard W. Blakeslee Award from the American Heart Association in 1960 for his book The Living River, the James T. Grady Award of the American Chemical Society in 1965, and the Westinghouse Science Writing Award, 1967.  In 1981 an asteroid, 5020 Asimov, was named in his honor.  The Honda corporation's anthropoid robot ASIMO is also named for him.  Asimov's personal papers (1965 onward) are currently archived at Boston University's Mugar Memorial Library, where they consume 464 boxes on 232 feet of shelf space.
Father: Judah AsimovMother: Anna Rachel BermanSister: VeronicaBrother: Stanley (journalist, b. 1929, d. 1995)Wife: Gertrude Blugerman (m. 26-Jul-1942, div. 16-Nov-1973)Wife: Janet Opal Jeppson (psychiatrist, m. 30-Nov-1973, until his death)Son: David (b. 1955)Daughter: Robyn Joan (b. 1959)    High School: Boys High School, Brooklyn, NY    University: BS Chemistry, Columbia University (1939)    University: MA, Columbia University (1941)    University: PhD Biochemistry, Columbia University (1948)    Professor: Boston University    Hugo 1966 Best Series, for The Foundation (all-time)    Hugo 1973 Best Novel, for The Gods Themselves    Hugo 1977 Best Novelette, for The Bicentennial Man    Hugo 1983 Best Novel, for Foundation's Edge    Hugo 1992 Best Novelette, for Gold    Hugo 1995 Best Memoir, for I. Asimov    Hugo 1996 Best Novel, for The Mule (retrospective)    Nebula 1973 Best Novel, for The Gods Themselves    Nebula 1977 Best Novelette, for The Bicentennial Man    Humanist of the Year 1984    Science Fiction Museum and Hall of Fame 1996    American Humanist Association Honorary President    CSICOP     Dutch Treat Club (1971-92)    Explorers Club     Mensa     Sigma Xi Scientific Research Society     Phi Beta Kappa Society     International Academy of Humanism Laureate    Endorsement of Radio Shack TRS-80 Pocket Computer
    Naturalized US Citizen 1928    Draft Deferment: World War II 2-BL, reclassified 1-AB (1945)    Heart Bypass Operation 1983    Russian Ancestry 
Pebble in the Sky (1950, novel)I, Robot (1950, short stories)Foundation (1951, novel)Foundation and Empire (1952, novel)Second Foundation (1953, novel)Asimov's New Guide to Science (1960, nonfiction)The Rest of the Robots (1964, short stories)Opus 100 (1969)The Gods Themselves (1972, novel)Murder at the ABA (1972, novel)Opus 200 (1979)Foundation's Edge (1982, novel)Foundation and Earth (1986, novel)Prelude to Foundation (1988, novel)Forward the Foundation (1993, novel, posthumous)I, Asimov: A Memoir (1994, memoir)
NNDB MAPPERFair UseIsaac AsimovRequires Flash 7+ and Javascript.Related TopicsAIDSAmerican LiteraturePopular CultureScience FictionHelix Fossil
=======================================================
Vocations:  Science Fiction Writer, Science Writer, Non-fiction Writer, Biographer,  Essayist, Novelist, Professor, Short Story Writer
Keywords:  American Association for the Advancement of Science-Westinghouse Science  Writing Award ;”The Bicentennial Man”; Boston University; John W. Campbell,  Jr.; Columbia University; Foundation Trilogy; James T. Grady Award; Hugo Award; I, Robot ; Nebula Award;
Abstract:  Isaac Asimov, born in Petrovichi, Russia, in 1920, was a prolific science  fiction writer. Asimov utilized his degree in chemistry from Columbia  University to supplement the science fiction of his works.  From 1942 to  1945, Asimov worked in the Philadelphia Naval Yard as a junior chemist for the  US Naval Air Experimental Station. While in Philadelphia, he began his Foundation series, which marked him as a major author in the science fiction genre.   After 1958, Asimov mostly wrote nonfiction works. He died in 1992 at the  age of 72.  His works remain popular, demonstrated by the posthumous  adaptations of his short story “The Bicentennial Man” into a 1999 film of the  same name and of his novel, I, Robot in the 2004 blockbuster.
Isaac Asimov was born in Petrovichi, Russia (formerly  U.S.S.R.), on January 2, 1920.  When Asimov was three, his family moved to  the New York borough of Brooklyn, where his parents owned and operated a candy  store. Asimov attended the New York City public school system at PS 182, but  had already taught himself to read at age five, using the street signs in his  Brooklyn neighborhood.  The family-owned store became central to Asimov’s  early life. He dedicated his time away from school to the candy store and  attributed his personal characteristics of eating quickly and carefully using  his time to this period of early responsibility. The strict punctuality  required by his father led to Asimov’s later habit of waking up at six in the  morning and writing until ten at night. The one bright spot in Asimov’s work at  the candy store was the store’s newspaper rack. This stand contained the latest  science fiction magazines. Asimov’s father, however, disapproved of such pulp  magazines, considering them to be “mind rotting.” It took years before the  young science-fiction enthusiast could convince his father to allow him to read  these serials.
After skipping a few grades, Asimov graduated high  school in the spring of 1935, when he was only 15.  He then went to  Columbia University where, aside from earning a bachelor’s degree in chemistry,  he completed his first science-fiction story. On June 21, 1938, Asimov met John  W. Campbell, Jr., the editor of Astounding Science-Fiction. Asimov  showed his recently completed story to Campbell, the most influential science  fiction editor of the 1930s and 40s. Campbell saw promise in Asimov’s work and  their relationship grew to become the most fruitful author-editor collaboration  in science fiction. On his relationship with Campbell, Asimov said:
Well, in a way, I suppose I was the perfect foil  for John Campbell… I imagine that a great many other writers found him too rich  for their blood—at least to sit there and listen to him hour after hour. But I  was fortunate in the sense that he was in some ways a lot like my father. And I  had grown up listening to my father pontificate in much the same way that John  did, and so I was at home and I listened to probably—I suppose if you took all  the time that I sat there listening to John and put it all together, it was  easily a week’s worth of just listening to him talk… And I remember everything  he said and how he thought and I did my best because I desperately wanted to  sell stories to him. 
In 1939, Asimov not only graduated from Columbia  University, but also published his first short story, titled “Marooned off  Vesta.”  The story involved the destruction of a spacecraft, the Silver  Queen, by an asteroid. The three crew members who survived must try to  navigate their small section of the ship to a safe landing at Vesta, a small  outpost.  The next year, Asimov published a story called “Strange  Playfellow,” which marked the beginning of a decade-long series of extremely  successful short stories about robots. These nine stories (“Strange  Playfellow,” “Reason,” “Liar!” “Runaround,” “Catch the Rabbit,” “Escape,”  “Evidence,” “The Little Lost Robot,” and “The Evitable Conflict”) were  collected and published as I, Robot  in 1950. This collection was  the inspiration for the 2004 Will Smith movie of the same name.
This collection of stories, as well as the screen  adaptation, addresses problems that arise from Asimov’s “Three Laws of  Robotics.” These laws, which are the basics of a human moral code, state that a  robot may not injure a human or allow a human to be injured, a robot must obey  human orders except when they conflict with the directive to not injure a  human, and a robot must protect its own existence except when it would conflict  with the previous two directives. In dealing with these issues, the stories  also confront the relationship between man and technology, a concern that is  given increasing weight as the collection progresses. By the end of I, Robot,  Asimov has posited robots as morally superior to humans, and thus capable of  making up for man’s shortcomings.Of this collection, Asimov said, “Certainly  the very first stories that really satisfied me and made me feel good about my  writing were my robot stories.”
Asimov wrote other works concurrently with his robot  stories. In 1941, he published “Nightfall,” a short story that has been  frequently anthologized and which New York Times writer Theodore  Sturgeon called “surely one of the most memorable of all s.f. concepts.” The  story’s premise arose out of a conversation Asimov had with Campbell, in which  Campbell asked, “What do you think would happen, Asimov, if men were to see the  stars for the first time in a thousand years?” It was Campbell’s belief that  the experience would drive men mad.  Asimov tackled the idea in  “Nightfall” by creating a planet called Lagash that only saw the stars once  every 2,049 years during a lunar eclipse. This bi-millennial nightfall actually  led to the repeated destruction of Lagash’s civilization when all its  inhabitants, unfamiliar with darkness, went crazy. In the same year that “Nightfall”  was published, Asimov earned his master’s degree in chemistry from Columbia  University.
The next year, Asimov married Gertrude Blugerman,  with whom he would later have two children, and moved into a small house in  Philadelphia located at 4715 Walnut Street.  From 1942 through 1945, he  worked as a chemist at the US Naval Air Experimental Station in Philadelphia.  It was during this period in Philadelphia that Asimov began working on one of  the most influential science fiction series of all time. Beginning in 1942 and  continuing through 1951, Asimov wrote five novelettes and four novellas that  are now known as the Foundation Trilogy. Of the trilogy, Charles Elkins of  DePauw University wrote, “Among SF series, surely none has enjoyed such  spectacular popularity as Isaac Asimov’s Foundation stories.”
The trilogy, which is set in a galactic empire with  more than twenty-five million worlds, has been used as a backdrop by many  subsequent science fiction writers and won the World Science Fiction Society’s Hugo  Award for the best all-time series in 1966. Although critics have pointed out  the shortcomings in Asimov’s trilogy, including Charles Elkins who asserted  that “The characters are undifferentiated and one-dimensional. Stylistically,  the novels are disasters, and Asimov’s ear for dialogue is simply atrocious.”  For his part, Asimov believed the trilogy was the “very foundation of his  success as a writer.” Other critics agreed with Asimov’s assessment, including  John Markoff of the New York Times who wrote that the “endless stream of  stories about space adventures” was “far more compelling than anything  television could offer,” and Donald M. Hassler, writing for Science Fiction  Studies, who believed that the Foundation trilogy “is not only the fiction  that Asimov is best known for but also, perhaps, best exemplifies his  inclinations towards…the human and towards storytelling.”
The trilogy, which consists of Foundation (1951), Foundation and Empire (1952), and Second Foundation (1953), is  actually comprised of the component novellas and novelettes that Asimov  published serially in Astounding Science-Fiction over an eight-year  period. Thus the Foundation trilogy was not meant to be published as a unified  text, a fact that many critics often overlook in their rush to point out plot  inconsistencies. Stephen H. Goldman, writing in the Dictionary of Literary  Biography, argues that rather than focus on the flaws that necessarily  resulted from serial publication, audiences should instead admire the trilogy’s  presentation of a “view of sheer galactic magnitude and multiplicity  unsurpassed by any science-fiction work yet produced.” Contemporary Authors  Online seems to concur, noting the trilogy’s lasting popularity and its  achievement of a “special standing among science-fiction enthusiasts.”
Foundation consists  of five novelettes. The first, entitled “The Psychohistorians,” details the  creation of the First Foundation on a planet called Terminus. In this story,  Gaal Dornick is trained in an Asimov-created branch of mathematics called  “psychohistory,” which is the “mathematical science for predicting mass  behavior.” Using psychohistory, Dornick has foreseen the end of the current  Empire, which will be followed by thirty thousand years of anarchy. Dornick  believes this period of lawlessness can be shortened to a thousand years by  setting up two foundations, one of physical scientists and one of  psychologists, at opposite ends of the galaxy. Thus the Empire’s government  sends Dornick and a team of physical scientists to Terminus to set up a  foundation, intent on preserving knowledge for future generations. The  remaining novelettes in the trilogy’s opening chapter follow the foundation on  Terminus and how it resists outside threats from other worlds. Notable within  the first volume of the trilogy are Asimov’s depictions of the sheer size of  the world he created. As Goldman notes, “whether Asimov is describing the  physical aspects of one of the more than twenty-five million worlds or the  social, political, or economic systems of that world, he successfully convinces  the reader of the utter vastness of the universe.”
Foundation and Empire is comprised of two novelettes that depict greater threats  to the First Foundation. These threats consist of a general who is bent on  creating a new Empire himself, and, a hundred years later, a mutant called “the  Mule” who has conquered the remains of the old Empire and is looking to take  over Terminus. The character of the Mule presents an interesting challenge to  psychohistory because he is a genetic accident that science could not foresee  or predict.
The final third of the trilogy focuses on the search  for the psychologist-led Foundation, which both the Mule and the First  Foundation view as a threat. The Mule is concerned about the Second Foundation  as a rival for power, while the First Foundation is concerned that the second  is tampering with individuals’ minds, a process they call “adjusting.” By the  conclusion of the trilogy, the First Foundation believes it has defeated the  Second Foundation, but Asimov leaves his own attitudes about the event much  more open. By ending the story in this way, Asimov causes readers to reflect on  the possibilities of free will in a future where everything can be determined.
In the midst of writing the Foundation trilogy,  Asimov earned his Ph.D. in chemistry from Columbia University. In addition to  his extensive formal education, Asimov also had a thorough self-education. He  was well-read across a variety of subjects, lending him an openness of mind and  breadth of knowledge that few other scholars could match. In 1949, Asimov  accepted an offer to teach biochemistry at the Boston University School of  Medicine. Of this job, Asimov admitted, “I didn’t feel impelled to tell them  that I’d never had any biochemistry. By 1951, I was writing a textbook on  biochemistry, and I finally realized the only thing I really wanted to be was a  writer.” Asimov was made an associate professor in 1955, but stopped teaching  three years later, choosing instead to write full-time.
Although Asimov admitted to being tired of writing  within the Foundation’s galaxy by the end of its serialized run, his next two  stand-alone novels utilized the trilogy’s universe. Pebble in the Sky (1950)  and The Stars Like Dust (1951) were both set within the trilogy’s world. Pebble in the Sky tackles the subject of racism by creating a future  Earth, believed unfit for habitation by any intelligent individual, shunned by  the rest of the Empire. The humans of other worlds hold a prejudice against  Earth-dwellers because they “simply do not like the Earth.” Although all humans  originated on Earth, the novel takes place so far in the future that this  concept has been lost. The Earth-dwellers are therefore the subject of  discrimination by humans who do not realize their common humanity. In  retaliation, the humans from Earth develop a virus that will kill humans living  on other worlds, delivering the message that prejudice will only beget further  prejudice. The Stars Like Dust takes place in the Empire before the First  Foundation was created and deals with issues of inter-planetary imperialism.
In 1954, Asimov tried a new combination by pairing  science fiction and mystery in The Caves of Steel. The novel was the  result of a suggestion by Horace Gold, editor of Galaxy Science Fiction,  to have a murder solved by a human-robot detective duo. This novel is set in a  future where all inhabitants of Earth live underground and are considered  outcasts by the rest of the galaxy. When a famous robot is murdered on Earth, the  other planets demand an Earth-dwelling detective be put on the case, as a way  to embarrass the shunned planet. Elijah Baley, a New York detective, is given  the case and assigned to work with an Outer-world partner, R. Daneel Olivaw, a  robot. Working together, employing Baley’s intuition and Olivaw’s objectivity,  the pair is able to successfully solve the case. The Caves of Steel continues  to showcase Asimov’s talent for world creation. According to Goldman,  “[Asimov’s] descriptions are every bit as effective as those in the Foundation  series, and they convince the reader that he is indeed seeing a world that has  undergone great change and adapted to that change.” Asimov revisited the  pairing of Baley and Olivaw in The Naked Sun (1957) and “Mirror Image” (1972).
Asimov’s most productive period writing in the  science fiction genre was in the 1950s. After 1957, he began to write mostly  nonfiction works, capitalizing on his self-proclaimed ability to “read a dozen  dull books and make one interesting book out of them.” Asimov’s nonfiction  topics often centered on extrasolar phenomena and other astrological concepts,  which he covered in Adding a Dimension (1964), The Solar System and  Back (1970), and Quasar, Quasar, Burning Bright (1977). Asimov was  also the editorial director of Isaac Asimov’s Science Fiction Magazine,  writing the editorials for each issue. Asimov’s work in nonfiction has chiefly  been admired for the way in which he could explain difficult concepts to the  average individual. In a New York Times review, Theodore Sturgeon called  Asimov “the most perfect and the most inclusive interface between hard  science…and the layman, for he has a genius for bringing the obscure into the  light.” This gift for explanation, according to Goldman, made Asimov “phenomenally  successful as a writer of science books for the general public.” Asimov  claimed, “I’m on fire to explain, and happiest when it’s something reasonably  intricate which I can make clear step by step. It’s the easiest way I can  clarify things in my own mind.” His significant talents were honored with the  James T. Grady Award by the American Chemical Society in 1965 and the American  Association for the Advancement of Science-Westinghouse Science Writing Award  in 1967.  Asimov was not content to only write about science, however. He  continued to diversify by writing about history (The Shaping of England),  Shakespeare (Asimov’s Guide to Shakespeare), the Bible (Asimov’s  Guide to the Bible), and mythology (Mythology and the Universe).
In 1972, Asimov briefly returned to writing science  fiction with the publication of The Gods Themselves, which also won a  Hugo from the World Science Fiction Society and a Nebula Award from the Science  Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America. Asimov came up with the idea for the  story after attending a science fiction convention where a speech was given  about chemical isotopes, employing the imaginary “plutonium-186” as an example.  Asimov thus decided to create a story centering on this isotope. In the first  part of The Gods Themselves, a store of plutonium-186 is found. Since  the isotope could not possibly exist in that universe, scientist Frederick  Hallem concludes that it must come from a parallel universe that is ordered by  different laws that allow plutonium-186’s existence.
By discovering the link between his universe and the  parallel one, Hallem is able to invent an Electron Pump that can power his  world with unlimited amounts of energy. Peter Lamont, a young scientist,  realizes that continued use of the Electron Pump will likely set off nuclear  reactions in the suns of both universes, but neither Hallem nor his government  will listen to his warnings. The second section of The Gods Themselves takes  place in the alternate universe, and the final section reveals the discovery of  a third universe that provides the necessary equilibrium need to keep the  Electron Pump running safely. About this novel, Asimov’s first in fifteen  years, Sturgeon wrote, “Asimov does not completely succeed…but all the same, he  has created an extraordinary alien species.”
In 1976, Asimov added another impressive science  fiction short story to his resume, titled “The Bicentennial Man.” This story  revisited the issues Asimov had raised in his earlier robot stories and won  both a Hugo and a Nebula Award. Once again, Asimov dealt with the relationship  between man and his finest creation, the robot. The story is presented through  Andrew, a robot who wants to break down the barriers between robots and humans.  His human owners encourage his evolution towards humanity, despite all the  outsiders who try to stand in his way. By the end of the story, Andrew  undergoes an operation that will make him mortal, and is thus declared human.  Andrew justifies his choice by saying “I have chosen between the death of my  body and the death of my aspirations and desires.”  Asimov’s story was  used as the source material for the film adaptation Bicentennial Man (1999),  starring Robin Williams as Andrew.
Despite suffering a heart attack in 1977, Asimov kept  up his strenuous writing pace.  He returned to the Foundation’s universe  in 1982 with the sequel Foundation’s Edge, his first best-seller. Gerald  Jonas, in a New York Times review, wrote that “[Asimov] writes much  better than he did 33 years agoFoundation  and Earth (1986) and Prelude to  Foundation (1988), which linked the Foundation universe with his robot  stories. In 1986, he was awarded the Science Fiction Writers of America Grand  Master Award.
Asimov was a truly prolific writer, publishing over  500 works. Mervyn Rothstein, in Asimov’s obituary, explains the sheer volume of  work the writer produced:
His first 100 books took him 237 months, or  almost 20 years, until October 1969, to write. His second 100, a milestone he  reached in March 1979, took 113 months, or about 9 1/2 years 
Asimov was able to accomplish this feat, in part, by  rewriting everything only once. He admitted that this habit was “not out of  conceit…I have lots of stuff I’m committed to write and if I linger lovingly I  won’t be able to write at all.” He worked every day, revealing that, “Sunday is  my best day: no mail, no telephones. Writing is my only interest. Even speaking  is an interruption.”
Despite his profession that writing was his only  passion, Asimov was an opera enthusiast and a member of a Sherlock Holmes  society.  From 1985 to 1992, he was the president of the American Humanist  Society.   
Isaac Asimov died on April 6, 1992 at the age of 72  in the New York University Hospital. At the time, his brother Stanley said that  Asimov had died of heart and kidney failure. His biography, It’s Been a Good  Life, revealed a decade later that he had died of AIDS, having contracted  HIV from a blood transfusion in 1983. Before death, Asimov contemplated the  loss of conscious thought, then concluded, “I don’t have to worry about that,  because there isn’t an idea I’ve ever had that I haven’t put down on paper.”  Asimov was survived by his children, David and Robyn, and his second wife,  Janet. In 1997, he was inducted into the Science Fiction and Fantasy Hall of  Fame.
Adding       a Dimension: Seventeen Essays on the       History of Science. New York: Doubleday, 1964.
Asimov, Isaac. In Joy Still       Felt: the Autobiography of Isaac Asimov, 1954-1978. Garden City, NY:       Doubleday, 1980.
Asimov, Isaac. In Memory Yet       Green: the Autobiography of Isaac Asimov, 1920-1954. New York:       Doubleday, 1979.
Elkins, Charles. “Isaac       Asimov’s Foundation Novels: Historical Materialism Distorted Into Cyclical       Psycho-History.” Science Fiction Studies. Mar. 1976. DePauw       University. 18 Nov. 2007       <http://www.depauw.edu/sfs/backissues/8/elkins8art.htm>.
Goldman, Stephen H. “Isaac       Asimov.” Dictionary of Literary Biography, Volume 8: Twentieth-Century       American Science-Fiction Writers. Ed. Thomas L. Wyner and David       Cowart. 1981.
Hassler, Donald M. “Some Asimov       Resonances from the Enlightenment.” Science Fiction Studies. 15.44       (1988): 36-47.
“Isaac Asimov.” Contemporary       Authors Online. Thomson Gale, 2004. 16 Nov. 2009. <http://infotrac.galegroup.com/itw/infomark/0/1/1/purl=rc6_CA?sw_aep=psucic>.
“Isaac Asimov Biography.” Biography.Com.       2011. 1 Feb. 2012.       <http://www.biography.com/search/article.do?id=9190737>.
“Isaac Asimov.” Isaac Asimov       Webpage. 2007. Dept. of English, Clemson University. 18 Nov. 2007       <http://hubcap.clemson.edu/~sparks/asim.html>.
Rahmel, Dan. “Foundation.” Coherent       Visual. 2007. 18 Nov. 2007 <http://www.cvisual.com/film-books/asimov-foundation.asp>.
Rothstein, Mervyn. “Isaac       Asimov, Whose Thoughts and Books Traveled the Universe, Is Dead at 72.” New       York Times, 7 Apr. 1992: A1.
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/loading-indicator._V192185253_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif');
        background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/buttons._V243643239_.gif')
    background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/traffic/s9m/alert-small._V195630253_.gif");
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/donsbeak-sm-up._V197474569_.png) no-repeat 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite-mini.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
Foundation, Foundation and Empire, Second Foundation (Everyman's Library (Cloth)) by Isaac Asimov and Michael Dirda
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/tile-blue-bg._V46870869_.gif)
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tl._V192184760_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tm._V192184721_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tr._V192184429_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bl._V192184824_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bm._V192184603_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-br._V192545463_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tl2._V192545542_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tr2._V192545537_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-bl._V192545543_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-br._V192545543_.gif);
Help us improve our Author Pages by updating your bibliography and submitting a new or current image and biography.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
