=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Alicia Christian Foster (born November 19, 1962),[2] known professionally as Jodie Foster, is an American actress, film director, and producer. Foster began acting in commercials at the age of three, and her first significant role came in 1976 as a child prostitute in Taxi Driver, for which she received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. She won an Academy Award for Best Actress in 1989, for playing a rape victim in The Accused. In 1991, she starred in The Silence of the Lambs as Clarice Starling, a gifted FBI trainee, assisting in a hunt for a serial killer. This performance received international acclaim and her second Academy Award for Best Actress. She received her third Best Actress Academy Award nomination for playing a backwoods hermit in Nell (1994). Her other best-known work includes Contact (1997), Panic Room (2002), Flightplan (2005), Inside Man (2006) and The Brave One (2007).
Foster made her directorial debut in 1991 with Little Man Tate; she also directed the films Home for the Holidays (1995) and The Beaver (2011). In addition to her two Academy Awards, she has won three BAFTA Awards, three Golden Globe Awards, the Cecil B DeMille Award, and a Screen Actors Guild Award.
Foster was born in Los Angeles, California, youngest of four children born to Evelyn Ella "Brandy" (née Almond) and Lucius Fisher Foster III. Her father, a decorated U.S. Air Force lieutenant colonel turned real estate broker, came from a wealthy background and left his wife before Foster was born.[3] Foster has two older sisters, Lucinda "Cindy" Foster (b. 1954) and Constance "Connie" Foster (b. 1955), and an older brother, Lucius Fisher "Buddy" Foster (b. 1957), who was also a child actor.[4][5] Evelyn supported her children by working for a film producer.[5]
Foster attended a French-language prep school, the Lycée français de Los Angeles, and graduated in 1980. She frequently stayed and worked in France as a teenager, and speaks French fluently. She then attended Yale University, earning a bachelor's degree in literature in 1985. She was scheduled to graduate in 1984, but the shooting of then-President Ronald Reagan by John Hinckley, Jr., in which Hinckley's fascination with Foster created unwanted adverse publicity for her,[6] caused her to take a semester's leave of absence from Yale.[7][8] She also received an honorary Doctor of Fine Arts degree from the university in 1997.[9]
Due to her French fluency, Foster has dubbed herself in French-language versions of most of her films.[10][11] In 2004, she took a minor role in the French WWI film, A Very Long Engagement. She also understands German[12][13] and Spanish and can converse in Italian.[14][15]
Foster made nearly 50 film and television appearances before she attended college. She began her career at age three as a Coppertone girl in a television commercial[16] and debuted as a television actress in a 1968 episode of Mayberry R.F.D.[17] She was managed by her mother.[18] In 1969, she appeared in a Christmas episode of Gunsmoke, where she was credited as "Jody Foster". She is also credited as "Jodi Foster" for her 1970 Daniel Boone role and credited as "Jodie Foster" for her 1970 Adam-12 role. Although not a regular on The Courtship of Eddie's Father, she appeared from time to time as Eddie's friend Joey Kelly.[19] She made her film debut in the 1970 TV movie Menace on the Mountain, worked with Martin Scorsese, Ellen Burstyn and Diane Ladd in Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore in 1974, and was featured as Tallulah in Bugsy Malone in 1976. As a child, Foster made a number of Disney movies, including One Little Indian (1973), and Napoleon and Samantha (1972), in which she was grabbed by a circus lion.[20] Foster continued to star in Disney films into her early teens. In 1973 she played the character of Becky in Tom Sawyer. On television, she appeared in an episode of The Partridge Family titled "The Eleven-Year Itch", co-starred with Christopher Connelly in the 1974 TV series Paper Moon and alongside Martin Sheen in the 1976 cult film The Little Girl Who Lives Down the Lane. As a teenager, Foster made several appearances on the French pop music circuit as a singer. Commenting on her years as a child actress, which she describes as an "actor's career", Foster has said that "it was very clear to me at a young age that I had to fight for my life and that if I didn't, my life would get gobbled up and taken away from me."[21] She hosted Saturday Night Live at age 14,[22] making her the youngest person to host at that time until Drew Barrymore hosted at the age of seven.[23] She also said,
I think all of us when we look back on our childhood, we always think of it as somebody else. It's just a completely different place. But I was lucky to be around in the '70s and to really be making movies in the '70s with some great filmmakers – the most exciting time, for me, in American Cinema. I learned a lot from some very interesting artists – and I learned a lot about the business at a young age, because, for whatever reason, I was paying attention; so it was kind of invaluable in my career.[24]
Foster made her debut (and only official) musical recordings in France in 1977: two seven-inch singles, "Je T'attends Depuis la Nuit des Temps" b/w "La Vie C'est Chouette"[25] and "When I Looked at Your Face" backed with "La Vie C'est Chouette". The A-side of the former is sung in French, the A-side of the latter in English. The B-side of both is mostly spoken word and is performed in both French and English. These three recordings were included on the soundtrack to Foster's 1977 French film Moi, fleur bleue.
Foster starred in five films in 1976: Taxi Driver, Bugsy Malone, Freaky Friday, The Little Girl Who Lives Down the Lane and Echoes of a Summer. She was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in Taxi Driver. She won two British Academy Film Awards in 1977: the BAFTA Award for Best Newcomer and the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role for her performances in Bugsy Malone opposite Scott Baio and Taxi Driver opposite Robert De Niro. She received a nomination for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress for her performance in Freaky Friday. Foster also starred as the title character (opposite Martin Sheen) in The Little Girl Who Lives Down the Lane, for which she received the Saturn Award for Best Actress at the age of 15, the youngest actress to receive the award. The film also won the Saturn Award for Best Horror Film. As a teenager, she also starred in the Disney adventure Candleshoe (1977) and the coming-of-age drama Foxes (1980).
Foster at the 61st Academy Awards Governor's Ball on March 29, 1989. She won the Academy Award for Best Actress for The Accused
Foster made the transition to more mature roles as an adult, but it was not without initial difficulty, as several of the films in her early adult career in the 1980s, such as The Hotel New Hampshire,[26] Five Corners,[27] and Stealing Home,[28] were financially unsuccessful. Due to this, she had to audition for the main role of gang rape victim Sarah Tobias in The Accused, which was to become her breakthrough role as an adult. Based on a true story, the film depicts Tobias' struggle to receive justice for herself. It received mainly positive reviews and earned Foster a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award as well as a nomination for a BAFTA Award.[29]
In 1991, she starred as FBI trainee Clarice Starling in the thriller The Silence of the Lambs opposite Anthony Hopkins. The film became an unexpected box office hit, grossing nearly $273 million in theaters[30] and became Foster's first blockbuster.[31] She also received her second Academy Award and Golden Globe Award, as well as her first BAFTA Award for Best Actress for her performance. The same year saw the release of Foster's debut feature film as a director, Little Man Tate. It was a critically acclaimed[32] drama about a child prodigy, in which she also co-starred as the child's mother. The following year, Foster founded a production company called Egg Pictures in Los Angeles, which produced primarily independent films for distribution by other companies. She said that she did not have the ambition to produce "big mainstream popcorn" movies and, as a child, independent films had made her more interested in the movie business than mainstream ones.[24] The company was closed down in 2001.
Foster's next roles included playing a prostitute in Woody Allen's comedy Shadows and Fog and Laurel Sommersby in the American Civil War drama Sommersby. She starred in two films in 1994, first in the commercially successful western spoof Maverick[33] and later in Nell, in which she played an isolated woman, raised speaking an invented language, who finds it difficult to be confronted with civilization for the first time. Her performance in Nell earned her nominations for her fourth Academy Award, a Golden Globe, and an MTV Movie Award, and won her a Screen Actors Guild Award and a People's Choice Award, among others.
The following year Foster released her second film as a director, Home for the Holidays (1995), a black comedy starring Holly Hunter and Robert Downey Jr.. In 1996, Women in Film awarded her the Crystal Award for outstanding women who, through their endurance and the excellence of their work, have helped to expand the role of women within the entertainment industry.[34] In the same year, Foster was awarded with the Berlinale Camera award at the 46th Berlin International Film Festival.[35]
Foster made her debut in a science fiction film in 1997, when she starred opposite Matthew McConaughey in Contact, based on the novel by scientist Carl Sagan. She portrayed a scientist searching for extraterrestrial life in the SETI project. She commented on the script that "I have to have some acute personal connection with the material. And that's pretty hard for me to find."[citation needed] Contact was her first experience with a bluescreen. She commented, "Blue walls, blue roof. It was just blue, blue, blue. And I was rotated on a lazy Susan with the camera moving on a computerized arm. It was really tough."[36] The film was another commercial success[37] and earned Foster nominations for numerous awards, including a Golden Globe. In 1998, an asteroid, 17744 Jodiefoster, was named in her honor.[38] Her next starring role was in Anna and the King, a remake of the 1946 film based on Margaret Landon's 1944 novel, which became an international commercial success.[39]
Foster with co-star Mel Gibson at the premiere of The Beaver at the Cannes Film Festival in 2011. The film was Foster's third feature film as a director
In 2002, Foster took over the lead role in the thriller Panic Room after Nicole Kidman dropped out due to a previous injury.[40] The film costarred Forest Whitaker, Jared Leto, Dwight Yoakam and Kristen Stewart and was directed by David Fincher. It grossed over $30 million in its opening weekend in the United States, Foster's biggest box office opening success of her career so far.[24] Her next screen appearance was in a supporting role in the French film Un long dimanche de fiançailles (A Very Long Engagement) (2004), following which she returned to English-language films with the thriller Flightplan (2005), which opened once again in the top position at the U.S. box office and was a worldwide hit.[41] She portrayed a woman whose daughter disappears on an airplane that her character, an engineer, helped to design.[42]
In 2006, Foster co-starred in Inside Man, a thriller directed by Spike Lee and starring Denzel Washington and Clive Owen, which again opened at the top of the U.S. box office and became another international hit.[43] In 2007, she starred in The Brave One directed by Neil Jordan and co-starring Terrence Howard, another urban thriller that opened at No. 1 at the U.S. box office.[44] Her performance in the film earned her a sixth Golden Globe for Best Actress nomination and another People's Choice nomination, for Favorite Female Action Star. Commenting on her latest roles, she has said she enjoys appearing in mainstream genre films that have a "real heart to them."[45]
In 2008, Foster starred in Nim's Island alongside Gerard Butler and Abigail Breslin, portraying a reclusive writer who is contacted by a young girl after her father goes missing at sea. The film was the first comedy that Foster starred in since Maverick in 1994, and was also a commercial success.[46] The following year, Foster provided a voice for Maggie in a tetralogy episode of The Simpsons titled "Four Great Women and a Manicure."[47]
Foster returned to directing in 2011 with the black comedy The Beaver, starring herself and her friend and Maverick co-star Mel Gibson.[48] Based on a script by Kyle Killen, it tells the story of a depressed CEO of a toy company, who develops an alternative personality based on a beaver hand puppet.[49] It premiered in March 2011 at the South by Southwest film festival and received mixed reviews.[50] It was a box office flop, making only approximately $1 million during its first month after its general release in May 2011.[51][52] The same year, Foster also appeared in Roman Polanski's Carnage alongside John C. Reilly, Kate Winslet and Christoph Waltz. The film centres around four parents, whose initially peaceful meeting to discuss an incident between their sons gradually descends to a conflict. It premiered at the 68th Venice International Film Festival in September 2011, and garnered mainly positive reviews.[53] Foster received a Golden Globe nomination for her performance.
Foster was honoured with the Cecil B. DeMille Award, awarded annually to actors and filmmakers "who have had a definite impact on the world of entertainment", at the 70th Golden Globe Awards in January 2013.[54]
Foster appeared in the science fiction film Elysium, which was released in August 2013.[55] Also during this year, Foster directed an episode of the Netflix original television series Orange Is the New Black.[56] Two new directorial projects, independent film Money Monster and television series Angie's Body, have also been announced.[57][58]
John Hinckley, Jr., became obsessed with Foster after watching Taxi Driver a number of times,[59][60] and stalked her while she attended Yale, sending her love letters to her campus mail box and even talking to her on the phone. On March 30, 1981, he attempted to assassinate U.S. President Ronald Reagan (shooting and wounding Reagan and three others) and claimed his motive was to impress Foster, then a Yale freshman. The media stormed the Yale campus in April "like a cavalry invasion," and followed Foster relentlessly.[61][62]
The incident caused Foster intense discomfort and reporters have been warned in advance not to bring up the subject in front of her; she has been known to walk out of interviews at the mention of Hinckley's name.[63] In 1991, Foster canceled an interview with NBC's Today Show when she discovered Hinckley would be mentioned in the introduction.[63] Foster's only public reactions to the incident up to that time were a press conference afterwards and an article titled "Why Me?" that she wrote for Esquire in December 1982. In that article she wrote that returning to work on the film Svengali with Peter O'Toole "made me fall in love with acting again"[64] after the assassination attempt had shaken her confidence. In 1999, she discussed the experience with Charlie Rose of 60 Minutes II.[65]
Another man, Edward Richardson, followed Foster around Yale and planned to shoot her, but decided against it because she was "too pretty".[63]
This section possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (May 2014)
Though many news outlets have described Foster as lesbian or gay[67] and she acknowledged coming out in a speech at the 70th Golden Globe Awards,[68][69][70][71] she didn't use the words "gay" or "lesbian" in her speech.[72] Foster broke up with her long-time partner, movie producer Cydney Bernard, in 2008. They had been together since 1993.[73] Foster also thanked Mel Gibson as one of the people who "saved" her.[74] In April 2014, Foster married actress and photographer Alexandra Hedison.[75][76]
Foster is an atheist.[77][78][79] She has stated she has "great respect for all religions" and spends "a lot of time studying divine texts, whether it's Eastern religion or Western religion."[80][81] She and her children celebrate both Christmas and Hanukkah.[82]
Dallas-Fort Worth Film Critics Association Award for Best Actress (tied with Linda Fiorentino for The Last Seduction)
Categories: 1962 births20th-century American actresses21st-century American actressesAmerican atheistsAmerican child actressesAmerican expatriates in FranceAmerican film actressesAmerican film directorsAmerican film producersAmerican television actressesAmerican television directorsAmerican voice actressesBest Actress Academy Award winnersBest Actress BAFTA Award winnersBest Drama Actress Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Supporting Actress BAFTA Award winnersCecil B. DeMille Award Golden Globe winnersEnglish-language film directorsEuropean Film Awards winners (people)American women film directorsFilm directors from CaliforniaIndependent Spirit Award for Best Female Lead winnersIndependent Spirit Award winnersLiving peopleLGBT actressesLGBT entertainers from the United StatesOutstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role Screen Actors Guild Award winnersActresses from Los Angeles, CaliforniaYale University alumniWomen television directorsHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2010Articles with dead external links from January 2013Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesWikipedia pending changes protected pages (level 1)Wikipedia protected pages without expiryUse mdy dates from January 2012Articles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2009Articles that may contain original research from May 2014All articles that may contain original researchCommons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Alicia Christian Foster was born in Los Angeles on November 19, 1962. Her parents divorced three years before she was born, and she was conceived when her mother, Brandy, was visiting her father, Lucius, for child support. Alicia's siblings nicknamed her "Jodie," a name she has used in her profession. When she was just three years old, Jodie began acting in commercials, most notably for Coppertone sunblock. When she was five, Jodie landed her first acting role on the TV show Mayberry R.F.D. (1968). She stayed very busy as a child actress, working on television programs such as The Doris Day Show (1968), Adam-12 (1968), The Courtship of Eddie's Father (1969), The Partridge Family (1970), Bonanza (1959), and Gunsmoke (1955). In movies, her roles included playing Raquel Welch's daughter in Kansas City Bomber (1972) and a delinquent tomboy in Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore (1974). Jodie first drew attention from critics with her appearance in Taxi Driver (1976), in which she played a prostitute at the tender age of 12 (she was 13 when the movie premiered) and received her first Oscar nomination as Best Supporting Actress. She went on to have a very successful career in her early teens with leading roles in the Disney films Freaky Friday (1976) and Candleshoe (1977). The last film Jodie made during this era was the coming-of-age drama Foxes (1980), before enrolling at Yale University. Tragedy struck Jodie during her Freshman year when a crazed and obsessed fan named John Hinckley shot President Ronald Reagan to impress her.Jodie graduated from Yale in 1985 with a degree in literature. Her main priority was now to become a successful adult actress. After appearing in a few obscure B-movies, Jodie auditioned for The Accused (1988) and was cast Sarah Tobias, a waitress who is gang-raped in a bar after a night of partying. For this role she won her first Academy Award as Best Actress. But even though she had won an Oscar, Jodie still hadn't established herself as a bankable star. Her next film, Catchfire (1990), went straight to video, and she had to fight hard to get her next good role. In 1991 she starred as Clarice Starling, an FBI trainee hunting down a serial killer in The Silence of the Lambs (1991). The film was a blockbuster hit, winning Jodie her second Academy Award for Best Actress and establishing her as an international star at the age of 28. With the wealth and fame to do anything she wanted, Jodie turned to directing. She made her directorial debut with Little Man Tate (1991), which was followed by Home for the Holidays (1995). These movies were critically acclaimed but did not do well at the box office, and Jodie proved to be a far more successful actress than she was a director. 1994 proved to be a huge triumph for Jodie's acting career. She first played a sexy con artist in the successful western spoof Maverick (1994) with Mel Gibson. Then, she played title role in Nell (1994) alongside Liam Neeson and Natasha Richardson. For her compelling performance as a wild, backwoods hermit who speaks an invented language and must return to civilization, Jodie was nominated for another Academy Award and won a Screen Actors Guild Award as Best Actress.Although Jodie was working far less frequently as an adult than she did as a child, the films she turned out were commercially successful and critically acclaimed. Her next big screen role was in the science fiction drama Contact (1997) opposite Matthew McConaughey. She played a scientist who receives signals from space aliens. The film was a huge hit and brought Jodie a Golden Globe nomination. She starred in the non-musical remake of The King and I (1956) entitled Anna and the King (1999), which was only modestly received in the U.S. but was very successful overseas. Three years after that she headlined the thriller Panic Room (2002). The film was a smash box-office hit and gave Jodie a $30 million opening weekend, the biggest of her career yet. She then appeared in two low-profile projects: the independent film The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys (2002) and the foreign film Un long dimanche de fiançailles (2004). She returned to making Hollywood mainstream films, first with Flightplan (2005), in which she played a woman whose daughter disappears on an airplane that she designed. Once again Jodie proved herself to be a box-office draw, and the film was a worldwide hit. The following year she starred in another hit, a thriller about a bank heist titled Inside Man (2006) with Denzel Washington and Clive Owen. Jodie seemed to be on a pattern of non-stop success. She was paid $15 million for her next film, the revenge thriller The Brave One (2007), which once again opened at #1 at the box office and earned her another Golden Globe nomination for Best Actress. Following this succession of dark thrillers, Jodie returned to the comedy genre in Nim's Island (2008) with Gerard Butler and Abigail Breslin. Jodie will reunite with Mel Gibson in the upcoming movie The Beaver (2011), which is scheduled for general release in 2011.Having spent nearly her entire life in the spotlight, Jodie Foster has had one of the most substantial film careers in Hollywood history. She is one of the most respected and highest-paid actresses working today, and there is no doubt that there will be many great things ahead for this child actress turned two-time Oscar-winning superstar.
      Was supposed to be commencement Speaker for Smith College in Massachusetts, but eventually had to decline (2000).
      As a child, she was attacked by a lion and carried briefly in its mouth while filming Disney's Napoleon and Samantha (1972).
      Ranked #18 in Empire (UK) magazine's "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time" list (October 2007).
      Born to Lucius Fisher Foster III, an Air Force colonel turned real estate agent, and Evelyn 'Brandy' Ella Almond, a film producer. Her father left the family after few months before her birth.
      Graduated in 1980 as the class valedictorian from the private academy Lycée Français in Los Angeles.
      Fluent in French by age 14, she spoke her own lines in the film Moi, fleur bleue (1977) and the film Un long dimanche de fiançailles (2004). She was also fluent in Italian by age 18.
      Listed as one of twelve "Promising New Actors of 1976" in John'Willis' Screen World, Vol. 28 (1976).
      Enjoys kickboxing, yoga, karate, aerobics, and weightlifting and collects fancy kitchenware and B&W photos.
      Gave the Class Day speech at Yale in 1993 and received an honorary Doctor of Fine Arts degree from Yale in 1997.
      CBS was billed $12,000 for her hair and makeup for her appearance on 60 Minutes II (1999), December 1999 to promote Anna and the King (1999). This total was later determined to be incorrect and inflated.
      Starred as Addie Pray in the short-lived television series Paper Moon (1974), which was originally a movie starring Tatum O'Neal.
      Got the role of Clarice Starling in The Silence of the Lambs (1991) after Michelle Pfeiffer turned it down.
      Was stalked by John Hinckley during her college years, who attempted to assassinate US President Ronald Reagan to impress her (30 March 1981).
      Replaced Nicole Kidman in the role of "Meg Altman" in Panic Room (2002) at the last minute when Kidman injured herself.
      Recorded a number of songs for her film Moi, fleur bleue (1977), including "Je T'Attends Depuis La Nuit Des Temps", "When I Looked at Your Face" and "La Vie C'est Chouette".
      Was in a serious relationship with Cydney Bernard since they met on the set of the movie Sommersby (1993) until they broke up in 2008.
      Her Oscar-winning role as Clarice Starling from her 1991 film The Silence of the Lambs (1991) was ranked #6 in the American Film Institute's "Heroes" list in AFI's 100 Years... 100 Heroes & Villains (2003).
      Her sister, Connie Foster, was her stand-in during the more explicit scenes in Taxi Driver (1976).
      In 2001, decided not to reprise the role of Clarice Starling in Hannibal (2001). The role eventually went to Julianne Moore.
      Is doubled by stuntwoman Jill Stokesberry in most of her films, starting with Sommersby (1993).
      Considers her role in The Silence of the Lambs (1991) to be a counterpart to her role in Taxi Driver (1976). In Taxi Driver (1976), she is a young girl in bondage who has to be rescued. In The Silence of the Lambs (1991), she rescues the captive woman. In an interesting twist, her pimp in Taxi Driver (1976) was played by Harvey Keitel, who went on to play Clarice Starling's (her character in Silence of the Lambs") mentor, Jack Crawford, in Red Dragon (2002).
      Her production company, Egg Pictures, is named after the character played by Seth Green in The Hotel New Hampshire (1984) in which Jodie starred.
      Producer of Freaky Friday (2003) Andrew Gunn had initially hoped she would be game to play the mother, as Foster had played the daughter in the original film Freaky Friday (1976). Foster declined, in part because of concerns that the casting stunt would overshadow the movie's overall merit.
      She was all set to star in the television film The Best Little Girl in the World (1981). Unfortunately, an actors' strike prevented the film from being made. By the time the production was ready to go, Jodie was already studying at Yale University. The leading role went to Jennifer Jason Leigh.
      Her performance as Sarah Tobias in The Accused (1988) is ranked #56 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time (2006).
      She was the Commencement Speaker at University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in May 2006 and was awarded an Honorary Doctorate from the school.
      In an article published on 5 September 2006, Foster told The New York Times that she is such a "'serious N.P.R. [National Public Radio]-head', the sort of person who will sit in her garage listening to the car radio until a show is over" that she changed her character in The Brave One (2007) from a newspaper reporter to the host of a public radio show.
      Starred in two failed television series based on successful movies: Paper Moon (1974) and Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice (1973).
      Revealed during a 2005 interview on the French talk show "Le Grand Journal" that she knows the words to the French national anthem, "La Marseillaise", but does not know "The Star-Spangled Banner".
      Her favorite actors are Robert De Niro, Paul Newman, Marlon Brando and Humphrey Bogart and her favorite actresses are Meryl Streep, Jane Fonda, Diane Keaton and Katharine Hepburn.
      Made an acceptance speech at a breakfast for Hollywood Reporter's Women in Entertainment, where she paid tribute to her longtime companion Cydney Bernard, ending all speculations about her sexual orientation (December 2007).
      Has said that her only regret is that she would love to live life without knowing what it's like to be famous.
      Turned down the role of "Violet" for Pretty Baby (1978), that ultimately went to Brooke Shields. She refused to play the role, since she didn't want to be typecast as the child prostitute she played in Taxi Driver (1976).
Sean Penn's role in The Game (1997) was originally written as a female character with Foster in mind to portray. In the original script, Foster would play the daughter of Michael Douglas's character. However, Douglas insisted that the female character be changed to his sister; Foster did not like the idea as she was far too young to play his sister, and she withdrew from the project.
      Was considered by Sergio Leone for the role of Deborah Gelly in his final movie Once Upon a Time in America (1984), but the role went to Elizabeth McGovern.
      Was considered for the role of Viola in Shakespeare in Love (1998). Gwyneth Paltrow got the part.
      Was considered for the role of Vivian in Pretty Woman (1990), but the part went to Julia Roberts.
      Was considered for the role of Claire Standish that was played by Molly Ringwald in The Breakfast Club (1985).
      Foster was pursued by an obsessed fan named John Hinckley. Hinckley came up with a plan to impress her by assassinating President Ronald Reagan. Shortly before 2:30 PM EST, as Reagan walked out of the hotel's T Street NW exit toward his waiting car, Hinckley emerged from the crowd of admirers and fired a .22-cal. blue steel revolver six times in three seconds, missing the President with all six shots. The first bullet hit White House Press Secretary James Brady in the head. The second hit District of Columbia police officer Thomas K. Delahanty in the back. The third overshot Reagan and hit the window of a building across the street. The fourth hit Secret Service agent Timothy J. McCarthy in the abdomen. The fifth hit the bullet-resistant glass of the window on the open side door of the president's limousine. The sixth and final bullet ricocheted off the side of the limousine and hit the president in his left underarm, grazing a rib and lodging in his lung, stopping nearly an inch from his heart. Hinckley has been in a psychiatric hospital ever since.
      Member of the same Los Angeles gym as Ryan Gosling, Bradley Cooper, Jason Sarayba, Michelle Monaghan, Christopher Mintz-Plasse, and Ashley Tisdale.
      Returned to work four months after giving birth to her son Kit in order to begin filming The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys (2002).
      Returned to work four months after giving birth to her son Charles in order to begin filming Anna and the King (1999).
      As she is fluent in the language, she often dubs over her own character's voice for the French version of her films.
      In both times, Foster won the Best Actress Oscar, she was under the direction of directors named Jonathan: Jonathan Kaplan directed her in The Accused (1988) and Jonathan Demme directed her in The Silence of the Lambs (1991).
      While promoting The Beaver (2011), she said that David Fincher and Neil Jordan are the directors who have influenced her as a director.
      Will receive the Cecil B. DeMille award at the 2013 Golden Globes Awards on January 13, 2013 at the Beverly Hills Hotel [November 1, 2012].
      Gave birth to her first child at age 35, a son Charles Foster on July 20, 1998. Child's father is unknown.
      Gave birth to her second child at age 38, a son Kit Foster on September 21, 2001. Child's father is unknown.
      Was considered for the role of President Coin in The Hunger Games: Mockingjay (Part 1), but was busy filming Elysium - the role ultimately went to Julianne Moore.
      She and Jane Fonda are the two actresses with the initials 'J.F.' who had won each one, two Academy Awards for Best Actress.
      (April 20, 2014) Married her girlfriend Alexandra Hedison with whom she was together since last summer.
      At one point, she was approached by Stephen McCauley to star in a film version of his novel "The Object of My Affection". However, the film The Object of My Affection (1998) was not made until 1997, and eventually starred Jennifer Aniston.
      Was the 98th actress to receive an Academy Award; she won the Best Actress Oscar for The Accused (1988) at The 61st Annual Academy Awards (1989) on March 29, 1989.
      [on her role in Taxi Driver (1976), when she was 12:] I spent four hours with a shrink trying to prove I was normal enough to play a hooker. Does that make sense?
      I could tell you the criticism backward and forward about Little Man Tate (1991). But it didn't bother me as long as they were talking about the work and not about "she has fat thighs" or something. But I fared really well with "Tate", so I shouldn't be complaining.
      [In April 2004, on the advantages of being an actress who is months from turning 40] They've lived longer, they're more confident about their choices and they don't have to be hip and cool anymore, which I think is a godsend--you make really bad choices when you are trying to be hip.
      {On "Foster Child", her brother Buddy Foster's unauthorized biography about her] A cheap cry for attention and money filled with hazy recollections, fantasies and borrowed press releases. Buddy has done nothing but break our mother's heart his whole life.
      {On devoting more time to parenting her sons than film work] There's something so pure about the ways boys love you.
      I'm interested in directing movies about situations that I've lived, so they are almost a personal essay about what I've come to believe in.
      Acting, for me, is exhausting. I'm always more energized by directing. It's more intense to direct. I can pop in and express myself, then pop out again. It's a huge passion for me.
      I love to see theater but not to work in it. Too messy, and I have a bit of an inferiority complex.
      What I didn't realize is how completely consumed I would be by my sons. I didn't know that the rest of my life would become so little a priority.
      I'm nervous every day on a film set. The anxiety of performance is not like anything else because you never know if you'll get there or not. There is an anxiety when it comes to finding the truth.
      "I'm lucky that people do leave me alone. I'm not Madonna. The red carpet is work for me. I work from 9-to-5 and when I get home, I don't want to go back to work by going to an industry event. For me, putting on makeup and a fancy dress is work".
      I've learned something in the last few years that I really didn't know about myself as an actor. I basically learned how to stay happy. It's important for me to be happy working or I feel resentful. I don't like it. I hate myself. What I know now is that I really need to love the director. I need him to be a good parent. And then I will lie down on the train tracks for him and go to the ends of the earth for him.
      Motherhood doesn't mean I don't have a creative side that I need to nourish. It doesn't mean I don't have independence from them. I'd be a crazy person if I didn't.
      {On her role as the child prostitute Iris in Taxi Driver (1976)] At first I didn't want to do the part, but only because I was afraid my friends would tease me afterward. I thought, "Wow, they've got to be kidding". It was a great part for Melanie Griffith, but I couldn't believe that they were offering it to me. I was a Disney girl.
      {On her role as the child prostitute Iris in Taxi Driver (1976)] I played something completely different. But I knew the character I had to play--I grew up three blocks away from Hollywood Boulevard and saw prostitutes like Iris every day.
      [on the making of Taxi Driver (1976)] There was a welfare worker on the set every day and she saw the daily rushes of all my scenes and made sure I wasn't on set when Robert De Niro said a dirty word.
      [on the making of Taxi Driver (1976)] You rarely have a director like Martin Scorsese or a co-star like Robert De Niro, who rehearses and rehearses until you get the feeling that for the time you're with him he is the character. It's so real it's frightening.
      [on Taxi Driver (1976)] I think it's one of the finest films that's ever been made in America. It's a statement about America. About violence. About loneliness. Anonymity. Some of the best works are those that have tried to imitate that kind of film, that kind of style. It's just a classic. I felt when I came home every day that I had really accomplished something.
      [on backing Mel Gibson after his 2006 anti-Semitic comments while drunk to a cop he thought was Jewish] Is he an anti-Semite? Absolutely not. But it's no secret that he has always fought a terrible battle with alcoholism. [Mel] was a shining example of how low you can go when you are young and still pull yourself up. He took his recovery very seriously, which is why I know he is strong enough to get through this now.
      [Criticizing the film adaptation of Sin City (2005)] That was so painfully cartoonish I was offended. I don't know how you enjoy or laugh about a child abduction and molestation. What part of that sentence is funny? I can't get beyond that. I don't know if everyone understands the impact of that movie's message.
      When people are there to simply do a job they don't have any passion for, those are nearly always bad films.
      [on independent film] Obviously, I've made a lot of independent movies and I ran an independent production company and produced a bunch of independent movies. I don't make as many indie movies as an actress 'cause I don't think I'm well suited for them. I don't know why. As an actress, I think I'm better in mainstream movies because I have a very linear storytelling way and sometimes that's kind of boring for indie movies. So, I think I'm a better indie movie director and producer than I am an actress.
      [Agreeing to work with the controversial Mel Gibson in The Beaver (2011)] I grew up with the idea that the movie business is a family. It's like the mob. You don't rat on your friends. Who you are in a business relationship is a reflection of who you are as an artist.
      Mel [Gibson] and I work in the same way. We're people who focus intensely but for a short period of time. One minute he's standing there making a joke. And then, bam! He's in it. It's all about concentration. What do you need to concentrate.
      I've reached that point where I don't want to act very much anymore. I am much more interested in holding off on acting, after 45 years as an actor. It's a long period of time to do the same thing.
      [at the 2013 'Golden Globes Awards'] I hope that you're not disappointed that there won't be a big coming-out speech tonight, because I already did my coming out about a thousand years ago, back in the Stone Age.
      [on Jennifer Lawrence] The good news is that Jen, her good-humored, ballsy, free-spirited ego with the husky voice and a propensity for junk food - Jen, the spirited tomboy from Kentucky - that Jen's got it together. A hoot. A gem. A gem with a killer stare.
=======================================================
Her childhood stalker tried to assassinate Reagan and by 30 she had won two leading lady Oscars. A profile of the reluctant star, from Disney favourite through 'Taxi Driver' to 'The Accused' and the Hollywood A-list.
Seen as a serious actor and producer to be reckoned with, Foster was born Alicia Christian Foster in November 1962. She was nicknamed Jodie by her three older siblings - Buddy, Lucinda and Constance.
It has been reported that the name Jodie was a tribute to the Foster children’s “Aunt’’ Jo, who was their mother's live-in lover. Her father, Lucius, abandoned the family when mother Evelyn (better known as Brandy) was pregnant with Jodie.
It was ambitious stage mother Brandy who first pushed Jodie into acting. Brandy worked for an LA film producer and, given her occupation, never had trouble finding screen work for Foster’s older sibling Buddy. Jodie was brought along to one of Buddy’s auditions and was spotted by advertising executives for Coppertone suntan lotion at the age of three. She soon made her acting debut as the bare-bottomed Coppertone girl. Her first television part was in the series 'Mayberry R.F.D' in 1968, alongside Buddy, who was already a regular. By the age of eight, Foster had expanded her acting repertoire to include nearly 40 television ads, as well as appearances on other television shows such as 'The Courtship of Eddie's Father', 'Bonanza', and 'The Partridge Family'. By the time she was ten, her prolific acting jobs were supporting the entire Foster family.
Her feature film debut came in 1972 with the Disney film 'Napoleon and Samantha'. Impressing Disney, she went on to make 'One Little Indian' in 1973, 'Freaky Friday' in 1976 and 'Candleshoe' in 1977. However, despite the family-friendly roles, it was the dark and often violent Martin Scorsese film, 'Taxi Driver', that set her on a course to true stardom and a career to be reckoned with – she was just 14.
In 'Taxi Driver', Foster made the film that she says, “changed her life’’. It became a cult piece, starring Robert De Niro as an unbalanced, vigilante cab driver named Travis Bickle. Bickle befriends Foster’s character Iris, a 12-year-old prostitute. The role was different from that any other 14-year-old actress had played and sparked controversy with its sexualised content – though a stand-in actress was used for the more explicit scenes. “It was the first time anyone asked me to create a character that wasn't myself,’’ Foster told The New York Times Magazine in 1991. “It was the first time I realised that acting wasn't this hobby you just sort of did, but that there was actually some craft.’’
The performance won her an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress. While tending to her burgeoning career, Foster continued to attend courses at the French school, Lycée Francais, eventually graduating as class valedictorian in 1980 despite a busy acting schedule. When the 'Taxi Driver' crew appeared at the Cannes International Film Festival the following year, a teenaged Foster was able to impress her co-stars and film press by speaking and translating in flawless French.
Years later, in 2001, Foster appeared as the head of the jury at Cannes. Foster’s head for academia did not deter her from playing darker roles. Still a youngster, she played a gangster's moll in 'Bugsy Malone' and a little murderess in 'The Little Girl Who Lived Down the Lane'. Unlike numerous other child stars, Foster continued her studies and did not fall into the trap or drugs or simply choosing roles that would eventually stifle their career. Simultaneously academic and actor, Foster turned down many parts so that she could eventually take her BA in literature at Yale University.
In an article she later wrote for Esquire magazine, Foster said her toughest challenge at Yale was simply blending into the student body as fame thrust her into the spotlight. Unfortunately, her profession had brought her to the attention of a man called John Hinckley. Obsessed with Foster's character in 'Taxi Driver', Hinckley had written her a number of letters before embarking on an attempted assassination of President Ronald Reagan as a means of catching her attention.
The attempt was a failure but it led police to the discovery of photographs of Foster and her college address in his motel room. Matters were further complicated with the capture of a second stalker, Edward Richardson, and the experience was more than enough to prompt Foster to retreat from the public spotlight. She remains one of Hollywood's most private celebrities.
However, Foster's decision to shield her personal life did not dampen her professional career and she continued to make film and television appearances until her 1985 graduation, with honours, from Yale. By this point, Foster was a seasoned veteran in the entertainment industry and had little trouble finding consistent work, although a follow-up to 'Taxi Driver' continued to elude her.
Her patience was rewarded in 1988, when she was cast as rape victim Sarah Tobias in 'The Accused'. The movie was well received and Foster's performance earned her a Golden Globe and an Oscar for Best Actress. Her reputation consolidated, Foster went on to her next Oscar-winning performance, as FBI rookie agent Clarice Starling in 1991's 'The Silence of the Lambs'. This particular Best Actress Academy Award marked her third nomination and her second trophy before the age of 30, a first among Hollywood women.
Having established herself as a high-calibre actor, Foster expanded her professional experience by forming Egg Productions in 1991. (She closed the company in late 2001 to spend more time with her children). The following year, she formed a three-year production deal with Polygram in which they were committed to financing three films in the $25 million range and three in the $10 million to $15 million, plus an extra $10 million in print and promotion. One proviso was that Foster could choose whether to act in, direct, or simply produce these films, gaining rare control and flexibility for an actor and a woman in Hollywood. Under Egg Productions, she made her directorial debut with 'Little Man Tate', in which she also starred alongside Harry Connick Jr.
'Little Man Tate' told the story of a struggling single mother trying to look after - and provide a mentally challenging atmosphere - for her academically gifted son. It is a position Foster understands. “Being a child prodigy is lonely. I was one of them,’’ she said. “You're different from other kids. No one else can understand. To me, acting didn't seem like much of a profession. My mom always said, 'By the time you're 16, your career will be over. So what do you want to do then?' She was correct. Most child actors' careers end early. They're lost.’’
However lonely she felt as a child, she now understands the importance of providing a happy one for her own children. Charles Bernard Foster, 9, and Kit Bernard Foster, 6. She gave birth to both children but has carefully guarded the identity of the pair’s father. Of course that never stops the press from guessing, but she once told reporters that after a long hunt, she had been impregnated with the genes of a tall, dark, handsome scientist with an IQ of 160.
In 2007, she finally broke her silence about her 14-year lesbian relationship with film producer Cydney Bernard. In a speech to a gathering of fellow Hollywood stars, the 45-year-old, who was collecting an award, pointedly thanked: "My beautiful Cydney, who sticks by me through all the rotten and the bliss." It was the first public recognition by Foster of 54-year-old Miss Bernard, who shares the actress's home and the care of her sons.
Because of the dearth of personal information on Foster, a tell-all book written by brother Buddy (now a failed child TV actor and recovering drug addict), became popular with fans when it was published in 1997. Titled 'Foster Child: A Biography of Jodie Foster', it tells the tale of a dysfunctional showbiz family, complete with sensational allegations, mostly about their mother Brandy.
Brandy Foster is described by Buddy as a hot-tempered, sometimes violent woman who frittered away her children's show-business earnings. According to what Buddy says Brandy told him, Jodie was conceived when Brandy went to their father to beg for child support money. Lucius told Brandy she must have sex with him first. She did, grudgingly, and he gave her the money. Nine months later, Jodie was born. Buddy says Foster and her father have virtually no relationship and do not speak.
Foster however, has decried the book calling it, “a cheap cry for attention and money filled with hazy recollections, fantasies and borrowed press releases. Buddy has done nothing but break our mother's heart his whole life’’.
For some unknown reason, Foster continues to attract stalkers. In 2008, Michael Smegal, 42, was arrested and charged in Boston. Three years prior, he admitted sending anonymous letters to Foster for more than a year. The obsessed fan has been accused of sending a bomb threat, mentioning Foster's name, to an airport.
Once again veering away from such serious roles as 'Panic Room' and 'Flight Plan', the actress is promoting her new film, 'Nim's Island', a family comedy-adventure about a reclusive writer and a little girl who befriends her.
In 2007, Foster had been due to work alongside actor Robert De Niro and direct the film 'Sugarland'. However, the project was shelved indefinitely.
In 2010, the actress directed and starred in black comedy 'The Beaver' opposite Mel Gibson. The movie was made on a budget of $21 million and tells the story of a depressed toy company executive who communicates with his family through a hand-puppet. The film opened in US cinemas in March 2011 and, although it received some favourable reviews, it did not achieve success commercially.
Foster described Gibson as "probably the most loved actor in Hollywood", during a press conference at the Cannes Film Festival. However, she stopped short of defending the actor's past behaviour, which included making anti-Semitic remarks to a police officer in 2006. "I can't excuse Mel's behaviour. We are all responsible for our own behaviour. But I do know the man that I know, and he has been a friend for many, many years," she said.
Taxi Driver is the definitive cinematic portrait of loneliness and alienation manifested as violence. Robert De Niro, as the tortured, ex-Marine cab driver Travis Bickle, made movie history with his chilling performance as one of the most memorably intense and vividly realised characters ever committed to film. This masterpiece, which is not for all tastes, is sure to horrify some viewers, but few could deny the film's lasting power and importance.Good evening, Clarice - Silence of the Lambs (Definitive Edition)Relive Foster's iconic role as Clarice in this classic American thriller that blends elements of the crime and horror genres. Two-disc special edition DVD.The secrets of a star - Jodie Foster: A BiographyFirst published in 1995 and now available in paperback, a biography of actress, director and producer Jodie Foster, which traces her career in film and television, and her success with films such as 'The Accused' and 'Silence of the Lambs', with discussion of her guarded private life.
=======================================================
                BUY TICKETS, GET MUSIC. Buy any ticket on Fandango this month and get a free Amazon Music code for two songs!
            Within 48 hours of your ticket purchase, you’ll receive an email from Fandango with your Amazon Music promotional code. You’ll receive one promotional code per ticket transaction, limit one per Amazon account. Offer is valid through 9:00 AM PDT 6/30/2014, while supplies last. Amazon.com account required. Amazon Music promotional code expires 11:59pm PDT, 7/30/14. This is a promotional code and is not to be shared, is not for resale, has no cash value, and will not be replaced if lost or stolen. Terms and conditions apply. See www.amazon.com/fandangoMP3 for details.
                                                        News Bites: Disney is making a live-action 'Beauty and the Beast'
                                                        Watch how Emily Blunt almost killed Tom Cruise on the set of 'Edge of Tomorrow'
                                                        J.J. Abrams tweets 'Star Wars' photo from onboard the Millennium Falcon
The youngest of four children born to Evelyn "Brandy" Foster, Jodie Foster entered the world on November 19, 1962, under the name Alicia, but earned her "proper" name when her siblings insisted upon Jodie. A stage-mother supreme, Brandy Foster dragged her kids from one audition to another, securing work for son Buddy in the role of Ken Berry's son on the popular sitcom Mayberry RFD. It was on Mayberry that Foster, already a professional thanks to her stint as the Coppertone girl (the little kid whose swimsuit was being pulled down by a dog on the ads for the suntan lotion), made her TV debut in a succession of minor roles. Buddy would become disenchanted with acting, but Jodie stayed at it, taking a mature, businesslike approach to the disciplines of line memorization and following directions that belied her years. Janet Waldo, a voice actress who worked on the 1970s cartoon series The Addams Family, would recall in later years that Foster, cast due to her raspy voice in the male role of Puggsley Addams, took her job more seriously and with more dedication than many adult actors. After her film debut in Disney's Napoleon and Samantha (1972), Foster was much in demand, though she was usually cast in "oddball" child roles by virtue of her un-starlike facial features. She was cast in the Tatum O'Neal part in the 1974 TV series based on the film Paper Moon -- perhaps the last time she would ever be required to pattern her performance after someone else's. In 1975, Foster was cast in what remains one of her most memorable roles, as preteen prostitute Iris in Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver. Both the director and the on-set supervisors made certain that she would not be psychologically damaged by the sleaziness of her character's surroundings and lifestyle; alas, the film apparently did irreparable damage to the psyche of at least one of its viewers. In 1981, John Hinckley Jr. attempted to assassinate President Reagan, and when captured, insisted he'd done it to impress Foster -- a re-creation of a similar incident in Taxi Driver. The resultant negative publicity made Foster (who'd been previously stalked by Hinckley) extremely sensitive to the excesses of the media; through absolutely no fault of her own, she'd become the quarry of every tabloid and "investigative journalist" in the world. Thereafter, she would stop an interview cold whenever the subject of Hinckley was mentioned, and even ceased answering fan mail or giving out autographs.  This (justifiable) shunning of "the public" had little if any effect on Foster's professional life; after graduating magna cum laude from Yale University (later she would also receive an honorary Doctorate), the actress appeared in a handful of "small" films of little commercial value just to recharge her acting batteries, and then came back stronger than ever with her Oscar-winning performance in The Accused (1988), in which she played a rape victim seeking justice. Foster followed up this triumph with another Oscar for her work as FBI investigator Clarice Starling (a role turned down by several prominent actresses) in the 1991 chiller The Silence of the Lambs. Not completely satisfied professionally, Foster went into directing with a worthwhile drama about the tribulations of a child genius, Little Man Tate (1991) -- a logical extension, according to some movie insiders, of Foster's tendency to wield a great deal of authority on the set. Foster would also balance the artistic integrity of her award-winning work with the more commercial considerations of such films as Maverick (1994). She made her debut as producer in 1994 with the acclaimed Nell, in which she also gave an Oscar-nominated performance as a backwoods wild child brought into the modern world. Foster  would continue to to produce and direct, with 1995's Home for the Holidays and 2011's The Beaver. Foster would continue to chose a challenging variety of roles, playing scientist Ellie Arroway in Robert Zemeckis' 1997 adaptation of the Carl Sagan in Contact, and a widowed schoolteacher in Anna and the King (1999), and a mother defending her daughter during a home invasion in David Fincher's Panic Room. The 2000's would see Foster appear in several more films, like Inside Man, The Brave One, and the Roman Polanski directed domestic comedy Carnage. In 2013, Foster was honored with the Cecil B. DeMille Award at the Golden Globes, and later appeared in sci-fi thriller Elysium. ~ Hal Erickson, Rovi
						and authorize Fandango and its service providers to deliver FanTexts and other promotional texts to your mobile phone. 
                    You can unsubscribe at any time by texting "STOP" or seek help by texting "HELP" to "FNDGO" (36346).
=======================================================
BiographyJodie Foster (born Alicia Christian Foster, 19.11.1962)Jodie Foster is an American Oscar-winning actress.Jodie Foster: ChildhoodJodie Foster was born in Los Angeles, to Evelyn Ella and Lucius Fisher Foster III. Her father was an Air Force veteran of the battle of Britain and later became a real estate broker. He left Jodie's mother before Jodie was born. Evelyn supported Jodie through her work as a film producer.Jodie's first acting appearances were in television commercials. She then performed on The Doris Day Show, followed by her film debut in Menace on the Mountain, and a string of Disney productions.In 1976, Foster made her first notable film role, as a 12 year old child prostitute in the Martin Scorsese film Taxi Driver. Robert De Niro, Harvey Keitel and Cybill Shepherd also star in the film. Foster earned herself a Best Supporting Actress Academy Award nomination for the role. The same year, she also appeared as Talulah in Bugsy Malone and starred opposite Martin Sheen in The Little Girl Who Lives Down the Lane.After graduating from the Lycée Français de Los Angeles, Foster attended Yale University, where she graduated with a B.A. in literature. She should have graduated in 1984 but when John Hinckley Jr. shot Ronald Reagan, Hinckley's fascination with Jodie Foster created a great deal of unwanted media attention and she abandoned her studies for a year.Jodie Foster: Acting CareerJodie Foster made a vast number of TV and film appearances even before attending college. Aged 14, she became the youngest star to host Saturday Night Live, though Drew Barrymore took that mantle when she hosted the show at the age of seven.Jodie Foster made the transition from child to adult actor. However, some of her first post-Taxi Driver films were not a success, such as Foxes, Stealing Home and Five Corners. She went on, though, to win an Academy Award for her role as a rape survivor in The Accused.Jodie Foster's second Academy Award came for her role as the FBI agent Clarice Starling, in The Silence of the Lambs, playing opposite Anthony Hopkins as the imprisoned cannibal Hannibal Lecter.Foster's directorial debut came in 1991, when she helmed the acclaimed drama Little Man Tate. Four years later, she directed Home for the Holidays, a dark comedy which starred Helen Hunt and Robert Downey Jr. In 1994, Foster worked as a producer, on Nell, though she later commented that she found it difficult to act in and produce the movie at the same time.Jodie Foster went on to star alongside Richard Gere in Sommersby and Mel Gibson in 1994's Maverick. This was followed by an appearance opposite Matthew McConaughey in Contact, a sci-fi film based on a Carl Sagen novel.In 2002, Jodie Foster took the lead role in Panic Room. The role was initially awarded to Nicole Kidman but Kidman was forced to leave the project after suffering an injury. The film was a huge financial success and became Foster's biggest box office hit in terms of opening weeks.Foster returned to the big screen in 2005's Flightplan. Flightplan was another box office number one. The following year, Jodie Foster and Denzel Washington starred in Spike Lee's thriller Inside Man. Three years later, Foster appeared alongside Terrence Howard in The Brave One, another thriller, this time directed by Neil Jordan.Jodie Foster: Personal LifeJodie Foster has been estranged from her elder brother Buddy for several years. In his book, Foster Child, he writes that he had always assumed that his sister is gay, or bisexual.Jodie herself has always been highly secretive about her sexual orientation. In the past, she dated her Bugsy Malone co-star, Scott Baio and the media has speculated about the fact that Russell Crowe often accompanies Foster to awards ceremonies. Foster has two children, Charles (b. 1998) and Christopher (b.2001) but has never revealed any details about the paternity of the two boys. In 2007, Foster made a dedication to "my beautiful Cydney (Bernard, a film producer), who sticks with me through thick and thin." The comment was assumed to be Foster 'coming out' in public.
Thandie Newton's son was born on her bathroom floor. The British actress and husband Ol Parker welcomed baby Booker Jombe in March but she didn't want him to be born at a hospital so arranged...
An overzealous Jodie Foster fan who attempted to assassinate former U.S. President Ronald Reagan in 1981 has been given conditional release from a mental institution.John Hinckley, Jr. was confined to St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Washington,...
Jodie Foster has married her girlfriend of a year, Alexandra Hedison. The nuptials have been confirmed by Foster’s publicist, after celebrity network E! began circulating rumors over the weekend. The pair wed at an undisclosed...
Congratulations to Jodie Foster and Alexandra Hedison, who just tied the knot this week! The actress’ publicist confirmed the news to TMZ. According to the entertainment website, Foster and Hedison had the ceremony last weekend,...
Jodie Foster has tied the knot with girlfriend Alexandra Hedison.The 51 year-old actress and her photographer beau said "I do" this past weekend, E!News reports.Foster and Hedison reportedly began dating last summer (2013), when they...
Jodie Foster has got married to Alexandra Hedison.The 'Panic Room' actress - who confirmed she is gay at the Golden Globe Awards last year following years of speculation - tied the knot with the photographer...
Actress Jodie Foster has married her photographer girlfriend Alexandra Hedison.The Oscar winner tied the knot with Hedison over the weekend (19-20Apr14), less than a year after they began dating.  A representative for Foster has...
Thandie Newton has given birth to a baby boy.The 41-year-old actress and husband Ol Parker welcomed little Booker Jombe - a sibling for their daughters Ripley, 13, and Nico, nine - into the world on...
Ellen Page came out as gay on Friday (14th February). The X-Men and Juno actress made the announcement in a speech at the Time to Thrive conference held in support of LGBT youth. Page is...
Dame Helen Mirren has been named Harvard University's Hasty Pudding Woman of the Year 2014.The 'Hitchcock' actress will be honoured for her contributions to film by the prestigious university's undergraduate drama society in a ceremony...
Thandie Newton has admitted filming her TV show 'Rogue' whilst pregnant has been ''mayhem''.The 41-year-old 'Crash' star - now six months pregnant - refused to quit her role as undercover cop Grace Travis in the...
Daniel Radcliffe has banned himself from drugs and alcohol.The 24-year-old actor - who shot to fame starring in 'Harry Potter' at the age of just 11 - has vowed not to become like other child...
Does Jodie Foster have a new paramour? The 50-year-old was spotted having a quiet lunch with possible girlfriend Alexandra Hedison. Although the brunch date seemed an informal affair with the pair wearing loose trousers, t-shirts...
Jodie Foster has found love with Tv host Ellen Degeneres' ex-girlfriend, according to a report.The Silence of the Lambs star has been linked to photographer Alexandra Hedison, who dated DeGeneres for three years until they...
Jodie Foster is dating Ellen DeGeneres' ex-girlfriend. The 50-year-old actress - who split from Cydney Bernard in 2008 after 20 years together - is in a relationship with photographer Alexandra Hedison. A source told E!...
Woody Allen is to be awarded the Golden Globes' Cecil B. De Mille Award at next years awards show, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA) announced on Friday, 13 September. The prolific writer, director, producer...
Actress Jodie Foster is set to direct an episode for the second season of House Of Cards.The Silence of the Lambs star is reportedly on location in Baltimore, Maryland, where the hit political drama series...
As he did with District 9, South African filmmaker Blomkamp grounds this sci-fi thriller in present-day society, telling a story that resonates with a strong political kick. He also again uses effects in a off-handed...
Matt Damon claims his new sci-fi film isn't far off real life.The 'Elysium' actor wants fans to be ''completely entertained'' but doesn't think they should ignore the action film's deeper meaning.The film follows two worlds...
Elysium, the science fiction action movie which stars Matt Damon, has headed straight for no.1 in the US Weekend Box Office. The film, released on Friday 9th, gained over $30 million in its opening weekend.Matt...
The year is 2154, two classes of people exist, the very wealthy – who live on a man-made space station called Elysium – and the poor, who live on an overpopulated ruined Earth. Neill Blomkamp’s...
It's been four years since Neill Blomkamp exploded on to the movie scene with his acclaimed story about alien refugees; District 9, and since then movie nerds have been eagerly awaiting his follow-up project. The...
Elysium reviews have been mixed. The sci-fi movie has been compared to director Neill Blomkamp's earlier work and Matt Damon's performance criticised and described as weighty.Matt Damon at the Elysium photo call, held at Weatherly...
Giorgio Armani has created custom-made pieces for Jodie Foster to wear in her new movie 'Elysium'.The 50-year-old actress is no stranger to Armani creations after being spotted sporting the plush designs on numerous occasions on...
American Pie star Jason Biggs had an awkward first encounter with Jodie Foster on the set of new Netflix show Orange Is The New Black because he was pretending to pleasure himself at the time.The...
Hollywood actress Jamie Lee Curtis was involved a serious car accident on Thursday (August 1, 2013) and taken to a hospital in an ambulance.The star of True Lies was travelling as the passenger in a...
Jodie Foster rescued Jamie Lee Curtis from a car crash.The 'Panic Room' star lived up to her action heroine status, rushing to help her close friend when she called her from the scene of the...
With it's release getting ever-closer, the Matt Damon-starring Elysium is being roundly pushed by Sony Pictures in a bid to get excitement for the film to more encouraging levels. To help this push for an...
Actress Jodie Foster's role in new sci-fi film Elysium was originally written for a male actor, but director Neill Blomkamp had a change of heart.The Silence of the Lambs actress was determined to land a...
Actress Jodie Foster has put her West Hollywood mansion on the market for a whopping $6.4 million (£4.1 million). The Spanish-style villa features a movie screening room and courtyard pool.
The second season of the prison comedy-drama will premiere on Netflix this week. here are some preview clips!
Oscar-winning actor Kevin Spacey turned the air blue on respected Bbc current affairs show Newsnight.
50 Cent has defended Justin Bieber in light of his N-word shame, insisting the 20-year-old star is not racist and is ''still a baby''.
All you really need to do for the next 10 minutes is relax, grab a coffee, and flick through the gallery.
A documentary focussing on the brotherly relationship between renowned rock star Matt Berninger and his metal head brother Tom.
Late Night Renaissance - How This Winter's Changes Are Paying Off For Fallon, Kimmel, Leno And The Networks
 Jonah Hill Awkwardly Watched Wolf Of Wall Street With MotherJennifer Lopez And Casper Smart SplitKelly Osbourne Thanks Date For 'Unforgettable' Lgbt PromGot A Spare $20,000? Then You Could Die In 'Game Of Thrones'Kim Kardashian West Uses Married Name For Autograph Almost 20 Years On, Dave Coulier Is Still Hung Up On Alanis Morissette's "You Oughta Know ""Why Is Hugh Bouncing?": Hugh Jackman Jumps For Joy Ahead Of Tony AwardsJohn Lennon's Doodles Sell For $27k And Other Crazy Music Auction Prices [Pictures]Game Of Thrones Vs. The Sopranos: Is Popularity Indicative Of Quality? "Game Of Thrones" Topples "The Sopranos" As Hbo's Most Watched Show
Evan Rachel Wood's Representative Slams 'Preposterous' LawsuitJennifer Lopez Splits From Boyfriend - ReportFight For Your Right: Beastie Boys Collect $1.7M In Monster Copyright BattleLa Toya Jackson wants 'huge' weddingChris Brown's Celebrity Pals Gather For Post-prison PartyLupita Nyong'o To Reteam With Brad Pitt For New Movie 
Pharrell Williams - Full Show - #AmexUNSTAGED VideoJack White - Lazaretto VideoSharlto Copley - Maleficent Video Interview Sam Riley - Maleficent Video Interview Elle Fanning - Maleficent Video Interview  
Sharlto Copley - Maleficent Video InterviewSam Riley - Maleficent Video InterviewElle Fanning - Maleficent Video InterviewAngelina Jolie - Maleficent Video InterviewBlair Jollands - Interview 
Christopher Hall - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, United Kingdom -Jerry Lewis and Larry King - Jerry Lewis attends the Friars Club celebration ofWanda Sykes and Alex Sykes - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life AchievementSyd Wilder - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life Achievement Award honoring JaneMatthew Davies and Emma Willis - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, 
=======================================================
Jodie Foster was born Alicia Christian Foster on November 19, 1962, in Los Angeles, California. She started her acting career at the young age of 3 when she landed a TV commercial role as the Coppertone Girl.In 1968, Foster's career as a child actress began to soar with her TV debut role in Mayberry R.F.D, which was later followed by her big-screen debut in Disney's Napoleon and Samantha (1972) and One Little Indian (1973).At the age of 12, Foster got her big break with a controversial role as a child prostitute in Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver (1976) alongside Robert De Niro, which led to her first Academy Award nomination. Soon after garnishing critical acclaim, Foster was attracting leading roles in blockbuster hits, including Freaky Friday (1976) and Foxes (1980).With success comes fame, but Foster was content with separating herself from Hollywood in order to grasp an ordinary life by enrolling in Yale University following her high school graduation. Ensuing her graduation from Yale, Foster went on to star in Svengali (1983) with Peter O'Toole and successfully transitioned into an adult actress with the role of a rape survivor in The Accused (1988) in which she won both a Golden Globe and Academy Award for Best Actress.Foster continued to establish herself as a Hollywood star with a memorable performance as FBI agent Clarice Starling in The Silence of the Lambs (1991) alongside Anthony Hopkins, which led to her second Golden Globe and Academy Award. Later that year, Foster made her critically praised directorial debut in Little Man Tate and made catchy appearances in the comedy Maverick (1994) with Mel Gibson, the mystery sci-fi Contact (1997) opposite Matthew McConaughey and the box office hit Panic Room (2002) opposite Kristen Stewart.Foster also starred in The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys (2002), the French film The Very Long Engagement (2004), the mystery thriller Flightplan (2005), the crime thriller Inside Man (2006) with Denzel Washington and Clive Owen, the drama-thriller The Brave One (2007) and the family comedy Nim's Island (2008).Foster's most recent projects include, the drama The Beaver (2011) opposite Mel Gibson, the dramedy Carnage (2011) alongside Kate Winslet, the action sci-fi film Elysium (2013) with Matt Damon.Is Jodie Foster Gay?Jodie Foster's sexuality was first called into the question in 1997, after her estranged brother Buddy authored Foster Child in which he claims, "I have always assumed Jodie was gay or bisexual." Foster quickly responded to the baseless allegation, calling the book "[a] cheap cry for attention and money filled with hazy recollections, fantasies and borrowed press releases. Buddy has done nothing but break our mother's heart his whole life."The public's obsession with Foster's sexuality continued to expand when Foster gave birth to her first son Charles Foster on July 20, 1998, followed by her second son Christopher Foster on September 29, 2001. Suspicion began to hover around the new family ensuing Foster's refusal to reveal who the children's father was and what methods were used to conceive.During an acceptance speech at the Hollywood Reporter's "Women in Entertainment" event in December 2007, Foster's sexuality was again scrutinized when the star apparently made a coming-out-of-the-closet statement in which she refers to film producer Cydney Bernard as "my beautiful Cydney, who sticks with me through the rotten and the bliss."Foster has always been known to protect her personal privacy, which is why she has never confirmed nor denied any rumors, but her acceptance speech seemed to tear down her privacy wall and hint at the possibility that she was in fact gay. When Foster and Cydney began being spotted together with Foster's children, the press immediately took it as her officially coming out party, although, she has never confronted the rumor. Soon after, rumors that Cydney had been helping with raising Foster's kids since they were born created new buzz around Hollywood and led to the confirmation of Foster's "gayness."Until this day, neither Foster nor Cydney have discussed their relationship. The question still remains; is she or isn't she?   
2006-2014 Shandy Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 
=======================================================
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
   background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/twister/tiny-snake._V192199047_.gif') no-repeat scroll 0px 0px;
  cursor: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-in._V184888790_.bmp'),pointer;
  cursor: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-out._V184888738_.bmp),pointer;
.swSprite { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; margin: 0;padding: 0; position: relative; overflow: hidden; vertical-align: middle; background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler div.disabled-button { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image {  background-position: -60px -80px;background-color: white;}
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image { background-position: -30px -80px; background-color: white;}
.dpSprite { background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-dp-2._V384267953_.png'); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.udpSprite { background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/udp-sprite-dp-2._V358106326_.png') no-repeat; vertical-align: middle; display: inline-block;}
.cmtySprite { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-communities._V136632413_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192250049_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V156431432_.png);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192190832_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite._V192250042_.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192239831_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/customerimage/shuttle-gradient._V192250138_.gif); 
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V192238939_.gif');
    background: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/sprite-carousel-btns-stars2._V376388587_.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_left_17._V248144977_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_right_17._V248144979_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_left._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top._V265110086_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_left._V265110084_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom._V265110084_.png); }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-arrow-v._V219326286_.png);
Foster Child: Intimate Biography of Jodie Foster: Buddy Foster, Leon Wagener, Leon Wagner: 9780434002658: Amazon.com: Books
     #twister .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; } #twister .a-dropdown-container span.a-button-dropdown { display: none !important } 	
     #buybox_feature_div .a-native-dropdown, #buybox .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; font-weight: normal;}
     #buybox_feature_div label.a-native-dropdown, #buybox label.a-native-dropdown {padding-right: 5px;}
     #buybox_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown, #buybox .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown  { display: none !important;} 
     #defaultChildDropdown_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown { display: none !important;}
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York TimesŽ Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
No Kindle device required. Download one of the free Kindle apps to start reading Kindle books on your smartphone, tablet and computer.
    * https://omni-grok.amazon.com/xref/src/appgroup/websiteTemplates/retail/SoftlinesDetailPageAssets/udp-intl-lock/src/legacy.css?indexName=WebsiteTemplates#40
 This biography from Jodie Foster's brother Buddy, promises to set the record straight on the life of one of Hollywood's most powerful women. From her childhood and early acting career, to her multiple academy awards, this book attempts to show the actress behind the myths.
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V397906885_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-right._V192549178_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_br._V192190565_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_03._V192190907_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-topleft._V192549173_.gif');
Tell us that you'd like this title to be produced as an audiobook, and we'll alert our colleagues at Audible.com. If you are the author or rights holder, let Audible help you produce the audiobook: Learn more at ACX.com. 
       Buddy is Jodie Foster's older brother; both were child stars. He is no longer a star. The hook: the effects of being raised by a controlling mother and her lesbian companion.  Bonnie Smothers
The advantage of having a biography written by a close relative is that the author doesn't have to rely on interviews with strangers and be at the mercy of other people's agendas or outright lies.  The disadvantage is that  the author is usually much less famous and successful than the subject and  the book tends to try to increase the author's importance.  This is the  case with "Foster Child".  Along with all the childhood  stories, the first half of the book is a comparison of Buddy's childhood  career with Jodie's and no one is buying this book to read about Buddy  Foster.  The second half of the book is more on track.  Its main  advantage is that only someone who grew up with Jodie could go into the  details of her more than unusual childhood, including the shocking  explanation of how someone named Alicia Christian Foster came to be known  as Jodie.  I was under the impression from what I had read previously that  Jodie's father was an evil cad who ran away from home never to be heard  from again.  Well, he may have been an evil cad, but the real story is much  more complicated than that.  The book is hardest of all, by far, on their  mother Brandy.  From how she used her children to live off of (she spent  every penny of Buddy's several hundred thousand dollar acting nest egg  before he was 21), to how she tried to shape the children's thinking and  poison them against their father, she is the underlying villain of the  book.  The mother's attention follows the money.  When it is clear that  Jodie is the star of the family, and the main breadwinner, she gets her  mother's attention to the detriment of the rest of the family.  Other than  subject of their mother, this is not a particularly gossip filled book, so  those that are looking for that may want to look elsewhere.Read more ›
I read this book, and I read "The Royals" by Kitty Kelly.  There is all the difference in the world between the two books.  The first is an unpleasant book written by an unpleasant woman, which uses second and third hand gossip who has nothing but contempt for its subject matter.  "Foster Child," on the other hand, has a great deal of respect for the woman at its core, which does not stop it from dwelling on her weaknesses, as any good biography should.  Those familiar with what is known about Jodie Foster will find few real surprises.  It is generally known, for instance, that she is frightenly intelligent; and that she has, with one or two exceptions, never acted in or directed a movie she didn't really want to do, but once committed devotes herself wholeheartedly.  It also been surmised that in terms of a love life, she looks at the person and not the gender; a common trait with highly educated, irreligious people.  That she is understandably guarded with her privacy, that she does not suffer  fools gladly, or that she has something of a cold streak personally, do not come as a surprise either.  All of these are elaborated on in this book.  What is particularly germaine in the book is Buddy's revelations of the Foster family, a high strung, tumultuous family if there ever was one.  Speaking first hand, we have his account of the wars between the ambitious mother of the Foster brood, Brandy, and their USAF officer father Lucius.  They divorced while Brandy was pregnant with Jodie, but they had several break-and-smash reunions afterward.  Buddy's respect for his sister particularly shines in the analysis he gives her movies, notably her directorial efforts "Little Man Tate" and "Home for the Holidays.Read more ›
  I was shocked to read such negative reviews of this book.  The historical background and her family experiences were not only extremely interesting, and accurate (since her brother, who wrote the book, saw all of this first-hand), but also has made me respect and admire this wonderful actress even more.  There is nothing slanderous in the book, and nothing that Jodie seemingly would be ashamed to tell herself.  The book merely retells the life that she grew up in.  Fascinating.My whole family read the book, one after the other.  Our edition is falling apart after so much use.  I highly recommend this book.  Perhaps the best biography I have ever read.
  This book provides exactly the sort of information that it purports to in its advertisements. This is why I find it perplexing that readers express such indignation upon having purchased it themselves. If you want to understand the family history and background of Jodie Foster, this book certainly covers that subject matter thoroughly. In fact, an examination of these relationships could be extended towards an understanding of relationships in general. It is reasonably well-written and, based on what the author says in the book, he apparently holds the subject of his biography in high regard. The issue of whether the book should have been written is a separate one from a judgment of the quality of the work and whether it achieves its stated purpose. My rating reflects the latter standard.
  I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book.  My son spiked my curiosty regarding Ms. Foster, so  I bought brother Buddy's book, expecting it to be a tell-all biography of only one Foster.  This book should truly have been titled, "The Foster Family".  It is not an exclusive on Jodie Foster.  It deals more with family dyamics, sibling rivalry, sibling defeats and accomplishments.  While Jodie is the central spindle around which this book revolves, there are truly 4 Foster Children.  I appreciated the way in which Mr. Foster writes about his very capable and famous sister; however, he incorporates family anecdotes for all family members. Still, there are many insights to glean about Jodie from his book .  As a reader puts the book down when finished, he/she will have a much better sense of what makes these talented and gifted people tick, with emphasis on Jodie!Very readable and well written.  Maintains a reader's attention throughout.  A "can't put down" book for any Jodie fan!Thank you, Buddy and family!
      The book was a good read but was not in the condition stated by the seller.  There was a problem with the binding making it difficult just to hold the book open.
      If I were Buddy, I'd probably be equally bitter.  If you ever watched Mayberry RFD Buddy Foster was the co-star, son of the lead, and Jodie was the day player with a few lines as...
      It didn't take me long to finish this book, and I'm not an avid reader. I admire Jody and wanted to know more about her, quite accomplished with this book.  Highly recommended.
      The book was in good share as described. The price of one cent was great. OK shipping and handling were not as good as the price of the book.
      "Foster Child" was written by Jodie Foster's brother Buddy and is in essence an unauthorized book as Jodie didn't partake in the writing of the book.
      It's well written, good job Buddy et al.If you want to know how Alicia Foster became JODIE Foster, read the book.
      this is a really good look at the life of Jodie Foster. Just wish I knew more about what she is doing in her later years. This leaves you hanging since it is written in 1998
      Like with most public figures, reading about the growth path of this talented star was enjoyable.  Written by her brother, a public figure himself, was well done and informative.
      Like most people, i initially thought, "oh great, i want to read about jodie, but this guy's going to spend most of the book talking about himself.
      Well, Buddy Foster may or may not have written this book for the $$, but after reading it, despite the fact that he probably made his sister really mad at him for disclosing all...
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMens GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
.ap_classic { border-top:1px solid #ccc;border-left:1px solid #ccc;border-bottom:1px solid #2F2F1D; border-right:1px solid #2F2F1D;background-color:#EFEDD4;padding:3px; }
.ap_classic .ap_content { clear:both;background-color:white;border:1px solid #ACA976;padding:8px;font-size:11px; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png");  
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV  Amazons Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
