=======================================================
So influential was John Maynard Keynes in the middle third of the twentieth century that an entire school of modern thought bears his name. Many of his ideas were revolutionary; almost all were controversial. Keynesian economics serves as a sort of yardstick that can define virtually all economists who came after him.
Keynes was born in Cambridge and attended King’s College, Cambridge, where he earned his degree in mathematics in 1905. He remained there for another year to study under alfred marshall and arthur pigou, whose scholarship on the quantity theory of money led to Keynes’s Tract on Monetary Reform many years later. After leaving Cambridge, Keynes took a position with the civil service in Britain. While there, he collected the material for his first book in economics, Indian Currency and Finance, in which he described the workings of India’s monetary system. He returned to Cambridge in 1908 as a lecturer, then took a leave of absence to work for the British Treasury. He worked his way up quickly through the bureaucracy and by 1919 was the Treasury’s principal representative at the peace conference at Versailles. He resigned because he thought the Treaty of Versailles was overly burdensome for the Germans.
After resigning, he returned to Cambridge to resume teaching. A prominent journalist and speaker, Keynes was one of the famous Bloomsbury Group of literary greats, which also included Virginia Woolf and Bertrand Russell. At the 1944 Bretton Woods Conference, where the International Monetary Fund was established, Keynes was one of the architects of the postwar system of fixed exchange rates (see Foreign Exchange). In 1925 he married the Russian ballet dancer Lydia Lopokova. He was made a lord in 1942. Keynes died on April 21, 1946, survived by his father, John Neville Keynes, also a renowned economist in his day.
Keynes became a celebrity before becoming one of the most respected economists of the century when his eloquent book The Economic Consequences of the Peace was published in 1919. Keynes wrote it to object to the punitive reparations payments imposed on Germany by the Allied countries after World War I. The amounts demanded by the Allies were so large, he wrote, that a Germany that tried to pay them would stay perpetually poor and, therefore, politically unstable. We now know that Keynes was right. Besides its excellent economic analysis of reparations, Keynes’s book contains an insightful analysis of the Council of Four (Georges Clemenceau of France, Prime Minister David Lloyd George of Britain, President Woodrow Wilson of the United States, and Vittorio Orlando of Italy).
Keynes wrote: “The Council of Four paid no attention to these issues [which included making Germany and Austro-Hungary into good neighbors], being preoccupied with others—Clemenceau to crush the economic life of his enemy, Lloyd George to do a deal and bring home something which would pass muster for a week, the President to do nothing that was not just and right” (chap. 6, para. 2).
In the 1920s Keynes was a believer in the quantity theory of money (today called monetarism). His writings on the topic were essentially built on the principles he had learned from his mentors, Marshall and Pigou. In 1923 he wrote Tract on Monetary Reform, and later he published Treatise on Money, both on monetary policy. His major policy view was that the way to stabilize the economy is to stabilize the price level, and that to do that the government’s central bank must lower interest rates when prices tend to rise and raise them when prices tend to fall.
Keynes’s ideas took a dramatic change, however, as unemployment in Britain dragged on during the interwar period, reaching levels as high as 20 percent. Keynes investigated other causes of Britain’s economic woes, and The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money was the result.
Keynes’s General Theory revolutionized the way economists think about economics. It was pathbreaking in several ways, in particular because it introduced the notion of aggregate demand as the sum of consumption, investment, and government spending; and because it showed (or purported to show) that full employment could be maintained only with the help of government spending. Economists still argue about what Keynes thought caused high unemployment. Some think he attributed it to wages that take a long time to fall. But Keynes actually wanted wages not to fall, and in fact advocated in the General Theory that wages be kept stable. A general cut in wages, he argued, would decrease income, consumption, and aggregate demand. This would offset any benefits to output that the lower price of labor might have contributed.
Why shouldn’t government, thought Keynes, fill the shoes of business by investing in public works and hiring the unemployed? The General Theory advocated deficit spending during economic downturns to maintain full employment. Keynes’s conclusion initially met with opposition. At the time, balanced budgets were standard practice with the government. But the idea soon took hold and the U.S. government put people back to work on public works projects. Of course, once policymakers had taken deficit spending to heart, they did not let it go.
Contrary to some of his critics’ assertions, Keynes was a relatively strong advocate of free markets. It was Keynes, not adam smith, who said, “There is no objection to be raised against the classical analysis of the manner in which private self-interest will determine what in particular is produced, in what proportions the factors of production will be combined to produce it, and how the value of the final product will be distributed between them.”1 Keynes believed that once full employment had been achieved by fiscal policy measures, the market mechanism could then operate freely. “Thus,” continued Keynes, “apart from the necessity of central controls to bring about an adjustment between the propensity to consume and the inducement to invest, there is no more reason to socialise economic life than there was before” (p. 379).
Little of Keynes’s original work survives in modern economic theory. His ideas have been endlessly revised, expanded, and critiqued. Keynesian economics today, while having its roots in The General Theory, is chiefly the product of work by subsequent economists including john hicks, james tobin, paul samuelson, Alan Blinder, robert solow, William Nordhaus, Charles Schultze, walter heller, and arthur okun. The study of econometrics was created, in large part, to empirically explain Keynes’s macroeconomic models. Yet the fact that Keynes is the wellspring for so many outstanding economists is testament to the magnitude and influence of his ideas.
1920. The Economic Consequences of the Peace. New York: Harcourt, Brace, and Howe. Available online at: http://www.econlib.org/library/YPDBooks/Keynes/kynsCP.html.
1930. A Treatise on Money. Vol. 1: The Pure Theory of Money. Reprinted in Keynes, Collected Writings. Vol. 5.
1930. A Treatise on Money. Vol. 2: The Applied Theory of Money. Reprinted in Keynes, Collected Writings. Vol. 6.
1936. The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money. Reprinted in Keynes, Collected Writings. Vol. 7.
Robert Skidelsky on Money, the Good Life, and How Much is Enough. EconTalk Podcast, Oct. 2012. Noted Keynes biographer talks about work hours, public policy, and Keynes.
                            The cuneiform inscription in the Liberty Fund logo is the earliest-known written appearance of the word "freedom" (amagi), or "liberty." It is taken from a clay document written about 2300 B.C. in the Sumerian city-state of Lagash.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
John Maynard Keynes, 1st Baron Keynes,[1] CB, FBA (/ˈkeɪnz/ KAYNZ; 5 June 1883 – 21 April 1946) was a British economist whose ideas have fundamentally affected the theory and practice of modern macroeconomics, and informed the economic policies of governments. He built on and greatly refined earlier work on the causes of business cycles, and is widely considered to be one of the founders of modern macroeconomics and the most influential economist of the 20th century.[2][3][4][5] His ideas are the basis for the school of thought known as Keynesian economics, and its various offshoots.
In the 1930s, Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic thinking, overturning the older ideas of neoclassical economics that held that free markets would, in the short to medium term, automatically provide full employment, as long as workers were flexible in their wage demands. Keynes instead argued that aggregate demand determined the overall level of economic activity, and that inadequate aggregate demand could lead to prolonged periods of high unemployment. According to Keynesian economics, state intervention was necessary to moderate "boom and bust" cycles of economic activity.[6] He advocated the use of fiscal and monetary measures to mitigate the adverse effects of economic recessions and depressions. Following the outbreak of World War II, Keynes's ideas concerning economic policy were adopted by leading Western economies. In 1942, Keynes was awarded a hereditary peerage as Baron Keynes of Tilton in the County of Sussex.[7] Keynes died in 1946, but during the 1950s and 1960s the success of Keynesian economics resulted in almost all capitalist governments adopting its policy recommendations.
Keynes's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a result of problems that began to afflict the Anglo-American economies from the start of the decade, and partly because of critiques from Milton Friedman and other economists who were pessimistic about the ability of governments to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy.[8] However, the advent of the global financial crisis of 2007–08 caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought. Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for economic policies undertaken in response to the crisis by President George W. Bush of the United States, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, and other heads of governments.[9]
In 1999, Time magazine included Keynes in their list of the 100 most important and influential people of the 20th century, commenting that: "His radical idea that governments should spend money they don't have may have saved capitalism."[10] He has been described by The Economist as "Britain's most famous 20th-century economist."[11] In addition to being an economist, Keynes was also a civil servant, a director of the Bank of England, a part of the Bloomsbury Group of intellectuals,[12] a patron of the arts and an art collector, a director of the British Eugenics Society, an advisor to several charitable trusts, a successful private investor, a writer, a philosopher, and a farmer.
King's College, Cambridge. Keynes's grandmother wrote to him saying that since he was born in Cambridge, people will expect him to be clever.
John Maynard Keynes was born in Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, England, to an upper-middle-class family. His father, John Neville Keynes, was an economist and a lecturer in moral sciences at the University of Cambridge and his mother Florence Ada Keynes a local social reformer. Keynes was the first born, and was followed by two more children – Margaret Neville Keynes in 1885 and Geoffrey Keynes in 1887. Geoffrey became a surgeon and Margaret married the Nobel Prize-winning physiologist Archibald Hill.
According to the economist and biographer Robert Skidelsky, Keynes's parents were loving and attentive. They remained in the same house throughout their lives, where the children were always welcome to return. Keynes would receive considerable support from his father, including expert coaching to help him pass his scholarship exams and financial help both as a young man and when his assets were nearly wiped out at the onset of Great Depression in 1929. Keynes's mother made her children's interests her own, and according to Skidelsky, "because she could grow up with her children, they never outgrew home".[13]
At the age of five and a half, in January 1889, Keynes started at the Kindergarten of the Perse School for Girls for five mornings a week. He quickly showed a talent for arithmetic, but his health was poor leading to several long absences. He was tutored at home by a governess, Beatrice Mackintosh, and his mother. At eight and a half, in January 1892, he started as a day pupil at St Faith's preparatory school. By 1894 Keynes was top of his class and excelling at mathematics. In 1896 St Faith's headmaster, Ralph Goodchild, wrote that Keynes was "head and shoulders above all the other boys in the school" and was confident that Keynes could get a scholarship to Eton.[13][14][15][16][17][18][19][20][21][22][23][24]
Keynes won a scholarship to Eton College in 1897, where he displayed talent in a wide range of subjects, particularly mathematics, classics and history. At Eton, Keynes experienced the first "love of his life" in Dan Macmillan, older brother of the future Prime Minister Harold Macmillan.[25] Despite his middle-class background, Keynes mixed easily with upper-class pupils. In 1902 Keynes left Eton for King's College, Cambridge after receiving a scholarship for this also to study mathematics. Alfred Marshall begged Keynes to become an economist,[26] although Keynes's own inclinations drew him towards philosophy – especially the ethical system of G. E. Moore. Keynes joined the Pitt Club[27] and was an active member of the semi-secretive Cambridge Apostles society, a debating club largely reserved for the brightest students. Like many members, Keynes retained a bond to the club after graduating and continued to attend occasional meetings throughout his life. Before leaving Cambridge, Keynes became the President of the Cambridge Union Society and Cambridge University Liberal Club. In May 1904 he received a first class B.A. in mathematics. Aside from a few months spent on holidays with family and friends, Keynes continued to involve himself with the university over the next two years. He took part in debates, further studied philosophy and attended economics lectures informally as a graduate student. He also studied for his 1905 Tripos and 1906 civil service exams.
The economist Harry Johnson wrote that the optimism imparted by Keynes's early life is key to understanding his later thinking.[28] Keynes was always confident he could find a solution to whatever problem he turned his attention to, and retained a lasting faith in the ability of government officials to do good.[29] Keynes's optimism was also cultural, in two senses – he was of the last generation raised by an empire still at the height of its power, in its own eyes and by much of the world (at least outwardly) seen as preeminent in both power and benevolence. Keynes was also of the last generation who felt entitled to govern by culture, rather than by expertise. According to Skidelsky, the sense of cultural unity current in Britain from the 19th century to the end of World War I provided a framework with which the well-educated could set various spheres of knowledge in relation to each other and to life, enabling them to confidently draw from different fields when addressing practical problems.[13]
Keynes's Civil Service career began in October 1906, as a clerk in the India Office. He enjoyed his work at first, but by 1908 had become bored and resigned his position to return to Cambridge and work on probability theory, at first privately funded only by two dons at the university – his father and the economist Arthur Pigou. In 1909 Keynes published his first professional economics article in the Economics Journal, about the effect of a recent global economic downturn on India.[30] Also in 1909, Keynes accepted a lectureship in economics funded personally by Alfred Marshall. Keynes's earnings rose further as he began to take on pupils for private tuition, and on being elected a fellow. In 1911 Keynes was made editor of The Economic Journal. By 1913 he had published his first book, Indian Currency and Finance.[31] He was then appointed to the Royal Commission on Indian Currency and Finance[32] – the same topic as his book – where Keynes showed considerable talent at applying economic theory to practical problems.
His written work was published under the name "J M Keynes", though to his family and friends he was known as Maynard. (His father, John Neville Keynes, was also always known by his middle name).[33]
The British Government called on Keynes's expertise during the First World War. While he did not formally re-join the civil service in 1914, Keynes traveled to London at the government's request a few days before hostilities started. Bankers had been pushing for the suspension of specie payments – the convertibility of banknotes into gold – but with Keynes's help the Chancellor of the Exchequer (then Lloyd George) was persuaded that this would be a bad idea, as it would hurt the future reputation of the city if payments were suspended before absolutely necessary.
In January 1915 Keynes took up an official government position at the Treasury. Among his responsibilities were the design of terms of credit between Britain and its continental allies during the war, and the acquisition of scarce currencies. According to economist Robert Lekachman, Keynes's "nerve and mastery became legendary" because of his performance of these duties, as in the case where he managed to assemble – with difficulty – a small supply of Spanish pesetas. The secretary of the Treasury was delighted to hear Keynes had amassed enough to provide a temporary solution for the British Government. But Keynes did not hand the pesetas over, choosing instead to sell them all to break the market: his boldness paid off, as pesetas then became much less scarce and expensive.[34] In the 1917 King's Birthday Honours, Keynes was appointed Companion of the Order of the Bath for his wartime work,[35] and his success led to the appointment that would have a huge effect on Keynes's life and career; Keynes was appointed financial representative for the Treasury to the 1919 Versailles peace conference. He was also appointed Officer of the Belgian Order of Leopold.[36]
Keynes's colleague, David Lloyd George. Keynes was initially wary of the "Welsh Wizard," preferring his rival Asquith, but was impressed with Lloyd George at Versailles; this did not prevent Keynes from painting a scathing picture of the then-Prime Minister in his Economic Consequences of the Peace.
Keynes's experience at Versailles was influential in shaping his future outlook, yet it was not a successful one for him. Keynes's main interest had been in trying to prevent Germany's compensation payments (World War I reparations) being set so high it would traumatise innocent German people, damage the nation's ability to pay and sharply limit her ability to buy exports from other countries – thus hurting not just Germany's own economy but that of the wider world. Unfortunately for Keynes, conservative powers in the coalition that emerged from the 1918 coupon election were able to ensure that both Keynes himself and the Treasury were largely excluded from formal high-level talks concerning reparations. Their place was taken by the Heavenly Twins – the judge Lord Sumner and the banker Lord Cunliffe whose nickname derived from the "astronomically" high war compensation they wanted to demand from Germany. Keynes was forced to try to exert influence mostly from behind the scenes.
The three principal players at Versailles were Britain's Lloyd George, France's Clemenceau and America's President Wilson.[37] It was only Lloyd George to whom Keynes had much direct access; until the 1918 election he had some sympathy with Keynes's view but while campaigning had found his speeches were only well received by the public if he promised to harshly punish Germany, and had therefore committed to extracting high payments. Lloyd George did however win some loyalty from Keynes with his actions at the Paris conference by intervening against the French to ensure the dispatch of much-needed food supplies to German civilians. Clemenceau also pushed for high reparations; generally France argued for an even more severe settlement than Britain. Wilson initially favoured relatively lenient treatment of Germany – he feared too harsh conditions could foment the rise of extremism, and wanted Germany to be left sufficient capital to pay for imports. To Keynes's dismay, Lloyd George and Clemenceau were able to pressure Wilson to agree to very high repayments being imposed. Towards the end of the conference, Keynes came up with a plan that he argued would not only help Germany and other impoverished central European powers but also be good for the world economy as a whole. It involved the writing down of war debts which would have the effect of increasing international trade all round. Lloyd George agreed it might be acceptable to the British electorate. However, America was against it; the US was then the largest creditor and by this time Wilson had started to believe in the merits of a harsh peace as a warning to future aggressors. Hence despite his best efforts, the end result of the conference was a treaty which disgusted Keynes both on moral and economic grounds, and led to his resignation from the Treasury.[38]
In June 1919 he turned down an offer to become chairman of the British Bank of Northern Commerce, a job that promised a salary of £2000 in return for a morning per week of work.
Keynes's analysis on the predicted damaging effects of the treaty appeared in the highly influential book, The Economic Consequences of the Peace, published in 1919.[39] This work has been described as Keynes's best book, where he was able to bring all his gifts to bear – his passion as well as his skill as an economist. In addition to economic analysis, the book contained pleas to the reader's sense of compassion:
I cannot leave this subject as though its just treatment wholly depended either on our own pledges or on economic facts. The policy of reducing Germany to servitude for a generation, of degrading the lives of millions of human beings, and of depriving a whole nation of happiness should be abhorrent and detestable, –abhorrent and detestable, even if it were possible, even if it enriched ourselves, even if it did not sow the decay of the whole civilised life of Europe.
Also present was striking imagery such as "year by year Germany must be kept impoverished and her children starved and crippled" along with bold predictions which were later justified by events:
If we aim deliberately at the impoverishment of Central Europe, vengeance, I dare predict, will not limp. Nothing can then delay for very long that final war between the forces of Reaction and the despairing convulsions of Revolution, before which the horrors of the late German war will fade into nothing.
Keynes's predictions of disaster were borne out when the German economy suffered the hyperinflation of 1923, and again by the collapse of the Weimar Republic and the outbreak of World War II. Only a fraction of reparations were ever paid. The Economic Consequences of the Peace gained Keynes international fame, but also caused him to be regarded as anti-establishment – it was not until after the outbreak of World War II that Keynes was offered a directorship of a major British Bank, or an acceptable offer to return to government with a formal job. However, Keynes was still able to influence government policy making through his network of contacts, his published works and by serving on government committees; this included attending high-level policy meetings as a consultant.[38]
Keynes had completed his A Treatise on Probability before the war, but published it in 1921.[38] The work was a notable contribution to the philosophical and mathematical underpinnings of probability theory, championing the important view that probabilities were no more or less than truth values intermediate between simple truth and falsity. Keynes developed the first upper-lower probabilistic interval approach to probability in chapters 15 and 17 of this book, as well as having developed the first decision weight approach with his conventional coefficient of risk and weight, c, in chapter 26. In addition to his academic work, the 1920s saw Keynes active as a journalist selling his work internationally and working in London as a financial consultant. In 1924 Keynes wrote an obituary for his former tutor Alfred Marshall which Schumpeter called "the most brilliant life of a man of science I have ever read."[40] Marshall's widow was "entranced" by the memorial, while Lytton Strachey rated it as one of Keynes's "best works".[38]
In 1922 Keynes continued to advocate reduction of German reparations with A Revision of the Treaty.[38] He attacked the post World War I deflation policies with A Tract on Monetary Reform in 1923[38] – a trenchant argument that countries should target stability of domestic prices, avoiding deflation even at the cost of allowing their currency to depreciate. Britain suffered from high unemployment through most of the 1920s, leading Keynes to recommend the depreciation of sterling to boost jobs by making British exports more affordable. From 1924 he was also advocating a fiscal response, where the government could create jobs by spending on public works.[38] During the 1920s Keynes's pro stimulus views had only limited effect on policy makers and mainstream academic opinion – according to Hyman Minsky one reason was that at this time his theoretical justification was "muddled".[30] The Tract had also called for an end to the gold standard. Keynes advised it was no longer a net benefit for countries such as Britain to participate in the gold standard, as it ran counter to the need for domestic policy autonomy. It could force countries to pursue deflationary policies at exactly the time when expansionary measures were called for to address rising unemployment. The Treasury and Bank of England were still in favour of the gold standard and in 1925 they were able to convince the then Chancellor Winston Churchill to re-establish it, which had a depressing effect on British industry. Keynes responded by writing The Economic Consequences of Mr. Churchill and continued to argue against the gold standard until Britain finally abandoned it in 1931.[38]
Keynes had begun a theoretical work to examine the relationship between unemployment, money and prices back in the 1920s.[41] The work, Treatise on Money, was published in 1930 in two volumes. A central idea of the work was that if the amount of money being saved exceeds the amount being invested – which can happen if interest rates are too high – then unemployment will rise. This is in part a result of people not wanting to spend too high a proportion of what employers pay out, making it difficult, in aggregate, for employers to make a profit.
Keynes was deeply critical of the British government's austerity measures during the Great Depression. He believed that budget deficits were a good thing, a product of recessions. He wrote, "For Government borrowing of one kind or another is nature's remedy, so to speak, for preventing business losses from being, in so severe a slump as to present one, so great as to bring production altogether to a standstill."[42]
At the height of the Great Depression, in 1933, Keynes published The Means to Prosperity, which contained specific policy recommendations for tackling unemployment in a global recession, chiefly counter cyclical public spending. The Means to Prosperity contains one of the first mentions of the multiplier effect. While it was addressed chiefly to the British Government, it also contained advice for other nations affected by the global recession. A copy was sent to the newly elected President Roosevelt and other world leaders. The work was taken seriously by both the American and British governments, and according to Skidelsky, helped pave the way for the later acceptance of Keynesian ideas, though it had little immediate practical influence. In the 1933 London Economic Conference opinions remained too diverse for a unified course of action to be agreed upon.[43]
The Great Depression with its periods of world wide economic hardship formed the backdrop against which Keynes's revolution took place. The image is Dorothea Lange's Migrant Mother depiction of destitute pea-pickers in California, taken in March 1936.
Keynesian-like policies were adopted by Sweden and Germany, but Sweden was seen as too small to command much attention, and Keynes was deliberately silent about the successful efforts of Germany as he was dismayed by their imperialist ambitions and their treatment of Jews.[43] Apart from Great Britain, Keynes's attention was primarily focused on the United States. In 1931, he received considerable support for his views on counter-cyclical public spending in Chicago, then America's foremost centre for economic views alternative to the mainstream.[30][43] However, orthodox economic opinion remained generally hostile regarding fiscal intervention to mitigate the depression, until just before the outbreak of war.[30] In late 1933 Keynes was persuaded by Felix Frankfurter to address President Roosevelt directly, which he did by letters and face to face in 1934, after which the two men spoke highly of each other.[43] However according to Skidelsky, the consensus is that Keynes's efforts only began to have a more than marginal influence on US economic policy after 1939.[43]
Keynes's magnum opus, The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money was published in 1936. It was researched and indexed by one of Keynes's favourite students, later the economist David Bensusan-Butt.[44] The work served as a theoretical justification for the interventionist policies Keynes favoured for tackling a recession. The General Theory challenged the earlier neoclassical economic paradigm, which had held that provided it was unfettered by government interference, the market would naturally establish full employment equilibrium. In doing so Keynes was partly setting himself against his former teachers Marshall and Pigou. Keynes believed the classical theory was a "special case" that applied only to the particular conditions present in the 19th century, his own theory being the general one. Classical economists had believed in Say's law, which, simply put, states that "supply creates its own demand", and that in a free market workers would always be willing to lower their wages to a level where employers could profitably offer them jobs. An innovation from Keynes was the concept of price stickiness – the recognition that in reality workers often refuse to lower their wage demands even in cases where a classical economist might argue it is rational for them to do so. Due in part to price stickiness, it was established that the interaction of "aggregate demand" and "aggregate supply" may lead to stable unemployment equilibria – and in those cases, it is the state, and not the market, that economies must depend on for their salvation.
The General Theory argues that demand, not supply, is the key variable governing the overall level of economic activity. Aggregate demand, which equals total un-hoarded income in a society, is defined by the sum of consumption and investment. In a state of unemployment and unused production capacity, one can only enhance employment and total income by first increasing expenditures for either consumption or investment. Without government intervention to increase expenditure, an economy can remain trapped in a low employment equilibrium – the demonstration of this possibility has been described as the revolutionary formal achievement of the work.[45] The book advocated activist economic policy by government to stimulate demand in times of high unemployment, for example by spending on public works. "Let us be up and doing, using our idle resources to increase our wealth," he wrote in 1928. "With men and plants unemployed, it is ridiculous to say that we cannot afford these new developments. It is precisely with these plants and these men that we shall afford them."[42]
The General Theory is often viewed as the foundation of modern macroeconomics. Few senior American economists agreed with Keynes through most of the 1930s.[46] Yet his ideas were soon to achieve widespread acceptance, with eminent American professors such as Alvin Hansen agreeing with the General Theory before the outbreak of World War II.[47][48] [49]
Keynes himself had only limited participation in the theoretical debates that followed the publication of the General Theory as he suffered a heart attack in 1937, requiring him to take long periods of rest. Hyman Minsky and other post-Keynesian economists have argued that as result of this, Keynes's ideas were diluted by those keen to compromise with classical economists or to render his concepts with mathematical models like the IS/LM model (which, they argue, distort Keynes's ideas).[30][49] Keynes began to recover in 1939, but for the rest of his life his professional energies were largely directed towards the practical side of economics – the problems of ensuring optimum allocation of resources for the War efforts, post-War negotiations with America, and the new international financial order that was presented at Bretton Woods, New Hampshire.
Keynes (right) and the US representative Harry Dexter White at the inaugural meeting of the International Monetary Fund's Board of Governors in Savannah, Georgia, 1946
During World War II, Keynes argued in How to Pay for the War, published in 1940, that the war effort should be largely financed by higher taxation and especially by compulsory saving (essentially workers lending money to the government), rather than deficit spending, in order to avoid inflation. Compulsory saving would act to dampen domestic demand, assist in channelling additional output towards the war efforts, would be fairer than punitive taxation and would have the advantage of helping to avoid a post war slump by boosting demand once workers were allowed to withdraw their savings. In September 1941 he was proposed to fill a vacancy in the Court of Directors of the Bank of England, and subsequently carried out a full term from the following April.[50] In June 1942, Keynes was rewarded for his service with a hereditary peerage in the King's Birthday Honours.[7] On 7 July his title was gazetted as "BARON KEYNES, of Tilton, in the County of Sussex" and he took his seat in the House of Lords on the Liberal Party benches.[51]
As the Allied victory began to look certain, Keynes was heavily involved, as leader of the British delegation and chairman of the World Bank commission, in the mid-1944 negotiations that established the Bretton Woods system. The Keynes-plan, concerning an international clearing-union argued for a radical system for the management of currencies. He proposed the creation of a common world unit of currency, the bancor, and new global institutions – a world central bank and the International Clearing Union. Keynes envisaged these institutions managing an international trade and payments system with strong incentives for countries to avoid substantial trade deficits or surpluses. The USA's greater negotiating strength, however, meant that the final outcomes accorded more closely to the more conservative plans of Harry Dexter White. According to US economist Brad Delong, on almost every point where he was overruled by the Americans, Keynes was later proved correct by events.[52]
The two new institutions, later known as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF), were founded as a compromise that primarily reflected the American vision. There would be no incentives for states to avoid a large trade surplus; instead, the burden for correcting a trade imbalance would continue to fall only on the deficit countries, which Keynes had argued were least able to address the problem without inflicting economic hardship on their populations. Yet, Keynes was still pleased when accepting the final agreement, saying that if the institutions stayed true to their founding principles, "the brotherhood of man will have become more than a phrase."[53][54]
After the war, Keynes continued to represent the United Kingdom in international negotiations despite his deteriorating health. He succeeded in obtaining preferential terms from the United States for new and outstanding debts to facilitate the rebuilding of the British economy.[55]
Just before his death in 1946, Keynes told Henry Clay, a professor of Social Economics and Advisor to the Bank of England [56] of his hopes that Adam Smith's 'invisible hand' can help Britain out of the economic hole it is in: "I find myself more and more relying for a solution of our problems on the invisible hand which I tried to eject from economic thinking twenty years ago." [57]
From the end of the Great Depression to the mid-1970s, Keynes provided the main inspiration for economic policy makers in Europe, America and much of the rest of the world.[49] While economists and policy makers had become increasingly won over to Keynes's way of thinking in the mid and late 1930s, it was only after the outbreak of World War II that governments started to borrow money for spending on a scale sufficient to eliminate unemployment. According to economist John Kenneth Galbraith (then a US government official charged with controlling inflation), in the rebound of the economy from wartime spending, "one could not have had a better demonstration of the Keynesian ideas."[58]
The Keynesian Revolution was associated with the rise of modern liberalism in the West during the post-war period.[59] Keynesian ideas became so popular that some scholars point to Keynes as representing the ideals of modern liberalism, as Adam Smith represented the ideals of classical liberalism.[60] After the war Winston Churchill attempted to check the rise of Keynesian policy-making in the United Kingdom, and used rhetoric critical of the mixed economy in his 1945 election campaign. Despite his popularity as a war hero Churchill suffered a landslide defeat to Clement Attlee whose government's economic policy continued to be influenced by Keynes's ideas.[58]
In the late 1930s and 1940s, economists (notably John Hicks, Franco Modigliani, and Paul Samuelson) attempted to interpret and formalise Keynes's writings in terms of formal mathematical models. In a process termed "the neoclassical synthesis", they combined Keynesian analysis with neoclassical economics to produce Neo-Keynesian economics, which came to dominate mainstream macroeconomic thought for the next 40 years.
By the 1950s, Keynesian policies were adopted by almost the entire developed world and similar measures for a mixed economy were used by many developing nations. By then, Keynes's views on the economy had become mainstream in the world's universities. Throughout the 1950s and 1960s, the developed and emerging free capitalist economies enjoyed exceptionally high growth and low unemployment.[61] [62] Professor Gordon Fletcher has written that the 1950s and 1960s, when Keynes's influence was at its peak, appear in retrospect as a Golden Age of Capitalism.[49]
In late 1965 Time magazine ran a cover article with a title comment from Milton Friedman (later echoed by U.S. President Richard Nixon) that "We are all Keynesians now". The article described the exceptionally favourable economic conditions then prevailing, and reported that "Washington's economic managers scaled these heights by their adherence to Keynes's central theme: the modern capitalist economy does not automatically work at top efficiency, but can be raised to that level by the intervention and influence of the government." The article also states that Keynes was one of the three most important economists who ever lived, and that his General Theory was more influential than the magna opera of other famous economists, like Smith's The Wealth of Nations.[63]
Keynesian economics were officially discarded by the British Government in 1979, but forces had begun to gather against Keynes's ideas over 30 years earlier. Friedrich Hayek had formed the Mont Pelerin Society in 1947, with the explicit intention of nurturing intellectual currents to one day displace Keynesianism and other similar influences. Its members included Austrian School economist Ludwig von Mises along with the then young Milton Friedman. Initially the society had little impact on the wider world – Hayek was to say it was as if Keynes had been raised to sainthood after his death and that people refused to allow his work to be questioned.[64][65] Friedman however began to emerge as a formidable critic of Keynesian economics from the mid-1950s, and especially after his 1963 publication of A Monetary History of the United States.
On the practical side of economic life, big government had appeared to be firmly entrenched in the 1950s but the balance began to shift towards private power in the 1960s. Keynes had written against the folly of allowing "decadent and selfish" speculators and financiers the kind of influence they had enjoyed after World War I. For two decades after World War II public opinion was strongly against private speculators, the disparaging label Gnomes of Zürich being typical of how they were described during this period. International speculation was severely restricted by the capital controls in place after Bretton Woods. Journalists Larry Elliott and Dan Atkinson say 1968 was a pivotal year when power shifted in the favour of private agents such as currency speculators. They pick out a key 1968 event as being when America suspended the conversion of the dollar into gold except on request of foreign governments, which they identify as when the Bretton Woods system first began to break down. [66]
Criticisms of Keynes's ideas had begun to gain significant acceptance by the early 1970s as they were able to make a credible case that Keynesian models no longer reflected economic reality. Keynes himself had included few formulas and no explicit mathematical models in his General Theory. For commentators such as economist Hyman Minsky, Keynes's limited use of mathematics was partly the result of his scepticism about whether phenomena as inherently uncertain as economic activity could ever be adequately captured by mathematical models. Nevertheless, many models were developed by Keynesian economists, with a famous example being the Phillips curve which predicted an inverse relationship between unemployment and inflation. It implied that unemployment could be reduced by government stimulus with a calculable cost to inflation. In 1968 Milton Friedman published a paper arguing that the fixed relationship implied by the Philips curve did not exist.[67] Friedman suggested that sustained Keynesian policies could lead to both unemployment and inflation rising at once – a phenomenon that soon became known as stagflation. In the early 1970s stagflation appeared in both the US and Britain just as Friedman had predicted, with economic conditions deteriorating further after the 1973 oil crisis. Aided by the prestige gained from his successful forecast, Friedman led increasingly successful criticisms against the Keynesian consensus, convincing not only academics and politicians but also much of the general public with his radio and television broadcasts. The academic credibility of Keynesian economics was further undermined by additional criticism from other Monetarists trained in the Chicago school of economics, by the Lucas critique and by criticisms from Hayek's Austrian School.[49] So successful were these criticisms that by 1980 Robert Lucas was saying economists would often take offence if described as Keynesians.[68] Keynesian principles fared increasingly poorly on the practical side of economics – by 1979 they had been displaced by Monetarism as the primary influence on Anglo-American economic policy.[49] However many officials on both sides of the Atlantic retained a preference for Keynes, and in 1984 the Federal Reserve officially discarded monetarism, after which Keynesian principles made a partial comeback as an influence on policy making.[69] Not all academics accepted the criticism against Keynes – Minsky has argued that Keynesian economics had been debased by excessive mixing with neoclassical ideas from the 1950s, and that it was unfortunate the branch of economics had even continued to be called "Keynesian".[30] Writing in The American Prospect, Robert Kuttner argued it was not so much excessive Keynesian activism that caused the economic problems of the 1970s but the breakdown of the Bretton Woods system of capital controls, which allowed capital flight from regulated economies into unregulated economies in a fashion similar to Gresham's Law (where weak currencies undermine strong currencies).[70] Historian Peter Pugh has stated a key cause of the economic problems afflicting America in the 1970s was the refusal to raise taxes to finance the Vietnam War, which was against Keynesian advice.[71]
A more typical response was to accept some elements of the criticisms while refining Keynesian economic theories to defend them against arguments that would invalidate the whole Keynesian framework – the resulting body of work largely composing New Keynesian economics. In 1992 Alan Blinder was writing about a "Keynesian Restoration" as work based on Keynes's ideas had to some extent become fashionable once again in academia, though in the mainstream it was highly synthesised with Monetarism and other neoclassical thinking. In the world of policy making, free-market influences broadly sympathetic to Monetarism remained very strong at government level – in powerful normative institutions like the World Bank, IMF and US Treasury, and in prominent opinion-forming media such as the Financial Times and The Economist.[72]
Economist and ex-prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh spoke in favour of Keynesian fiscal stimuli at the 2008 G-20 Washington summit.
The global financial crisis of 2007–08 led to public skepticism about the free market consensus even from some on the economic right. In March 2008, Martin Wolf, chief economics commentator at the Financial Times, announced the death of the dream of global free-market capitalism.[73] In the same month macroeconomist James K. Galbraith used the 25th Annual Milton Friedman Distinguished Lecture to launch a sweeping attack against the consensus for monetarist economics and argued that Keynesian economics were far more relevant for tackling the emerging crises.[74] Economist Robert Shiller had begun advocating robust government intervention to tackle the financial crises, specifically citing Keynes.[75][76][77] Nobel laureate Paul Krugman also actively argued the case for vigorous Keynesian intervention in the economy in his columns for the New York Times.[78][79][80] Other prominent economic commentators arguing for Keynesian government intervention to mitigate the financial crisis include George Akerlof,[81] Brad Delong,[82] Robert Reich,[83] and Joseph Stiglitz.[84] Newspapers and other media have also cited work relating to Keynes by Hyman Minsky,[30] Robert Skidelsky,[13] Donald Markwell[85] and Axel Leijonhufvud.[86]
A series of major bail-outs were pursued during the financial crisis, starting on 7 September with the announcement that the U.S. government was to nationalise the two government-sponsored enterprises which oversaw most of the U.S. subprime mortgage market – Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In October, the British Chancellor of the Exchequer referred to Keynes as he announced plans for substantial fiscal stimulus to head off the worst effects of recession, in accordance with Keynesian economic thought.[87][88] Similar policies have been adopted by other governments worldwide.[89][90] This is in stark contrast to the action permitted to Indonesia during its financial crisis of 1997, when it was forced by the IMF to close 16 banks at the same time, prompting a bank run.[91] Much of the recent discussion reflected Keynes's advocacy of international coordination of fiscal or monetary stimulus, and of international economic institutions such as the IMF and the World Bank, which many had argued should be reformed as a "new Bretton Woods" even before the crises broke out.[92] IMF and United Nations economists advocated a coordinated international approach to fiscal stimulus.[93] Donald Markwel argued that in the absence of such an international approach, there would be a risk of worsening international relations and possibly even world war arising from similar economic factors to those present during the depression of the 1930s.[85]
By the end of December 2008, the Financial Times reported that "the sudden resurgence of Keynesian policy is a stunning reversal of the orthodoxy of the past several decades."[94] In December 2008, Paul Krugman released his book, The Return of Depression Economics and the Crisis of 2008, arguing that economic conditions similar to what existed during the earlier part of the 20th century had returned, making Keynesian policy prescriptions more relevant than ever. In February 2009 Shiller and George Akerlof published Animal Spirits, a book where they argue the current US stimulus package is too small as it does not take into account Keynes's insight on the importance of confidence and expectations in determining the future behaviour of businessmen and other economic agents.
In a March 2009 speech entitled Reform the International Monetary System, Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the People's Bank of China came out in favour of Keynes's idea of a centrally managed global reserve currency. Zhou argued that it was unfortunate that part of the reason for the Bretton Woods system breaking down was the failure to adopt Keynes's bancor. Zhou proposed a gradual move towards increased use of IMF special drawing rights (SDRs).[95][96] Although Zhou's ideas have not yet been broadly accepted, leaders meeting in April at the 2009 G-20 London summit agreed to allow $250 billion of special drawing rights to be created by the IMF, to be distributed globally. Stimulus plans have been credited for contributing to a better than expected economic outlook by both the OECD[97] and the IMF,[98][99] in reports published in June and July 2009. Both organisations warned global leaders that recovery is likely to be slow, so counter recessionary measures ought not be rolled back too early.
While the need for stimulus measures has been broadly accepted among policy makers, there has been much debate over how to fund the spending. Some leaders and institutions such as Angela Merkel[100] and the European Central Bank[101] have expressed concern over the potential impact on inflation, national debt and the risk that a too large stimulus will create an unsustainable recovery.
Among professional economists the revival of Keynesian economics has been even more divisive. Although many economists, such as George Akerlof, Paul Krugman, Robert Shiller, and Joseph Stiglitz, support Keynesian stimulus, others do not believe higher government spending will help the United States economy recover from the Great Recession. Some economists, such as Robert Lucas, questioned the theoretical basis for stimulus packages.[102] Others, like Robert Barro and Gary Becker, say that the empirical evidence for beneficial effects from Keynesian stimulus does not exist.[103] However, there is a growing academic literature that shows that fiscal expansion helps an economy grow in the near term, and that certain types of fiscal stimulus are particularly effective.[104][105]
Keynes's economic thinking only began to achieve close to universal acceptance in the last few years of his life. On a personal level, Keynes's charm was such that he was generally well received wherever he went – even those who found themselves on the wrong side of his occasionally sharp tongue rarely bore a grudge.[106] Keynes's speech at the closing of the Bretton Woods negotiations was received with a lasting standing ovation, rare in international relations, as delegates acknowledged the scale of his achievements made despite poor health.[29]
Austrian School economist Friedrich Hayek was Keynes's most prominent contemporary critic, with sharply opposing views on the economy.[45] Yet after Keynes's death he wrote:[107]
He was the one really great man I ever knew, and for whom I had unbounded admiration. The world will be a very much poorer place without him.
For his part, Keynes praised Hayek's book The Road to Serfdom, writing to the Austrian economist that, "Morally and philosophically I find myself in agreement with virtually the whole of it."[42]
Lionel Robbins, former head of the economics department at the London School of Economics, who had many heated debates with Keynes in the 1930s, had this to say after observing Keynes in early negotiations with the Americans while drawing up plans for Bretton Woods:[45]
This went very well indeed. Keynes was in his most lucid and persuasive mood: and the effect was irresistible. At such moments, I often find myself thinking that Keynes must be one of the most remarkable men that have ever lived – the quick logic, the birdlike swoop of intuition, the vivid fancy, the wide vision, above all the incomparable sense of the fitness of words, all combine to make something several degrees beyond the limit of ordinary human achievement.
I am spellbound. This is the most beautiful creature I have ever listened to. Does he belong to our species? Or is he from some other order? There is something mythic and fabulous about him. I sense in him something massive and sphinx like, and yet also a hint of wings.
Bertrand Russell[108] named Keynes one of the most intelligent people he had ever known, commenting:[109]
Keynes's intellect was the sharpest and clearest that I have ever known. When I argued with him, I felt that I took my life in my hands, and I seldom emerged without feeling something of a fool.
There is the man himself – radiant, brilliant, effervescent, gay, full of impish jokes ... He was a humane man genuinely devoted to the cause of the common good.
As a man of the centre described as undoubtedly having the greatest impact of any 20th-century economist,[41] Keynes attracted considerable criticism from both sides of the political spectrum. In the 1920s, Keynes was seen as anti-establishment and was mainly attacked from the right. In the "red 1930s", many young economists favoured Marxist views, even in Cambridge,[30] and while Keynes was engaging principally with the right to try to persuade them of the merits of more progressive policy, the most vociferous criticism against him came from the left, who saw him as a supporter of capitalism. From the 1950s and onwards, most of the attacks against Keynes have again been from the right.
In 1931 Friedrich Hayek extensively critiqued Keynes's 1930 Treatise on Money.[110] After reading Hayek's The Road to Serfdom, Keynes[111] wrote to Hayek saying: "Morally and philosophically I find myself in agreement with virtually the whole of it" but concluded the same letter with the recommendation:
What we need therefore, in my opinion, is not a change in our economic programmes, which would only lead in practice to disillusion with the results of your philosophy; but perhaps even the contrary, namely, an enlargement of them. Your greatest danger is the probable practical failure of the application of your philosophy in the United States.
On the pressing issue of the time, whether deficit spending could lift a country from depression, Keynes[112] replied to Hayek's criticism in the following way:
I should... conclude rather differently. I should say that what we want is not no planning, or even less planning, indeed I should say we almost certainly want more. But the planning should take place in a community in which as many people as possible, both leaders and followers wholly share your own moral position. Moderate planning will be safe enough if those carrying it out are rightly oriented in their own minds and hearts to the moral issue.
Because Keynes believed that he was fundamentally still a classical English liberal and wasn't quite aware of how far he had moved away from it. His basic ideas were still those of individual freedom. He did not think systematically enough to see the conflicts.
According to some observers, Hayek felt that the post-World War II "Keynesian orthodoxy" gave too much power to the state and led toward socialism.[114]
While Milton Friedman described The General Theory as "a great book", he argues that its implicit separation of nominal from real magnitudes is neither possible nor desirable. Macroeconomic policy, Friedman argues, can reliably influence only the nominal.[115] He and other monetarists have consequently argued that Keynesian economics can result in stagflation, the combination of low growth and high inflation that developed economies suffered in the early 1970s. More to Friedman's taste was the Tract on Monetary Reform (1923), which he regarded as Keynes's best work because of its focus on maintaining domestic price stability.[115]
Joseph Schumpeter was an economist of the same age as Keynes and one of his main rivals. He was among the first reviewers to argue that Keynes's General Theory was not a general theory, but was in fact a special case.[116] He said the work expressed "the attitude of a decaying civilisation". After Keynes's death Schumpeter wrote a brief biographical piece called Keynes the Economist – on a personal level he was very positive about Keynes as a man, praising his pleasant nature, courtesy and kindness. He assessed some of Keynes biographical and editorial work as among the best he'd ever seen. Yet Schumpeter remained critical about Keynes's economics, linking Keynes's childlessness to what Schumpeter saw as an essentially short term view. He considered Keynes to have a kind of unconscious patriotism that caused him to fail to understand the problems of other nations. For Schumpeter[117] "Practical Keynesianism is a seedling which cannot be transplanted into foreign soil: it dies there and becomes poisonous as it dies."
Austrian School economic commentator and journalist Henry Hazlitt's The Failure of the New Economics is a paragraph-by-paragraph refutation of The General Theory. In 1960 he published the book The Critics of Keynesian Economics where he gathered together the major criticisms of Keynes made up to that year.[46]
President Harry Truman was skeptical of Keynesian theorizing, "Nobody can ever convince me that Government can spend a dollar that it's not got," he told Leon Keyserling, a Keynesian economist who chaired Truman's Council of Economic Advisers.[42]
Keynes used the word "niggers" to refer to black people in casual conversations.[118] However, this term was often used neutrally in British circles at that time, and was not necessarily an expression of negative feelings, as when, for example, he wrote to Duncan Grant that "the only really sympathetic and original thing in America are the niggers, who are charming".[119] Nonetheless fellow British observers recount being shocked by some statements he made, such as the following, apropos the Washington summer: "It's far too hot. Much too hot for white men. All right for niggers."[118] He also wrote that there was "beastliness in the Russian nature" as well as "cruelty and stupidity", and other comments which may be construed as anti-Russian.[120] Some critics, such as Rothbard, have sought to infer that Keynes had sympathy with Nazism, and a number of writers have described him as antisemitic. Keynes's private letters express portraits and descriptions some of which can be characterised as antisemitic, others as philosemitic.[121][122] Scholars have suggested that these reflect clichés current at the time that he accepted uncritically, rather than any racism.[119] Keynes had many Jewish friends, including Isaiah Berlin and Piero Sraffa.[123][124] Keynes several times used his influence to help his Jewish friends, most notably when he successfully lobbied for Ludwig Wittgenstein to be allowed residency in the United Kingdom explicitly in order to rescue him from being deported to Nazi-occupied Austria. Keynes was, furthermore, a supporter of Zionism, serving on committees supporting the cause.[119]
Allegations that he was racist or had totalitarian beliefs have been rejected by biographers such as Robert Skidelsky.[29] Professor Gordon Fletcher writes that "the suggestion of a link between Keynes and any support of totalitarianism cannot be sustained".[49] Once the aggressive tendencies of the Nazis towards Jews and other minorities became apparent, Keynes made clear his loathing of Nazism. As a lifelong pacifist he had initially favoured peaceful containment, yet he began to advocate a forceful resolution while many conservatives were still arguing for appeasement. After the war started he roundly criticised the Left for losing their nerve to confront Hitler:
The intelligentsia of the Left were the loudest in demanding that the Nazi aggression should be resisted at all costs. When it comes to a showdown, scarce four weeks have passed before they remember that they are pacifists and write defeatist letters to your columns, leaving the defence of freedom and civilisation to Colonel Blimp and the Old School Tie, for whom Three Cheers.[45]
Keynes has been characterised as being indifferent or even positive about mild inflation.[125] Keynes had indeed expressed a preference for inflation over deflation, saying that if one has to choose between the two evils it is "better to disappoint the rentier" than to inflict pain on working-class families.[126] However, Keynes was also aware of the dangers of inflation.[49] In The Economic Consequences of the Peace, Keynes had written:
Lenin is said to have declared that the best way to destroy the Capitalist System was to debauch the currency. By a continuing process of inflation, governments can confiscate, secretly and unobserved, an important part of the wealth of their citizens. There is no subtler, no surer means of overturning the existing basis of society than to debauch the currency. The process engages all the hidden forces of economic law on the side of destruction, and does it in a manner which not one man in a million is able to diagnose.[125]
Keynes's early romantic and sexual relationships were exclusively with men.[127] Keynes had been in relationships while at Eton and Cambridge; significant among these early partners were Dilly Knox and Daniel Macmillan.[25][128] Keynes was open about his affairs, and between 1901 to 1915, kept separate diaries in which he tabulated his many sexual encounters.[129] Keynes's relationship and later close friendship with Macmillan was to be fortuitous, as Macmillan's company first published his tract, Economic Consequences of the Peace.[130]
Attitudes in the Bloomsbury Group, in which Keynes was avidly involved, were relaxed about homosexuality. Keynes, together with writer Lytton Strachey, had reshaped the Victorian attitudes of the Cambridge Apostles: "since [their] time, homosexual relations among the members were for a time common", wrote Bertrand Russell.[131] The artist Duncan Grant, whom he met in 1908, was one of Keynes's great loves. Keynes was also involved with Lytton Strachey,[127] though they were for the most part love rivals, and not lovers. Keynes had won the affections of Arthur Hobhouse,[132] as well as Grant, both times falling out with a jealous Strachey for it.[133] Strachey had previously found himself put off by Keynes, not least because of his manner of "treat[ing] his love affairs statistically".[134]
Political opponents have used Keynes' sexuality to attack his academic work.[135] One line of attack held that he was uninterested in the long term ramifications of his theories because he had no children.[135]
Keynes' friends in the Bloomsbury Group were initially surprised when, in his later years, he began dating and pursuing affairs with women,[136] demonstrating himself to be bisexual.[137] Ray Costelloe (who would later marry Oliver Strachey) was an early heterosexual interest of Keynes.[138] In 1906, Keynes had written of this infatuation that, "I seem to have fallen in love with Ray a little bit, but as she isn't male I haven't [been] able to think of any suitable steps to take."[139]
In 1921, Keynes wrote that he had fallen "very much in love" with Lydia Lopokova, a well-known Russian ballerina, and one of the stars of Sergei Diaghilev's Ballets Russes.[140] In the early years of his courtship, he maintained an affair with a younger man, Sebastian Sprott, in tandem with Lopokova, but eventually chose Lopokova exclusively.[141][142] They married in 1925.[108][127] The union was happy, with biographer Peter Clarke writing that the marriage gave Keynes "a new focus, a new emotional stability and a sheer delight of which he never wearied".[33][143] Lydia became pregnant in 1927 but miscarried.[33] Among Keynes's Bloomsbury friends, Lopokova was, at least initially, subjected to criticism for her manners, mode of conversation and supposedly humble social origins – the latter of the ostensible causes being particularly noted in the letters of Vanessa and Clive Bell, and Virginia Woolf.[144][145] In her novel Mrs Dalloway (1925), Woolf bases the character of Rezia Warren Smith on Lopokova.[146] E. M. Forster would later write in contrition: "How we all used to underestimate her".[144]
46 Gordon Square, where Keynes would often stay while in London. Following his marriage, Keynes took out an extended lease on Tilton House, a farm in the countryside near Brighton, which became the couple's main home when not in the capital.[147]
Keynes was interested in literature in general and drama in particular and supported the Cambridge Arts Theatre financially, which allowed the institution, at least for a while, to become a major British stage outside of London.[108]
Keynes's personal interest in classical opera and dance led him to support the Royal Opera House at Covent Garden and the Ballet Company at Sadler's Wells. During the War as a member of CEMA (Council for the Encouragement of Music and the Arts) Keynes helped secure government funds to maintain both companies while their venues were shut. Following the War Keynes was instrumental in establishing the Arts Council of Great Britain and was the founding Chairman in 1946. Unsurprisingly from the start the two organisations that received the largest grant from the new body were the Royal Opera House and Sadler's Wells.
Like several other notable British authors of his time, Keynes was a member of the Bloomsbury Group. Virginia Woolf's biographer tells an anecdote on how Virginia Woolf, Keynes and T. S. Eliot would discuss religion at a dinner party, in the context of their struggle against Victorian era morality.[148] Keynes may have been confirmed,[149] but by university he was clearly an agnostic, which he remained until his death.[150] According to one biographer, "he was never able to take religion seriously, regarding it as a strange aberration of the human mind."[149]
Keynes was ultimately a successful investor, building up a private fortune. His assets were nearly wiped out following the Wall Street Crash of 1929, which he did not foresee, but he soon recouped. At Keynes's death, in 1946, his net worth stood just short of £500,000 – equivalent to about £11 million ($16.5 million) in 2009. The sum had been amassed despite lavish support for various good causes and his personal ethic which made him reluctant to sell on a falling market in cases where he saw such behaviour as likely to deepen a slump.[151]
Keynes built up a substantial collection of fine art, including works, not all of them minor, by Paul Cézanne, Edgar Degas, Amedeo Modigliani, Georges Braque, Pablo Picasso, and Georges Seurat (some of which can now be seen at the Fitzwilliam Museum).[108] He enjoyed collecting books: for example, he collected and protected many of Isaac Newton's papers. It is in part on the basis of these papers that Keynes wrote of Newton as "the last of the magicians."[152]
Keynes was a lifelong member of the Liberal Party, which until the 1920s had been one of the two main political parties in the United Kingdom, and as late as 1916 had often been the dominant power in government. Keynes had helped campaign for the Liberals at elections from as early as 1906, yet he always refused to run for office himself, despite being asked to do so on three separate occasions in 1920. From 1926 when Lloyd George became leader of the Liberals, Keynes took a major role in defining the party's economics policy, but by then the Liberals had been displaced into third party status by the Labour party.[13]
In 1939 Keynes had the option to enter Parliament as an independent MP with the University of Cambridge seat. A by-election for the seat was to be held due to the illness of an elderly Tory, and the master of Magdalene College had obtained agreement that none of the major parties would field a candidate if Keynes chose to stand. Keynes declined the invitation as he felt he would wield greater influence on events if he remained a free agent.[33]
Keynes was a proponent of eugenics. He served as Director of the British Eugenics Society from 1937 to 1944. As late as 1946, shortly before his death, Keynes declared eugenics to be "the most important, significant and, I would add, genuine branch of sociology which exists."[153]
Keynes once remarked that "the youth had no religion save Communism and this was worse than nothing."[148] Marxism "was founded upon nothing better than a misunderstanding of Ricardo", and, given time, he, Keynes, "would deal thoroughly with the Marxists" and other economists to solve the economic problems their theories "threaten[ed] to cause".[148]
How can I accept the Communist doctrine, which sets up as its bible, above and beyond criticism, an obsolete textbook which I know not only to be scientifically erroneous but without interest or application to the modern world? How can I adopt a creed which, preferring the mud to the fish, exalts the boorish proletariat above the bourgeoisie and the intelligentsia, who with all their faults, are the quality of life and surely carry the seeds of all human achievement? Even if we need a religion, how can we find it in the turbid rubbish of the red bookshop? It is hard for an educated, decent, intelligent son of Western Europe to find his ideals here, unless he has first suffered some strange and horrid process of conversion which has changed all his values.
Throughout his life Keynes worked energetically for the benefit both of the public and his friends—even when his health was poor he laboured to sort out the finances of his old college,[155] and at Bretton Woods, he worked to institute an international monetary system that would be beneficial for the world economy. Keynes suffered a series of heart attacks, which ultimately proved fatal, beginning during negotiations for an Anglo-American loan in Savannah, Georgia, where he was trying to secure favourable terms for the United Kingdom from the United States, a process he described as "absolute hell."[41][156] A few weeks after returning from the United States, Keynes died of a heart attack at Tilton, his farmhouse home near Firle, East Sussex, England, on 21 April 1946 at the age of 62.[13][157] Both of Keynes's parents outlived him: father John Neville Keynes (1852–1949) by three years, and mother Florence Ada Keynes (1861–1958) by twelve. Keynes's brother Sir Geoffrey Keynes (1887–1982) was a distinguished surgeon, scholar and bibliophile. His nephews include Richard Keynes (1919–2010) a physiologist; and Quentin Keynes (1921–2003), an adventurer and bibliophile. His widow, Lydia Lopokova, died in 1981.
John Maynard Keynes, The Economic Consequences of the Peace, Indo-European Publishing, 2011, see back book cover notes, ISBN 160444116X, 9781604441161
Paul Levy, "The Bloomsbury Group", Essays on John Maynard Keynes, ed. Milo Keynes, Cambridge University Press, 1979, p. 65, ISBN 052129696X, 9780521296960
David Warsh, Economic Principles: The Masters and Mavericks of Modern Economics, Simon and Schuster, 2010, p 3, ISBN 9781451602562
Beaudreau, Bernard C.. The Economic Consequences of Mr. Keynes: How the Second Industrial Revolution Passed Great Britain By. iUniverse, 2006, ISBN 0-595-41661-6
Clark, Barry. Political Economy: A Comparative Approach. Westport: Greenwood Publishing Group, 1998, ISBN 0-275-96370-5
Clarke, Peter. Keynes: The Twentieth Century's Most Influential Economist. Bloomsbury, 2009, ISBN 978-1-4088-0385-1
Clarke, Peter. Keynes: The Rise, Fall and Return of the 20th Century's Most Influential Economist, Bloomsbury Press, 2009
Davidson, Paul. John Maynard Keynes (Great Thinkers in Economics). Palgrave Macmillan, 2007, ISBN 1-4039-9623-7
Markwell, Donald. John Maynard Keynes and International Relations: Economic Paths to War and Peace. Oxford University Press, 2006, ISBN 0-19-829236-8, ISBN 978-0-19-829236-4
Keynes, Milo (editor). Essays on John Maynard Keynes. Cambridge University Press, 1975, ISBN 0-521-20534-4
Patinkin, Don. "Keynes, John Maynard", The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics. v. 2, 1987, pp. 19–41. Macmillan ISBN 0-333-37235-2 (US Edition: ISBN 0-935859-10-1)
Skidelsky, Robert. John Maynard Keynes: Hopes Betrayed 1883–1920. Papermac, 1992, ISBN 0-333-57379-X (US Edition: ISBN 0-14-023554-X)
Skidelsky, Robert. John Maynard Keynes: The Economist as Saviour 1920–1937. Papermac, 1994, ISBN 0-333-58499-6 (US Edition: ISBN 0-14-023806-9)
Skidelsky, Robert. John Maynard Keynes: Fighting for Britain 1937–1946 (published in the United States as Fighting for Freedom). Papermac, 2001, ISBN 0-333-77971-1 (US Edition: ISBN 0-14-200167-8)
Yergin, Daniel with Stanislaw, Joseph. The Commanding Heights: The Battle for the World Economy. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1998, ISBN 0-684-82975-4
Blaug, Mark (September 1994), "Recent Biographies of Keynes", Journal of Economic Literature (University of Exeter: American Economic Association) 32 (3): 1204–1215 
Dillard, Dudley (1948). The Economics of John Maynard Keynes: The Theory of Monetary Economy. Prentice-Hall, Inc. p. 384. ISBN 978-1-4191-2894-3. 
Keynes, John Maynard (1998). The Collected Writings of John Maynard Keynes (30 Volume Hardback ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-30766-6. 
Skidelsky, Robert (2010). Keynes: A Very Short Introduction. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-959164-0. 
Booknotes interview with Robert Skidelsky on John Maynard Keynes: Fighting for Freedom, 1937–1946, 28 April 2002.
"John Maynard Keynes (1883–1946)". The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics. Library of Economics and Liberty (2nd ed.) (Liberty Fund). 2008. 
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=John_Maynard_Keynes&oldid=610512015"					
Categories: John Maynard Keynes1883 births1946 deaths20th-century British writers20th-century economistsAlumni of King's College, CambridgeBarons in the Peerage of the United KingdomBibliophilesBisexual menBisexual writersBloomsbury GroupBretton Woods Conference delegatesBritish ZionistsCambridge University Moral Sciences ClubCompanions of the Order of the BathEnglish agnosticsEnglish art collectorsEnglish economistsEnglish farmersEnglish philanthropistsEnglish philosophersEnglish stock tradersFellows of the British AcademyFellows of King's College, CambridgeAcademics of the University of CambridgeKeynes familyKeynesian economicsKeynesiansLGBT politicians from EnglandLGBT scientists from the United KingdomLGBT writers from EnglandLiberal Party (UK) politiciansOfficers of the Order of Leopold (Belgium)People educated at Eton CollegePeople educated at St Faith's SchoolPeople from CambridgePresidents of the Cambridge Union SocietyProbability theoristsHidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only contentPages with login required references or sourcesCS1 errors: datesUse British English from August 2011Use dmy dates from October 2012Good articlesWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesCash for College! 54 Scholarships Worth $10&#044;000 or MoreErikson's Psychosocial Stages Summary ChartHow to Control Carpenter BeesQuiz - What's Your Leadership Style? [About Psychology]College Interview Questions
Top Related Searchesjohn maynard keynesjohn neville keyneseconomic recessionsfamous economistsbritish economistkeynesian economics
John Maynard Keynes (June 5, 1883 – April 21, 1946):John Maynard Keynes (JMK) is probably one of the most famous economists.   He was a British economist.  His father was John Neville Keynes a Cambridge economist. JMK attended King’s College Cambridge and later became a fellow there.  In 1911 he was made editor of the Economic Journal - Britain's foremost economics publication.Keynes and the General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money:Keynes is known for starting the field of what became known as Keynesian economics.  He outlined many of these ideas in his famous book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money.  This book, published in 1936, was written in response to the Great Depression of the 1930s. Keynesian economics promotes a mixed economy.  Keynes and a Mixed Economy:In this type of economy both the state and the private sector play an important role. For example, he advocated for interventionist government policy.  He thought it would be beneficial for the government to use fiscal and monetary measures to mitigate the negative impact of economic recessions, depressions and booms. 
Keynesian Economics:Keynesian economics is often seen as the opposite of laissez-faire economics.  Laissez-faire economic theory is based on the belief that markets and the private sector can operate well on their own, without state intervention.  Obviously while JMK's ideas have had a great impact on economic and political though and action, not everyone agrees with his ideas.  At the time of JMK's writing his ideas split the economics world.  Even today Keynes's ideas are controversial.Baron Keynes:In 1942, based on his economic and political work, Keynes became Baron Keynes, of Tilton in the County of Sussex.   Keynes died of infarction, his heart problems being aggravated by the strain of working on post-war international financial problems. 
Keynes and EconomicsThe Keynes Effect - Glossary - Dictionary Definition of The Keynes EffectFiscal Policy and Economic StabilizationBiography of Joan Robinson
Related ArticlesKeynes, John MaynardMarxist ArchaeologyCharles Darwin - A Short Biographical Dictionary of English LiteratureMechanism of Action - Definition and ExamplesJean Piaget Biography 
Using Economics at About.comWhat Is Economics?Microeconomics vs. MacroeconomicsEconomics as the "Dismal Science?"The Circular-Flow Model of the Economy
The Definitive Guide to Understanding Price...In Economics, What's the Difference Between...Explaining 5 Types of UnemploymentWhat Are The Three Types of Unemployment?What Is Inflation?
Economics BasicsSupply and DemandMeasuring Economic ValueUtility MaximizationProductionTypes of MarketsInternational TradeRegulationExternalities and Public GoodsOutput, Income, MoneyIncome DistributionBusiness Cycles and Economic GrowthMacroeconomic Stabilization PolicyNotable EconomistsFields of EconomicsBlog
EconomicsAbout.comEducationEconomicsBiographies of EconomistsFamous EconomistsA short biography of John Maynard Keynes Advertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
=======================================================
John Maynard Keynes (pronounces Canes) was born into an academic family. His father, John Nevile Keynes, was a lecturer at the University of Cambridge where he taught logic and political economy. John Nevile published Formal Logic four months after John Maynard was born. John Maynard's mother, Florence Ada Brown, was a remarkable woman who was a highly successful author, and also a great pioneer in social reform. It is worth commenting at this stage that, although John Maynard Keynes lived to the age of 63, his parents both outlived him.
At the age of seven, Keynes entered Perse School Kindergarten but he learnt more from lessons given at home. Two years later he entered St Faith's preparatory school but there was little sign at this stage that he was an exceptional pupil. As time went by he did begin to show more promise, however, and in 1894 he topped the class for the first time and received a prize for mathematics. By 1896 he was described by the headmaster as (see for example [6]):-
The following year Keynes sat the entrance examination for Eton and came tenth out of the twenty boys who were accepted into the school in that year. He did, however, come first equal in mathematics.
... Eton greatly helped his development. He found there associates who were congenial to him, youths of intellectual distinction with whom he could quickly get on to terms of intimacy on the basis of common interests.
Keynes did well at Eton winning the Senior Mathematics Prize in 1899, and again in 1900. But it was not only in mathematics that he did well; for example in 1901 he was first in mathematics, first in history, and first in the English essay. In 1902 he won a scholarship to King's College, Cambridge, in mathematics and classics. Before we leave our description of Keynes' time at Eton, we should note that it was here that he continued with one of his passions (begun at the age of twelve), namely collecting old books. He had purchased 329 old books before he entered the University of Cambridge in October 1902.
At Cambridge Keynes was tutored mathematics by E W Hobson whom he called "Hobbema". Although he studied mathematics he was no mathematical genius. His [6]:-
... logical faculty, his accuracy and his lightning speed of thought made him a thoroughly competent mathematician. He had no specific genius for mathematics; he had to take pains with his work; ... he did not seek out those abstruse regions which are a joy to the heart of the professional mathematician.
He had many interests at Cambridge beyond his academic work, spending much time with literary friends, reading, and involving himself in political activity [3]:- 
He was President of the Cambridge Union [and] won the Members' English essay Prize for an essay on the political opinions of Burke ...
He put in some effort as the examinations approached to achieve a reasonable degree and he was placed twelfth Wrangler in the Mathematical Tripos of 1905, that is twelfth in the ranked list of those receiving a First Class degree.
Immediately following taking the Tripos examinations, Keynes began a serious study of economics, reading major texts on the subject. He did briefly consider taking a second Tripos examination in Economics but decided against it. After a holiday in Switzerland, he returned to Cambridge in October 1905 and attended lectures there by Alfred Marshall on economics. In August 1906 he took the Civil Service examinations and was placed second of the ten who were accepted that year. The top person had first choice of which department to enter, and chose to enter the treasury (which Keynes would have done had he come top). Keynes, with the next choice, entered the India Office.
Keynes was very unhappy when he received detailed results of the examination. He came top in logic, psychology, and the essay, while his worst subjects were mathematics and economics. He expressed disbelief at both the mathematics and economics results, and commented, probably accurately, that he knew more about economics than his examiners.
The India Office did not provide a career to Keynes' liking. He worked mostly on his own work, devoting all his spare time to the study of the theory of probability. He then submitted a dissertation on probability for a Fellowship at King's College. Johnson and Whitehead were appointed as assessors of the dissertation but, after a close contest in March 1908, Keynes was not elected. On 5 June 1908 he resigned from the India Office and, with some financial assistance from his father, went to King's with the hope that he would be successful in the Fellowship competition the following year.
Using the detailed comments on his probability dissertation by both Johnson and Whitehead, Keynes worked hard to improve it. He also discussed his work with Russell. After submitting a new version of his dissertation on probability, Keynes was elected to a Fellowship in March 1909. The reports were impressive; Whitehead wrote:-
... his axioms are good; they are simple and few and by the aid of the symbolism he deduces the whole subject from them by rigid reasoning. The very certainty and ease by which he is enabled to solve difficult questions and to detect ambiguities and errors in the work of his predecessors exemplifies and at the same time almost conceals the advance which he has made.
Russell, writing about the book which Keynes eventually published on probability, praised the work highly:-
The mathematical calculus is astonishingly powerful, considering the very restricted premises which form its foundation... The book as a whole is one which it is impossible to praise too highly and it is hoped that it will stimulate further work on a most important subject which philosophers and logicians have unduly neglected.
Keynes now taught economics at Cambridge. He published papers in statistics, in particular he attacked strongly work by Karl Pearson in letters published in 1910 and 1911 in the Journal of the Royal Statistical Society. Whether Pearson or Keynes had the better scientific case is open to question, but there is no doubt that Keynes was by far the more skilful in his style of letter writing, making Pearson (probably unfairly) look rather silly. Keynes also wrote on economics related to India and he published a major book Indian Currency and Finance in 1913. The book is considered a classic and contains a description of the "gold exchange standard".
Keynes was appointed secretary of a Commission to examine Indian Finance and Currency in 1913 and he began to seek a publisher for his major treatise on probability based on his fellowship dissertation. His life, however, changed markedly with the beginning of World War I in August 1914. At first he continued much as before, publishing War and the Financial System, August 1914 in the Economic Journal. During the first term of the academic year 1914-15 he carried out his duties as normal at Cambridge but already Cambridge was a different place. In November 1914 he published a paper on The City of London and the Bank of England but a letter he wrote at this time shows the effect that the war was having (see for example [6]):-
For myself I am absolutely and completely desolated. It is utterly unbearable to see day by day the youths going away, first to boredom and discomfort, and then to slaughter.
...he was daily concerned with the economic management of the war. His special responsibility covered relations with allies and the conservation of England's scant supply of foreign currencies.
His position at the Treasury meant that he could no longer publish. In particular his treatise on probability had to be put to one side until the war was over. In many ways these war years saw Keynes at the height of his powers and at his most influential. Certainly he had the confidence to believe his opinions were right while others in the highest positions of power could be seriously wrong. Not long after he began to work at the Treasury he was present when Lloyd George, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, made a statement regarding the position in France. He then asked for comments to which Keynes replied:-
With the utmost respect, I must, if asked for my opinion, tell you that I regard your account as rubbish.
After the war ended, Keynes represented the Treasury at the Versailles Peace Conference, but, in June 1919, he resigned on the grounds that the proposals being put forward for German reparations were both unfair and impractical. He was then in a position to publish again and he attacked the conclusions of the Versailles Peace Conference in December 1919 with The Economic Consequences of the Peace. In this work he attacked the leading political figures in no uncertain terms and as a consequence he was never fully trusted by the government again.
In 1920 Keynes began to prepare his Treatise on Probability for publication. This he found a little difficult, for he had not looked at the work for six years. Its publication in 1921 is the most important of his works as far as this mathematical archive is concerned. In this work he argues that probability is a logical relation and so it is objective. A statement involving probability relations has a truth-value independent of people's opinions. In 1926 Ramsey published a paper Truth and probability arguing against these arguments of Keynes. The paper [17] examines the two points of view of Keynes and Ramsey on probability.
Other important ideas discussed by Keynes in Treatise on Probability is that probability relations forms only a partially ordered set in the sense that two probabilities cannot necessarily always be compared. Keynes also argues that probability is a basic concept which cannot be reduced to other concepts.
Another important period of Keynes' career was during the 1930s. This was a period of unemployment and the depression. Conventional economics could not cope with the extraordinary events which took place leaving traditional economic theory with no answer. Keynes first major work which indicates the direction his ideas were taking away from the conventional approach was A Treatise on Money published in 1930. His most important work giving the culmination of his ideas was The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money published in 1935-36. The two main messages of this work are [2]:-
... the existing theory of unemployment nonsense. In a depression ... there was no wage so low that it could eliminate unemployment. Accordingly, it was wicked to blame the unemployed for their plight. The second proposition proposed an alternative explanation about the origins of unemployment and depression. This centred upon aggregate demand - i.e. the total spending of consumers, business investors, and public agencies. When aggregate demand was low, sales and jobs suffered. When it was high, all was well.
By 1937 Keynes' health began to deteriorate. He would never be fully fit again. However, his expertise was such that he was given an honorary role in the Treasury during World War II. One of the most important projects he was involved in during his last years was the setting up of the International Monetary Fund.
There are a couple of other aspects of Keynes' interests which we should comment on. We have already mentioned his interest in old books, which he had from a very young age. He had a similar interest in modern paintings. One of his main interests was in works of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries and in particular he was fascinated by Newton's manuscripts. In 1936 Newton's papers were sold at Sotheby's and they were dispersed by this sale. Keynes made strenuous attempts to acquire the manuscripts after the sale and these attempts are described in [18].
The year 1942 marked three hundred years from Newton's birth [Newton was born on Christmas day 1642 although this became 4 January 1643 in the new calendar]. Keynes wrote an article Newton, the Man for the celebrations. Unlike most accounts of Newton's life and work which concentrate on Newton's achievements in mathematics and physics, Keynes gave equal weight to Newton's writings on alchemy and religion. The reason for this was that he based his account on the manuscripts of Newton's which he owned and these clearly showed him that, to Newton, his work on these other topics was as important as his work on mathematical physics.
In 1942 Keynes was elevated to the peerage and took his seat in the House of Lords, where he sat on the Liberal benches. Around the same time he became chairman of the newly formed Committee for the Encouragement of Music and the Arts which, before the end of the war, was renamed the British Arts Council. Keynes described the purpose of the Arts Council in a radio broadcast:-
The purpose of the Arts Council of Great Britain is to create an environment, to breed a spirit, to cultivate an opinion, to offer a stimulus to such purpose that the artist and the public can each sustain and live on the other in that union which has occasionally existed in the past at the great ages of a communal civilised life.
Lord Keynes's genius was expressed in his important contributions to the fundamentals of economic science; in his power of winning public interest in the practical application of economics on critical occasions; in his English prose style ... in the brilliant wit, the wisdom, and the range of his private conversation, which would have him a valued member of any intellectual salon or coterie in the ages of polished discussion.
Article by: J J O'Connor and E F RobertsonClick on this link to see a list of the Glossary entries for this page
=======================================================
John M. Keynes (June 5, 1883 – April 21, 1946)  was one of the most influential economists of the Twentieth Century. His ground breaking work in the 1930s led to the development of a whole new economic discipline dedicated to macroeconomics. In particular, his economic theories termed 'Keynesianism' advocated government intervention to end the Great Depression.
John M. Keynes was born in Cambridge to an upper middle class family. His father was a lecturer in economics and moral sciences at Cambridge university. He was bright scholar won a scholarship to Eton College. After Eton, he studied Maths at Kings College, Cambridge. It was here that the great economist Alfred Marshall encouraged Keynes to take up the relatively new science of Economics. He published his first economic article in 1909, and by 1911 was editor of the Economic Journal.
During the First World War, Keynes acted as a government advisor for the government. He helped to negotiate terms with Britain's creditors (UK debt rose sharply in World War One. At the end of the First World War, Keynes took part in the British delegation to the Treaty of Versailles. Keynes was shocked at the level of reparations the Allies wanted to impose on the Germans. Keynes resigned from the British delegation saying it was a recipe for bankrupting Germany. He wrote the Economic Consequences of the Peace in 1919, accurately predicting the difficulties Germany would have and the consequent political resentment at such as harsh peace treaty.
If we aim deliberately at the impoverishment of Central Europe, vengeance, I dare predict, will not limp.
In the 1920s, Keynes was a fearsome critique of Britain's decision to remain in the gold standards at a pre 1914 level. Keynes argued that this high value of sterling made life difficult for British exporters and was the main reason for the deflation and high unemployment the UK experienced in the 1920s.
It was the Great Depression of 1929-39, which gave Keynes the opportunity to disparage and challenge the classical orthodoxy which dominated economic theory at the time. At the outbreak of the Great Depression, the classical response was to rely on free markets and balance the budget. The classical response was to try and balance the government budget, through tax increases and government spending. In 1931, Keynes was particularly critical of Ramsay McDonald's austerity budget which cut public investment, wages and increased taxes. Keynes argued that the government should be doing the opposite. Throughout the 1930s, Keynes was a consistent voice for advocating higher government spending funded through higher borrowing. However, in most democracies, it proved a lone voice - apart from intermittent spending as part of Roosevelt's new deal.
The basic principle of Keynes' work was that in a recession, there were wasted resources due to falling private sector investment and spending. Therefore, the government should step in and by increasing government spending making the unemployed resources, lying idle become used. See more at explanation of Keynesian economics
Keynes was also a great publicist of his own views, with a knack of attracting attention. For example, when he saw a waiter with nothing to do, he knocked some serviettes on to the floor. He explained to his bemused friends he was trying to prevent unemployment by creating work. In his General Theory, he used the analogy of digging holes in the ground to explain concepts of aggregate demand.
"To dig holes in the ground", paid for out of savings, will  increase, not only employment, but the real national dividend of useful  goods and services. It is not reasonable, however, that a sensible  community should be content to remain dependent on such fortuitous and  often wasteful mitigations when once we understand the influences upon  which effective demand depends.
His work created some notable soundbites - he popularised the idea of the paradox of thrift (individual saving causes aggregate spending to fall). He also coined the phrase 'in the long run we are all dead'. 
The long run is a misleading guide to current affairs. In the long run we are all dead. Economists set themselves too easy, too useless a task if in  tempestuous seasons they can only tell us that when the storm is past  the ocean is flat again.  A Tract on Monetary Reform (1923) Ch. 3.
This phrase was an ironic criticism of classical theory, which argued markets would return to equilibrium 'in the long run'          
His ground breaking work - The General theory of Employment, Interest and Money (1936) provided a framework for macroeconomics and was a radical departure from the more limited classical framework. After the war, to varying degrees, governments in the West, pursued Keynesian demand management in an attempt to achieve full employment. This led the US president R. Nixon to declare in the 1960s - "we're all Keynesians now." In the 1970s, the reputation of Keynes' work was challenged by the neo-classical economists - monetarists, such as Milton Friedman. But, the great recession of 2008-2013 led to a resurgence of interest in Keynes' explanation for prolonged recessions.
In 1940, his health suffered, and he had to cut back on his workload. However, after the Second World War, he was asked to take part in the British negotiations with America over debt repayments. It was Keynes' job to emphasise to the Americans how bankrupt the UK was. The American delegation who met Keynes were deeply impressed by his intellect and passion. Though they couldn't meet his demands until congress became worried about the spread of Communism in Europe, and agreed to extend the terms of credit.          
Outside economics, Keynes was lover of the arts, opera and noted for his exceptional wit. He was a formidable, intellect and even critics admitted he had both great intellect and powers of persuasion.
Every time I argued with Keynes, I felt that I took my life in my hands  and I seldom emerged without feeling something of a fool.
Austrian economist Friedrich Hayek who came up with an economic theory (Austrian economics), very different to Keynes, wrote:
He was the one really great man I ever knew, and for whom I had  unbounded admiration. The world will be a very much poorer place without  him.
Another quality of Keynes was his optimism and belief in finding a solution. Whilst many despaired at the social and economic cost of the Great Depression, to Keynes, he saw a way out - it need not be like this.
He used his knowledge of economics to make a fortune on the stock market, though in 1929, he failed to predict the stock market crash, and lost a fortune. However, in the 1930s, he saw his financial investments make a good return, as he made a number of astute investments. He was a member of the Bloomsbury Group, a fashionable society of Cambridge graduates, who also included Virginia Woolf and E.M.Forster
He tragically died from a heart attack in 1946, just as he was helping to implement the post war economic settlement and set up the  Bretton-Woods system.
Provided dissenting voice at Treaty of Versailles about harshness of peace treaty. Later, many in Britain felt guilt at terms of Treaty, which justified appeasement.
Opposition to Gold Standard. In 1931 Britain finally left Gold Standard, which Keynes had criticised for a long-time.
Giving sense of hope in Great Depression. As Bertrand Russell says in his autobiography: "There are still many people in America who regard depressions as acts of  God. I think Keynes proved that the responsibility for these occurences  does not rest with Providence."
Sustained attack on orthodox 'classical economics'. In 1930s, the UK and US governments didn't really listen to Keynes, but he did change the study of economics, creating a seismic shift in the subject - which would later incorporate Keynesian ideas into text books and economic theory. Joan Robinson said: "The consequences of Mr. Keynes's attack upon orthodoxy are very far  reaching. First, it cuts the ground from under the pretended  justification of inequality, and allows us to see the monstrous  absurdity of our social system with a fresh eye."
Keynes is credited with the creation of the branch of macro-economics - which up until that point economics was only concerned with micro-economics.
Keynes helped negotiated credit terms with US after the war. In 1965, Time Magazine led with a story, quoting Milton Friedman 'We're all Keynesians now'
Citation : Pettinger, Tejvan. "Biography of John M Keynes", Oxford, www.biographyonline.net 3 Feb. 2013
=======================================================
John Maynard Keynes was a British Economist who greatly changed modern economic policies of governments and the practices of modern macroeconomics. Read this biography to know more about his life.
place of death: East Sussex father: John Neville Keynes, mother: Florence Ada Keynes siblings: Sir Geoffrey Keynes, Margaret Neville Keynes  Spouse: Lydia Lopokova (m. 1925-1946) children: Sir Geoffrey Keynes education: King's College, Cambridge, Eton College, University of Cambridge
Works & Achievements: Became Advisor to several charitable trusts, Director of Bank of England, His theories popularly known as 'Keynesian Economics' have formed the base for several economic policies undertaken by Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama of the United States, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom and many other political figures around the world
Keynesian economics gets its name, theories and principles from the great Economist, John Maynard Keynes who changed the world of economics. John Maynard Keynes was a British economist who transformed the widely followed traditional economic theories to make way for revolutionary economic theories. Keynes is the creator and initiator of the use of fiscal and monetary measures that are used to bring down the crisis situations brought about by economic recessions and depressions. Keynes' thoughts and theories are followed and referred even today by economists and economy students. Keyneisan ideas have been adopted by many political figures to bring positive changes in economic stability in nations around the world. Some of the notable Keynesian economics adopters are Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama of the United States, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom. Capitalist nations and countries taking up the cause of social liberalism have strictly followed Keynes' economic path to build their nations. It was after Keynes that the world started viewing the theory and practice of modern macroeconomics in a bigger and better manner. The much influential Keynesian economics have made way into several economic policies of governments. John Maynard Keynes is regarded as the founding father of modern macroeconomics.
John Maynard Keynes was born on 5 June 1883 in Cambridge, England to a middle class family. Keynes was the eldest child in a family of three children born to father John Neville Keynes who was an economist and a lecturer in moral sciences at the University of Cambridge and mother Florence Ada Keynes who was a local social reformer. Keynes was given love and attention as a child by his parents.
Keynes received his primary education at home and in kindergarten. He went to St Faith's preparatory school as a day pupil from 1892-1897. Keynes was a brilliant student according to his teachers but had a careless nature and lacked determination in studies.
Keynes was enrolled in Eton where he got an admission by earning a scholarship. He showed brilliance in mathematics, classics and history. In 1902 Keynes left Eton to pursue broader studies in King's College, Cambridge where he had earned a scholarship to pursue mathematics.
Keynes was urged by famous economist Alfred Marshall to become an economist but Keynes was more interested in philosophy. While studying in Cambridge, Keynes was influenced by English philosopher George Edward Moore’s analytic tradition in philosophy. Keynes also became a active member of the semi-secretive Cambridge Apostles society, a debating club which was reserved for the brightest students of the college. Keynes was a great student and attended various other activities in college which made him the the President of the Cambridge University Liberal Club. In May 1904 he received a first class B.A. in mathematics. Keynes had maintained cordial relations with his alma mater throughout his life. In 1905 Keynes sat for his Tripos and in 1906 he appeared for the Civil Service Exams.
Keynes started his career as a civil servant which began in October 1906 when he joined as a clerk in the India Office. Initially Keynes loved what he was doing but by 1908 he got bored and resigned from his office. He left for Cambridge to study and work on probability theory. This mathematical project was initially started out by funding meted out by Keynes’ father and the economist Arthur Pigou. In 1909 Keynes came out with his very first professional economics article which was published in the ‘Economics Journal’. It talked about the plausible effects the global economic downturn on India could have. In 1909 Keynes was invited to join Cambridge as a lecturer in economics. This was a course that was personally funded by Alfred Marshall. Keynes became richer with his growing earnings as a lecturer and also by giving private tuitions to his students. Keynes also earned as a research fellow in Cambridge. In 1911 Keynes became the editor of the ‘Economic Journal’. By 1913 Keynes came out with his first published book, ‘Indian Currency and Finance’. It was in this year that Keynes got noticed and was appointed as a member of the ‘Royal Commission on Indian Currency and Finance’.
Keynes’ expertise soon became popular making him get a call from the British Government to take up a role in the First World War. Formally Keynes had not resumed civil service in 1914 but he travelled to London on governments’ request, days before the war. Keynes played a key role in advising the Chancellor of the Exchequer (then Lloyd George) to not support the bankers’ demands of suspending specie payments by converting bank notes into gold. Keynes stated that the city’s reputation would be hurt if payments were stopped. In January 1915 Keynes was recruited as an official government position at the Treasury. Keynes designed British credit terms with its war allies and also laid down the plan of collecting scarce currencies. Keynes was greatly appreciated for his role and tremendous contributions in governmental theory formulations. According to economist Robert Lekachman Keynes' “nerve and mastery became legendary”. It was the event of King's Birthday Honours in 1917 when Keynes was made the ‘Companion of the Order of the Bath’ as his appreciation for wartime contributions. This was a turning point in Keynes’ career and future life. In 1919 Keynes moved forward by being appointed as the financial representative for the Treasury in the 19’ Versailles peace conference. Simultaneously Keynes was recruited as the Officer of the Belgian Order of Leopold.
Treaty of Versailles was significant for Keynes as he had a leading role to play in it. Keynes aimed at decreasing Germany’s war reparation as he wanted to help the nation and her people to grow. However, Keynes was excluded from the Treasury as the 1918 coupon election decided to keep out Keynes from taking part in high level talks concerning reparations. Keynes was unsuccessful in the Treaty which completely damaged his moral. Soon he resigned from the Treasury.
In June 1919 Keynes did not take the offer of a chairman of the British Bank of Northern Commerce which was a salaried job of £2000. Keynes was highly disgusted with the damaging treaty. He analysed the treaty and worked upon its damaging impacts which later appeared in his book ‘The Economic Consequences of the Peace’ published in 1919. Keynes upheld his brilliance as an Economist in the book. His book not only portrayed economic analyses but also urged readers’ compassion for Germany. Keynes wrote, “I cannot leave this subject as though its just treatment wholly depended either on our own pledges or on economic facts. The policy of reducing Germany to servitude for a generation, of degrading the lives of millions of human beings, and of depriving a whole nation of happiness should be abhorrent and detestable,--abhorrent and detestable, even if it were possible, even if it enriched ourselves, even if it did not sow the decay of the whole civilised life of Europe.” Keynes made superb predictions of future (bringing out senses of compassion from readers) “If we aim deliberately at the impoverishment of Central Europe, vengeance, I dare predict, will not limp. Nothing can then delay for very long that final war between the forces of Reaction and the despairing convulsions of Revolution, before which the horrors of the late German war will fade into nothing” All that Keynes had predicted came out real when Germany went through its hyperinflation in the Weimar Republic between 1921 and 1923 resulting in the downfall of the Republic which brought about the World War II. With his ‘The Economic Consequences of the Peace’ Keynes was looked upon as a world figure who talked about anti-establishment. His world fame made Keynes being offered a directorship of a major British Bank.
Keynes completed his ‘A Treatise on Probability’ and published it in 1921. The book rejected and attacked the traditional classical theory of probability and proposed a "logical-relationist" theory. The treatise was great book that combined fundamental philosophy along with extensive mathematical formulations. In the 1920s Keynes upheld his journalistic career besides pursuing his academic gaols. He sold his work in the international market and simultaneously worked as a financial consultant in London. In 1922 Keynes came out with his ‘A Revision of the Treaty’ which was a continuing work on his persistent quests on reduction of German reparations. In 1923 Keynes attacked the post World War I deflation policies by publishing ‘A Tract on Monetary Reform’. In 1924 Keynes wrote an obituary dedicated to his former tutor Alfred Marshall which Schumpeter called “the most brilliant life of a man of science I have ever read.” In the 1920s itself Britain saw itself struggling greatly from unemployment which made Keynes propose depreciation of sterling in order to boost the job market by making British exports more affordable. From 1924 Keynes started taking fiscal readings to help his government create jobs by spending on public works.
The Great Depression saw Keynes coming up with great many theories, ideas and books to deal with the situation and come out with minimum losses. Keynes published his work ‘Treatise on Money’ in 1930 which stated that the cause of rise in unemployment lay in the amount of money being saved which when exceeds the amount being invested, happening due to very high interest rates leads to unemployment. In the 1920s itself Keynes had started stating his theories on the relationship between unemployment, money and prices which made him come up with his books in the later years.  In 1933 when the Great Depression was rising very high Keynes published ‘The Means to Prosperity’ which talked about policy recommendations for tackling unemployment in a global recession and counter cyclical methods in public spending. In 1931 Keynes got massive support for his views on counter-cyclical public spending in Chicago which was America's foremost centre for economic views alternative to the mainstream in those times. In late 1933 Keynes was persuaded by Felix Frankfurter to address President Roosevelt directly which he obliged to by sending letters and going face to face in 1934. Keynes’ great efforts started being adopted by America to formulate its economic policy post 1939.
Several Keynesian policies were adopted by Sweden and Germany. Keyne’s greatest work the ‘General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money’ was published in 1936 which entirely challenged the previous neo-classical economic paradigm which believed that the market would naturally establish full employment equilibrium if it was  not controlled by government interference.
In 1940 Keynes came out with his “How to Pay for the War” which discussed about the methods and techniques like taxation, compulsory saving (essentially workers loaning money to the government), rather than deficit spending that could well save nations from war losses. His book was all about war efforts that were to be taken in order to ensure financial stabilities. Keynes was invited to join as one of the Court of Directors of the Bank of England in September 1941 which he served till April 1942. In June 1942 Keynes got rewarded for his services with a hereditary peerage in the King's Birthday Honours. On 7 July Keynes was upgraded on his title, being gazetted as Baron Keynes, of Tilton in the County of Sussex.
Keynes is regarded as a man having the greatest impact on 20th century economy around the world. Though Keynes’ economics were rejected by the British government many of his theories have been combined with neo-classical economics to produce Neo-Keynesian economics. Several nations adopted Keynesian economics to formulate their country’s economic and governmental laws. Since the end of the Great Depression till the mid-1970s, Keynes inspired many economic policy makers in Europe, America and much of the rest of the world. Renowned economist like John Kenneth Galbraith, John Hicks, Franco Modigliani, and Paul Samuelson have been greatly influenced by Keynesian theories and ideas which led them to interpret Keynes’ theories and form new age modern economic theories.
Keynes was to known to have several romantic and sexual relationships with men. Keynes had been in love with artist Duncan Grant, whom he met in 1908. According to other records Keynes was also involved with writer Lytton Strachey. Keynes had been open about his homosexual affairs. In the period between 1901 to1915 he maintained separate diaries in which he tabulated his many homosexual encounters. In 1921 Keynes fell in love with Lydia Lopokova, a well-known Russian ballerina, and one of the stars of Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes with whom he got married in 1925.
Keynes was a hardworking individual and did not think about health during his work, whether for the public nor for his friends and family. Keynes was attacked by a series of heart attacks which turned fatal. Keynes died due to a heart attack which took place at Tilton, his farmhouse home near Firle, East Sussex, UK, on 21 April 1946.
 1902:  Keynes left Eton to pursue broader studies in King's College, Cambridge where he had earned a scholarship to pursue mathematics
 1906:  Keynes started his career as a civil servant which began in October when he joined as a clerk in the India Office
 1908:  He got bored and resigned from his office and left for Cambridge to study and work on probability theory
 1909:  Keynes came out with his very first professional economics article which was published in the ‘Economics Journal’. It talked about the plausible effects the global economic downturn on India could have
 1914:  Formally Keynes had not resumed civil service but he travelled to London on governments’ request, days before the war
 1919:  Keynes moved forward by being appointed as the financial representative for the Treasury in the 19’ Versailles peace conference. Simultaneously Keynes was recruited as the Officer of the Belgian Order of Leopold
 1919:  He analysed the treaty and worked upon its damaging impacts which later appeared in his book ‘The Economic Consequences of the Peace’
 1921:  Keynes fell in love with Lydia Lopokova, a well-known Russian ballerina, and one of the stars of Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes
 1922:  Keynes came out with his ‘A Revision of the Treaty’ which was a continuing work on his persistent quests on reduction of German reparations
 1923:  Keynes attacked the post World War I deflation policies by publishing ‘A Tract on Monetary Reform’
 1924:  Keynes wrote an obituary dedicated to his former tutor Alfred Marshall which Schumpeter called “the most brilliant life of a man of science I have ever read.”
 1924:  Keynes started taking fiscal readings to help his government create jobs by spending on public works
 1930:  Keynes published his work ‘Treatise on Money’ which stated that the cause of rise in unemployment lay in the amount of money being saved which when exceeds the amount being invested, happening due to very high interest rates leads to unemployment
 1931:  Keynes got massive support for his views on counter-cyclical public spending in Chicago which was America's foremost centre for economic views alternative to the mainstream in those times
 1933:  When the Great Depression was rising very high Keynes published ‘The Means to Prosperity’ which talked about policy recommendations for tackling unemployment in a global recession and counter cyclical methods in public spending
 1936:  Keynes’s greatest work the ‘General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money’ was published which entirely challenged the previous neo-classical economic paradigm
 1939 : Keynes’ great efforts started being adopted by America to formulate its economic policy post
 1940:  Keynes came out with his book, “How to Pay for the War” which discussed about the methods and techniques like taxation, compulsory saving (essentially workers loaning money to the government), rather than deficit spending that could well save nations from war losses
 1941:  Keynes was invited to join as one of the Court of Directors of the Bank of England in September
 1942:  In June Keynes got rewarded for his services with a hereditary peerage in the King's Birthday Honours
 1942:  On 7 July Keynes was upgraded on his title, being gazetted as Baron Keynes, of Tilton in the County of Sussex
 1946 : Keynes died due to a heart attack which took place at Tilton, his farmhouse home near Firle, East Sussex, UK, on 21 April
'Fear the Boom and Bust' a Hayek vs. Keynes Rap AnthemViews: 4678778 | Likes: 31153 | Dislikes: 516Keynes celebrates the end of the Gold StandardViews: 80545 | Likes: 263 | Dislikes: 108Milton Friedman On John Maynard KeynesViews: 20733 | Likes: 99 | Dislikes: 7 
The Collected Writings John Maynard Keynes XIII  The General Theory and After  Part 1  Preparation (v. 13)
=======================================================
.cellhead {text-align: center; color:black; font: bold 0.8em Arial, Verdana,Helvetica; line-height: 140%; background-color:#f5f5f5;padding:7px;} 
.cell {text-align: left; color:black; font: normal 0.8em Verdana,Arial, Helvetica; line-height: 140%; background-color:#fefefe; padding:7px; padding-bottom:12px;} 
His mother, one of the first female graduates of Cambridge University, is active in charitable works for less-privileged people. 
"If I let you have a halfpenny and you kept it for a very long time, you would have to give me back that halfpenny and another too."
Keynes attends the Perse School Kindergarten while receiving elementary educational instruction at home.
A mathematics teacher comments that Keynes, "does really brilliant work" but that he "soon tires and has not perseverance in the face of difficulty."
St Faith's headmaster writes that Maynard is "head and shoulders above all the other boys in the school." He is confident that Keynes could get a scholarship to Eton.
Keynes is preparing for Eton's scholarship exam, beginning work at 7 a.m. each day - the same starting time as the Eton exam.
Twenty scholarships for Eton are awarded. Keynes ranks tenth out of twenty overall, and first in mathematics.
Keynes begins at Eton three days late, following a fever. Keynes is taller than his classmates, his voice has broken and he is intellectually self-confident. His classmates look to him for leadership - he is a natural leader.
Ill-health strikes in Keynes's second term at Eton, including a bout of measles. There are frequent absences from classes.
Keynes scores full marks for his essay 'Responsibilities of Empire'. His examination results are considered outstanding - 1,156 out of 1,400. 
A teacher writes of him, "in his work there is absolutely nothing of the mercenary, mark-getting feeling... 
He writes to his father, "Some say that patriotism requires one to join the useless Eton shooters, but it seems to me to be the sort of patriotism that requires one to wave the Union Jack."
Keynes wins the Chamberlayne Prize, worth £60 a year for four years, by placing first in the Higher Certificate Examination. He placed first in mathematics and history and first for English essay.
A teacher at Eton, Geoffrey Young, later wrote of Keynes, "His reading had been immense, his selection was admirable, and wit and some well-calculated indiscretions illuminated an astonishingly mature performance. We were listening to something much beyond the range of the normal clever sixth-form boy..."
He spends most evenings engaged in social activities, ending each night in endless intellectual arguments with his friends, going to bed at about 3 a.m.
In his first year at university, he joins or is invited to join several highly prestigious debating and intellectual societies.
Throughout his undergraduate years Keynes is a frequent speaker at the Union - Cambridge's renowned debating society.
His intellectual and social activities will shape Keynes's development more than his formal studies will.
Keynes prepares for Cambridge's Tripos examinations in mathematics while continuing to pursue his other intellectual interests.
Keynes returns to Cambridge to attend economics lectures by Marshall, the author of his summer time reading.  
I have told him that I should be greatly delighted if he should decide on the career of a professional economist."
In one of his frequent letters to his friend G.L. Strachey Keynes writes, "I am studying Ethics for my Civil Service." 
"I have done worst in the only two subjects of which I possessed a solid knowledge - Mathematics and Economics. 
For Economics I got a relatively low percentage and was eight or ninth in order of merit - whereas I knew the whole of both papers in a really elaborate way. 
On the other hand, in Political Science, to which I devoted less than a fortnight in all, I was easily first of everybody. 
Keynes is offered and accepts a position in London with the civil service, working in the India Office. 
Much of this "spare time" seems to occur at work where he says, "I have not averaged an hour's office work a day this week so that I am well up to date with the (probability) dissertation."
Keynes is now working hard in the Revenue, Statistics and Commerce Department of the India Office, which he enjoys. 
Now the novelty has worn off I'm bored nine-tenths of the time and rather unreasonably irritated the other tenth whenever I can't have my own way," Keynes writes.
Hoping to obtain a fellowship at King's College, Keynes spends a fortnight in Cambridge working on his probability dissertation.  
He will receive £100 each year from his father and the same amount, paid privately, from Pigou, the chair of Economics at Cambridge. 
In a letter to his friend, Duncan Grant, Keynes writes, "I have received today the offer of an appointment - to be representative of H.M.'s Government on the Permanent International Commission for Agriculture at Rome. 
On the basis of his dissertation in Probability, Keynes is elected a Fellow of King's College - adding £120 per annum to his income.
The Economist publishes a series of letters from Keynes arguing that estimates of British investments in India are exaggerated.
I have already got eighteen of these, which will be rather hard work, but ought to bring in nearly £60."
Keynes reports to his father that his income has reached £700 per annum, including the money his father gives him.
In the General Election campaign Keynes travels to Birmingham for five days to support his old friend Edward Hilton Young who is standing for East Worcester as a Liberal.
After a tour of Ireland with Liberal politicians, Keynes writes to Duncan Grant, "You have not, I suppose, ever mixed with politicians at close quarters. They are awful... their stupidity is inhuman... The rest of them had minds and opinions as deplorable as their characters."
He was elected the previous year to the Estates Committee and now has motions attacking the amount of cash held by the college and querying the running of the college carried. 
Before his book is published, Keynes is offered and accepts a seat on a Royal Commission to enquire into Indian Finance and Currency.
Austen Chamberlain writes to Keynes, "You will certainly be considered the author of the Commission's report... I am amazed to see how largely the views of the Commission... are a mere repetition of the arguments and conclusions to which your study had previously led you."
Chancellor of the Exchequer David Lloyd George reads a memorandum written by Keynes urging resistance to demands being made by bankers for the creation of new assets and suspension of liabilities.
Basil Blackett, working in the Treasury, writes in his diary, "Lloyd George has at last come down on the right side ... 
He has clearly imbibed much of Keynes's memorandum and is strong against suspension of specie payments..."
News of the deaths at the front of friends and undergraduates comes to Keynes who is back at work in Cambridge.
He writes to G.L. Strachey, "I am absolutely and completely desolated. It is utterly unbearable to see day by day the youths going away, first to boredom and discomfort, and then to slaughter."
In April 1915, he writes to Duncan Grant, "It is horrible, a nightmare to be stopt anyhow. May no other generation live under the cloud we live under."
Keynes joins the Treasury to assist Sir George Paish, whose role is to provide advice to David Lloyd George independent of that given by civil service officials.
Soon after his appointment, Keynes is asked by Lloyd George to comment on Lloyd George's views on the state of affairs in France. Keynes replies, "With the utmost respect, I must, if asked for my opinion, tell you that I regard your account as rubbish."
Reginald McKenna replaces Lloyd George as Chancellor of the Exchequer. Keynes's role at the Treasury is formalised and he joins No. 1 Division, which deals with finance. Following this, he makes rapid progress in the Treasury.
"His quick mind and inexhaustible capacity for work rapidly marked out a kingdom for itself, and, before long he was a leading authority on all questions of external, and particularly inter-allied finance... 
When America came into the war, the American Treasury found the system fully fledged and itself adopted a similar practice.
Despite the war, Keynes - who is now based in London while working for the Treasury - continues to lead an active social life. 
"I have been leading such a giddy life lately that there has been no time to write letters - only two evenings in the last fortnight when I haven't dined out."
"Work has not been overwhelmingly heavy and the negotiations with the U.S., which occupy a good deal of my time, are going extremely well. 
If all happens as we wish, the Yanks ought to relieve me of some of the most troublesome of my work for the future. 
That's a piece of diplomacy over which we have blundered hopelessly, with our ridiculous tears for the Tsar and the rest of it."
"My Christmas thoughts are that a further prolongation of the war, with the turn things have taken, probably means the disappearance of the social order we have known hitherto. 
In another year's time we shall have forfeited the claim we had staked out in the New World and in exchange this country will be mortgaged to America.
"Well the only course open to me is to be buoyantly bolshevik; and as I lie in bed this morning I reflect with a good deal of satisfaction that, because our rulers are as incompetent as they are mad and wicked, one particular era of a particular kind of civilization is very nearly over."
Keynes and his future wife Lydia Lopokova are guests (independently of one another) at a party to celebrate the Russian Ballet in London. 
Keynes and 'A' Division begin to look in earnest at reparations - the financial compensation Germany should pay other countries for the war.
Looking at the performance of the German economy they conclude that Germany might possibly be able to pay £3,000 million, but £2,000 million is a more likely figure.
Charging £2,000 million at 5 percent interest would lead to annual interest payments of £100 million from Germany. 
Meanwhile, an independent committee estimates the full cost of the war at £24,000 million and, at 5 percent of this sum, they conclude Germany should pay £1,200 million per year until the capital is paid off. 
(By way of contrast, to see how huge a sum this was, in 1931 Britain claimed it was economically impossible to pay off just £35 million per year to the U.S.)
The Germans must pay for food in gold but the French are blocking this - they want the gold as part of German reparations. 
Meanwhile there is no food or employment anywhere, and the French and Italians are pouring munitions into Central Europe to arm everyone against everyone else."
"...Keynes has been too splendid about the Austrian Treaty. He is going to fight. He says he will resign."
I've gone on hoping even through these last dreadful weeks that you'd find some way to make of the Treaty a just and expedient document. 
Keynes seeks to have a wider influence on public opinion than a return to his pre-war life lecturing in Cambridge will allow him. 
He informs the University he will lecture once weekly on 'The Economic Aspects of the Peace Treaty'. 
Acting on the advice of friends, Keynes turns down £2,000 per annum (10 to 20 times his academic remuneration) for one day's work per week acting as Chairman of a foreign bank. 
"On Monday I actually began writing a book about the economic condition of Europe, but may not persevere with it."
Keynes writes The Economic Consequences of Peace, castigating the allies for the punitive reparations they had imposed on Germany at the end of the war.
"If we aim deliberately at the impoverishment of Central Europe, vengeance, I dare predict, will not be limp. Nothing can then delay for very long that final Civil War between the forces of Reaction and the despairing convulsions of Revolution, before which the horrors of the late German war will fade into nothing, and which will destroy, whoever is victorious the civilization and progress of our generation."
(The subsequent rise of Adolf Hitler in an economically desperate Germany is held by many observers to justify Keynes's condemnation of the punitive actions taken by the allies against Germany following World War One.)
Keynes accepts and invitation to join the Board of Directors of the National Mutual Life Insurance Company. 
Keynes's The Economic Consequences of Peace is published in Britain and in January it will be published in America.
The centre and right are hostile - they believe it is right that German criminality should be punished. 
With time, this view will change to one of 'I suppose this fellow is right; I suppose we have made a fearful hash of things.' 
The book brings fame to Keynes but also turns him into a figure the establishment will be wary of for a considerable period of time.
His brokers - treating Keynes more favourably than the norm - request £7,000 to keep the account open. 
Keynes is given £5,000 by a financier and obtains £1,500 in advance for future sales of The Economic Consequences of Peace.
He wants to be independently wealthy - his authorship of The Economic Consequences of Peace - seen as an anti-establishment work - has ruined his chances of obtaining a position on the board of any of the great British banks. 
Keynes is appointed Second Bursar at King's College with a stipend of £100 per year. As a Supernumerary Fellow, his academic activities are now unpaid.
It is a busy year - and in fact it will be a busy decade - as Keynes juggles a multiplicity of jobs and responsibilities. 
Friday to Tuesday each week Keynes is at King's College, tutoring pupils, lecturing and presiding over his Monday evening club.
His bursarial duties grow and he takes increasing responsibility for the College's investment policy.
He writes to the Cambridge Review, supporting the cause of women, and continues as Editor of the Economic Journal.
With a view to increasing his personal wealth, Keynes forms or joins a number of investment syndicates while continuing to speculate on his own behalf.
He decides he will write a new book on the German reparations problem and has frequent correspondence with people connected with this issue.
Keynes is also writing frequently for newspapers, particularly the Manchester Guardian. He sells his articles overseas and earns a significant income from journalism.
Meanwhile, he continues to be a main player with his Bloomsbury friends in London where the concerns revolve around the finer things in life - the arts, good conversation, gossip about friends, literature and parties.
On vacation in Algeria and Tunisia, Keynes returns to his earlier dissertation on probability, preparing it for publication with the title Treatise on Probability.
Keynes argues against the validity of probabilities based on the frequency of past occurrences where probabilities may be subject to interpretation by people. 
"Perception of probability, weight, and risk are all highly dependent on judgement," and "the basis of our degrees of belief is part of our human outfit."
Keynes loves the Ballet and he begins to fall under the romantic spell of the well-known Russian ballerina, Lydia Lopokova. 
Keynes persuades Lydia to move to a flat closer to his Bloomsbury friends and begins to advise her financially.
The book documents the course of events since his previous work and argues again for a reduction in payments demanded from Germany.
Keynes publishes his views - and those of many other distinguished authors - on Europe's economies in twelve Manchester Guardian supplements. 
Keynes begins contributing monthly articles - mainly on reparations - to the Nation, the Liberal weekly. 
The Bank of England, amid falling prices and rising unemployment, increases the base rate from three to four percent in preparation for Sterling's return to its pre-war gold parity.  
"The Bank of England acting under the influence of a narrow and obsolete doctrine has made a great mistake."
Keynes publishes A Tract on Monetary Reform, calling for an end to the Gold Standard, which he refers to as "a barbarous relic". 
On the question of whether it is preferable to manage a currency to achieve a stable external value or stable internal prices, Keynes concludes that stable internal prices are preferrable.
Lloyd George writes to the Nation demanding the Government should intervene to fund a large program of public works to create jobs.
He proposes Government capital spending of £100 million per annum to stimulate the economy, specifically spending on housing, roads and electrical power distribution. 
He further proposes National Savings should be spent on works in Britain rather than invested overseas.
Speculators are buying Sterling anticipating it will rise to its pre-war value when it rejoins the Gold Standard.
Keynes gives the Sydney Ball Foundation Lecture at Cambridge. The title he chooses for his lecture is The End of Laissez-Faire and he says:
"I believe that in many cases the ideal size for the unit of control and organisation lies somewhere between the individual and the modern State. 
I suggest, therefore, that progress lies in the growth and the recognition of semi-autonomous bodies within the State-bodies whose criterion of action within their own field is solely the public good as they understand it, and from whose deliberations motives of private advantage are excluded..."
"One of the most interesting and unnoticed developments of recent decades has been the tendency of big enterprise to socialise itself. A point arrives in the growth of a big institution... at which the owners of the capital, i.e. its shareholders, are almost entirely dissociated from the management, with the result that the direct personal interest of the latter in the making of great profit becomes quite secondary. 
When this stage is reached, the general stability and reputation of the institution are the more considered by the management than the maximum of profit for the shareholders."
"We must aim at separating those services which are technically social from those which are technically individual... The important thing for government is not to do things which individuals are doing already, and to do them a little better or a little worse; but to do those things which at present are not done at all."
"For my part I think that capitalism, wisely managed, can probably be made more efficient for attaining economic ends than any alternative system yet in sight, but that in itself it is in many ways extremely objectionable. Our problem is to work out a social organisation which shall be as efficient as possible without offending our notions of a satisfactory way of life."
By virtue of astute speculation in the financial markets, Keynes's assets have grown from nil (virtual bankruptcy) in May 1920 to £57,797. 
Winston Churchill, acting on the advice of his economic advisers, returns Sterling to the Gold Standard. 
(Churchill would later admit that rejoining the Gold Standard at the prewar level was one of the greatest mistakes he ever made.)
Stanley Baldwin's Conservative government intervenes and provide a nine-month subsidy to maintain the miners' wages.
Keynes calls for a working agreement between the Liberal and Labour Parties in order to rid the country of the Conservative Government.
The aftermath of the strike is highly damaging and Britain's industrial development between 1925 and 1929 lags most of its competitors.
Keynes continues working in his academic and bursarial duties at King's College, a variety of business roles and his editorial and journalistic activities. 
He takes a less prominent role in public life as he develops ideas and drafts his next major work - A Treatise on Money. 
"The fact is - a fact not yet recognized by the great public - that we are now in the depths of a very severe international slump, a slump which will take its place in history amongst the most acute ever experienced. 
It will require not merely passive movements of bank rates to lift us out of a depression of this order, but a very active and determined policy."
A large, long-lasting, world-wide cut in interest-rates is required, Keynes writes in Svenska Handelsbanken Index.
One implication of this is that, in the midst of an economic depression, the correct course of action should be to encourage spending and discourage saving. 
At the invitation of the University of Chicago, Keynes travels to America to give a lecture on the Harris foundation. 
The British Government, reeling from the depression, abandons the Gold Standard and devalues sterling by twenty percent. 
Keynes attacks Ramsay MacDonald's National Government's budget - in particular the wage cut for school-teachers and the reduction in the road building and house building programmes. 
Keynes continues to advocate that the government should borrow money and undertake large-scale public works to stimulate the economy.
The BBC broadcasts a transatlantic conversation between Keynes and Walter Lippmann - the first ever broadcast of a transatlantic conversation.
Walter Lippman writes to Keynes from America about the effect a letter from Keynes to the New York Times has had:
"...I do not know whether you realize how great an effect that letter [viz. that in the New York Times] had, but I am told that it was chiefly responsible for the policy which the Treasury is now quietly but effectively pursuing... reducing the long-term rate of interest."
Keynes visits America again. He studies its economy and its stocks and bonds for personal investment purposes. 
He concludes that share prices - particularly of public utilities - are priced for exceptional value and he invests a large part of his own funds - with great success.
He meets President Roosevelt who writes to Felix Frankfurter, "I had a grand talk with K and liked him immensely..."
Keynes wins the enmity of American advocates of laissez-faire economics who believe Roosevelt is allowing American economic policy - The New Deal - to be influenced by a foreign economist.
Keynes finishes writing his first draft of The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money - an analysis of the causes of unemployment. 
Keynes argues against the classical economic theory that full employment could always be reached by making wages sufficiently low.
"... you have to know that I believe myself to be writing a book on economic theory which will largely revolutionize - not, I suppose, at once but in the course of the next ten years - the way the world thinks about economic problems."
Keynes sends copies of the first draft of The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money to a variety of figures whose views he respects and engages in a significant amount of detailed correspondence with these people as he works to perfect the book.
Keynes, as First Bursar of King's College, releases land for the construction of a theatre and funds much of the construction personally." 
Keynes proposes that economies are made up of aggregate quantities of output resulting from aggregate streams of expenditure - unemployment is caused if people don't spend enough money. 
As Hitler's Germany grows ever more menacing Keynes who, in the 1920s, had favoured disarmament, speaks and writes in favour of a militarily strong Britain.
Keynes makes his first public appearance since he fell ill, at the Annual General Meeting of the National Mutual Life Assurance Society.
In an article in the New Statesman, Keynes writes of the Munich agreement between Neville Chamberlain and Adolf Hitler:
"Neither the Prime Minister nor Herr Hitler ever intended for one moment that the play-acting should devolve into reality."
"The intelligentsia of the Left were the loudest in demanding that the Nazi aggression should be resisted at all costs. 
When it comes to a showdown, scarce four weeks have passed before they remember that they are pacifists and write defeatist letters to your columns, leaving the defence of freedom and civilization to Colonel Blimp and the Old School Tie, for whom Three Cheers."
Party politics have more or less ceased and Keynes is offered the (likely to be uncontested) position of Member of Parliament for Cambridge University. 
He turns this honour down, in order that he can remain aloof from government and take his own individual stance on issues.
Keynes publishes a small book entitled How to Pay for the War, which sells 35,000 copies. He actively promotes his proposals that interest rates should be kept low and that compulsory saving (deferred pay) should be used as a mechanism to prevent the inflation that occurred during World War One. 
Enemy aliens are rounded up and sent to the Isle of Man, including a number of academics who have fled Nazi Germany. 
They will later be released but meanwhile Keynes writes, "I can remember nothing equal to what is going on for stupidity and callousness." 
A German bomb falling on London smashes windows in Keynes's house and there's an unexploded bomb in the neighbourhood. 
Keynes makes the first of several very important visits he will make to America between now and 1946. 
The good personal relationships he has developed in past visits to America - and he will continue to develop - will make it easier for Keynes to negotiate with America on Britain's behalf. 
On this occasion, Keynes is concerned mainly with arrangements for Lend-Lease and to explain in detail Britain's financial predicament after two years of war.
Anthony Eden makes an important speech on Britain's war objectives - the economic thrust of which is based on Keynes's ideas.
He has grave concerns for Britain's post-war economy and wonders about the possibility of applying "Keynesian" solutions on a world-scale. 
He writes his first draft of an international 'Clearing Union' of a non-political character, to aid and support other international institutions concerned with the planning and regulation of the world's economic life.
Keynes is heavily engaged in making proposals for and engaging in discussions about what will later become the International Monetary fund (IMF), the World Bank, and the Breton Woods system for international currency management.
Keynes gives his broad support to proposals from Sir William Beveridge for a large-scale expansion of social insurance - later to be called the welfare state and the National Health Service. 
Keynes is confident the proposals are affordable but persuades Beveridge to cut down on overall costs in the first five years. 
This results in a postponement of the right to higher pensions until contributions had been accumulated.
Keynes makes his second wartime visit to the United States, refusing to be deterred by his poor health. 
He meets Harry Dexter White, Chief International Economist at the U.S. Treasury, who he will cross swords with frequently on the post-war economic settlement. 
Whatever Keynes's abilities as a negotiator, Britain's weak economic position means that America holds the trump cards in most negotiations. 
Nevertheless, close co-operation between the British and Americans on economic matters is established and Keynes manages to shift White's position closer to his own in many important respects.
Illness prevents Keynes attending an important series of economic meetings with the Dominions - Australia, Canada and New Zealand.
Keynes sets sail for Bretton Woods for further talks with American negotiators about the post-war economic settlement. 
"In the late afternoon we had a joint session with the Americans, at which Keynes expounded our views on the Bank. 
At such moments, I often find myself thinking that Keynes must be one of the most remarkable men that have ever lived - 
the quick logic, the birdlike swoop of intuition, the vivid fancy, the wide vision, above all the incomparable sense of the fitness of words, all combine to make something several degrees beyond the limit of ordinary human achievement."
"He shone in two respects - in the fact that he is, of course, one of the brightest lights of mankind ... 
Dean Acheson, America's representative tells the Treasury Secretary that Keynes was rushing things, "in a perfectly impossible and outrageous way ...
So before you have an opportunity to turn to Section 15-C and see what he is talking about, he says, 'I hear no objection to that', and it is passed. 
Anticipating the defeat of Germany, Keynes travels to the United States for a fourth time, to negotiate Lend-Lease for the war against Japan after Germany's defeat. 
He spends over two months in Washington, taking every opportunity to describe Britain's dire financial position to the Americans.
The bomb has been dropped on Hiroshima. Keynes is deeply engaged in negotiations with the Americans again. 
Keynes is engaged in the task of eliciting American assistance to keep Britain solvent in the post-war years, when the Americans may feel less well disposed to helping a country it is no longer fighting shoulder-to-shoulder with.
Mainstream American opinion is that, with the war over, if the British are not starving, they should not need further assistance. 
Keynes travels to the United States again, hoping to secure a loan to help Britain rebuild its economy. 
Members of the British and American delegation break into separate commissions to discuss individual problems - over a period of three months.
The British obtain a loan from America, which will be interest free for six years and then charged at two percent. 
Also, Britain's huge potential Lend-Lease obligations to America will be remitted in their entirety. 
It is likely that Keynes's efforts for Britain have been rewarded with more generous terms than might have been obtained otherwise. 
Keynes returns to Britain, his health poor with fatigue, to find a significant degree of malcontent with the loan agreement he has negotiated with America. 
In Parliament and in the country at large there is a growing anti-American feeling, spurred by the belief that Britain is being forced into too many concessions to America in order to obtain the loan.
Keynes gives a masterful performance in the House of Lords, explaining the terms of the loan agreement and how Britain could not reasonably expect more.
Keynes sets sail for New York, from where he travels to Savannah, Georgia for what will prove to be his final visit to the United States. 
He anticipates a pleasant time at the inaugural meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and plans to enjoy a vacation afterwards in Savannah, a place he has previously found to be highly agreeable.
In Keynes's view, the Americans are taking advantage of their strong economic position to force ill-conceived decisions on the IMF and Bank. 
Nations in debt to the Americans are voting with America, not because they want to but because, owing to their dependence on American aid, they feel they have no other option.
Until now, Keynes has always spoken strongly in favour of Americans - he has always found them to be pragmatic, ready to look at issues from all angles and ready to compromise. 
Over lunch at the Bank of England, Keynes tells Henry Clay of his hopes that Adam Smith's 'invisible hand' can help Britain out of the economic hole it is in:
"I find myself more and more relying for a solution of our problems on the invisible hand which I tried to eject from economic thinking twenty years ago."
