=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          George Timothy Clooney was born on May 6, 1961, in Lexington, Kentucky, to Nina Bruce (née Warren), a former beauty pageant queen, and Nick Clooney, a former anchorman and game show host (who was also the brother of singer Rosemary Clooney). Clooney spent most of this youth in Ohio and Kentucky, and graduated from Augusta High School. He was very active in sports such as basketball and baseball, and tried out for the Cincinatti Reds, but was not offered a contract.After his cousin 'Miguel Ferrer' got him a small part in a feature film, Clooney began to pursue acting. His first major role was on the sitcom E/R (1984) as Ace. More roles soon followed, including George Burnett, the handsome handyman on The Facts of Life (1979); Booker Brooks, a supervisor on Roseanne (1988); and Detective James Falconer on Sisters (1991). Clooney had his breakthrough when he was cast as Dr. Doug Ross on the award-winning drama series ER (1994), opposite Anthony Edwards, Noah Wyle, and Julianna Margulies.While filming "ER", Clooney starred in a number of high profile film roles, such as Robert Rodriguez's From Dusk Till Dawn (1996), and One Fine Day (1996), opposite Michelle Pfeiffer. In 1997, Clooney took on the role of Batman in Joel Schumacher's Batman & Robin (1997). The film was a moderate success in the box office, but was slammed by critics, notably for the nipple-laden Bat suit. Clooney went on to star in Steven Soderbergh's Out of Sight (1998), Terrence Malick's The Thin Red Line (1998), and David O. Russell's Three Kings (1999).In 1999, Clooney left "ER" (though he would return for the season finale) and appeared in a number of films including O Brother, Where Art Thou? (2000), The Perfect Storm (2000), and Ocean's Eleven (2001). Collaborating once again with Steven Soderbergh, Ocean's Eleven received critical acclaim, earned more than $450 million in the box office, and spawned two sequels: Ocean's Twelve (2004) and Ocean's Thirteen (2007).In 2002, Clooney made his directorial debut with Confessions of a Dangerous Mind (2002), an adaptation of TV producer Chuck Barris's autobiography. This was the first film under the banner of Section Eight Productions, a production company he founded with Steven Soderbergh. The company also produced many acclaimed films including Far from Heaven (2002), Syriana (2005), A Scanner Darkly (2006), and Good Night, and Good Luck. (2005). Clooney won his first Oscar for Best Supporting Actor in Syriana, and was nominated for Best Director and Best Original Screenplay for Good Night, and Good Luck.In 2006, Section Eight was shut down so that Soderbergh could concentrate on directing, and Clooney founded a new production company, Smokehouse Productions, with his friend and long-time business partner, Grant Heslov.Clooney went on to produce and star in Michael Clayton (2007) (which earned him an Oscar nomination for Best Actor), directed and starred in Leatherheads (2008), and took leading roles in Burn After Reading (2008), The Men Who Stare at Goats (2009), Fantastic Mr. Fox (2009), and Jason Reitman's Up in the Air (2009). Clooney received critical acclaim his performance in Up in the Air and was nominated for several awards including a Golden Globe and Academy Award. He didn't win that year, but took home both Best Actor awards (as well as countless nominations) for his role as a father who finds out his wife was unfaithful as she lay in a coma in Alexander Payne's The Descendants (2011).Throughout his career, Clooney has been heralded for his political activism and humanitarian work. He has served as one of the United Nations Messengers of Peace since 2008, has been an advocate for the Darfur conflict, and organized the Hope for Haiti telethon, to raise money for the victims of the 2010 earthquake. In March of 2012, Clooney was arrested for civil disobedience while protesting at the Sudanese embassy in Washington, D.C.Clooney was married to actress Talia Balsam, from 1989 until 1993. After their divorce, he swore he would never marry again. Michelle Pfeiffer and Nicole Kidman bet him $10,000 that he would have children by the age of 40, and sent him a check shortly after his birthday. Clooney returned the funds and bet double of nothing he wouldn't have children by the age of 50. Although he has remained a consummate bachelor, Clooney has had many highly publicized relationships, most recently with former WWE wrestler Stacy Keibler.
          Born in Lexington, Kentucky, as son of Nick Clooney, a TV newscaster of many years, who hosted a talk show at Cincinnati and often invited George into the studios already at the age of 5. Avoiding competition with his father, he quit his job as broadcast journalist after a short time.George studied for a few years at Northern Kentucky University. He failed to join the Cincinnati Reds baseball team. He came to acting when his cousin, Miguel Ferrer, got him a small part in a feature film. After that, in 1982, he moved to Los Angeles and tried for a whole year to get a role while he slept in a friend's closet. His first movie, together with Charlie Sheen, stayed unreleased but got him the producers' attention for later contracts.
      He says he will never get married again, not have any children, but Michelle Pfeiffer and Nicole Kidman both bet $10,000 each that he would be a father before he turned 40. They were both wrong, and each sent him a check. He returned the money, betting double or nothing that he won't have kids by age 50.
      Waged war against the paparazzi by boycotting Entertainment Tonight (1981), the sister show of Hard Copy (1989), which had filmed Clooney without his permission.
      Cousin of Miguel Ferrer, Rafael Ferrer, Gabriel Ferrer, Monsita Ferrer, Maria Providencia Ferrer Murdock, Carlos Campo, Cathi Campo, Cari Leary, and Cristina Stretz. Half-cousin of Mica Darley. Cousin-in-law of Debby Boone and Terry Botwick.
      Owned a pet pig named Max, given to him by Kelly Preston, for eighteen years. Max died on December 1, 2006.
      Coincidentally, his first steady TV role was in the medical sitcom E/R (1984) that was based in Chicago and co-starred Elliott Gould, Mary McDonnell and Jason Alexander. Ten years later it would take another TV series ER (1994) (also based in Chicago) to finally launch him into the galaxy of superstardom.
      He was talk-show host Rosie O'Donnell's very first guest when her TV show debuted (The Rosie O'Donnell Show: Episode dated 10 June 1996 (1996)).
      Committed to O Brother, Where Art Thou? (2000) before even reading a script, because of his wish to work with the Coen brothers. He even accepted a significantly lower salary than usual.
      Reportedly got into a fistfight with Three Kings (1999) director David O. Russell on the set. Russell had yelled and derided a few extras out of frustration and Clooney didn't appreciate it. Russell has since said, "I wouldn't make another George Clooney movie if they paid me $20 million."
      Has stated in several interviews that he has suffered from bleeding stomach ulcers and is still on medication for stomach pain.
      Frequently stars in so-called "heist movies" that revolve around some type of robbery: Out of Sight (1998), From Dusk Till Dawn (1996), Three Kings (1999), O Brother, Where Art Thou? (2000), Ocean's Eleven (2001), Welcome to Collinwood (2002), Ocean's Twelve (2004), Ocean's Thirteen (2007), and Fantastic Mr. Fox (2009).
      He got his start in a movie starring his cousin, Miguel Ferrer. Later, after Clooney had established himself on ER (1994), Ferrer made a guest appearance on the very first show. George's aunt, Rosemary Clooney, made guest appearances on two shows the first month ER (1994) aired.
      He loves the show South Park (1997). He got a hold of Trey Parker, the creator of the series, and asked for a part in an episode. He was given the role of "Sparky," the gay dog, which involved little more than panting and yelping. However, when it was time for South Park to go to the big screen, Clooney got a full speaking part, as an ER surgeon.
      He has Irish, English, German, and smaller amounts (to varying degrees) of Scots-Irish, Scottish, Welsh, Dutch, and French Huguenot, roots.
      At 43, he was voted sexiest male celebrity in a 'Naughty Forties' poll conducted for UK television station FX.
      Auditioned five times for Ridley Scott for the role of J.D. in Thelma & Louise (1991), a role that ultimately went to future friend Brad Pitt and catapulted Pitt to super-stardom.
      He loves beer. He does voiceovers for Budweiser TV commercials and allegedly had a beer keg installed in his dressing room during filming of Ocean's Eleven (2001).
      Received the first "Spirit of Independence Award" of the Los Angeles Film Festival and Find Independent (FIND). [June, 2005]
      He and his Ocean's Eleven (2001) and Ocean's Twelve (2004) co-stars, Julia Roberts, Brad Pitt and Elliott Gould, and Bruce Willis who did a cameo in Ocean's Twelve as himself, all have guest-starred on the TV show Friends (1994), though not in the same episodes.
      In October 2005, after an accident on the set of his movie Syriana (2005), he suffered from back pain, bad headaches, and memory loss. After several spine surgeries, he fully recovered.
      Sought the role of Jack in Sideways (2004). However, the film's director, Alexander Payne, felt that he was too big a star, and turned him down in favor of Thomas Haden Church.
      In winning the Best Supporting Actor Oscar for Syriana (2005), he becomes the second generation of his family to win an Oscar. His uncle, José Ferrer, won a Best Actor Oscar for playing in Cyrano de Bergerac (1950). Also appearing in Syriana (2005) was Christopher Plummer, who once played Christian to Ferrer's Cyrano in a subsequent production, and later succeeded Ferrer as Cyrano as well.
      Is the first actor who played Batman (in Batman & Robin (1997) to win an Oscar (for Best Supporting Actor in Syriana (2005)). Five years later, Christian Bale won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor in The Fighter (2010).
      Frequently involves himself in projects involving the "Golden Age" of television. For example, he produced and starred in Fail Safe (2000), a throwback to the live television plays of the 1950s and 1960s; he directed and appeared in Confessions of a Dangerous Mind (2002), a movie about Chuck Barris' career in early game shows; and he directed, wrote, and appeared in Good Night, and Good Luck. (2005), a movie about Edward R. Murrow's battle with Senator Joseph McCarthy.
      As of 2006, he is the only regular cast member from ER (1994) to win an Oscar (for Best Supporting Actor in Syriana (2005)).
      Was originally to star in Jack Frost (1998) but chose to do Batman & Robin (1997) instead. His part went to Michael Keaton, who had previously starred as Batman in Batman (1989) and in Batman Returns (1992).
      Played a gangster in seven movies: From Dusk Till Dawn (1996), Out of Sight (1998), O Brother, Where Art Thou? (2000), Ocean's Eleven (2001), Welcome to Collinwood (2002), Ocean's Twelve (2004), and Ocean's Thirteen (2007).
      In August 2006, he and his producing partner Steven Soderbergh decided to close down their Section Eight production company after a 6-year working partnership.
      He and Grant Heslov founded production company Smoke House after his production company Section Eight closed down.
      He auditioned for the role of Mr. Blonde/Vic Vega in Reservoir Dogs (1992), but was turned down.
      His famed "Roman haircut" was actually an accident. While filming From Dusk Till Dawn (1996), he wanted to make his character Seth Gecko look really crazy with a chopped off hairstyle. But the haircut became popular and turned into a positive.
      In December 2006, he traveled to China and Egypt to make a personal plea to Chinese and Egyptian officials to use their ties with the Sudanese government to help stop the violence in the Darfur region.
      His The Peacemaker (1997) co-star Nicole Kidman presented him his Best Supporting Actor Oscar in 2006.
      Clooney grew up working in tobacco fields. In his late teens, he took up smoking and continued to do so through his late 20's. A decision he regrets and has discussed in numerous interviews. He finally decided to quit when his favorite Uncle died after a long battle with lung cancer. Clooney's parents were non-smokers, although many of his Aunts and Uncles smoked.
      In September 2006 he addressed the United Nations Security Council, urging it to act over Darfur.
      Helped celebrate a plan to rebuild a hospital in hurricane-devastated Louisiana alongside former President George Bush. The pair appeared outside the courthouse in Cameron Parish, the only surviving building in the town following Hurricane Rita. Bush presented local officials with a check for $2 million from the Bush-Clinton Katrina fund. The money will help run South Cameron Memorial Hospital once it has been rebuilt. Former ER (1994) star Clooney quipped, "There is good news in all of this, which is that when the hospital gets up and running, I will not be doing any of the medical procedures" (20 December 2006).
      Supported Senator Barack Obama's bid to win the Democratic nomination for the 2008 presidential election.
      He and his girlfriend, Sarah Larson, had an accident in 2007 while riding a motorcycle. She broke some toes, and Clooney broke a rib.
      Turned down two roles which went to Kevin Kline: "Artemus Gordon" in Wild Wild West (1999) and "Guy Noir" in A Prairie Home Companion (2006).
      Merited a place in Time magazine's "100 Most Influential People in the World" (Artists & Entertainers section) with a tribute written by Roseanne Barr (Issue May 12, 2008).
      His palatial villa overlooking Italy's Lake Como comprises 15 rooms, a wine cellar, and a master bedroom suite atop three floors. In his garage, Clooney keeps his collection of Piaggio motorbikes. Docked at his pier is a Colombo classic powerboat.
      Quit the WGA in April 2008 after the union turned down his wish to be credited as a co-writer for Leatherheads (2008). He felt that he was let down by the union.
      On the DVD commentary for Good Night, and Good Luck. (2005), George Clooney says that shortly after he met Grant Heslov in 1982, Heslov loaned Clooney $200.00 to buy his first set of headshots, and they have been friends ever since (and later writing and producing partners).
      His production company, Section 8 Productions, is named after Jamie Farr's M*A*S*H (1972) character "Maxwell Q Klinger" (Klinger tried to get out of the army via a section 8).
      He is known for his self-mocking sense of humor. The creators of South Park (1997) spoofed his Oscar acceptance speech in a South Park episode, and his political views in Team America: World Police (2004). Clooney commented that he would have been really disappointed, had he not been spoofed in the latter.
      Has an older sister named Adelia "Ada" Clooney Zeidler. She married the late Norman Monroe Zeidler, an artist and U.S. Army captain, who died of a heart attack in 2004. They have two children, Allison and Nick, who are the only grandchildren of Nina and Nick Clooney.
      Appeared on the cover of GQ magazine four times: March '95, October '97, November '98 (with Harrison Ford and Chris Rock) and January '03.
      His role as Danny Ocean in the Ocean's Eleven (2001) trilogy was parodied on Robot Chicken (2005), and the character was voiced by his cousin Miguel Ferrer.
      Three of the films he has directed are concerned with jobs held by himself or his father. Nick Clooney was a news anchor, and Good Night, and Good Luck. (2005) is about television reporters. Nick later ran an unsuccessful campaign for Congress. George plays a man running for President in The Ides of March (2011). Leatherheads (2008) was about college football. Before becoming an actor, George pursued a career as a professional athlete.
      During the 2012 Newsweek Magazine Oscar roundtable, Clooney told a story about working for the women's shoe department of a Cincinnati, Ohio, department store in 1979. He said that it was fashionable at that time for some women to have their fourth toe surgically removed so that they could more easily fit into tight pumps and heels. He came to know which women had had this procedure done, and he always tried to pass those customers of onto his coworkers, since he found the sight of the deliberately missing toe so disturbing.
      He and his father, Nick Clooney, were arrested, on March 16, 2012, for participating in a staged protest outside the Sudanese embassy in Washington, D.C.
      Is supporting President Barack Obama's 2012 reelection campaign, and hosted a fundraiser for the President at his home on May 10, 2012. A record $15 million in contributions was raised.
      Has been friends with Sandra Bullock for around 25 years. They appear in a movie together for the first time in Gravity (2013).
      Suffers from a form of malaria that surfaces from time to time; he has to live with it for the rest of his life.
      Directed one Oscar nominated performance: David Strathairn in Good Night, and Good Luck. (2005).
      As of 2014, has appeared in 6 films that were nominated for the Best Picture Oscar: The Thin Red Line (1998), Good Night, and Good Luck. (2005), Michael Clayton (2007), Up in the Air (2009), The Descendants (2011)_ and Gravity (2013), and produced the Oscar winning Argo (2012).
      In 2002, he made a controversial joke about Charlton Heston getting Alzheimer's disease; for which he refused to apologize.
      He and cousin Miguel Ferrer have both shared a role with their respective fathers. Nick Clooney plays the aged version of George's character in The Monuments Men (2014). Miguel Ferrer played the younger version of Jose Ferrer's character on the Magnum, P.I." (1980) episode, "Magnum, P.I."(1980) {Lest We Forget (#1.10)}.
      [discussing possible casting choices Mel Gibson and Nicolas Cage for Three Kings (1999) before he had signed to the movie] Luckily, both those guys were tie and gagged in my apartment, and that was a problem for the casting department.
      [on the fact he had nothing to do with the breakup of Julia Roberts and Benjamin Bratt] I was too busy breaking up Tom and Nicole's marriage.
      aking about the 2003 start to the Iraq war] You can't beat your enemy anymore through wars; instead you create an entire generation of people revenge-seeking. These days it only matters who's in charge. Right now that's us -for a while, at least. Our opponents are going to resort to car bombs and suicide attacks because they have no other way to win. . . . I believe [Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld] thinks this is a war that can be won, but there is no such thing anymore. We can't beat anyone anymore.
      It's not about an opening weekend. It's about a career, building a set of films you're proud of. Period.
      Ninety percent of films are pretty mediocre, but they have a built-in audience and open on 3,000 screens.
Confessions of a Dangerous Mind (2002) bombed. But I can take it. Most of the films I've done haven't done particularly well. I'm surprised I'm continuing to work.
      I don't believe in happy endings, but I do believe in happy travels, because ultimately...you die at a very young age, or you live long enough to watch your friends die. It's a mean thing, life.
      We've been trying to push our involvement within the studio system, sort of push the things that we've learned from foreign and independent films through the '80s and push those things back into the studio system. Like Out of Sight (1998) isn't your standard studio film by any means; Three Kings (1999) wasn't the standard Warner Bros. kind of film.
      Directors are the captains of the ship, and it's your job as the lead actor to make sure that the rest of the cast understand that by doing whatever he says.
      See, the first thing about actors is, you're just trying to get a job; and you audition and audition and you finally get them. And you still consider yourself an auditioning actor. I auditioned for One Fine Day (1996), I wasn't offered that. So you're still in that 'Hey, I'm just trying to get a job' thing. Then, you get to the point where, if you decide to do it, then they'll make the film. That's a different kind of responsibility, and it usually takes a couple of films to catch up. And then you have to actually pay attention to the kind of films that you're making.
      You got to think of things at their worst, not at their best. And Out of Sight (1998) was the first time where I had a say, and it was the first good screenplay that I'd read where I just went, 'That's it.'And even though it didn't do really well box office-wise-we sort of tanked again-it was a really good film. And I realized from that point on that it was strictly screenplay first. And then it becomes easier, because once you eliminate the idea of doing a vehicle. . . believe me, there's nobody who's encouraging us to make these films, not agents, not . . . we're not getting paid for these things, and it's not like we're going to make a mint.
      [on making Ocean's Eleven (2001)] It was the easiest shoot ever for any actor, and we all knew it when we were doing it. We were like, it's never going to be better than this. He [director Steven Soderbergh] was in hell because it was a really complicated film to put together. We were like, we're in Las Vegas, we go to work at one in the afternoon, and we gotta be done by six at night. Six hours of work. Steven was editing all night.
      I'm a hybrid. I succeed in both worlds. I hope that selling out on Ocean's Eleven (2001) is not such a bad deal. The trade-off is, I get to go make something uncommercial that will probably lose money.
      Steven [Steven Soderbergh] and I have a great relationship inside the studio system. We make the kinds of films we want and commercial films at the same time. Steven and I have lost a lot of money. We are way in the hole. But this is not a day job. I've got some cash. I have a nice house in Italy. I do OK.
      It's true information is harder to get these days. When I was growing up there were three networks - three news shows, delivering the same information. You took that information into your home and you formed your own opinions. Now we have 130 channels. You go to the channel that plays to your belief pattern. We start with different sets of facts, it's more polarizing.
      [on Good Night, and Good Luck. (2005)] I'm not a snob, I like entertaining films as well. But when you do a film like this, or like Three Kings (1999) - films that get you in a bit of trouble - it's fun to open up a debate.
      [Responding to media reports that he had contemplated suicide following surgery] I think, if you listen to the piece, I certainly did not talk about wanting to kill myself. I was talking about the idea of living for years in that kind of pain. Please don't use my words out of context.
      An acting career usually has about a shelf life of ten years before people get sick of seeing you. It's a good thing to have a job to fall back on and I really do enjoy directing.
      I doubt anybody gets taken seriously for very long. I'll be on some reality show in about six years going, Hey, I had a great year in 2006.
      People thought I was Tom and Nicole's bodyguard. They'd come up and go, "Is it okay if I go up and ask for an autograph?' It was good. I'd charge 'em three bucks a person. Yeah, you gotta make some money off of that.
      Run for office? No. I've slept with too many women, I've done too many drugs, and I've been to too many parties.
      I know what my limitations are as an actor, but my strength is putting myself into a well-written part. When I get in trouble is when I have to fix it, or when I have to carry it on personality.
      Here is my theory in debunking photographs in magazines. You know, the paparazzi photographs. I want to spend every single night for three months going out with a different famous actress. You know, Halle Berry one night, Salma Hayek the next, and then walk on the beach holding hands with Leonardo DiCaprio. People would still buy the magazines, they'd still buy the pictures, but they would always go, 'I don't know if these guys are putting us on or not.'
      I don't live at full tilt the way I used to. You begin to hate waking up with the kind of hangover you get from going on huge benders with your buddies. Also, since my neck surgeries, I've been forced to take things easier and not beat up my body the way I used to. I'm more cautious.
      The idea that every time you do a film you're supposed to be tortured confuses me. I mean, guys who say 'Oh, it's really tough, my character is really suffering" - come on. For us, even in the rotten ones, we've had a good time. I don't think you have to suffer.
      We're the ones who talked about AIDS when it was just being whispered. And we talked about civil rights when it wasn't really popular. This academy - this group of people - gave Hattie McDaniel an Oscar in 1939 when blacks were still sitting in the backs of theaters. I'm proud to be a part of this academy, proud to be part of this community, and proud to be out of touch.
      You can only get so far without discernible talent - then you either work, or use cheap publicity tricks to keep the public's attention. Paris (Hilton) has no reason to complain if she is on the end of bad publicity.
      [on what makes a man stylish] For me, a sense of humor is number one. It's certainly what's most attractive. It's not the first thing you notice at 21, but it's the first thing you notice now. If celebrity is a credit card, I'm using my credit. My job is to try and find ways of talking about issues that move us forward. I don't make policy, but I can shine a light on faulty or good policy. The Not On Our Watch launch reached more than 9 million people. We need to focus global attention on the plight of the 2.5 million civilians who have fled their homes. Rather than talk about who I'm dating, let's talk about saving lives.
      [on celebrity activism] You don't want to be a spokesperson unless you are absolutely committed to a cause because you can hurt it. I've been asked to help represent environmental groups. I'm a big proponent of cleaning up the environment. I have two electric cars. But I also have a big weak spot because I've flown on private jets. However, I welcome any of these dumb pundits who make celebrities out to be bad guys to a discussion about Darfur. Because I've been there and I've met all the players, and I guarantee you the pundits haven't.
      [on who will win the Best Actor Oscar in 2008] If you want my honest opinion, I think it's going to be Daniel Day-Lewis [for There Will Be Blood (2007)]. He sort of irritates all of us because he's so good. I'll tell you right now, I don't like him!
      [on films made between 1964 and 1976] It's 12 years and you could find ten films a year that are masterpieces. They don't make those films anymore. You couldn't come near making those films.
      Had I not got the Thursday night ten o'clock slot at ER (1994), if they'd put us on Friday night, then I wouldn't have a film career. That's luck, not my own genius, though I like to think it was.
      I'm protected as an actor by a really good screenplay, number one; and then a really good director, number two; and then really good actors, number three - but first and foremost a good screenplay. You cannot make a good film out of a bad script. You can make a bad film out of a good script - easily. I've seen that happen before, but you can't do it the other way around; it always has to be the screenplay.
      I didn't become really successful until I was in my thirties. I can still remember sitting on the closet floor of my buddy's house, completely broke. My friends would want to go out to dinner, to get a hamburger, and I couldn't afford to go. They had the money to pay, but I didn't want them to pay. That happened a lot. At one point, I remember my buddy Brad loaning me a hundred dollars. He's now running our production company. I'm still paying that debt off, you know?
      Here's your options: Live long enough to watch your friends die, or die young. Now, I'm not pessimistic at all. I'm just saying I realize that's true. I don't want to see any of my buddies die, and I don't have any interest in dying young, either. But I had to come to terms with what I'm not going to do.
      I never thought Batman & Robin (1997) was going to be a great film. I thought it was a great opportunity for me. And suddenly we're filming. The script isn't together. I'm just miserable in the suit, trying to make scenes work. That's not the way to make a movie. The thing is, it took Batman & Robin to get to the point where I am now. When I got in a position to greenlight a picture and get the picture made, I really had to adjust my thinking. Because when you're an actor, you're thinking about getting good roles. You go, "That's a great part!" And you sign on to make the movie. Only now, those movies are being greenlit because you're doing them, and when the reviews come out, you're being held responsible not just for what you did in the film, but for the entire film. From here on in, I realised, it's my responsibility. If I'm going to blow it, if I'm going to bomb, it's going to be on my taste. So I started out doing Out of Sight (1998) and Three Kings (1999) and O Brother, Where Art Thou? (2000) and making only films I'd go see. Now, that doesn't always end well. Sometimes a movie doesn't work. But the lesson of Batman & Robin was a great one.
      I'd rather have a rectal examination on live TV by a fellow with cold hands than have a Facebook page!
      If the movie makes money, I make money. If I don't, I've still made the movie I wanted to make.
      I never wear makeup for movies and now it's starting to show. It's funny, because most male actors work with actresses who are considerably younger. But earlier in my career I was working with a lot of actresses who were my age or older so people always thought I was older anyway; and now I'm going through this thing with people thinking I'm about 60. But I'm kind of comfortable with getting older because it's better than the other option, which is being dead. So I'll take getting older.
      [on the paranormal] I'm not a big believer in much of that. Everybody goes through déjà vu and things like that, but I don't really go for that stuff. I find it mostly to be coincidence.
      [2000 quote on his friends keeping him grounded] I've got eight buddies: The Boys. They've been my friends for 20 years. Every Sunday we ride motorcycles and play basketball together. For Christmas this year, the boys came out and there were new bikes sitting out there-new Indians for each of them. The best part of having money is sharing it with your buddies. I lived on their closet floors when I was broke and they had money and were working. They've been through this whole ride with me. So now, when someone comes up to me and says, "You're so brilliant," they look over at me and go, "Man, can you believe that shit?" I met them when I first moved out here, in acting classes. Richard Kind, who's on Spin City (1996), is one of them. When his father died of a heart attack, Richard called and said he was going to Trenton for the funeral. All the boys were immersed in work at that point and had no time, but I called them up and told them what happened. There were no commercial flights available, so I chartered a jet. We didn't tell him we were coming. We sat in the back of the synagogue and Richard was in front with his back to us. When he got up and started to talk about his dad, he saw us and started sobbing. He said, "I'm sorry, but I just saw my best friends back there." There was this amazing feeling that every one of these guys had dropped everything just to be there. That's what it's like. People like that keep you sane.
      [2000 quote] The truth is, most actors I know aren't assholes. They often get that reputation because people around them are assholes. The people around you can treat people like shit and pretend they are doing it to protect you. Once, my assistant was rude to someone. I said, "You know, you represent me when you talk to people." So you have to be careful. And that's not to say people don't treat people badly in this business. I once had lunch with a movie producer who was completely dismissive and rude to our waiter, which told me all I needed to know about him. I know that someone like that will be nice to me right now - I'm in a position where he wants to be nice to me, since he needs something from me. But what happens if I'm not in that position anymore? If he treats everyone else dismissively, he'll treat me dismissively. He isn't the type of person you want to work with.
      [2000 - On the downside of fame] In Los Angeles, there are a million famous people around, so you are left alone. They see Mel Gibson at the grocery store, so they're not impressed with me. But if you go to any other town and walk into a bar, you can never have a normal experience. Once people have a few drinks, they get brave. All of a sudden, there is a crowd of guys going, "Dude!" and hanging on to me. They want to buy me a drink and sit down and talk. But I've got my friends, see. I don't want a bunch of guys coming over to buy me drinks. The funny part is what I end up doing: I'm polite and I sit and talk to them. I wind up doing the things a girl would do in the same sort of situation at a bar.
      [2000 quote] I'm different from a lot of guys. I don't go up to girls I don't know in a bar and ask them to dance. I never have. Never. I've never gone up to somebody I don't know and asked them out. I just won't do it and never did, because I never wanted to take my ego, as fragile as any guy's, and hand it to some girl so that she could demolish it. To me it has always seemed like a stupid thing to do. So in terms of, like, "Hey, you want to go out?" I don't do it.
      [2000 quote on the beginning of fame] Here's an example of how it works. I had never been to the Playboy Mansion and really wanted to go. When I finally did, it was for one of the Mansion's pajama parties, where I was hanging out with Leonardo DiCaprio and Jim Carrey. We were all sort of protecting one another; you don't want to seem like you're desperate. I grew up with the magazine, so naturally I wanted to see the Grotto. When I got there, I was cornered by about 15 people, most of them pretty girls. But it's not like you might imagine. Instead, they all wanted to have their picture taken with me. When that happens, it's like you're a cardboard cutout for people to stand next to. It's not like talking to a girl and getting to know her. At the height of it, when there were people pulling at me from every direction and it was at its most embarrassing, some guy comes over and says, "Look at this shit, man! You got it made! Chicks are all over you." " Meanwhile, I was thinking how much easier it was before this. Then it was just about being a guy talking to a girl and all the other stuff that's so interesting about dating-that dance you do. You see somebody at a party and lock eyes and eventually get closer and closer to each other. Somehow you find a way to talk and maybe-all that stuff. That's a turn-on. That has been taken away from me. If you were to ask what I miss about the anonymity that I used to have, it's that experience, that slow and natural getting to know someone-that kind of electricity.
      [2000 quote] I'm a 39-year-old man. In the way I was raised, this is the time when you make your mark. In your 20s, you figure out what it is you're going to be. You do a lot of different jobs. By your late 20s, you sort of have some idea of what it is. Then you spend your 30s and a lot of your 40s making your mark. You spend your 50s being able to reap the benefits of the work that you've done.
      In college, I basically partied a lot. You gotta understand. We're a very strict Catholic family. Curfew was at nine p.m. when I was a senior in high school. So I got out of the house and thought, Oh my God! People don't ever really like to talk about this anymore, but there was a period of time when blow was considered OK, like it won't hurt you at all. It was almost mainstream. All the designer drugs were OK-Quaaludes and blow. So that was the time in college for me: Drugs and chasing girls. I came from a town of 1500 people to Cincinnati. I would visit class every once in a while and stop by and go, "How's everybody doing?" I was still a responsible kid, but I didn't take school seriously. I had jobs. I sold men's suits and shoes and worked in stockrooms of department stores, and I cut tobacco when it was the season. I was paying for my thing along the way. But I quit school.
      [2000 - on a part he wished he had gotten] The part that Brad Pitt played in Thelma & Louise (1991). It was down to three actors, including Brad and me, at one time. I read about five times with Geena Davis. I thought I was going to get it, but Brad did. The part catapulted him. I didn't watch the movie for a couple of years and then rented it on tape one night. I watched it and, of course, he's perfect in the role, better than I would have been.
      [on working with David O. Russell on Three Kings (1999)] He'd throw off his headset and scream, "Today the sound department fucked me!" For me, it came to a head a couple of times. Once, he went after a camera-car driver who I knew from high school. I had nothing to do with his getting his job, but David began yelling and screaming at him and embarrassing him in front of everybody. I told him, "You can yell and scream and even fire him, but what you can't do is humiliate him in front of people. Not on my set, if I have any say about it". Another time, he screamed at the script supervisor and made her cry. I wrote him a letter and said, "Look, I don't know why you do this. You've written a brilliant script, and I think you're a good director. Let's not have a set like this. I don't like it and I don't work well like this". I'm not one of those actors who likes things in disarray. He read the letter and we started all over again. But later, we were three weeks behind schedule, which puts some pressure on you, and he was in a bad mood. These army kids, who were working as extras, were supposed to tackle us. There were three helicopters in the air and 300 extras on the set. It was a tense time, and a little dangerous, too. David wanted one of the extras to grab me and throw me down. This kid was a little nervous about it, and David walked up to him and grabbed him. He pushed him onto the ground. He kicked him and screamed, "Do you want to be in this fucking movie? Then throw him to the fucking ground!" The second assistant director came up and said, "You don't do that, David. You want them to do something, you tell me". David grabbed his walkie-talkie and threw it on the ground. He screamed, "Shut the fuck up! Fuck you", and the AD goes, "Fuck you! I quit". He walked off. It was a dangerous time. I'd sent him this letter. I was trying to make things work, so I went over and put my arm around him. I said, "David, it's a big day. But you can't shove, push or humiliate people who aren't allowed to defend themselves". He turned on me and said, "Why don't you just worry about your fucked-up act? You're being a dick. You want to hit me? You want to hit me? Come on, pussy, hit me". I'm looking at him like he's out of his mind. Then, he started banging me on the head with his head. He goes, "Hit me, you pussy. Hit me". Then, he got me by the throat and I went nuts. Waldo, my buddy, one of the boys, grabbed me by the waist to get me to let go of him. I had him by the throat. I was going to kill him. Kill him. Finally, he apologized, but I walked away. By then, the Warner Bros. guys were freaking out. David sort of pouted through the rest of the shoot and we finished the movie, but it was truly, without exception, the worst experience of my life.
      [2000 quote] When I first started out in television, I took any job that came along. It was, 'Let's just get a job, any job'. I fought to get ER (1994) and I got it and it changed my life. Then, when I started doing movies, the same thing happened. At first, I did anything that I could get. But I learned. In TV, I learned to focus on the script, but I didn't apply that lesson to movies. But the cliché is true: You can take a good script and make a bad movie. But you can't take a bad script and make a good movie.
      [2000 quote, Playboy Magazine] I love Spencer Tracy. Love him. He's a hero of mine. I heard he never wore makeup, so I've never worn makeup, ever. I won't put it on in any movie. I'm dark complexioned, so I can get away with it. I cut my own hair. It's sort of still being scrappy. It makes you feel like a guy still. I still can take my motorcycle apart and put it back together again. It keeps you feeling like you're still a guy. You have to fight for that. What happens when you're famous is that you get a flat tire and come back and your assistants have fixed it for you. You'll come into a bar and it's really fun and exciting and a guy comes over and says, "Mr. Clooney, come with us", and they take you to a private room in the back. You're thinking, I don't want to be in here. I want to be out there. What the fuck am I doing in here? So you have to fight it as much as you can. It's possible to be a guy with your friends. You get on your motorcycles, you head out on the road. It's as good as it gets.
      [on The Ides of March (2011)] It's not a bad thing to hold a mirror up and look at some of the things we're doing [politically]. Everybody makes moral choices that better themselves and hurt someone else. And then we look at whether the means justify the ends. So The Ides of March could've been literally set in Wall Street.
      [during the 2012 Newsweek Magazine Oscars Roundtable] "That ego issue, which is always an interesting thing. What happens is, you get a modicum of success, and then it becomes about the strangest shit you've ever seen. I am from Kentucky, okay? We try not to live in trailers. That is not something that...we don't brag about being in a double wide, or the largest trailer. And all of a sudden, somebody will come up on the set--and I've had this happen, where it's like, they're upset because their trailer isn't the same size. And you go, 'take my trailer,' because, honestly, that's not what I would consider something to brag about. And it becomes about certain things, and oftentimes it is people who haven't experienced it for a period of time, or people who are trying to hold on to something...being in a trailer is not fun."
      [on Paul Newman's performance in The Verdict (1982)] That was the first time I was very aware of good acting.
      [on his support for President Obama's reelection] I fund raised for him [in 2008] I didn't do any campaigning. I really don't think it helps to have well-known, famous people campaigning for you, but you can do fund raisers. I'm a Democrat, I'm a believer in him, I feel like he's done a wonderful job and I think he's having a tough time in a very difficult environment. So I root for him, I root for the President of the United States.
      [on working with the Coen Brothers] There's rarely a re-write on a Coen brother movie. The script they write is what we shoot. And it's great.
      I'm trying to make movies in my life... that last longer than opening weekend. That's it, that's my whole goal. I don't have to make money; I do films for scale and then, you know, I go do coffee commercials overseas, and I make a lot of money so I get to live in a nice house. ... And I don't give a shit. And people will go, 'Oh that's a sellout.' And you know what? Fuck you.
      [on funding a spy satellite to monitor the activities of Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir] I want the war criminal to have the same amount of attention that I get.
      It's hard when you get thumped. I've been proficient at failure. But the only thing you can do is say, "Here's what I won't do next time." I was a baseball player in school. I had a good arm, I could catch anything, but I was having trouble hitting. I would be like, "I wonder if I'll hit it; just let me hit the ball." And then I went away for the fall, learned how to hit, and by my sophomore year I'd come to the plate and think, "I wonder *where* I want to hit the ball, to the left or right?" Just that little bit of skill and confidence changed everything. Well, I had to treat acting like that. I had to stop going to auditions thinking, "Oh, I hope they like me." I had to go in thinking I was the answer to their problem. You could feel the difference in the room immediately. The greatest lesson I learned was that sometimes you have to fake it. And you have to be willing to fail.
      I did not attend a private boys' school, I worked in tobacco fields and in stock rooms, and construction sites. I've been broke more of my life than I have been successful, and I understand the meaning of being an employee and how difficult it is to make ends meet.
      When you're young you believe it when people tell you how good you are. And that's the danger, you inhale. Everyone will tell you you're a genius, which you are not, and if you understand that, you win.
      I watch Batman & Robin (1997) from time to time. It's the worst movie I ever made, so it's a good lesson in humility.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
George Timothy Clooney (born May 6, 1961) is an American actor, film director, producer, and screenwriter. He has received three Golden Globe Awards for his work as an actor and two Academy Awards, one for acting and the other for producing. Clooney is also noted for his political activism and has served as one of the United Nations Messengers of Peace since January 31, 2008.[1][2][3]
Clooney made his acting debut on television in 1978, and later gained wide recognition in his role as Dr. Douglas "Doug" Ross on the long-running medical drama ER from 1994 to 1999, for which he received two Emmy Award nominations. While working on ER, he began attracting a variety of leading roles in films, including Batman & Robin (1997) and Out of Sight (1998), in which he first worked with long-time collaborator Steven Soderbergh. In 1999 Clooney took the lead role in Three Kings, a well-received war satire set during the Gulf War. In 2001, Clooney's fame widened with the release of his biggest commercial success, Ocean's Eleven, the first of a profitable film trilogy, a remake of the 1960 film which starred members of the Rat Pack with Frank Sinatra as Danny Ocean. He made his directorial debut a year later with the biographical thriller Confessions of a Dangerous Mind, and has since directed Good Night, and Good Luck (2005), Leatherheads (2008), and The Ides of March (2011). He won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for the Middle East thriller Syriana (2005), and subsequently earned Best Actor nominations for Michael Clayton (2007), Up in the Air (2009) and The Descendants (2011). In 2013, he received the Academy Award for Best Picture for producing the film Argo, alongside Ben Affleck and Grant Heslov. He is the only person ever to be nominated for Academy Awards in six categories.[4]
In 2005, TV Guide ranked Clooney #1 on its "50 Sexiest Stars of All Time" list.[5] In 2009, he was included in Time's annual TIME 100 as one of the "Most Influential People in the World."[6]
As of 2014, Clooney is engaged to British-Lebanese human rights lawyer Amal Alamuddin. His humanitarian work includes his advocacy of finding a resolution for the Darfur conflict, raising funds for the 2010 Haiti earthquake, 2004 Tsunami, and 9/11 victims, and creating documentaries such as Sand and Sorrow to raise awareness about international crises. He is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.[7]
Clooney was born in Lexington, Kentucky, in 1961.[8][9][10] His mother, Nina Bruce (née Warren, 1939–),[11] was a beauty pageant queen and city councilwoman. His father, Nick Clooney, is a former anchorman and game show host, and current American Movie Classics host. Clooney's ancestry includes Irish, German, English, and more distant Scottish and Dutch roots.[12] His patrilineal line traces to Nicholas Clooney (of County Kilkenny) and Bridget Byron, his great-great-grandparents, who emigrated to the United States from Ireland.[13] His maternal four times great-grandmother, Mary Ann Sparrow, was the half-sister of Nancy Hanks (the mother of President Abraham Lincoln).[14][15] Clooney has an older sister, Adelia (known as Ada); his cousins include actors Miguel and Rafael Ferrer, who are the sons of his aunt, singer Rosemary Clooney, and uncle, actor José Ferrer. He is also related to another singer, Debby Boone, who married his cousin Gabriel Ferrer.
Clooney was raised a strict Roman Catholic,[16] but now says he does not know if he believes in Heaven, or even God.[17] He has said, "Yes, we were Catholic, big time, whole family, whole group."[18] By all reports, the Clooneys are a close-knit, Irish-Catholic family.[19] He began his education at the Blessed Sacrament School in Fort Mitchell, Kentucky. Spending part of his childhood in Ohio, he attended St. Michael's School in Columbus; then Western Row Elementary School (a public school) in Mason, Ohio, from 1968 to 1974; and St. Susanna School in Mason, where he served as an altar boy. The Clooneys moved back to Kentucky when George was midway through the seventh grade. “George and his sister were always very conscious of social issues, and his parents were strong influences on the person he is today,” said John Romer, who served as a St. Susanna altar boy with George. “George would strongly defend his positions and argue logically and passionately . . . But George was never combative. He was the person you wanted to be with and laugh with.”[20]
In middle school, Clooney developed Bell's palsy, a debilitating condition that partially paralyzes the face. The malady went away within a year. "That was the worst time of my life," he told the Daily Mirror in 2003. "You know how cruel kids can be. I was mocked and taunted, but the experience made me stronger."[21]
After his parents moved to Augusta, Kentucky, Clooney attended Augusta High School. He has stated that he earned all As and a B in school,[22] and was an enthusiastic baseball and basketball player. He tried out to play professional baseball with the Cincinnati Reds in 1977, but he did not pass the first round of player cuts, and was not offered a contract. [23] He attended Northern Kentucky University from 1979 to 1981, majoring in Broadcast Journalism, and very briefly attended the University of Cincinnati, but did not graduate from either.[24] He had odd jobs selling women's shoes and men's suits,[17] selling insurance door-to-door, stocking shelves, working construction, and cutting tobacco.[25]
Clooney's first role was as an extra in the television mini-series Centennial in 1978, which was based on the novel of the same name by James A. Michener, and was partly filmed in Clooney's hometown of Augusta, Kentucky. Clooney's first major role came in 1984 in the short-lived sitcom E/R (not to be confused with ER, the better-known hospital drama, on which Clooney also co-starred a decade later). He played a handyman on the series The Facts of Life, and appeared as Bobby Hopkins, a detective, on an episode of The Golden Girls. His first significant break was a semi-regular supporting role in the sitcom Roseanne, playing Roseanne Barr's supervisor Booker Brooks, followed by the role of a construction worker on Baby Talk, a co-starring role on the CBS drama Bodies of Evidence as Detective Ryan Walker, and then a year-long turn as Det. James Falconer on Sisters. In 1988, Clooney also played a role in Return of the Killer Tomatoes.
Clooney achieved note when he played Dr. Doug Ross, alongside Anthony Edwards, Julianna Margulies, and Noah Wyle, on the hit NBC drama ER from 1994 to 1999. After leaving the series in 1999, he made a cameo appearance in the 6th season and returned for a guest spot in the show's final season.[26] For his work on the series, Clooney received two Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Lead Actor In A Drama Series in 1995 and 1996.[27][28] He also earned three Golden Globe Award nominations for Best Actor – Television Series Drama in 1995, 1996, and 1997 (losing to co-star Anthony Edwards).[29][30]
Clooney began appearing in films while working on ER. His first major Hollywood role was in From Dusk till Dawn, directed by Robert Rodriguez. He followed its success with One Fine Day with Michelle Pfeiffer, and The Peacemaker with Nicole Kidman. Clooney was then cast as Batman in Joel Schumacher's Batman & Robin, which was a modest box office performer, but a critical failure (with Clooney himself calling the film "a waste of money"). In 1998, he co-starred in Out of Sight opposite Jennifer Lopez, marking the first of his many collaborations with director Steven Soderbergh. He also starred in Three Kings during the last weeks of his contract with ER.
George Clooney at the premiere of The Men Who Stare At Goats in the 2009 Toronto International Film Festival
After leaving ER, Clooney starred in the commercially successful films The Perfect Storm and O Brother, Where Art Thou?. In 2001, he teamed up with Soderbergh again for Ocean's Eleven, a remake of the 1960s Rat Pack film of the same name. As of 2011, it was Clooney's most successful film, earning more than $450 million worldwide.[32] The film spawned two sequels starring Clooney, Ocean's Twelve in 2004 and Ocean's Thirteen in 2007.
In 2001, Clooney and Soderbergh co-founded Section Eight Productions, for which Grant Heslov was president of television. Clooney made his directorial debut in the 2002 film Confessions of a Dangerous Mind, based on the autobiography of TV producer Chuck Barris. Though the film didn't do well at the box office, Clooney's direction showed promise.[33]
In 2005, Clooney starred in Syriana, which was based loosely on former Central Intelligence Agency agent Robert Baer's memoirs of his service in the Middle East. He suffered an accident on the set of Syriana, which caused a brain injury with complications from a punctured dura.[34] The same year he directed, produced, and starred in Good Night, and Good Luck, a film about 1950s television journalist Edward R. Murrow's famous war of words with Senator Joseph McCarthy. At the 2006 Academy Awards, Clooney was nominated for Best Director and Best Original Screenplay for Good Night, and Good Luck, as well as Best Supporting Actor for Syriana. He won the Oscar for his role in Syriana.
Clooney next appeared in The Good German (2006), a film noir directed by Soderbergh that is set in post-World War II Germany. In August 2006, Clooney and Heslov started the production company Smokehouse Pictures. In October 2006, Clooney received the American Cinematheque Award, which honors someone in the entertainment industry who has made "a significant contribution to the art of motion pictures".[35] On January 22, 2008, Clooney was nominated for an Academy Award (and many other awards) for Best Actor for Michael Clayton (2007). Later that year, he directed his third film, Leatherheads, in which he also starred. On April 4, 2008, Variety reported that Clooney had quietly resigned from the Writers Guild of America over a dispute concerning Leatherheads. Clooney, who is the director, producer, and star of the film, claimed that he had contributed in writing "all but two scenes" of it, and requested a writing credit alongside Duncan Brantley and Rick Reilly, who had worked on the screenplay for 17 years. Clooney lost an arbitration vote 2–1, and withdrew from the union over the decision. He became a "financial core status" non-member, meaning he no longer has voting rights, and cannot run for office or attend membership meetings, according to the WGA's constitution.[36]
He next co-starred with Ewan McGregor and Kevin Spacey in The Men Who Stare At Goats, which was directed by Heslov and released in November 2009. Also in November 2009, he voiced Mr. Fox in Wes Anderson's animated feature Fantastic Mr. Fox. The same year, Clooney starred in Up in the Air, which was initially given limited release, and then wide-released on December 25, 2009. For his performance in the film, which was directed by Jason Reitman, he was nominated for a Golden Globe, a Screen Actors Guild Award, BAFTA, and an Academy Award. 2010 saw the release of The American, based on the novel A Very Private Gentleman by Martin Booth and directed by Anton Corbijn. Clooney played the lead role, and was a co-producer of the film.
In 2011 Clooney starred in The Descendants as a husband whose wife has an accident that leaves her in a coma. He earned critical praise for his work, and won the Broadcast Film Critics Association Award for Best Actor and the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Drama. Also, he was nominated for the Screen Actors Guild for Best Actor, the BAFTA Award for Best Actor, and the Academy Award for Best Actor. He was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay for The Ides of March.
In 2013, Clooney won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama, the BAFTA Award for Best Picture and the Academy Award for Best Picture for producing Argo. He is the only person in Academy Award history to be nominated for Oscars in six different categories: Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Supporting Actor, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay and Best Adapted Screenplay.
Clooney co-starred with Sandra Bullock in Gravity (2013), a science fiction film directed by Alfonso Cuarón.[38] He co-wrote, directed and starred in The Monuments Men, an adaption of The Monuments Men: Allied Heroes, Nazi Thieves and the Greatest Treasure Hunt in History by Robert M. Edsel.[39] Clooney also produced August: Osage County (2013), an adaptation of the play of the same name. The film stars Meryl Streep and Julia Roberts.[40]
Clooney supported Barack Obama's campaign in the 2008 presidential election[41] and in the 2012 presidential election.[42] He is a supporter of gay rights.[43]
Clooney is involved with Not On Our Watch Project, an organization that focuses global attention and resources to stop and prevent mass atrocities, along with Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Don Cheadle, David Pressman, and Jerry Weintraub.[44]
In February 2009, he visited Goz Beida, Chad, with NY Times columnist Nicholas D. Kristof.[45] In January 2010, he organized the Telethon Hope for Haiti Now,[46] which collected donations for the 2010 Haiti earthquake victims.
In March 2012, Clooney was featured with Martin Sheen and Brad Pitt in a performance of Dustin Lance Black's play, '8'—a staged reenactment of the federal trial that overturned California's Prop 8 ban on same-sex marriage—as attorney David Boies.[47] The production was held at the Wilshire Ebell Theatre and broadcast on YouTube to raise money for the American Foundation for Equal Rights.[48][49] In September 2012, Clooney offered to take an auction winner out to lunch to benefit the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network (GLSEN). GLSEN works to create a safe space in schools for children who are or may be perceived to be gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender.[50]
Clooney has advocated a resolution of the Darfur conflict.[51] He spoke at a 2006 Save Darfur rally in Washington, D.C. In April 2006, he spent ten days in Chad and Sudan with his father to make the TV special "A Journey to Darfur" reflecting the situation of Darfur's refugees, and advocated for action. The documentary was broadcast on American cable TV as well as in the UK and France. In 2008, it was released on DVD with the sale proceeds being donated to the International Rescue Committee.[52][53][54][55] In September of the same year, he spoke to the UN Security Council with Nobel Prize-winner Elie Wiesel to ask the UN to find a solution to the conflict and to help the people of Darfur.[56] In December, he visited China and Egypt with Don Cheadle and two Olympic winners to ask both governments to pressure Sudan's government.[57]
On March 25, 2007, he sent an open letter to German Chancellor Angela Merkel, calling on the European Union to take "decisive action" in the region given the failure of Sudan President Omar al-Bashir to respond to UN resolutions.[58] He narrated and was co-executor producer of the 2007 documentary Sand and Sorrow.[59] Clooney also appeared in the documentary film Darfur Now, a call-to-action film released in November 2007 for people all over the world to help stop the Darfur crisis.[60] In December 2007, Clooney and fellow actor Don Cheadle received the Summit Peace Award from the Nobel Peace Prize Laureates in Rome. In his acceptance speech, Clooney said that "Don and I … stand here before you as failures. The simple truth is that when it comes to the atrocities in Darfur … those people are not better off now than they were years ago."[61] On January 18, 2008, the United Nations announced Clooney's appointment as a UN messenger of peace, effective January 31.[1][2]
Clooney conceived of and, with John Prendergast, human rights activist, co-founder of the Enough Project, and Strategic Advisor for Not On Our Watch Project, initiated the Satellite Sentinel Project (SSP), after an October 2010 trip to South Sudan. SSP aims to monitor armed activity for signs of renewed civil war between Sudan and South Sudan, and to detect and deter mass atrocities along the border regions there.[62]
Clooney and John Prendergast co-wrote a Washington Post op-ed piece in May 2011, titled "Dancing with a dictator in Sudan", arguing that:[63]
President Omar al-Bashir has been indicted by the International Criminal Court for genocide, is escalating bombing and food aid obstruction in Darfur, and he now threatens the entire north-south peace process ... the evidence shows that incentives alone are insufficient to change Khartoum's calculations. International support should be sought immediately for denying debt relief, expanding the ICC indictments, diplomatically isolating the regime, suspending all non-humanitarian aid, obstructing state-controlled bank transactions and freezing accounts holding oil wealth diverted by senior regime officials.
On March 16, 2012, Clooney was arrested outside the Sudanese Embassy for civil disobedience.[64][65] He intended to be arrested when he planned the protest.[65] Several other prominent participants were also arrested, including Martin Luther King III.[65]
In January 2003, Clooney made a controversial joke about the fact that Charlton Heston was suffering from Alzheimer's, and Clooney initially refused to apologize.[22][66][66][67] While speaking at a National Board of Review event as he accepted an award on television, Clooney said: "Charlton Heston announced again today that he is suffering from Alzheimer's."[68] When syndicated columnist Liz Smith asked Clooney whether he wasn't "going too far" with his remark, he responded: "I don't care. Charlton Heston is the head of the National Rifle Association; he deserves whatever anyone says about him."[67][69]
Heston himself commented, "It just goes to show that sometimes class does skip a generation," referring to Clooney's aunt, Rosemary Clooney.[69] Clooney later said, "It was a joke... They got the quote wrong. What I said was 'The head of the NRA announced today ...' (Filmmaker) Michael Moore had just gotten an award. Anyway, Charlton Heston shows up with guns over his head after a school shooting and then says in the documentary it's because of ethnic diversity that we have problems with violence in America. I think he's going to have to take whatever hits he gets. It was just a joke."[70] Clooney said in 2008 he subsequently apologized to Heston in a letter, and that he received a nice response from Heston's wife.[22]
On January 16, 2006, during his acceptance speech for the Golden Globe Award for Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role for Syriana, Clooney paused to sarcastically thank disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff before adding, "Who would name their kid Jack with the word ‘off’ at the end of your last name? No wonder that guy is screwed up!"[71] Abramoff's father wrote a letter to The Desert Sun, calling Clooney's comment "glib and ridiculous".[72] Larry King asked Clooney on CNN if he would apologize, but Clooney declined.[72]
Clooney was married to actress Talia Balsam from 1989 to 1993. He also had a relationship with actress Ginger Lynn Allen. After meeting British model Lisa Snowdon in 2000, he had a five-year on-again, off-again relationship with her.[73] In June 2007, he started dating reality personality Sarah Larson, but the couple broke up in May 2008.[74] In July 2009, Clooney was in a relationship with Italian actress Elisabetta Canalis until they split in June 2011.[75][76] In July 2011, Clooney started dating former WWE Diva Stacy Keibler,[77] and they ended their relationship in July 2013.[78] Clooney has also dated actresses Kelly Preston (1987–1989), Renée Zellweger (2001) and Krista Allen (2002–2008) as well as French reality TV personality Céline Balitran (1996–1999).[79][80]
Clooney became engaged to British-Lebanese human rights lawyer Amal Alamuddin on April 28, 2014, as confirmed by a representative at the law firm Doughty Street Chambers.[81]
Despite his highly publicized relationships with women, Clooney's sexual orientation has been the subject of media scrutiny. When asked about the subject in an interview with The Advocate, Clooney stated, "The last thing you’ll ever see me do is jump up and down, saying, ‘These are lies!’ That would be unfair and unkind to my good friends in the gay community. I’m not going to let anyone make it seem like being gay is a bad thing."[82]
Clooney's main home is in Los Angeles. He purchased the 7,354-square-foot (683.2 m2) house in 1995 through his George Guifoyle Trust. His home in Italy is in the village of Laglio, on Lake Como,[83] near the former residence of Italian author Ada Negri.[84] Clooney also maintains a home in Los Cabos, Mexico that is next door to the home of Cindy Crawford and Rande Gerber.[85]
On September 21, 2007, Clooney and then-girlfriend Sarah Larson were injured in a motorcycle accident in Weehawken, New Jersey. Clooney's motorcycle was hit by a car. The driver of the car reported that Clooney attempted to pass him on the right,[86] while Clooney said that the driver signaled left and then decided to make an abrupt right turn and clipped his motorcycle. Clooney was treated and released from the Palisades Medical Center in North Bergen, New Jersey.[87] On October 9, 2007, more than two dozen staff at the hospital were suspended without pay for looking at Clooney's medical records in violation of federal law.[88] Clooney said: "[W]hile I very much believe in a patient's right to privacy, I would hope that this could be settled without suspending medical workers."[89]
"Max" (1987 – December 1, 2006) was Clooney's pet Vietnamese black bristled potbellied pig, often referred to as "Max the star" by Clooney.[90] The pig shared Clooney's Hollywood Hills home, as well as Clooney's bed, and frequently made cameos in interviews, mostly because of his enormous size.[91] He is often credited with saving Clooney's life by waking him up before the Northridge earthquake on January 16, 1994.[90] In 2006, the pig was taken for a flight on John Travolta's private jet.[92]
Max was bought by Clooney in 1988 as a gift for his then-girlfriend Kelly Preston, who later became Travolta's wife.[93] The pig used to have a special cattle-pen and his own corner in the garage of Clooney's manor.[94] Max was seriously injured in 2001 when one of Clooney's friends accidentally ran him over with his car.[95] Weighing ca. 300 pounds (over 130 kg), Max died in Los Angeles of natural causes, as has been stated by Clooney's press secretary Stan Rosenfield. Because he was known to have arthritis, and was partly blind, the animal was falsely reported to have died in January 2005. Clooney dotingly recalls that Max would squeal every morning until he was fed.[92] A column on Max by Clooney's father, Nick, appeared in The Cincinnati Enquirer.[96]
He also owned two bulldogs, named Bud and Lou, after the famous comedy team Abbott and Costello. Both dogs have died; one from a rattlesnake bite.[97][98]
Clooney is one of three people to have been given the title of "Sexiest Man Alive" twice by People Magazine; first in 1997 and again in 2006.[99] He has appeared in commercials outside the US for Fiat, Nespresso, and Martini vermouth.[100][101][102] Clooney was named one of Time magazine's 100 Most Influential People in the World in 2007, 2008, and 2009.[103][104][105]
He was parodied in the South Park episode "Smug Alert!", which mocks his acceptance speech at the 78th Academy Awards. However, Clooney has also lent his voice to South Park, as Sparky the Dog in "Big Gay Al's Big Gay Boat Ride", and the emergency room doctor in South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut. Clooney was caricatured in the American Dad! episode Tears of a Clooney, in which Francine sees her plan to destroy him materialize.[106]
Director Alexander Cartio made his debut feature film, Convincing Clooney, about a Los Angeles artist who, faced with rejection as an actor and screenwriter, arrives at a master plan to get Clooney to star in his first-ever low-budget short film. The movie was released on DVD in November 2011.[107]
Not On Our Watch Project official site for charity founded by George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Don Cheadle, Jerry Weintraub and David Pressman
Text, audio and video of speech to the United Nations Security Council on Darfur, December 14, 2006, NYC
ER, season 2/season 3 (1996): Clooney; Edwards; Innes; La Salle; Margulies; Reuben; Stringfield; Wyle
ER, season 3/season 4 (1997): Bello; Clooney; Edwards; Innes; Kingston; La Salle; Margulies; Reuben; Wyle
ER, season 4/season 5 (1998): Clooney; Edwards; Innes; Kingston; La Salle; Margulies; Martin; Reuben; Wyle
The Sopranos, season 1 (1999): Bracco; Chianese; Falco; Gandolfini; Iler; Imperiolo; Marchand; Pastore; Sigler; Sirico; Van Zandt
Categories: 1961 birthsMale actors from KentuckyAmerican activistsAmerican anti–Iraq War activistsAmerican expatriates in ItalyAmerican male film actorsAmerican film directorsAmerican humanitariansAmerican people of Irish descentAmerican screenwritersAmerican male television actorsBAFTA winners (people)Best Drama Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Musical or Comedy Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Supporting Actor Academy Award winnersBest Supporting Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersCalifornia DemocratsChevaliers of the Ordre des Arts et des LettresLGBT rights activists from the United StatesLiving peoplePeople from Lexington, KentuckyProducers who won the Best Picture Academy AwardUnited Nations Messengers of Peace20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsGolden Globe Award winning producersHidden categories: Articles with German-language external linksWikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesUse mdy dates from November 2013Articles with hCardsWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
mid 1970sHandsome on HoldIn middle school, Clooney develops Bell's palsy, a debilitating condition that partially paralyzes the face. While suffering from the malady – it went away within a year – his left eye closes and he is unable to eat or drink properly, earning the nickname Frankenstein. "That was the worst time of my life," he tells the Mirror in 2003. "You know how cruel kids can be. I was mocked and taunted, but the experience made me stronger." 1981Long Shot OddsClooney drops out of college after his cousin and friend Miguel Ferrer, the son of Clooney's famous aunt, singer Rosemary Clooney, comes to Lexington to make a low-budget movie about horse racing. After landing a small role in the film, Clooney makes the decision to give acting a shot full-time, moving to L.A. the following year. 1984September 16Early RolesIn a weird bit of foreshadowing, Clooney lands his first regular television role in the short-lived CBS ensemble comedy E/R, in which he plays Ace, a young doctor recently reassigned to emergency room duty in a Chicago hospital. The following year, Clooney and his timely mullet join the cast of the all-female sitcom The Facts of Life for a two-season run as carpenter George Burnett.  1988OctoberHog WildClooney lives in a Hollywood Hills home with girlfriend Kelly Preston and buys her a black potbellied piglet he names Max. After the couple breaks up the following year, Clooney continues to raise Max – even letting the pig sleep in bed with him. After 18 years, Max dies in 2006. "He was as old a pig as the vets had ever seen," Clooney tells USA Today.  1989December 15The Marrying Kind?Just months after his breakup with Preston, Clooney and actress Talia Balsam head to Vegas in a Winnebago and get married. The couple, who dated a short time in 1984 before getting hitched, would divorce three years later. "I probably – definitely – wasn't someone who should have been married at that point," Clooney tells Vanity Fair. "I just don't feel like I gave Talia a fair shot." 1991WinterScreaming BabyAfter appearing in five episodes of Baby Talk, the TV version of Look Who's Talking, Clooney quits. According to witnesses, Clooney stands up for an actress he feels is being unfairly humiliated. "I remember calling my agent and I said, 'What happens if I walk away from this? Do I end my career now?'" Clooney recalls to PEOPLE. "And my agent was honest with me. He said, 'I don't know.' And I thought, 'You know what? It's worth it.'" 1994September 19Paging Dr. RossClooney premieres in his breakout role as Dr. Doug Ross on ER. The hospital drama becomes America's top-rated show, and Clooney's nominated for an Outstanding Lead Actor Emmy in 1995 and 1996. Typically self-deprecating, Clooney tells PEOPLE, "I can be a schmuck all day long, at the end of it save some old lady's life and still be a hero. If you stuck a mannequin in my part, he'd get all the fan mail." 1996JanuaryMovie MakeoverPutting B-movie duds  Return to Horror High (1987) and Return of the Killer Tomatoes! (1988) behind him, Clooney builds a new film career starring alongside Quentin Tarantino and Salma Hayek in the shoot-'em-up action flick From Dusk Till Dawn (left) and in the romantic comedy One Fine Day with Michelle Pfeiffer. AugustMon AmourWhile filming The Peacemaker in Paris, Clooney meets 23-year-old waitress Celine Balitran. A few months later the French law student follows him to L.A., and they continue to date until 1999. "When I have to get up early, he insists I wake him," Balitran tells PEOPLE. "It's out of the question to start the day without having breakfast together. We wake up in each other's arms, and we can't wait for evening to be together again." 1997June 12Getting the BatcallA huge superhero fan as a kid, Clooney donned his first Batsuit as a 3-year-old. It's a much bigger deal when he takes over the dual role of Batman/Bruce Wayne from Val Kilmer in Batman and Robin. The actor tells the Chicago Sun-Times, ''I am the only superhero who can kick someone's butt and then dress their wounds.''  
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): SPLASH NEWS; NBC/Photofest; Neal Preston/Corbis; Phil Roach/IPOL; GLOBE; Kobal Collection/Wireimage; Jeff Kravitz/FilmMagic; Christine Loss/MPTV 
									Amal Alamuddin, fiancée (2013 to present) Stacy Keibler, ex-girlfriend (2011 to 2013) Elisabetta Canalis, ex-girlfriend (2009 to 2011) Sarah Larson, ex-girlfriend (2007 to 2008) Krista Allen, ex-girlfriend (on & off since 2002) Maria Bertrand, ex-girlfriend (2002) Lisa Snowdon, ex-girlfriend (on & off since 2000) Celine Balitran, ex-girlfriend (1996 to 1999) Karen "Duff" Duffy, ex-girlfriend (1995) Kelly Preston, ex-girlfriend (1987 to 1989) Talia Balsam, ex-wife (1984; 1989 to 1992)  
   Sep 17, 2013 TAKE FIVE  George Clooney keeps it calm and casual on the Vancouver, Canada, set of Tomorrowland on Monday.
  See Photo   Aug 28, 2013 ITALIAN JOB  Continuing the promotional tour of their latest film, Gravity, Sandra Bullock and George Clooney dress… See Photo
=======================================================
From All Movie Guide: As the son of broadcast journalist Nick Clooney and the nephew of <I>chanteuse</I> Rosemary Clooney, George Clooney entered the world with show business coursing through his veins. Born May 6, 1961 in Lexington, Kentucky, the future E.R. headliner appeared at the tender age of five on his father's Cincinnati talk program, The Nick Clooney Show. In his youth, Clooney honed a sharp interest in sports - particularly baseball - but by adulthood, Clooney launched himself as an onscreen presence, seemingly without effort. Beginning with a string of television commercials, then signed with Warner Brothers Entertainment as a supporting player. By the time Clooney had paid his dues, he'd  appeared in single episodes of The Golden Girls, Riptide, Crazy Like a Fox, Street Hawk and Hunter.After regular gigs on TV shows like The Facts of Life, Roseanne, and Sisters, Clooney scored a role on the NBC medical drama E.R., which proved his breakthrough to superstardom. When that program shot up to #1 in prime time ratings, Clooney carried it (much more, in fact, than a first-billed Anthony Edwards) - his inborn appeal to women and his onscreen grace and charm massive contributing factors. This appeal increased as his character - initially something of a callous womanizer - matured with the show, eventually evolving into a kind and thoroughly decent, if somewhat hotheaded, human being.The performer's newfound star power led to big screen opportunities, like an acid-mouthed, rifle-wielding antihero (one of the Gecko Brothers, alongside Quentin Tarantino) in the Robert Rodriguez-directed, Tarantino-scripted horror comedy From Dusk Till Dawn (1995). Not long after, Clooney shifted gears altogether, co-headlining (with Michelle Pfeiffer) in the charming romcom One Fine Day (1996). Though he would notoriously misstep in accepting the role of Bruce Wayne in the 1997 attempted Batman reboot Batman & Robin, Clooney's honesty about the part being a bad fit was refreshing to audiences, and he took little flack for the movie, moving on to critically acclaimed movies like the action-laced crime comedy Out of Sight, and Terrence Malick's adaptation of {-The Thin Red Line}. Out of Sight represented a massive watershed moment for Clooney: the first of his numerous collaborations with director Steven Soderbergh. 
In 1999 -- following his much-talked-about departure from E.R. - Clooney continued to work on a number of high-profile projects. He would star alongside Mark Wahlberg and Ice Cube as an American soldier reclaiming Kuwaiti treasure from Saddam Hussein in David O. Russell's Three Kings, and eventually win a 2000 Golden Globe for his portrayal of a pomade-obsessed escaped convict in the Coen brothers' {-Odyssey} update O Brother Where Art Thou?. It was around this time that Clooney, now an established actor equally as comfortable on the big screen as the small, began to branch out as the Executive Producer of such made-for-TV efforts as Killroy (1999) and Fail Safe (2000). Soon producing such features as Rock Star (2001) and Insomnia (2002), Clooney next re-teamed with Soderbergh for a modern take on a classic Rat Pack {/comedy} with Ocean's Eleven (2001). After the dynamic film duo stuck together for yet another remake, the deep-space psychological science-fiction drama Solaris (2002), busy Clooney both produced and appeared in Welcome to Collinwood and Confessions of a Dangerous Mind later the same year.Confessions marked Clooney's behind-the-camera debut, and one of the most promising actor-turned-director outings in memory. Adapted by Charlie Kaufman from Gong Show host Chuck Barris's possibly fictionalized memoir, the picture exhibited Clooney's triple fascinations with politics, media and celebrity; critics did not respond to it with unanimous enthusiasm, but it did show Clooney's promise as a director. He went on to star alongside Catherine Zeta-Jones in the Coen Brothers movie Intolerable Cruelty. The small film was a major sleeper hit among the lucky few who got to see it, and it proved to be a great showcase for Clooney's abilities as a comedian. He moved on to team up with Zeta-Jones again, along with almost the entire cast of Ocean's Eleven, for the sequel, Oceans Twelve, which earned mixed critical reviews, but (like its predecessor) grossed dollar one at the box office. By 2005, Clooney achieved his piece-de-resistance by writing, directing, and acting a sophomore outing: the tense period drama Good Night, and Good Luck.. Shot in black-and-white by ace cinematographer Robert Elswit, the picture followed the epic decision of 1950's television journalist Edward R. Murrow (played by David Strathairn) to confront Senator Joseph McCarthy about his Communist witch hunt. The picture drew raves from critics and received nominations for Best Picture and Best Director.Clooney next appeared in the harshly explicit and openly critical Syriana. He took the lead in this ensemble political thriller about the oil industry, directed by Stephen Gaghan of Traffic and heralded by critics as a disturbingly real look at a hopelessly flawed and corrupt system. Clooney won an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor for his role as a veteran CIA officer. Never one to rest for very long, Clooney then joined the cast of The Good German. Directed by longtime collaborator Steven Soderbergh, German unfolds in post-WWII Berlin, where Clooney plays a war correspondent who helps an ex-lover (Cate Blanchett) search for her missing husband. The actor-director team would pair up again the following year for the third installment in the Ocean's saga, Ocean's Thirteen. Next turning towards a more intimate, individualized project, Clooney earned yet more acclaim playing the title role in Tony Gilroy's Michael Clayton, where his portrayal of a morally compromised legal "fixer" earned him strong reviews and an Oscar nomination for Best Actor.Complications during the pre-production of the period comedy Leatherheads led to Clooney rewriting the script, as well as starring in and directing the picture. Though the movie made few ripples with audiences or critics, Clooney's adeptness continued to impress. In 2009, he gave voice to the lead character in Wes Anderson's thoroughly charming stop-motion animation feature Fantastic Mr. Fox, played a soldier with ESP in the comedy The Men Who Stare at Goats, and earned arguably the best notices of his career as corporate hatchet man Ryan Bingham in Jason Reitman's Up in the Air. His work in that well-reviewed comedy/drama earned him nominations from the Screen Actors Guild, the Golden Globes, and the Academy. In the midst of awards season, Clooney again produced a successful telethon, this time to help earthquake victims in Haiti.In 2011 Clooney would, for the second time in his already impressive career, score Oscar nominations for writing and acting in two different films. His leading role in Alexander Payne's The Descendants earned him a wave of critical praise, as well as Best Actor nods from the Screen Actors Guild and the Academy, as well as capturing the Best Actor award from the Golden Globes. The film he co-wrote and directed that year, the political drama The Ides of March garnered the heartthrob a Best Adapted Screenplay nomination from BAFTA, the Academy, and the Golden Globes. In 2012 he earned his second Oscar as one of the producers of that year's Best Picture winner, the Ben Affleck-directed political thriller/Hollywood satire Argo. The following year, he appeared in the critically-acclaimed, box office smash Gravity, and also produced August: Osage County. In 2014, he co-wrote and co-produced (with Grant Heslov) and starred in The Monuments Men, but the film was delayed from a late-2013 release and didn't score well with critics or at the box office. 
Institution - Northern Kentucky University			Location - Highland Heights, KY									Year range - 1979-1981			
Institution - Northern Kentucky University			Location - Highland Heights , Kentucky									Year range - 1979 - 1981			
© 2010 All Media Guide, LLC Portions of content provided by All Movie Guide ®, a trademark of All Media Guide, LLC
=======================================================
Just like a fine wine, George Clooney just gets better with age. Shooting to prominence as Dr Doug Ross on ER, his mixture of old school Hollywood good looks and on-screen charm have secured him a place amongst the world's hottest stars.
Clooney enjoys gregarious genes, through parents used to being before the camera; his father was a well-known newscaster, actor and talk-show host around Cincinnati, and his mother was a state beauty queen. His aunt was the singer Rosemary Clooney.
No academic, he loved baseball, but failed to make the cut for the Cincinnati Reds. He tried university, and then broadcast journalism, but he disliked both. To the rescue came Clooney's uncle and nephews, all actors, who gave him a minor role in a horse-racing film 'And They’re Off'. The film was never released, but Clooney was hooked.
In his battered '76 Monte Carlo, the aspiring actor drove off to LA, worked as his aunt, singer Rosemary Clooney’s driver for a while, and then moved in with a fellow actor, touting for roles and studying acting. He worked on construction sites, sold insurance door to door, drew caricatures in the malls and sold lemonade from a stall. Finally, he landed a part in a hospital sitcom 'E/R' in 1984, which wasn't successful, but it gave Clooney air time and started him on a run of TV series and low budget film roles.
Clooney's reputation in television spread; he was known as an actor who could get pilots the go ahead and he made money, but he had trouble securing a film agent to represent him, which lost him some memorable roles, including the part of JD in 'Thelma and Louise', which went to Brad Pitt.
Clooney's success was secured when he got the part of Doug Ross, doctor heart throb on 'ER', and the series was an enormous hit. The series garnered critical acclaim, earning him Golden Globe and Emmy Award nominations for best actor.
He followed this television success with movies 'From Dusk Till Dawn' with Quentin Tarantino, 'One Fine Day', with Michelle Pfeiffer, 'The Peacemaker' with Nicole Kidman and Joel Schumacher's 'Batman & Robin', which boosted his superstar status and opened the door for even bigger roles.
His decision to work with Joel and Ethan Coen in the 2000 American adventure comedy film 'O Brother, Where Art Thou?' paid off as Clooney received further critical acclaim. His portrayal of Ulysses Everett McGill landed him a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor, as well as Empire Award and Satellite Award nominations.
One of his greatest successes came with 2001's 'Ocean's Eleven', which not only earned him more award nominations, but kicked off a franchise that would endear him to fans worldwide.
Despite being successful as an actor, Clooney harboured ambitions to call the shots and did so in 2002's 'Confessions of a Dangerous Mind', in which he also played CIA Officer Jim Byrd. The movie earned him a nomination for the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Most Promising New Director.
The critics' faith in Clooney as a director was rewarded three years later with 'Good Night, and Good Luck', which won worldwide acclaim and secured a number of gongs and nominations. He followed this with the multiple award-winning 'Syriana' (2005) and 'Michael Clayton' (2007), as well as the supremely successful 'Up in the Air' (2009).
Clooney is one of only three people to have been given the title of Sexiest Man Alive twice by People Magazine. He is also interested in politics; he supported the then Senator Barack Obama's campaign in the 2008 presidential election. But Clooney has confessed that his past has featured "too many chicks and too many drugs…” for him to ever run for office.
Clooney also does humanitarian work in Sudan, North Africa, highlighting the plight of the people there who were until recently embroiled in a civil war that the country may slip back into. In January 2011, it was reported that Clooney had contracted malaria following a trip to Sudan.
Later films include 'The Descendants' (2011), 'Argo' (2012), 'Gravity' (2013) and 'The Monuments Men' (2014). He was engaged to lawyer Amal Alamuddin in April 2014.
Right, so: now that we’ve convinced you Lifetime is a thing you need to have in your life – what now? How do you get this on your telly? Here’s what you have to do.
=======================================================
Birth Name: George Timothy ClooneyBirth Place: Lexington, Kentucky, United StatesDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 05/06/1961, TaurusProfession: Actor; screenwriter; producer; director
Hot in Cleveland Exclusive: Valerie Bertinelli Gets Tongue-Tied Over George Clooney (Sort Of)Jun 4, 2014 11:18 AM ETby Kate StanhopeHot in Cleveland returns from a two-week hiatus on Wednesday (10/9c, TVLand), and the sitcom is welcoming back a very special guest: George Clooney.
Obviously, we're not talking about that George Clooney. We're talking about the puppy the ladies recently adopted. When little George gets depressed, the ladies try to help by taking him to a...read moreAre George Clooney and Amal Alamuddin Engaged?Apr 26, 2014 07:02 PM ETby Kaitlin ThomasRumors are swirling that George Clooney is finally off the market for good.
According to Entertainment Tonight, Clooney, 52, and his current girlfriend Amal Alamuddin, 36, were seen having dinner with Cindy Crawford and her husband Rande Gerber on Thursday...read moreStacy Keibler Is PregnantMar 24, 2014 02:04 PM ETby Robyn RossNewlyweds Stacy Keibler and Jared Pobre have another reason to celebrate: They're expecting!
George Clooney stars, co-wrote, and directed "Leatherheads", and he admits that he was embarrassed to direct himself.  Plus, he raves about co-star Renee Zellweger, and explains why he wrote the role specifically for her.
Based on real events, the dramatic thriller 'Argo' chronicles the life-or-death covert operation to rescue six Americans, which unfolded behind the scenes of the Iran hostage crisis.
In the midst of WWII a small group of art experts are commissioned by Roosevelt as soldiers and sent to the european theater to protect historically important buildings and monuments, and to locate vast troves of priceless art looted by the nazis. Discovering art in castles and mines, they race against time as the nazis scramble to destroy everything they can.
In the midst of WWII a small group of art experts are commissioned by Roosevelt as soldiers and sent to the European theater to protect historically important buildings and monuments, and to locate vast troves of priceless art looted by the Nazis. Discovering art in castles and mines, they race against time as the Nazis scramble to destroy everything they can.
In the midst of WWII a small group of art experts are commissioned by Roosevelt as soldiers and sent to the European theater to protect historically important buildings and monuments, and to locate vast troves of priceless art looted by the Nazis. Discovering art in castles and mines, they race against time as the Nazis scramble to destroy everything they can.
                                            Half the Sky: Turning Oppression Into Opportunity For Women Worldwide: Part 2
This call to arms urges us not only to bear witness to the plight of the world's women, but to help transform their oppression into opportunity.
                                            Half the Sky: Turning Oppression Into Opportunity For Women Worldwide: Part 1
Meet some of the most courageous individuals of our time who are doing extraordinary work to empower women and girls everywhere.
Stand Up To Cancer's third primetime fundraising event, executive produced by Gwyneth Paltrow, features celebrity appearances by Julia Roberts, Halle Berry and Michael Douglas, among others, as well world-class scientists, patient stories and live music.
                                                                                                 TV Listings
Keibler, 34, who split with George Clooney last summer after two years of dating, married tech entrepreneur Jared Pobre, 39, in Mexico Saturday, People reports.
 Touch star David Mazouz has been cast as the young billionaire who is sentenced to a solitary life after the tragic murder of his wealthy parents. Serious and soulful, young Bruce relies on the guidance and protection of Alfred Pennyworth (Sean Pertwee) and James Gordon(Benjamin McKenzie).
Seth Meyers kicked off his Late Night debut Monday by paying tribute to his predecessor. Writing a "thank you note" — which was a regular segment on the old Late Night — to current Tonight Show host Jimmy Fallon, Meyers promised to...
Memo to the Hollywood Foreign Press Association: Please have Tina Fey and Amy Poehlerhost the Golden Globes forever. (For that matter, the Academy should take note as well.) The former Saturday Night Live colleagues, hosting the Globes for the second year in a row, got the evening off to a rollicking start with an opening monologue that lampooned everyone fromTom Hanks to Julia Louis-Dreyfus, and kept the night on track with a couple of skits and one rock star makeout session.
Buy Ocean's Thirteen / Danny Ocean 13 (Widescreen) [DVD] (2007) George Clooney from Amazon.comFrom Unknown (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $7.77 (as of 06/05/14 8:44 AM EST - more info)Buy Movies 101 - George Clooney and Josh Lucas from Amazon.comFrom City Lights Pictures (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $10.00 (as of 06/05/14 8:44 AM EST - more info)
