=======================================================
1988A Standing OvationBeyoncé enters her first talent show at age 7. Singing John Lennon's "Imagine," she doesn't just win, she beats 15- and 16-year-olds and receives a standing ovation. circa 1990It's Gyrls TimeWith hands-on help from her parents, Beyoncé performs with the girls group Gyrls Tyme, which included future Destiny's Child members Kelly Rowland, LeToya Luckett and LaTavia Roberson. They practice on the deck outside the Knowles home before hitting the talent show circuit in Houston.  1996A Father's Gamble for DestinyBeyoncé's father, Mathew, leaves his six-figure sales job at Xerox to manage the girls full-time, and helps negotiates a deal for them with Columbia Records. They are eventually renamed Destiny's Child and release their self-titled debut in 1998. Their standout single from the album is a remix of "No, No, No," with Wyclef Jean.1999July 27"Jumpin'" Off the ShelvesThe group's second album, The Writing's on the Wall, quietly debuts at No. 6 on the Billboard charts. After the CD gains momentum thanks to singles "Say My Name" and "Jumpin', Jumpin'," it goes on to sell more than 8 million copies.2000FebruaryThe Lineup ShufflesBeyoncé announces on TRL that original DC members LeToya Luckett and LaTavia Roberson have left the group, and the "Say My Name" video premieres with new members Michelle Williams and Farrah Franklin. Claiming to have discovered their dismissal only after seeing the video, Luckett and Roberson file a lawsuit, and eventually settle out of court. In July, Franklin leaves the group and Destiny's Child remains a trio.  OctoberCharlie's Angels SoundtrackDestiny's Child contributes "Independent Women Part I" to the Charlie's Angels movie soundtrack (starring Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu). The song spends 11 weeks at No. 1, raising the group's profile to full-fledged pop phenomenon.  2001February 21A Grammy Says Her NameAfter making her acting debut in MTV's "hip-hopera" Carmen, Beyoncé wins her first Grammy with Destiny's Child for "Say My Name," a song she cowrote. She goes on to write "Survivor," a song about success despite trying circumstances off the group's third album, which sells more than 4 million copies. In 2002, Beyoncé becomes the first black woman to win ASCAP's Pop Songwriter of the Year Award.2002July 26Welcome to the Big ScreenIn her big-screen debut, Beyoncé plays Foxxy Cleopatra in the Austin Power's movie Goldmember, which tops the box office and makes $73.1 million its first weekend. In 2006, she takes a leading-lady role in The Pink Panther opposite Steve Martin. The movie remake also hits No. 1 and earns $20.2 million opening weekend. OctoberThe Dating DirtReports begin to circulate that Beyoncé is dating hip hop mogul Jay-Z after she appears on his song "'03 Bonnie & Clyde." (They play a couple on the run in the video.) The duo will go on to collaborate on Beyoncé's solo hits, 2003's "Crazy in Love" and 2006's "Deja Vu" before going public as a couple.December 18Sipping Spears' PepsiReplacing Britney Spears, who famously starred in Pepsi commercials for two years, Beyoncé lands pop's most sought-after endorsement. Before taking over for Spears, Beyoncé stars with her and Pink as ancient Roman gladiators singing "We Will Rock You" at the Coliseum. The sonic vibrations of their voices cause Pepsi cans to fall out of the emperor's box to the feet of the three pop stars in the arena. 
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): Music World Music; WENN; Pam Francis/Time Life Pictures/Getty; DAVE ALLOCCA/DMI/REX USA; Melinda Sue Gordon/New Line/ZUMA; Frank Micelotta/Getty; Alpha/Globe 
   Sep 18, 2013 STAGE RIGHT  Beyoncé struts her stuff onstage at her Brasília, Brazil, The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour stop… See Photo   Sep 09, 2013 ROW YOUR BOAT  Wrapping up their vacation Friday in Nerano, Italy, Beyoncé and Jay-Z commemorate the occasion with… See Photo
=======================================================
                Born Beyoncé Giselle Knowles on September 4th 1981, in Houston, Texas, she began singing with the original members of the popular R&B group Destiny's Child comprised of LaToya Luckett, Kelly Rowland and LaTavia Roberson in their teens.The girls went through various incarnations, singing a mix of gospel, rhythm and blues, and hip hop, before they officially became Destiny's Child in 1995. Knowles' father, Mathew, served as manager of the group. After performing in the Houston area, the group appeared on Star Search, the popular television talent competition. Although they did not win the competition, a contract with Columbia Records soon followed. Their first release, 'Destiny's Child' (1997), was a tremendous success in Europe. Upon the album's release, the group kicked off a tour of sold-out shows there. Their second effort, 'The Writing's on the Wall' (1999), brought them wider acclaim back home. The album generated three top-ten hits on the Billboard R&B singles chart. In 2000, despite internal conflicts that resulted in the departure of Luckett and Roberson from the group, Destiny's Child continued to promote their sophomore effort, playing as a supporting act for Christina Aguilera's summer tour. In 2001, still calling themselves Destiny's Child, the group released their third album, Survivor. In 2004, after launching a successful solo career with 'Dangerously in Love', Knowles won five Grammy Awards, tying a record for most wins by a female artist. Her second solo effort, 'B'Day', was released in September 2006 to coincide with the singer's twenty-fifth birthday. In its first week, 'B'Day' sold more than 540,000 copies in the U.S. In 2008, Beyonce launched her third solo album entitled 'I Am ... Sasha Fierce'. It proved to be yet another hit with the critics and earned her six Grammy Awards. This meant the 29-year-old had become a record breaker by winning the most Grammy Awards of any female artist in one night. During an interview for Entertainment Tonight, Knowles confirmed that she is currently writing songs for, and producing her latest album, which she said is a mixture of all the genres she respects. She also said that the music was not R&B or pop. Beyonce also made a start in acting, making her debut in MTV's 'Hip Hopera: Carmen' in 2001 and co-starring as Foxxy Cleopatra in Mike Myers' James Bond parody 'Goldmember' in 2002. Other films include 2004's 'The Fighting Temptations' and 2006's 'The Pink Panther'. Her starring role as Deena Jones, a Diana Ross-like character in the big-screen adaptation of the 1981 Broadway hit musical 'Dreamgirls', earned a Golden Globe nomination in 2006. Beyoncé's song 'Listen' was nominated for an Academy Award. Warner Bros has announced that Clint Eastwood will be directing Beyonce in her latest film project, 'A Star is Born'. The film tells the story of an alcoholic falling star, played by Kris Kristofferson in the 1976 version, and a young female artist who was played by Barbara Streisand in the Seventies remake of the 1930s original, however the filming was postponed in 2011 due to the singer's pregnancy. Knowles' has been romantically linked to hip-hop mogul Jay-Z, whose real name is Shawn Carter, since September 2002. They performed together in music videos for two of her hit singles, 'Crazy in Love' and 'Deja Vu'. The couple married in April 2008. Among the guests sighted at the wedding were Beyonce's mother Tina Knowles, her father and manager Matthew, her sister Solange, Destiny's Child members Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams, and friend Gwyneth Paltrow. In a recent interview, Paltrow described her friend Beyonce as the "most talented human being on the planet". She admitted to respecting the singer's talent and said that the "mastery over what she does" goes beyond confidence, and she described it instead as "on a while other level" and "mind-blowing".The group’s next album, Survivor, was another huge success for the girls and made number One on both the Billboard 200 and the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums, as well as the UK and Canadian Albums Charts. The tracks “Independent Woman Part I” and “Bootylicious” zoomed straight to the top of the Hot 100, while the title track, “Survivor”, reached number Two. By the time Destiny’s Child announced their intention to disband in 2005, they had established themselves as one of the most famous and top-selling female groups in recording history. Beyonce’s individual career went from strength to strength, as she earned awards for her skills as a songwriter, as well as a singer. In 2001, she won the award for “Songwriter of The Year”, given to her by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers Pop Music Awards, thus becoming the very first African-American woman to receive this award, and only the second woman ever to do so. In addition to her singing and performing commitments with Destiny’s Child, Beyonce was also carving out time to work on solo recording projects. In July 2000, she released her debut solo single, “I Got That”, featuring the rapper Amil, but the single did not sell particularly well. Refusing to be discouraged, Beyonce persevered, and in late spring 2003, she released her debut solo album, called Dangerously in Love. This time, her solo work was a massive success, right from the word go. The album burst into the Billboard 200, going straight to Number One, and sold over 300,000 copies in its first week alone, and making platinum just three short weeks later, in June 2003. Phenomenally, the album went on to top the album charts all over the world. In addition, the lead single on the album, which was a number called “Crazy in Love” soon became one of the biggest hits of that year. The song stayed at Number One on the Billboard Hot 100 for eight weeks running, and topped the singles charts in the UK and Ireland, as well as the USA. But even greater successes were still to come! That year, Beyonce’s single and album topped both charts at the same time, making her the first artist to achieve this astonishing level of sales since the Beatles, Rod Stewart and Simon and Garfunkel in the Sixties and Seventies. To date, Beyonce is also not only the first, but also the only female recording artist ever to do this. Beyonce was thus one of the biggest-selling artists of 2003, so it was hardly a surprise when she won no less than five Grammy Awards for her solo singing at the 2004 Grammy Awards ceremony: these awards included “Best Female R&B Vocal Performance” for Dangerously in Love”, “Best R&B Song” for “Crazy In Love”, and “Best Contemporary Album”. In 2005, Beyonce released a song called “Check On It”, which was featured in the Destiny’s Child greatest hits compilation, and which subsequently became the soundtrack to the movie The Pink Panther, which came out in 2006. This track became another huge hit for Beyonce. Also in 2006, she released her second studio album, called B’Day, which was launched on 4 September, to coincide with her 25th birthday. It sold even better than its predecessors; in the first week alone, sales reached 541,000 copies in the US, giving Beyonce her highest first-week sales ever. The album’s lead single, “Deja Vu”, also became a number One hit on the US R&B charts.It’s hard to believe it, but alongside her amazingly busy recording career as both a solo and group artist, Beyonce also found time to launch yet another career - this time as a movie actress. In 2001, she co-starred with actor Mekhi Phifer in the MTV Tv movie, “Carmen: A Hip Hopera”. In summer 2002, she appeared in the highly successful movie, Austin Powers in Goldmember, where she played the part of Foxxy Cleopatra, alongside Michael Caine and Mike Myers. In 2003, she appeared with Cuba Gooding Jr. in the movie The Fighting Temptations, and recorded a track of the same name with female rappers Missy Elliott, MC Lyte and Free. Most recently, Beyonce appeared in a movie called Dreamgirls, which is a movie adaptation of the 1980s hit Broadway musical based on the lives of the Tamla Motown female group, The Supremes. In this film, Beyonce played the part of Diana Ross, who also went on to pursue a phenomenally successful solo singing career. The movie Dreamgirls was a massive success, and Beyonce has gone on record as saying that this is her “first real acting film”. The film was released in December 2006, and opened at number three in the movie charts with an $8 million dollar opening weekend. So far, Dreamgirls has grossed over $100 million and was nominated for eight Academy Awards, including Best Song, for “Listen” - for which it won two awards. In addition to her outstandingly successful singing and acting career, Beyonce has also devoted a considerable amount of time and money to various charitable concerns. As part of Destiny’s Child, who recorded a song called “Stand Up For Love”, Beyonce lent her support as a world ambassador for the 2005 World Children’s Day programme of events. In conjunction with Kelly Rowland, her parents Matthew and Tina Knowles, as well as her sister Solange Knowles, Beyonce helped establish the Survivor Foundation, to help give aid to the victims of Hurricane Katrina and the storm evacuees in the Houston area. On a visit to Ethiopia, where she performed and met the President Girma Wolde-Giorgis, Beyonce also expressed her interest in becoming involved in humanitarian concerns in Ethiopia. In 2010, Knowles teamed up with Lady Gaga for the hit song 'Telephone', which reached number one in the US charts and received a Grammy nomination that year for best pop collaboration with vocals. The singer was later that year named by Forbes magazine as one of the most powerful women in the world. She was also featured in the publication's list of high earners. In 2011, it was announced that the singer would no longer be managed by her father. Knowles' publicist said in a statement that the pair have gone their separate ways "on a business level". In June 2011, Beyonce made history when she became the first female in 20 years to headline at Glastonbury Festival. Her energetic performance was widely praised and Knowles described the gig as a "dream" come true. "I felt like a rock star, and the crowd, they looked like rock stars, and I'm just so honoured, really. This is... the highlight of my career." Her fourth studio album as a solo artist was released on 24 June 2011. '4' debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, selling 310,000 copies in the first week alone, making her the second female and third overall musician to have their first four albums go straight to number one. The lead single 'Run the World (girls)' debuted at number 29 on the charts, the singer's lowest debut during her solo career. This was followed by the release 'Best Thing I Never Had' on 1 June 2011. As well as performing at Glastonbury in 2011, Beyonce sang at T in the Park in Scotland and at the Oxegen Festival in Ireland. On 5 August 2011, Beyonce revealed she was pregnant with her first child with husband Jay-Z at the MTV European Music Video Awards. She showed off her small baby bump in an orange Lanvin gown on the red carpet and later performed her single 'Love on Top'. Her announcement broke records on Twitter in terms of most tweets per second, reaching 8,836 posts. Since then, the singer has revealed that she is expecting her baby in February and will be designing a maternity wear clothing line. Meanwhile, Beyonce has been showing off her fashion credentials by wearing unusual maternity clothes, including leather hotpants and short dresses. In September 2011, Beyonce launched her third fragrance, called Pulse, in New York wearing a sparkling blue mini-dress. To purchse Beyonce's latest album click here
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Beyoncé's father, Mathew Knowles, manages Destiny's Child. Her mother, Tina Knowles, designs their glittering costumes. Solange Knowles, her sister (they're about 5 years apart), has released her debut album. She dances with her big sister during DC-3 concerts.She and her group were discovered by Whitney Houston. One of her favorite songs is "Lovefool" by The Cardigans. Her favorite item of clothing is a pair of path work metallic boots. She writes & produces many of the group's songs, including smash hits "Jumpin Jumpin", "Bootylicious", "Nasty Girl", "Independent Women", "Happy Face" and "Apple Pie a la mode".
      In 2001 she became the first African-American woman to ever win the ASCAP Pop Songwriter of the Year Award.
      The Radio Music Awards, MTV Europe Video Music Awards and Billboard Awards are among the awards shows she has performed on in 2003. She also performed at a South African AIDS benefit show in November 2003, organized by Bono of U2 to combat the AIDS epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa.
      Won 5 Grammys, including Best Contemporary R & B Album for "Dangerously In Love", she took home the most awards for this year's (2004) show. [8 February 2004]
      Her father is of African-American descent and her mother is of Louisiana Creole (African, French, and smaller amounts of Irish and Spanish) ancestry.
      Has been quoted as saying that to get over her shyness she developed a stage persona named "Sasha".
      Sang three of the five Oscar-nominated songs at The 77th Annual Academy Awards (2005), including one completely in French.
      (June 13th 2005) She and the other members of Destiny's Child announced that they will disband after their tour ends in the fall.
      Along with Nicole Richie, Veronica Webb, Kelly Osbourne, Angie Everhart, Alexandra Richards, Irina Pantaeva, Marisa Miller, Wyclef Jean, Rachel Hunter, Naomi Campbell, and Janice Dickinson, she participated in the "Fashion for Relief" show on 16 September, 2005 in New York, a benefit for AmeriCares to support victims for Hurricane Katrina. Gwen Stefani and Gavin Rossdale were among the celebrities who attended.
      Launched a clothing line, "House of Dereon", with her mother, Tina Knowles, in 2005. The name, Dereon, is Tina's mother's maiden name.
      Along with her Destiny's Child members, she and they were honored with a star on Hollywood's Walk of Fame [March 28, 2006].
      Among the guests at her 25th birthday were Sean Combs, Nicole Richie, Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams.
      First female artist to reach number one position on both singles and albums chart simultaneously in the United States and the United Kingdom.
      Was officially in the BAFTA longlist (Equivalently, the semi-finals) for Best Actress in a Leading Role, for her role in Dreamgirls (2006), which consisted of 15 finalists for each category (except Animated Film). However, she was eliminated in the next round, which the five official nominees were selected.
      Beyonce and Shakira are collaborating on a song called "Beautiful Liar". The song will appear on a special-edition reissue of Beyonce's solo album, "B'Day".
      The Brazilian electro-pop/rock group Cansei de Ser Sexy, famous for their song 'Music is my Hot, Hot Sex' used in an Apple commercial, took their name from a reported quote from 'Beyonce' in which she stated she was tired of being sexy. Cansei de Ser Sexy is Brazilian Portuguese literally meaning "tired of being sexy".
      Nominated twice for International Female Artist of the Year (2007 and 2009), NRJ Music Awards, France.
      She and Destiny's Child were awarded a Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for Recording at 6801 Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, California.
      Won three awards for Best Female Artist, Best Song (for "Halo") and Best Video (for "Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)"). She won the most awards at the 2009 ceremony. She was also nominated for Best Live Act. MTV Europe Music Awards.
      Nominated for International Album of the Year (for "I Am... Sasha Fierce"), NRJ Music Awards, France.
      The gold and diamond nail rings for the music video "Sweet Dreams" is valued at $36,000. It was made by Bijules designer, Jules Kim.
      According to a TV interview with Steve Jones for Beyonce: For the Record (2009), Beyoncé said the music video for "Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)" was the cheapest video made, of all her singles released. This was because most of the budget was used for the single "If I Were a Boy".
      In 2010, she launched her new fragrance "Heat" at Macy's in Manhattan. On the TV commercial for the fragrance, Beyoncé sang "Fever," a song most popularized by Peggy Lee.
      Her victory at the 52nd annual Grammy Awards (Jan. 31, 2010) set a record for a female artist: 6 Grammy wins in a single year, including Song of The Year (for "Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)"), Best Female Pop Vocal Performance (for "Halo"), Best Female R&B Vocal Performance, Best Traditional R&B Vocal Performance, Best R&B Song and Best Contemporary R&B Album (for "I Am... Sasha Fierce").
      (Jan. 20, 2009) Sang "At Last" (immortalized by Etta James) at the first presidential inaugural ball as Barack Obama and Michelle Obama danced cheek-to-cheek. Other featured artists in the venue included, Stevie Wonder, Jay-Z, Sting, Alicia Keys, Mariah Carey, Faith Hill, Maroon 5's Adam Levine, etc.
      In her song "Get Me Bodied" from her b'day album she says four numbers at the start of her song, 9,4,8 and 1. These numbers are her birth date. The 4th of September (9th month) and 8 and 1 because she was born in 1981.
      At the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards she won the Video of the Year award and allowed Taylor Swift to finish her acceptance speech for Best Female Video after Kanye West interrupted her.
      According to her husband Jay-Z's song "Glory", dedicated to their newborn daughter Blue Ivy Carter, Knowles suffered a miscarriage prior to falling pregnant with Blue Ivy.
      First started singing in the church choir at St. John's Church in downtown Houston, Texas. Has been a lifelong member of (and contributor to) the church.
      Was 8 months pregnant with her daughter Blue Ivy Carter when she took maternity leave from recording her 5th studio album with The Dream.
      Returned to work 4 months after giving birth to her daughter Blue Ivy Carter to perform at the Memorial Day Weekend premiere of the Revel Hotel Resort in Atlantic City, New Jersey.
      Gave birth to her 1st child at age 30, a daughter Blue Ivy Carter on January 7, 2012. Child's father is her husband, Jay-Z.
      In addition to recording her third album, she is in preparations to play Etta James in a film called Cadillac Records (2008), which follows the story of Leonard Chess and the artists he managed. She is set to act and executive produce the film, and record three tracks for the soundtrack. A portion of her earnings from the film will be donated to charity. [February 2008]
      New York, NY, USA: '4 intimate nights' of sold-out performances at Manhattan's Roseland Ballroom. [August 2011]
      Starring in a Pepsi ad with Pink and Britney Spears. The girls star as gladiators while singing the Queen hit "We will rock you". Amr Diab plays an evil Roman emperor. [January 2004]
      Released her sophomore solo album, 'B'Day', on September 5th - her 25th birthday, hence the album's name. [September 2006]
      She's currently in rehearsals for her next film, Dreamgirls (2006), due out December 2006. [December 2005]
      She is currently touring the world to promote her sophomore album B'Day. She is also in the studio recording her next album which is set to have productions by Timbaland and Freemasons. The album is due sometime next year. [November 2007]
      There's plenty of days when I'm like 'Oh God, why?' But that's just life. It's every job, not just mine. Every moment is not perfect. But it's definitely more good times than bad. You can't even compare. And when I'm on stage it feels incredible. There are certain nights that you know you hit that crazy note and you know that spin spinned extra fast. And you look out and people are just into it and you've worked so hard and now it's paying off and you can see why you dedicated your life to this.
      It doesn't annoy me, no, because I respect J-Lo. I like her, I think she's great. And I know that I'm over a decade younger than her, it's so flattering that I'm so young and people are comparing me to someone who has accomplished so much. But I don't think I'm like anyone else and really, I'd rather not be compared to anyone else. - on comparisions to J-Lo.
      "I wrote that because, at the time, I'd gained some weight and the pressure that people put you under, the pressure to be thin, is unbelievable. I was just 18 and you shouldn't be thinking about that. You should be thinking about building up your character and having fun and the song was just telling everyone just forget what people are saying, you're bootylicious. That's all. It's a celebration of curves and a celebration of women's bodies." - on her song 'Bootylicious'
      Who I am on stage is very, very different to who I am in real life. But I don't see that having a sexy image when you are on stage means that you don't love God. No one knows what I'm really like from that. I like to walk around with bare feet and I don't like to comb my hair. I'm always so glammed up and so diva on stage and that's what they see. People don't understand that... No one knows my personal relationship with God and it's not up to me to prove that to anyone.
      For me, it's about the way I carry myself and the way I treat other people. My relationship and how I feel about God and what He does for me, is something deeply personal. It's where I came from, my family, I was brought up in a religious household and that's very important to me. But I understand the mentality of people. I know that people judge others based on certain things. I know how celebrities really are. I've done it too. You meet people - rock stars, rappers, whoever - who you have seen on television and you go into their homes and they are regular people, just like everyone else.
      "Not because one person wants to go solo. Or not because we don't like each other. Or because we're not selling records anymore. But because it has to end at a certain point." (When asked about the disbanding of Destiny's Child - June 2005)
      "We all have our imperfections. But I'm human and you know, it's important to concentrate on other qualities besides outer beauty".
      "One of the things that kept me out of trouble was doing something creative - creativity can't be judged".
      On Bollywood cinema: "I'm a fan of a few Bollywood films. I have seen Devdas (2002) and Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India (2001), both great films. I loved Devdas (2002) - the actress was amazing! I cried towards the end of the film. Indian films are very colorful. It can be fun to do a film like that at least once. Given a chance, I'd love to do an Indian film" (December 2004).
      On her religious faith and the categorizing of gay society: "Well, you know, I grew up going to church, but I was raised by my uncle who passed away with AIDS a couple of years ago. He was my mother's best friend. And my mother's cousin. He brought me to school every day. He helped me buy my prom dress. He made my clothes with my mother. He was like my nanny. He was my favorite person in the world. And you know, I never really mixed Christianity with how I felt about him. I am about faith and spirituality more so than religion. Doing right by others and not judging."
      If I weren't performing, I'd be a beauty editor or a therapist. I love creativity, but I also love to help others. My mother was a hairstylist, and they listen to everyone's problems - like a beauty therapist!
      When I sing a song, I definitely have the image for the video in my mind. I kind of hear the choreography that will be in the video, and I can see how I'll look, even before anyone--the record company, the director--has heard the song.
      I discovered after going to music festivals that I am a rock fan. I love the guitars, the phrasing, and the abandon of rock fans. You may be shocked to know that I love Peter Gabriel. His voice is so pure. Listen to In Your Eyes.
      I'm like everyone else. I have days when I look in the mirror and I'm like 'Oh my gosh, I wish I could change this or that.' The more you mature, you realize that this imperfections make your more beautiful.
=======================================================
Height: 5'6" Hometown: Houston, Texas, United States In a Relationship With:Jay Z Best Quotes:“Love is something that never goes out of style.”“As soon as I accomplish one thing, I just set a higher goal. That's how I've gotten to where I am.”“I feel more beautiful than I’ve ever felt because I’ve given birth. I have never felt so connected, never felt like I had such a purpose on this earth. The best thing about having a daughter is having a true legacy. The word love means something completely different now.” 
Beyoncé (born Beyoncé Giselle Knowles in Houston, Texas on September 4, 1981) is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, actress, choreographer, and fashion designer. Beyoncé rose to superstardom as the lead singer of group Destiny’s Child — alongside Michelle Williams and Kelly Rowland — one of the world’s best-selling girl groups of all time. Beyoncé released her first solo album, Dangerously in Love, in 2003, which became one of the most successful albums of that year and earned her five Grammy Awards. In 2006, her second album B’Day debuted at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart during its first week of sales. Her third solo album in 2008, I am…Sasha Fierce, spawned the infamous single (“Single Ladies”) and helped Beyoncé earn a record breaking six Grammy awards in 2010. Her most recent album, 4, became her fourth consecutive number one album on the Billboard 200 chart as a solo artist. Beyoncé has also ventured into acting, with her most popular roles including Austin Powers in Goldmember and Dreamgirls, which earned her two Golden Globe nominations. Beyoncé and her mother Tina Knowles launched fashion empire, House of Dereon in 2005, and most recently Beyoncé has launched a perfume collection. Beyoncé was recognized by Forbes as the first “Most Powerful and Influential Musicians in the World” and was named the “World’s Most Beautiful Woman” by People Magazine. Beyoncé married longtime love Jay-Z in 2008 and gave birth to their first child Blue Ivy Carter in January 2012.
Chart topping triumphs that include “If you liked it, then you shoulda put a ring on it.” These twelve words struck ladies everywhere, becoming an anthem to all of the Single Ladies out there!
She is married to Jay Z with a daughter Blue Ivy Carter, remains close to her family, involved in every aspect of her work, and hangs out with celebs including Kelly Rowland and Gwyneth Paltrow.
Beyonce Sports A Leggy Look For Date Night With Jay Z In NYCmore…Breaking!Beyonce's Denim Short Shorts In 'Run' — Get Them For $50more…Breaking!Beyonce's Sexy Bedhead On The Cover Of 'T' — Get Her Lookmore…Beyonce Sizzles In Plunging Jumpsuit For Chime For Change Eventmore…Beyonce Shows Off Her Nipples In Racy New Picmore…Beyonce Disses Kim Kardashian Behind Her Back — Reportmore…Rachel Roy Was An 'Outcast' At Kim Kardashian & Kanye West's Weddingmore…Beyonce's Super Long Braids — Love Or Loathe? Votemore…Kanye West: Couldn't 'Care Less' Jay Z & Beyonce Were Wedding No-Showsmore…Beyonce's Queen Bey Crown Nails — Love Or Loathe?more…Kim Kardashian's Wedding: Guests Dissed Jay Z & Beyonce For No Showmore…Beyonce & Jay Z's Surprise: Played At Kimye Wedding Receptionmore…
=======================================================
One of the most recognizable figures in contemporary music, Beyoncé rose to fame as the central member of pop-R&B group Destiny's Child before embarking on a multi-platinum, record-breaking solo career in 2001. Booming record sales, Grammy awards, movie roles, and marriage to rapper/CEO Jay-Z combined to heighten her profile in the 2000s. Billboard named her female artist of the decade, while the RIAA acknowledged that, through 64 gold and platinum certifications, she was the decade's top-selling artist. Once she released her fifth solo album in 2013, it was evident that the singer, songwriter, and dancer wasn't merely an entertainer but a progressive artist as well.
Born in Houston in September 1981, Beyoncé Giselle Knowles began performing at age seven, winning over 30 local competitions for her dancing and vocal abilities. She joined her cousin Kelly Rowland and classmates LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett in forming an adolescent vocal group. Mathew Knowles, Beyoncé's father and Rowland's legal guardian, signed on to be the girls' manager, eventually quitting his full-time job to focus on their efforts. This situation would ultimately lead to the creation of one of the most popular female R&B groups of all time -- Destiny's Child.
Destiny's Child gained momentum throughout the '90s. They appeared on Star Search in 1992 (under the name Girls Tyme) and weathered several lineup changes before signing to Columbia in 1997. Four studio albums later, the group had officially become the best-selling female group of all time, with such smash hits as "Jumpin' Jumpin'," "Bills, Bills, Bills," "Say My Name," and "Survivor" bolstering the young women's momentum despite lawsuits from former members Roberson and Luckett (who contested Mathew Knowles' management, claiming he withheld profits and unjustly favored his daughter and niece). In 2001, Beyoncé, Rowland, and replacement member Michelle Williams allowed themselves a break from the group to pursue individual solo careers. Before landing several movie roles, Beyoncé became the first African-American female artist and second woman ever to win the annual ASCAP Pop Songwriter of the Year Award. An appearance in the MTV drama Carmen: A Hip Hopera quickly followed, but it was her role as Foxxy Cleopatra in 2002's Austin Powers in Goldmember that established her as a true Hollywood star. 
While her inclusion on the movie's soundtrack failed to chart nationally, Beyoncé's full-length solo debut, 2003's Dangerously in Love, reached multi-platinum status. Featuring collaborations with Sean Paul, Missy Elliott, OutKast's Big Boi, and romantic interest Jay-Z, the album spawned a total of four Top Ten singles and garnered the singer five Grammys. Destiny's Child reconvened the following year to release Destiny Fulfilled; upon completing the resulting tour, the group issued one final album, a greatest-hits compilation entitled #1's, and subsequently disbanded. Beyoncé turned her full attention to her burgeoning solo career. She released B'day in September 2006 and, three months later, turned in an award-winning performance for the movie musical Dreamgirls. The singer then embarked on the Beyoncé Experience concert tour and released a live DVD in November 2007. 
The following year proved to be another busy one as Beyoncé landed the role of Etta James in Cadillac Records, a musical biopic that explored the heyday of Chicago's Chess label. Shooting commenced in February 2008, with Beyoncé also serving as co-executive producer. One month before the film's December release, the singer released her third studio album, I Am...Sasha Fierce. The double-disc effort emphasized her two distinct personalities, allowing Beyoncé to explore both mainstream sounds and traditional R&B. Some live releases followed. Released in 2009, I Am...Yours, a CD/DVD set, documented an August 2009 performance at Wynn Las Vegas, while 2010's I Am...World Tour, available in separate audio and video formats, was recorded at London's significantly larger O2 Arena (a few months after the Vegas program). She followed ten Grammy nominations with 2011's 4, which debuted at the top of the Billboard 200. One of her most energetic and empowering tracks, "Run the World (Girls)," was issued as the lead single, while "Love on Top" eventually won a Grammy for Best Traditional R&B Performance. 
Giving birth to Blue Ivy Carter in January 2012 didn't slow her down. Within a few months, she was performing in Atlantic City, and she later appeared at President Barack Obama's second inauguration. Joined by Michelle Williams and Kelly Rowland, she headlined the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show. Life Is But a Dream, a documentary, first aired on HBO in February 2013, and was followed by appearances on albums by Rowland, the-Dream, and Jay-Z. New material, such as "Bow Down" and "Standing on the Sun," trickled out without proper release. Then, on December 13 -- with no preceding announcement -- Beyoncé released a self-titled album, with accompanying videos, via iTunes. Her husband and daughter, along with Drake, Frank Ocean, and writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie (via a sampled TED talk), made guest appearances. Knowles, assisted by the likes of Hit-Boy, Pharrell, Timbaland, Justin Timberlake, and Miguel, co-wrote and co-produced the majority of the album's material. Like Beyoncé's four previous solo albums, it went to number one, and quickly went platinum in the U.S. ~ Andrew Leahey, Rovi
        	This site contains content from artists, fans, and writers from around the internet in it's natural form.  Such content is not representative of Viacom Media Networks.
	    ©2014 Viacom International Inc. All Rights Reserved. MTV and all related titles and logos are trademarks of Viacom International Inc.
=======================================================
More:Peter Travers•Yahoo Music•RS Dance•RS on Spotify•RS Soundtrack•My Favorite Music•Young Guns 
In the 2000s, no pop star was as poised, as polished, or as generally fierce as Beyoncé Giselle Knowles. She scored early success with Destiny's Child, who started out as a sexier and sassier (if less adult) version of TLC, then steadily became more and more of a vehicle for Beyoncé's operatic vocals and general diva-tude — which may have been the plan all along. Whether appearing in TV spots (for L'Oreal and other products), co-starring in films like Dream Girls, or marrying Jay-Z, Beyoncé was omnipresent in the 2000s. And though her female-empowerment anthems didn't seem to offer much for women who lacked her superpowers to relate to, almost everybody loved shiny, hip-hop-fueled hits like "Crazy in Love, " and "Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)" anyway. 
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles was groomed for stardom from an early age. Born on September 4th, 1981, she began singing, dancing and performing in talent shows in her native Houston at seven, and by high school she and cousin Kelly Rowland and school chums LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett were singing together, in a group that was later managed by Beyoncé's father and Rowland's guardian, Matthew Knowles. The act was first called Girl's Tyme (the name under which the group performed on Star Search in 1992), but by the time they signed to Columbia in 1997, they were Destiny's Child. 
In 1998, the group issued its debut, Destiny's Child, which featured the hit "No, No, No" (Number Three, 1998). But it was 1999's The Writing's on the Wall that broke the bank, with "Bug a Boo" (Number 33, 1999), "Jumpin' Jumpin'" (Number Three, 1999), "Bills, Bills, Bills" (Number One, 1999), and perhaps most definitively with "Say My Name" (Number One, 2000). The definitive kiss-off song won two Grammys and featured a standout performance by Beyoncé, whose skittering, rhythmic, and hip-hop-derived approach to melody would help shift the entire landscape of R&B singing. 
With the membership of the group rapidly shifting around her — Luckett and Roberson sued after being replaced by Michelle Williams and Farrah Franklin, and Franklin left within a year—it became increasingly clear that Destiny's Child was intended as Beyoncé's showcase. Late in 2000 came "Independent Women Pt. 1" (Number One), from the Charlie's Angels soundtrack, a song that set the tone for 2001's Survivor (Number One), on which Beyoncé fully took center stage, most notably on the Grammy-winning title hit and "Bootylicious" (Number One). In 2001, Beyoncé starred in the MTV "hip-hopera" Carmen in the title role. 
After appearing in Austin Powers in Goldmember, Knowles released her solo debut on its soundtrack, titled "Work It Out." She also worked with her new beau Jay-Z on his "'03 Bonnie & Clyde" (Number Four). Beyoncé's own Dangerously in Love was released in June 2003 and entered the charts at Number One, buoyed by its incredibly infectious lead single, "Crazy in Love," which stayed at Number One for two months. "Baby Boy," featuring Sean Paul, which also hit the top of the charts; "Me, Myself and I" and "Naughty Girl" helped the album move more than 4 million copies. In November 2004, Destiny Fulfilled (Number Two) sounded a valedictory note for Beyoncé's group with "Lose My Breath" and "Soldier"; the next Destiny's Child CD was a best-of titled #1s. 
In 2006, Beyoncé starred alongside Steve Martin in The Pink Panther, but it was her role in the film adaptation of the Broadway smash Dreamgirls that defined her on-screen career (Beyoncé received two Golden Globe nominations, and the film won two Oscars). Inspired by her Dreamgirls character (the Diana Ross-esque Deena Jones), she followed the film's completion by writing and, in a compressed three-week burst, recording B'Day, a deeper and often more inspired follow-up to Dangerously in Love. Among its hits were "Deja Vu" (Number Four), "Ring the Alarm" (Number 11), and "Irreplaceable," which perched at Number One for 10 straight weeks. A "deluxe" version of B'Day came out in April 2007 with included a duet with Shakira called "Beautiful Liar." Beyoncé spent much of 2007 on the road supporting the album on the Beyoncé Experience tour. 
Offstage, Beyoncé has also spent time promoting her fashion line House of Dereon (its moniker is taken from her grandmother's surname). On April 4th, 2008, Jay-Z and Beyoncé were married in Manhattan. 
Beyoncé released her third solo studio album, I Am… Sasha Fierce in November, 2008. It debuted at Number One, selling 482,000 copies in its first week, and, on the strength of four Top Ten singles, continued to sell big for over a year, reaching sales of 6 million worldwide in late 2009. The first single, "If I Were a Boy," made little impact in the U.S., but the second, "Single Ladies (Put a Ring On It)" went to Number One. Soon after the release of Sasha Fierce, Beyoncé played Etta James in Cadillac Records, opposite Adrian Brody, Mos Def, and Jeffrey Wright. Beyoncé stuck with the role in real life, performing James' "At Last" at Barack Obama's Inaugural Ball. 
Throughout 2009, Beyoncé toured the world on the I Am... tour, grossing over $36 million. The exquisitely choreographed video for "Single Ladies" went on to win 2009 Video of the Year at the BET Awards and the MTV Video Music Awards (although Kanye West notoriously interrupted Taylor Swift's speech in protest when Beyoncé lost in the Best Female Video category). 
Portions of this biography appeared in The Rolling Stone Encyclopedia of Rock & Roll (Simon & Schuster, 2001). Evan Serpick contributed to this article. 
We may use your e-mail address to send you the newsletter and offers that may interest you, on behalf of Rolling Stone and its partners. For more information please read our Privacy Policy.
100 Greatest Guitarists100 Greatest Singers500 Greatest Albums of All Time500 Greatest Songs100 Best Albums of the 2000s100 Greatest Beatles Songs 
