=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Denzel Washington was born in December 28,1954 in Mount Vernon, New York. He was the middle child of the 3 children of a Pentecostal minister father and a beautician mother. After graduating from high school, Denzel enrolled at Fordham University intent on a career in journalism. However, he caught the acting bug while appearing in student drama productions and, upon graduation, he moved to San Francisco and enrolled at the American Conservatory Theater. He left A.C.T. after only one year to seek work as an actor. With his acting versatility and powerful sexual presence, he had no difficulty finding work in numerous television productions. He made his first big screen appearance in Carbon Copy (1981) with George Segal. Through the 1980s, he worked in both movies and television and was chosen for the plum role of "Dr. Chandler" in NBC's hit medical series St. Elsewhere (1982), a role that he would play for 6 years. In 1989, his film career began to take precedence when he won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor for his portrayal of "Tripp", the runaway slave in Edward Zwick's powerful historical masterpiece Glory (1989).Through the 1990s, Denzel co-starred in such big budget productions as The Pelican Brief (1993); Philadelphia (1993); Crimson Tide (1995); The Preacher's Wife (1996) and Courage Under Fire (1996) - a role for which he was paid $10 million. His work in critically-acclaimed films continued simultaneously, with roles in Malcolm X (1992) and The Hurricane (1999) garnering him Oscar nominations for Best Actor, before he finally won that statuette in 2002 for his lead role in Training Day (2001). He continued to define his onscreen persona as the tough, no-nonsense hero through the 2000s in films like Inside Man (2006), The Book of Eli (2010), The Taking of Pelham 1 2 3 (2009) and Safe House (2012). Cerebral and meticulous in his film work, he made his debut as a director in 2002 with Antwone Fisher (2002); he also directed The Great Debaters (2007) in 2007. During this same time period, he also took on the role of producer for such films as The Book of Eli (2010) and Safe House (2012).He lives in Los Angeles with his wife, Pauletta Washington, and their 4 children.
        Often portrays real people: Rubin "Hurricane" Carter in The Hurricane (1999), Malcolm X in Malcolm X (1992), Herman Boone in Remember the Titans (2000), Frank Lucas in American Gangster (2007), Steve Biko in Cry Freedom (1987) and Melvin Tolson in The Great Debaters (2007).
        In almost all the films - e.g. Man on Fire (2004), American Gangster (2007), John Q (2002) - where he handles or uses sidearms (usually a 9mm Beretta or similar pistols), there's a scene of him swiftly ejecting a bullet from the loaded chamber by pulling back the slide assembly and subsequently catching the bullet before it falls to the ground.
      To prepare for his role as boxer Rubin 'Hurricane' Carter in The Hurricane (1999), Washington worked out for a year with L.A. boxing trainer Terry Claybon.
      In a Newsweek cover story about the biological basis of the perception of beauty, he was used as a key example in a scientific explanation why he is considered an extremely handsome man.
      According to a 1995 Premiere magazine article, Denzel confronted director Quentin Tarantino when he visited the set of Crimson Tide (1995). Quentin had done an uncredited rewrite of the script. Denzel lambasted Tarantino about his use of racial slurs in his films. Tarantino got embarrassed and wanted to move the conversation to a more private area. Denzel said, "No, if we're going to discuss it, let's discuss it now." Denzel later said he still felt that Quentin was "a fine artist".
      Denzel is named after his father who was in turn named after the doctor, Doctor Denzel, who had delivered him.
      In the early 1980s, years before he portrayed Malcolm X in the Spike Lee film Malcolm X (1992), Washington portrayed Malcolm in the off-Broadway production of "When the Chickens Came Home to Roost", at the Henry Street Theatre in NYC.
      Supports charities such as the Nelson Mandela Children's Fund, and the Gathering Place (an AIDS hospice).
      Met his wife Pauletta Washington in 1977 when both had small roles in the TV-movie Wilma (1977) (she was billed as Pauletta Pearson), the story of runner Wilma Rudolph. They wed five years later.
      His father was a Pentecostal minister; his mother a beautician and former gospel singer. They divorced when he was 14.
      Is a spokesperson for the Boys and Girls Clubs of America, having been a member of the Boys Club once himself.
      Only the second black actor (after Sidney Poitier) to win the Academy Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role (for Training Day (2001)). Poitier received the honorary Academy Award that same year.
      Cousin is newsman Ukee Washington, who co-anchors the news on the CBS affiliate in Philadelphia.
      He and his family are members of the same church as actors Dwayne Winstead, Sy Richardson, Marvin Wright-Bey, and Fitz Houston.
      Was awarded the title of "Police Chief for a Day" when he was a member of The Boys and Girls Club of America as a child. The photo was shown during his latest appearance on Live with Regis and Kathie Lee (1988).
Tom Hanks said working with Washington on Philadelphia (1993) was like "going to film school". Hanks said he learned more about acting by watching Denzel than from anyone else.
      He was at his mother's beauty parlor, when a woman getting her hair done saw him and told someone to get her a piece of paper and she wrote at the top "Prophecy" and then wrote that Denzel would grow up and one day speak to millions. Denzel kept the bit of paper in his wallet. The woman was known as a prophetess in their church and community.
      First studied Biology in hopes of becoming a doctor, then switched to Political Science then to a Journalism/Drama major in college.
      Premiere Magazine ranked him as #39 on a list of the Greatest Movie Stars of All Time in their Stars in Our Constellation feature (2005).
      Has played two soldiers who have suffered traumatic, life-changing experiences while fighting in the 1991 Persian Gulf War: Lt. Col. Nathaniel Serling in Courage Under Fire (1996) and Maj. Ben Marco in The Manchurian Candidate (2004).
      Though his first theatrical film was a comedy (Carbon Copy (1981)), he has only done three more since. Has mentioned that he's always wanted to do a great one.
      He and his family visited the troops at Brook Army Medical Center, in San Antonio, Texas (BAMC). There are some buildings there called Fisher Houses. The Fisher House is a Hotel where soldiers' families can stay, for little or no charge, while their soldier is staying in the Hospital. BAMC has quite a few of these houses on base, but as you can imagine, they are almost filled most of the time. He was given a tour of one of the Fisher Houses and subsequent to his visit sent them one of the largest donations they've ever received.
      His performance as Malcolm X in Malcolm X (1992) is ranked #17 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time (2006).
      As of 2006, he is the most Oscar-winning (two) and most nominated (five) black actor/actress in Academy history.
      Son John David Washington recently signed as a running back with the St. Louis Rams (May 2006).
      Has two films on the American Film Institute's 100 Most Inspiring Movies of All Time. They are: Glory (1989) at #31 and Philadelphia (1993) at #20.
      Has worked with both Ridley Scott and Tony Scott. Ridley directed him in American Gangster (2007). He has worked with Ridley's brother, Tony, on five films, which are: Crimson Tide (1995), Man on Fire (2004), Deja Vu (2006), The Taking of Pelham 1 2 3 (2009) and Unstoppable (2010).
      Turned down Se7en (1995). He opted to do another detective thriller that year, Devil in a Blue Dress (1995).
      Claims his personal favorite performances are his works in Cry Freedom (1987), Glory (1989), Malcolm X (1992), and Training Day (2001).
      At one point, was to star as Dr. Alex Cross in Kiss the Girls (1997), had to drop out due to scheduling conflicts.
      He was presented with the honorary degree Doctor of Humane Letters from Morehouse College in Atlanta, Georgia on May 20, 2007.
      For Courage Under Fire (1996), he trained at the National Training Center at Fort Irwin in California, where he qualified on the M1A1 tank and the 120mm gun, participated in battle games and listened to audiotapes of tank battles in Desert Storm.
      To prepare for his attorney role in Philadelphia (1993), he met with two lawyers who were about to become celebrities in their own right: Johnnie L. Cochran Jr. and Carl Douglas.
      He spent months on the beat with Washington Post reporters to prepare for The Pelican Brief (1993).
      Has worked with both Fanning sisters. He worked with Dakota Fanning in Man on Fire (2004); he worked with (although did not have any scenes with) Elle Fanning in Deja Vu (2006).
      December 2007 - According to Forbes, for each dollar he got paid, his movies averaged $10 of gross income.
      When Washington won the Best Actor Oscar for Training Day (2001), Halle Berry won the Best Actress Oscar for Monster's Ball (2001), and Sidney Poitier won the Honorary award (2001), 2002 marked the first time in Academy Awards history that 3 African-Americans so dominated the Oscar ceremonies.
      He is a big fan of the TV show Monk (2002). He requested Ted Levine to play a part in American Gangster (2007) because he was a fan of the series. He also worked with Tony Shalhoub in The Siege (1998).
      Named Gene Hackman, Angelina Jolie, and Dakota Fanning as the most talented actors he has ever worked with.
      The actors he most wants to work with are Al Pacino and Robert De Niro. The director he most wants to work with is Martin Scorsese.
      Broke the pinky finger of his right hand during a childhood basketball accident and never had it set correctly, resulting in the finger healing in a crooked position. The finger is still crooked to this day, bent at the bottom knuckle a full 45 degrees outward from his other fingers.
      (November 11, 2008) Attended the star-studded opening of Dubai's lavish Atlantis Palms resort. Guests were welcomed in style with a display of one million fireworks, said to be visible from space.
      As of 2009, Washington and sound engineers Willie D. Burton and Russell Williams II are the only African-Americans to win two Oscars.
      Was in consideration for the part of Curtis Taylor Jr in Dreamgirls (2006). However Jamie Foxx was cast instead.
      Performed all of his own stunts for the hand to hand fight sequences in the post-apocalyptic action film The Book of Eli (2010).
      Likes to point out the difference between his father's and his first name: Denzel. Though both are spelled the same, his dad's name is pronounced with the stress on the first syllable - DEN-zel, whereas the actor's name is pronounced - den-ZEL.
      Among his favorite black actors are - Idris Elba and Chiwetel Ejiofor - who happen to be British, and both of whom co-starred with Washington in American Gangster (2007).
      Has worked twice with Chiwetel Ejiofor. In Inside Man (2006), they played police detectives; in American Gangster (2007), they played criminals.
      Has starred in three remakes - The Manchurian Candidate (2004), The Taking of Pelham 1 2 3 (2009), and Man on Fire (2004).
      The longest he has gone without an Oscar nomination is 11 years, between Training Day (2001) and Flight (2012).
Eva Mendes and Paula Patton have each played his love interest twice - Mendes in Training Day (2001) and Out of Time (2003), and Patton in Deja Vu (2006) and 2 Guns (2013).
      Became a father for the 1st time at age 29 when his wife Pauletta Washington gave birth to their son John David Washington on July 28, 1984.
      Became a father for the 2nd time at age 32 when his wife Pauletta Washington gave birth to their daughter Katia Washington on November 27, 1987.
      Became a father for the 3rd and 4th time at age 36 when his wife Pauletta Washington gave birth to their twins Malcolm Washington and Olivia Washington on April 10, 1991.
      Bought the film rights to the Sammy Davis Jr. biography, Sammy in Black and White. [August 2004]
      Preparing to shoot American Gangster (2007) with director Ridley Scott and co-star Russell Crowe in locations ranging from Harlem, New York to Thailand. [July 2006]
      Became only the sixth actor to win both leading and supporting acting Oscars. The other five are Robert De Niro, Gene Hackman, Kevin Spacey, Jack Lemmon and Jack Nicholson.
      (In 1998) "Acting's like someone asking you for years to write the characters, but they write the book."
      I'm very proud to be black, but black is not all I am. That's my cultural historical background, my genetic makeup, but it's not all of who I am nor is it the basis from which I answer every question.
      I have a friend who says 'the first 50 was for them, this 50's for me'. I like that. The weirdest part of it, or even the saddest part, is that you start to see people die. You go 'Man! He wasn't even that old'. I lost a friend recently who died of a heart attack. He was 58. When I was 20, 58 was old. It ain't now. - on approaching 50.
      That ain't fair, really. Michelle Pfeiffer hasn't been finding a lot of work recently because she doesn't like what a woman her age is offered. That's a real double standard. You get Sean Connery, who gets older and older, still playing opposite young ladies, but it doesn't work the other way around. - on working with young female co-stars.
      I have to try and find a way to remain positive because those days are boring to me, really, just hanging off the side of a building, fighting or grunting. - on shooting action scenes.
      People say, 'Congratulations, you finally got the Oscar', and I have to correct them: 'Actually, it's my second one. I won for Glory (1989) in 1989.' Some people say, 'Yeah, but that was for a supporting actor role' but for me, it's the same thing.
      Probably Shakespeare. I did Othello in college, and Richard III, and those are the two roles I'd like to revisit. Movies? There's a couple I wish I hadn't done. I won't say which ones, but there are a couple of mistakes there. - on what roles he'd like to redo.
      I was a mess. I don't know if I ate bad food or if it was too much tension, but I got sick. There was a huge traffic jam, and I remember saying 'Look, it took me all this time to get here - I'm showing up in a limousine and I don't care how late I am.' By the time I got there, there was no red carpet. Everyone was inside because the show had already started. - on being late for the 1987 Oscars.
      "I root for the Knicks. I root for the Yankees." (when asked which does he call home, L.A. or New York).
      "The only way I'm going to L.A. is with a job." (when asked what prompted him to go to Hollywood).
      I remain thankful for the gifts that I've been given and I try to use them in a good way, in a positive way.
      For the movie Glory (1989), before going out to shoot the whipping scene, I'm backstage in a room, and I'm thinking, how am I gonna do this scene? All I did - you know people ask me, how did you prepare? - I say, I prayed. And I got on my knees and they were waiting for me, and I prayed. And then I prayed to all the spirits. I said, "Look fellas, ladies" and I'm talking about those who have been, and I said, "Look I don't know, I'm just rolling with you all. Just whatever happens, I'm going. And I said are you with me? Come on!" I'm serious! And I went out there and what hit me was, I'm in charge. Never put my head down. This isn't the first time this has happened to me, the character - and ,in fact, I had the guy build all the scars to put on my back - and I went out there with an attitude that I'm going to take this and not fold. But it hurt. And the tear was actually real. You know, you just allow it and you're thankful for it. It's not technical. It's not science. It's spirit.
      "I just didn't see myself in Amistad (1997). I ain't putting no chains around my neck. I'm not in the mood right now, too edgy. It just wasn't for me. I'm not having it. I'm like, 'Yeah, that's what happened then, but how about me cutting everybody's head off and end the movie there?'" (on refusing the role in Amistad (1997))
      (on making movies) It's simple: You get a part. You play a part. You play it well. You do your work and you go home. And what is wonderful about movies is that once they're done, they belong to the people. Once you make it, it's what they see. That's where my head is at.
      (1998 quote on his career) With four children I have to maximize the work I do now financially. It's like I have to do one film for financial reasons, as opposed to when I was single, or before we had all of these children. I find that I'm not as good at not working as I thought I would be. I get itchy. My wife also says I'm only good for about three weeks of downtime. But I'm learning a decent pace now. I try to take four or five months off between jobs.
      (1998 quote on his long-standing marriage) She puts up with me. I think, also, in a way the traveling helps. We're able to travel together and also be apart sometimes. Not everybody gets to live like that. Twenty years now. It's like you start to pat yourself on the back when you look around you and you see that very few people have 20 years into a marriage.
      (on what he enjoys about making films) The magic. There's fun creating that magic. Bringing something to life, whatever. Putting together a character. The twists and the turns that people don't expect. So to sit around and talk about it before someone sees it is boring. I think there should be some mystery in it. Who wants to know everything about it? I think it ruins movies when you know everything about how the movie was made and put together. If you explain, it's like showing you the trick before I show you the magic. Let me explain to you how it works. All right, now come see the show. It's supposed to be magic. And being an actor is about creating that magic.
      (on what inspires him as an actor) I like to go to new places. To specify, it is to say that I like not knowing. I like knowing when I get there. I know when it starts coming around and it raises the hair or it doesn't. I was trained in the theater. So it was instilled in me as a young performer to take chances and not to worry about all that, because failure is a part of growth. If you're gonna fail, fail big and take chances. So I've done that, or I've tried to do that.
      (1998 quote on his career) In any craft or artistic endeavor you want to do different things. You want to go to different places, you want to find different ways to go about it. You may have your constants, but you're looking to go into new territories, new angles, new challenges. So that's how it is for me as an actor. I couldn't play the same guy eight times and I don't have to. I think I've said all of my career, I'm not a celebrity. I'm not a movie star. I'm just an actor who is more popular right now. I don't even know what a movie star is. And one of the reasons why I keep on going back to make movies that don't have such huge budgets is that it's not as much pressure. You feel like you can take more chances.
      (on having to do publicity) I'm an actor, so that's the bottom line. I'm not a marketing whatever. My strength does not lie in marketing a product called 'Denzel.' That's not what I do. My strength lies in playing a part and hopefully entertaining and affecting people on some level. Now I'm not being naive. I know that marketing comes into play when you're spending 50 or 60 million dollars of other people's money to make a film. You have to be involved in marketing that product. But the publicity gets to be boring. How many times can I tell the same story? I understand the importance of doing publicity for a film, so I'm willing to do that, but I don't want to sit around talking about myself. That's not a great day for me. That's not my idea of fun.
      The acting coach Stanislavsky talks about cutting 90 percent. So you do research, research, research, then you drop it and listen when you're in the scene and know who you are. You never know how it's gonna come around. That's why you go out there and find out. It's because you need the human beings that hook you into the character. Maybe I'm not as imaginative as the average actor. I need some kind of a hook sometimes.
      [on the 2002 Academy Awards and his win] - I didn't want to go to the Oscars. After "Hurricane," I was like, 'I don't feel like dealing with these people. I'm just not going to go.' In order to protect yourself, you almost have to not care. So that night I didn't care -- and, of course, they go, 'Here.'
      [on The Book of Eli (2010)] - We shot in New Mexico, and the environment definitely helped. It was bleak. It got chilly and windy. The wind was the biggest deal. You'd have to wash the sand out of your nose and eyes. The world that the movie takes place in, the opportunity to do all this "Blade" kind of martial-arts stuff, working with the Hughes brothers -- it was an interesting combination of things.
      [on Training Day (2001)] - My son talked me into doing that movie. He was like, 'Dad, you've never done anything like this'. I just hadn't been asked before. The only film that was sort of dark that I'd turned down was _Se7en (2000)_. They offered me the Brad Pitt part, but I was like, 'This is so dark and evil'. Then when I saw the movie, I was like, 'Oh, shoot'.
      [on the supposed factual inaccuracies of The Hurricane (1999)] - I heard that. We'll never know, will we? The film was touchy because people were murdered and a lot of people felt that Rubin did it. So you're opening old wounds. Malcolm X (1992) was more dangerous, but The Hurricane (1999) might have been more controversial.
      [on Philadelphia (1993)] - [Director] Jonathan Demme said to me, 'Look, we don't want your character to go 360 degrees. It's not like by the end of the movie he's leading a gay and lesbian parade'. If we'd done that, it would have let people like this character off the hook. But at the end, he touches [Tom Hanks' character] -- and that's huge for him. [Pauses, then laughs] I used to mess with Tom. He was barely eating at all, and I would put out, like, 200 Almond Joys in his drawer to give him a hard time. I'd pretend to sneeze and all these Snickers would fall on the ground. I'm sure he laughed all the way up to the podium when he won the Oscar.
      [on the whipping scene in Glory (1989)] - I remember walking around before that scene, just praying and calling on the spirits of all the slaves, because I didn't know how to play it. I was like, 'Okay, fellas, just tell me what to do'. And I went out there with an arrogance. I spit on the ground. I had this attitude and this strength -- it all came out of this meditation. It wasn't calculated. It was organic. That whip actually hurt, but I was like, 'Don't let him win'.
      (1995 quote) It was never my dream to be famous. I didn't start acting to be a movie star. I started in the theater and my desire was to get better at my craft. It's still my desire. I don't consider myself a movie star, nor do I really have the desire to be one. I'm just an entertainer. An actor who works hard at his craft. Whatever labels people give me, that's not really me or part of my process. Come and talk with me again on my 50th birthday and I may feel differently, but right now, I'm just taking the lesson from one of my old teachers who said, 'Don't be afraid to fail big'.
      (1995 quote) This 'famous' stuff, I guess you can get caught up in it. You can even get caught up in fighting it, pretending it doesn't exist. But it already alters who you are, just in the fact that you're trying to deny it. I just turned 40 and my wife and I had a quiet getaway. I didn't want a big party or anything. I just wanted to reflect on what I've done with the first 40 years and what I want to do now. I think I'm just starting to figure out how to do it, you know, how to simplify things in life. Around my birthday, I was listening to this motivational speaker, Les Brown, who made this analogy about ghosts around his bed. He was saying when you die, imagine you had these ghosts around your bed that represent your unfulfilled potential. Things that should have been done, should have been experienced. How many ghosts are going to be around your bed when your time comes? People can say about me or anyone, 'Oh, you're great at this,' but you have to look at yourself and say, 'How do I feel about what I've done?' That's all that matters.
      Long ago I made a commitment to completely cut out drinking and anything that might hamper me from getting my mind and body together. And the floodgates of goodness have opened upon me, spiritually and financially.
Tony Scott was a great director, a genuine friend, and it is unfathomable to think that he is now gone. He had a tremendous passion for life and for the art of filmmaking, and was able to share this passion with all of us through his cinematic brilliance.
      [on 'Flight'] If it ain't on the page it ain't on the stage. I read tons of scripts, and I know it's very rare, but this is like a Eugene O'Neil play - the tears are on the page.
=======================================================
Denzel Hayes Washington, Jr. (born December 28, 1954) is an American actor, film director, and film producer. He has received much critical acclaim for his work in film since the 1990s, including for his portrayals of real-life figures such as Steve Biko, Malcolm X, Rubin "Hurricane" Carter, Melvin B. Tolson, Frank Lucas, and Herman Boone. Washington is a featured actor in the films produced by Jerry Bruckheimer and was a frequent collaborator of the late director Tony Scott.
Washington has received two Golden Globe awards and a Tony Award,[2] and two Academy Awards: Best Supporting Actor for Glory (1989) and Best Actor for Training Day (2001).[3]
Washington was born in Mount Vernon, near New York City. His father, Reverend Denzel Hayes Washington, Sr., a native of Buckingham County, Virginia, served as an ordained Pentecostal minister, and also worked for the Water Department and at a local department store, S. Klein. His mother, Lennis "Lynne", was a beauty parlor owner and operator born in Georgia and partly raised in Harlem.[4][5][6]
Washington attended grammar school at Pennington-Grimes Elementary School in Mount Vernon, until 1968. When he was 14, his parents broke up, and his mother sent him to a private preparatory school, Oakland Military Academy, in New Windsor, New York. "That decision changed my life," Washington later said, "because I wouldn't have survived in the direction I was going. The guys I was hanging out with at the time, my running buddies, have now done maybe 40 years combined in the penitentiary. They were nice guys, but the streets got them."[7] After Oakland, Washington next attended Mainland High School, a public high school in Daytona Beach, Florida, from 1970 to 1971.[4] Washington was interested in attending Texas Tech University: "I grew up in the Boys Club in Mount Vernon, and we were the Red Raiders. So when I was in high school, I wanted to go to Texas Tech in Lubbock just because they were called the Red Raiders and their uniforms looked like ours."[8] Washington attended Texas College, and earned a B.A. in Drama and Journalism from Fordham University in 1977.[9] At Fordham he played collegiate basketball as a guard[10] under coach P. J. Carlesimo.[11] After a period of indecision on which major to study and dropping out of school for a semester, Washington worked as creative arts director at an overnight summer camp, Camp Sloane YMCA in Lakeville, Connecticut. He participated in a staff talent show for the campers and a colleague suggested he try acting.[12]
Returning to Fordham that fall with a renewed purpose and focus, he enrolled at the Lincoln Center campus to study acting and was given the title roles in both Eugene O'Neill's The Emperor Jones and Shakespeare's Othello. Upon graduation he attended graduate school at the American Conservatory Theatre in San Francisco, where he stayed for one year before returning to New York to begin a professional acting career.[13]
Washington spent the summer of 1976 in St. Mary's City, Maryland, in summer stock theater performing Wings of the Morning,[14] the Maryland State play, which was rewritten for him by incorporating an African-American character/narrator.[citation needed] He also filmed a series of commercials in the Fruit of the Loom ensemble, as Grapes.[citation needed] Shortly after graduating from Fordham, Washington made his professional acting debut in the 1977 made-for-television film Wilma, and his first Hollywood appearance in the 1981 film Carbon Copy. Washington shared a 1982 Distinguished Ensemble Performance Obie Award for playing Private First Class Melvin Peterson in the Off-Broadway Negro Ensemble Company production A Soldier's Play which premiered November 20, 1981.[15]
A major career break came when he starred as Dr. Phillip Chandler in the television hospital drama St. Elsewhere which ran from 1982 to 1988 on NBC. He was one of only a few African-American actors to appear on the series for its entire six-year run. Washington also appeared in several television, motion picture, and stage roles such as the films A Soldier's Story (1984), Hard Lessons (1986) and Power (1986). In 1987 Washington starred as South African anti-apartheid political activist Steven Biko in Richard Attenborough's Cry Freedom for which he received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. In 1989 Washington won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for playing a defiant self-possessed ex-slave soldier in the film Glory. Also that year he appeared in the film The Mighty Quinn, and as the conflicted and disillusioned Reuben James, a British soldier who, despite a distinguished military career, returns to a civilian life where racism and inner city life leads to vigilantism and violence in For Queen and Country.
In 1991, Washington starred as Bleek Gilliam in the Spike Lee film Mo' Better Blues. In 1992, he starred as Demetrius Williams in the romantic drama Mississippi Masala. Washington was reunited with Lee to play one of his most critically acclaimed roles as the title character of 1992's Malcolm X. His performance as the black nationalist leader earned him another nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actor. The next year he played the lawyer of a gay man with AIDS in the 1993 film Philadelphia. During the early and mid-1990s, Washington starred in several successful thrillers, including The Pelican Brief and Crimson Tide, as well as in the comedy Much Ado About Nothing. In 1996, he played a US Army officer, despondent about a deadly mistake he made, investigates a female chopper commander's worthiness for the Medal of Honor in Courage Under Fire with Meg Ryan. Also in 1996, alongside Whitney Houston in the romantic drama The Preacher's Wife.[citation needed]
In 1998, Washington starred in Spike Lee's film He Got Game. Washington played a father serving a six-year prison term who is propositioned by the warden to a temporary parole on the terms that he must convince his top-ranked high-school basketball player son (Ray Allen) into signing with the governor's alma mater, Big State. The film also marked the third time that Spike Lee and Washington worked on a film together.[16]
In 1999, Washington starred in The Hurricane, a film about boxer Rubin 'Hurricane' Carter whose conviction for triple murder was overturned after he had spent almost 20 years in prison. A former reporter who was angry at seeing the film portray Carter as innocent despite the overturned conviction began a campaign to pressure Academy Award voters not to award the film Oscars.[17] Washington did receive a Golden Globe Award in 2000 and a Silver Bear Award at the Berlin International Film Festival for the role.
He also presented the Arthur Ashe ESPY Award to Loretta Claiborne for her courage and appeared as himself in the end of The Loretta Claiborne Story film.[citation needed]
In 2000, Washington appeared in the Disney film Remember the Titans which grossed over $100 million at the United States box office.[18]
When Washington won a Golden Globe award for Best Actor in a Dramatic Movie in 2000, as he noted: "No African-American has won best actor in the Golden Globes since Sidney Poitier, until I did".[19] He was the first Black actor to win the award in 36 years.[20]
He won an Academy Award for Best Actor in his next film, the 2001 cop thriller Training Day as Detective Alonzo Harris, a rogue and evil Los Angeles cop with questionable law-enforcement tactics. Washington was the second African-American performer to win an Academy Award for Best Actor, the first being Sidney Poitier who happened to receive an Honorary Academy Award the same night that Washington won. Washington holds the record (six so far) for most Oscar nominations and most wins (two so far) by an actor or actress of African descent.
After appearing in 2002's box office success, the health care-themed John Q., Washington directed his first film, a well-reviewed drama called Antwone Fisher, in which he also co-starred.
Between 2003 and 2004, Washington appeared in a series of thrillers that performed generally well at the box office, including Out of Time, Man on Fire, and The Manchurian Candidate.[21] In 2006, he starred in Inside Man, a Spike Lee-directed bank heist thriller co-starring Jodie Foster and Clive Owen, and Déjà Vu released in November 2006.
In 2006, Denzel worked alongside multi-talented Irish off-rock band The Script on their new project combining music and Hollywood. The hybrid of genres was critically acclaimed but didn't receive much mainstream attention due to a legal conflicts between the Script's record label and Denzel's studio commitments.
In 2007, he co-starred with Russell Crowe, for the second time after Virtuosity in 1995, in American Gangster. Washington directed and starred in the drama The Great Debaters with Forest Whitaker. Washington next appeared in the 2009 film The Taking of Pelham 1 2 3, a remake of the 1974 thriller The Taking of Pelham One Two Three, directed by Tony Scott as New York City subway security chief Walter Garber opposite John Travolta.[22]
In the summer of 1990, Washington appeared in the title role of the Public Theater's production of Shakespeare's Richard III. In 2005, he appeared onstage again in another Shakespeare play as Marcus Brutus in Julius Caesar on Broadway. The production's limited run was a consistent sell-out averaging over 100% attendance capacity nightly despite receiving mixed reviews.[23] In the spring of 2010, Washington played Troy Maxson, opposite Viola Davis, in the Broadway revival of August Wilson's Fences.
In 2010, Washington starred in The Book of Eli, a post-Apocalyptic drama set in the near future. Also in 2010, he starred as a veteran railroad engineer in the action film Unstoppable, about an unmanned, half-mile-long runaway freight train carrying a dangerous cargo. The film was directed by Tony Scott, and was the fifth and final collaboration between the two, following Crimson Tide (1995), Man on Fire (2004), Déjà Vu (2006) and The Taking of Pelham 1 2 3 (2009).
On June 13, 2010, Washington won the Tony Award for Best Performance by a Leading Actor in a Play for his role in the play Fences.[25][26] In 2012, Washington starred in Flight, for which he was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor, and co-starred with Ryan Reynolds in Safe House. In preparation for his role in Safe House, Washington subjected himself to a torture session that included waterboarding.[27]
Recently MGM offered Antoine Fuqua the directing gig on The Magnificent Seven remake, and while he has yet to give an official response, Schmoes Know said he has already signed on and personally offered a role to Denzel.[28]
On June 25, 1983, Washington married Pauletta Pearson, whom he met on the set of his first screen work, the television film Wilma. The couple have four children: John David (b. July 28, 1984), who signed a football contract with the St. Louis Rams in May 2006 and has also played with the Sacramento Mountain Lions of the United Football League (John David also played college football at Morehouse);[29] Katia (b. November 27, 1986) who graduated from Yale University with a Bachelors of Arts in 2010; and twins Olivia and Malcolm (b. April 10, 1991) (Malcolm graduated from the University of Pennsylvania with a degree in film studies, and Olivia played a role in Lee Daniels's The Butler.). In 1995, the couple renewed their wedding vows in South Africa with Archbishop Desmond Tutu officiating.[30]
Washington is a devout Christian,[31] and has considered becoming a preacher. He stated in 1999, "A part of me still says, 'Maybe, Denzel, you're supposed to preach. Maybe you're still compromising.' I've had an opportunity to play great men and, through their words, to preach. I take what talent I've been given seriously, and I want to use it for good."[32] In 1995, he donated $2.5 million to help build the new West Angeles Church of God in Christ facility in Los Angeles.[33][34]
Washington has served as the national spokesperson for Boys & Girls Clubs of America since 1993.[35] As such, he has been featured in several public service announcements and awareness campaigns for the organization.[36] In addition, he has served as a board member for Boys & Girls Clubs of America since 1995.[citation needed]
In mid-2004, Washington visited Brooke Army Medical Center (BAMC) at Fort Sam Houston, where he participated in a Purple Heart ceremony, presenting medals to three Army soldiers recovering in the hospital from wounds they received while stationed in Iraq. He also visited the Fisher House facilities that are also part of Fort Sam Houston, and after learning that additional Fisher House facilities were needed due to exceeded capacities, made a substantial donation to the Fisher House Foundation. Washington's other charity work includes donating $1 million to the Children's Fund of South Africa,[34] and $1 million to Wiley College to resuscitate the college's debate team.[37]
The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia named Washington as one of three people (the others being directors Oliver Stone and Michael Moore) with whom they were willing to negotiate for the release of three defense contractors that the group had held captive from 2003 to 2008.[39]
On May 18, 1991, Washington was awarded an honorary doctorate from his alma mater, Fordham University, for having "impressively succeeded in exploring the edge of his multifaceted talent".[40] In 2011 he donated $2 million to Fordham for an endowed chair of the theatre department, as well as $250,000 for a theatre-specific scholarship to Fordham. He also was awarded an honorary doctorate of humanities from Morehouse College on May 20, 2007.[41] On May 16, 2011, he was awarded an honorary doctor of arts degree from the University of Pennsylvania.[42]
In 2008, Washington visited Israel with a delegation of African-American artists in honor of the Jewish state's 60th birthday.[43]
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Denzel_Washington&oldid=611686848"					
Categories: 1954 birthsLiving people20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsMale actors from New YorkAfrican-American basketball playersAfrican-American ChristiansAfrican-American film directorsAmerican male film actorsAmerican film directorsAmerican PentecostalsAmerican male stage actorsAmerican male television actorsBasketball players from New YorkBest Actor Academy Award winnersBest Drama Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Supporting Actor Academy Award winnersBest Supporting Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersChurch of God in ChristEnglish-language film directorsFordham Rams men's basketball playersMainland High School alumniMembers of the Church of God in ChristObie Award recipientsPeople from Mount Vernon, New YorkPoint guardsSilver Bear for Best Actor winnersTony Award winnersAfrican-American male actorsAmerican ChristiansHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from March 2014Use mdy dates from June 2013Wikipedia pending changes protected pages (level 1)Wikipedia protected pages without expiryArticles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2013Articles with unsourced statements from November 2010Articles with unsourced statements from December 2012Commons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
1961It Takes a VillageAt 6, Denzel Washington joins the local Boys & Girls Club of America in Mount Vernon, N.Y., a middle-class, primarily African-American suburb of New York City. He later credits the group for keeping him from the dangers of drugs, crime and violence. 
1969Broken Family TiesWashington's beautician mother and Pentecostal preacher father divorce when he's 14. He loses contact with his father until his 20s, and the teenager starts getting into fights and hanging out on the streets. His mother packs him off to boarding school, where Washington shapes up before starting at Fordham University in the fall of 1973. As a camp counselor at a Boys Club camp in 1975, Washington appears in a variety show and falls in love with acting. He later lands roles in Fordham campus productions of Eugene O'Neill's The Emperor Jones and Othello. 1977SummerStarting OutAfter graduating from Fordham University with a B.A. in Journalism, Washington enrolls in San Francisco's American Conservatory Theatre and spends the summer filming his first onscreen role in the TV movie Wilma. He meets future wife Pauletta Pearson, an actress/singer/pianist, on set. "I thought he was cute, but I fell in love with his spirit," she tells Oprah Winfrey. "And then I thought, 'Hmm, not a bad package.'" 1981September 25From the Stage to the ERWashington hits the big screen in the comedy Carbon Copy. He gets more attention on stage for his Obie-winning performance in the off-Broadway, Pulitzer Prize-winning A Soldier's Play. In 1982, he's cast as Dr. Philip Chandler on the NBC hospital drama St. Elsewhere. 1983June 25Love and MarriageWashington marries Pearson. The two are known around Hollywood as a tight-knit duo dedicated to family life, but Washington has since hinted at past marital infidelities. Washington tells PEOPLE in 2006 that despite any mistakes he's made, he is committed to his wife and children. "There's life, and there's making a living," he says. "Family is life." 1984July 28Good GenesFirst son John David is born. John David goes on to become a college football star at the traditionally African-American college Morehouse in Atlanta and is signed as a running back by the St. Louis Rams in May 2006. 
1987November 06The Revolution ComethWashington gets time off from St. Elsewhere to tackle the role of Steven Biko, the South African freedom activist, in Cry Freedom. It is the first in a series of martyrs Washington will play to critical acclaim. He scores his first Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor.November 27Addition to the FamilyPearson gives birth to daughter Katia. "There are only four women in the world," Washington says to PEOPLE. "The one you marry, your mother, your daughter and all the rest of them. As long as you keep that perspective, you'll be all right." Katia will later attend Yale.
1989December 14He's GoldenThe Civil War epic Glory showcases Washington's talent as Trip, an escaped slave who joins the Union army. He also gets a standing ovation from the Academy when he wins a Best Supporting Actor Oscar. "Whatever that mysterious electrochemical process is that makes the camera love someone, he has more of it than any one person should," director Ed Zwick tells PEOPLE. 1990August 30Teaming with Spike LeeIn the first of four movies he makes with acclaimed director Spike Lee, Washington plays against type as Mo' Better Blues' Bleek Gilliam, a womanizing jazz musician. During a scene in which Washington's character gets into a fight, Lee tells Time he remembers hearing women at a public screening of the movie screaming, "Not the face!"  
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): COURTESY BOYS AND GIRLS CLUB; GLOBE; Ron Galella/WireImage; NBC/GLOBE; Ron Galella/WIREIMAGE; RON GALELLA; Everett Collection; Ron Galella; RALPH DOMINGUEZ/GLOBE; Everett Collection 
									John David Washington, son (7/28/1984)Katia Washington, daughter (11/27/1987) Olivia Washington, daughter (4/10/1991)Malcolm Washington, son (4/10/1991) 
   Feb 24, 2013 DIVIDED LOYALTIES  Denzel Washington may be wearing a Yankees cap, but he was clearly in the Lakers' corner Friday night,… See Photo   Feb 21, 2013 TAKING 'FLIGHT'  The sky's the limit for Denzel Washington, who promotes his Oscar-nominated film Flight in Tokyo on Wednesday.
=======================================================
Bio.HomeBiographiesHow to watchGamesContactSearch the Bio. channel websiteDenzel Washington Biography
                Denzel Washington has consistently played big budget leads for the past decade, and the camera and the audience love both his poise and sexiness. Washington grew up listening to stories and oration. The son of a pentacostal minister and a beautician, he learned the power of speech from his father, and the happiness and pain of peoples’ lives from his mother’s clients talking at her salon. As a young journalism student, Washington got caught up in student productions, and resolved to study acting when he graduated. He won a scholarship to the American Conservatory Theatre but, after a year, decided he knew enough to start work on the stage. Neither a debut film in 1981, nor several roles in TV movies, left any impression on the US audience of 1981, but at least Washington was working. 1982 brought more recognition, when he joined the long-running TV series ‘St Elsewhere’, and the critics raved about his portrayal of Dr Chandler. Soon after, Hollywood began to take note. Richard Attenborough hired Washington to play an anti-apartheid activist in ‘Cry Freedom’ in 1987. His performance won a Best Supporting Actor Nomination. It was his role as a courageous run-away slave in ‘Glory’ that put Washington on Hollywood’s A-list two years later. And he has remained there ever since, despite work playing in a number of terrible films. However, some of his best performances have been under the direction of Spike Lee. Together they have made three films, including the epic ‘Malcolm X’ (1992). The movie was critically acclaimed, with his portrayal of the title character landing him a host of accolades including Academy Award and Golden Globe Awards for best actor.Throughout the 1990s, Washington co-starred in a number of big budget productions including ‘The Pelican Brief’ (1993), ‘Philadelphia’ (1993), and ‘Crimson Tide’ (1995), all of which were well received by critics and earned him more award nominations. He followed these with others including ‘Courage Under Fire’ (1996), which was one of the first films to depict the 1991 Gulf War, ‘He Got Game’ (1998) and the ‘The Bone Collector’ in 1999. Washington’s portrayal of boxer Rubin “Hurricane” Carter in biographical film ‘The Hurricane’ (1999) earned him more recognition, as yet another Academy Award nomination for best actor followed. He won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor for the film, which was followed by 2001 hit ‘Training Day’. The police drama was the crowning glory for Washington as it helped him finally achieve a career highlight - winning the Academy Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of a corrupt cop. Following the success, Washington appeared in ‘John Q’ (2002), before making his directorial debut with ‘Antwone Fisher’ in the same year, which was well received by critics. Between 2003 and 2004, Washington appeared in a series of thrillers that performed generally well at the box office, including ‘Out of Time’, ‘Man on Fire’ and ‘The Manchurian Candidate’. Two years later he starred in ‘Inside Man’, a Spike Lee-directed bank heist thriller co-starring Jodie Foster and Clive Owen, and ‘Déjà Vu’. ‘American Gangster’ (2007) saw Washington team up with Russell Crowe to play Frank Lucas, a real-life gangster from Harlem. The film earned him further accolades and was followed by ‘The Great Debaters’ (2007), which he also directed, 2009's ‘The Taking of Pelham 123’ and 2010's ‘The Book of Eli’ and ‘Unstoppable’. Washington's next outing is in 2012 film ‘Safe House’. He lives quietly in Los Angeles, with his wife Pauletta and their four children.
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
There’s a shocking report that Denzel allegedly cheated on his wife of thirty years, Pauletta, and now she’s considering filing for divorce. Keep reading for more on the alleged scandal, the $150 million that’s at stake and the photos that could ruin him!
It sounds like Denzel Washington might be in the dog house! The 58-year-old actor’s marriage is reportedly crumbling over his infidelity. Denzel has been married to Pauletta Washington, 62, for 30 years, and despite their happy united front and two children together, the actor’s wife is allegedly sick of him cheating on her! 
The Flight star was reportedly spotted cozying up to a blonde at a house party in Malibu recently, and now there are allegedly four photos being shopped around to various media outlets. The pictures are said to show Denzel kissing the unidentified young woman.
Denzel and his wife have been married for three decades and Pauletta recently spoke about their marriage to Ebony magazine.
“I live with this man. I see the down part. I see the sad part. I see every part. He has and knows he has stability in me as his wife. That’s what gives him strength, regardless if he misuses it. I can’t dwell on that. But I do know that gives him a great platform to go and fly.”
This is not the first time that Denzel has been accused of cheating on his wife. In 2003 there were reports that the actor was having an affair with his Out of Time co-star Sanaa Latham.
Pauletta is reportedly in NYC while Denzel is at the family home in LA. She is said to be contemplating filing for divorce. The couple married in 1983 after meeting on the set of his first film, Wilma.
A committment of 30 years surely should withstand simple indescretions along the way.  People too often equate sex with being a deal breaker of a loving committment.  Think of your birth family and how you manage through maintaining a committment to each other.  Betrayal of any sort doesn’t negate the love and committment you have for one another.
Hi there, You have done an admirable job. Let me absolutely bing it plus for me personally highly recommend to be able to my pals. I am certain they are took advantage of this fabulous website.
Too hear that Denzel may be cheating on his wife was devastating. As a fan of his, I had always hope that he would persevere the fame and be the one black man that would do us proud,by representing a  black man that perpetuate family values. A black man that honored his wife.
i grew up around Pauletta… Newton North Carolina… she is a strong lady who believe in GOD, that is all she needs….for better, for worst…..what God put together, no man can divide apart!!!!!
I keep tell ing you people, most men are dogs.  The only difference is they are either thoroughbreds or mutts.  Be happy if your man is a thoroughbred, that way he’s decret, brings his money home and is a damn good father and lover.  It’s rare to fine one that not a dog, but if you do, thank God daily.
I believe Obama is one of the few good faithful husbands left, as far as we know.  Now, if he cheats, I’lll just give up on all men.
Most men are dogs but women are Angels right? Load of crap…Most women do what most men do in a relationship capacity…Let’s not be blind here.
Denzel, you better seriously pray about this scenario. Only God can work this out for your sake and Pauletta’s as well. I love you both and pray that you both can discuss this behind closed doors and not the media’s.
As the saying goes “if you live by the camera, you die by the camera”. Celebrities cannot have it both ways.
my friend’s step-sister makes $82 every hour on the computer. She has been without a job for six months but last month her income was $13700 just working on the computer for a few hours. Here’s the site to read more… can99.ℂ­om
Hollywood Life – Please stop covering urban/black entertainment news.  This website continues to be a joke.  This is not Denzel’s wife in the picture, it is his daughter that he took to a premiere.
The woman in this picture is his daughter! Get your acts straight before you put a story online. This couple  has 4 children. What ever happened to responsible journalism? Geesh!
as Peggy answered I’m impressed that any body can make $8409 in one month on the computer. did you see this website… can99.ℂ­om
CHLOE, I know you are NOT a journalist but you could have AT LEAST picked one (out of hundreds of thousands) photo of him and his wife not, him and HIS DAUGHTER!
That picture you have up is a picture of Denzel Washington and his daughter. Your picture implies a stupid,insulting and specious insinuation.
Gush, don’t tell me that I’m about to lose all respect that I possess for the “Most admirable man” on the planet. This is a freaking joke right?
This is his wife Paulette in the pic above. Don’t believe everything you here in the tabloids it’s all about money (selling) !!!!!!!!!!!!!! So much garbage out here now.
I really hope this is  not true,but if true i hope she take him right out the safe house with empty pockets.
=======================================================
Home → Denzel Washington biographyDenzel Washington BioDenzel Washington BiographyDenzel Washington
"It was never my dream to be famous," says this Mount Vernon, New York native. "I didn't start acting to be a movie star. I started in the theater and my desire was to get better at my craft. It's still my desire. I don't consider myself a movie star, nor do I really have the desire to be one. I'm just an entertainer."
After graduating from high school, Washington enrolled at New York's Fordham University, where he began studying journalism. He still uses that early journalism training to define his characters. Acting, in a way, is like investigative reporting," he says. "You search out your character."
The acting bug soon hit when he starred in several student drama productions. After completing his B.A. in 1977, Washington headed off to San Francisco to take advantage of a scholarship to the American Conservatory Theater. But after only one year of theater training, he dropped out to launch his professional career. Some stage and TV work came his way until he sizzled in A Soldier's Story, earned an Oscar nomination for Cry Freedom and then won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his great performance in Glory.
At the start of the new millennium, Washington continued to pour out award-winning performances, including his Academy Award-nominated The Hurricane (1999) and his Oscar-winning performance as Best Actor in Training Day (2001). For Antwone Fisher, Washington not only took on a role in the film based on a true story, but stepped behind the camera to make his directorial debut. His effort earned him a 2003 Black Reel award as Best Director. 
In 2007 Washington was given a BAFTA award for Excellence in Film. Ironically, even though he was nominated for a Black Reel in 2010 for his work in The Taking of Pelham 1 2 3 (2009), the movie was a bomb at the box office and was one of the reasons he earned the dubious distinction of being listed as the third most overpaid actor in America on Forbes magazine's 2010 list. Some of Washington's blockbusters include The Book of Eli (2010), Unstoppable (2010), Safe House (2012), and Flight (2012), for which he received his sixth Oscar nomination. He has also completed roles in 2 Guns (2013) and The Equalizer(2014). 
Washington and his wife Pauletta are the parents of four children: John David, Katia, and twins Malcolm and Olivia.
Filmography → Oscars™ Nominations And AwardsActorThe Equalizer (2014)Actor2 Guns (2013)ActorFlight (2012)ActorSafe House (2012)ActorThe Book of Eli (2010)ActorUnstoppable (2010)ActorThe Taking of Pelham 1 2 3 (2009)ActorAmerican Gangster (2007)ActorThe Great Debaters (2007)DirectorThe Great Debaters (2007)ProducerThe Great Debaters (2007)ActorDéjà Vu (2006)ActorInside Man (2006)ActorMan on Fire (2004)ActorThe Manchurian Candidate (2004) (2004)ActorOut of Time (2003)ActorAntwone Fisher (2002)DirectorAntwone Fisher (2002)ProducerAntwone Fisher (2002)ActorJohn Q (2002)ActorTraining Day (2001)Actor in a Leading RoleWinnerActorRemember The Titans (2000)ActorThe Bone Collector (1999)ActorThe Hurricane (1999)Actor in a Leading RoleNomineeActorHe Got Game (1998)Actorthe siege (1998)
