=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Leonardo DiCaprio is an American actor whose portrayal of doomed suitor Jack Dawson in Titanic (1997) made him a generation's definition of a heartthrob. Throughout his career, DiCaprio has demonstrated a high level of dramatic versatility, from his breakout film role as a mentally-challenged teenager in What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993), through his work with Martin Scorsese in Gangs of New York (2002) and The Departed (2006). More recently, DiCaprio earned critical notice for his starring roles in Christopher Nolan's Inception (2010) and J. Edgar (2011), for which he received a Golden Globe nomination.Born in 11 November, 1974 in Los Angeles, California, DiCaprio is the only child of Irmelin (Indenbirken) and former comic book artist George DiCaprio. His father is of Italian and German descent, and his mother, who is German-born, is of German and Russian ancestry. His parents signed him with a talent agent when he was a child, and DiCaprio began appearing on a number of television commercials and educational shows. Although the budding actor had small roles in such TV series as Roseanne (1988) and The New Lassie (1989), DiCaprio's made his film debut in Critters 3 (1991), a low-budget horror movie.In 1992, DiCaprio joined what became the final season of Growing Pains (1985), playing a homeless boy who was invited to move in with the Seavers. The sitcom's cancellation coincided with an upswing in his career, including the starring role in the film adaptation of Jim Carroll's The Basketball Diaries (1995) and his heightened portrayal of Romeo in Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet (1996). Although DiCaprio's Romeo raised his profile with audiences, his turn in the box office record-breaking Titanic (1997) graduated the actor to A-list status.The majority of DiCaprio's post-Titanic career demonstrates a high level of selectivity in his choices. In addition to numerous collaborations with Scorsese, DiCaprio has also starred in films directed by Steven Spielberg (Catch Me If You Can (2002)), Ridley Scott (Body of Lies (2008)), and Sam Mendes (Revolutionary Road (2008)), in roles that encompass a wide emotional and dramatic range. This continues to be the case, evident in his upcoming film appearances as a mustache-twirling villain in Django Unchained (2012), soon to be followed by his performance as tragic literary character Jay Gatsby in The Great Gatsby (2013).DiCaprio is passionate about environmental and humanitarian causes, having donated $1,000,000 to earthquake relief efforts in 2010, the same year he contributed $1,000,000 to the Wildlife Conservation Society.
          Few actors in the world have had a career quite as diverse as Leonardo DiCaprio's. DiCaprio has gone from relatively humble beginnings, as a supporting cast member of the sitcom Growing Pains (1985) and low budget horror movies, such as Critters 3 (1991), to a major teenage heartthrob in the 1990s, as the hunky lead actor in movies such as Romeo + Juliet (1996) and Titanic (1997), to then become a leading man in Hollywood blockbusters, made by internationally renowned directors such as Martin Scorsese and Christopher Nolan. But such a rich, varied career is what you would expect from someone who has had such an unusual upbring as DiCaprio.Leonardo DiCaprio is the only child of former comic book artist George DiCaprio and Irmelin DiCaprio (both born 1943). Leonardo's father, George, had achieved minor status as an artist and distributor of cult comic book titles, and was even depicted in several issues of American Splendor, the cult semi-autobiographical comic book series by the late 'Harvey Pekar', a friend of George's. However, Leonardo's performance skills became obvious to his parents early on, and after signing him up with a talent agent who wanted Leonardo to perform under the stage name "Lenny Williams", DiCaprio began appearing on a number of television commercials and educational programs. DiCaprio began attracting the attention of producers, who cast him in bit part roles in a number of television series, such as Roseanne (1988) and The New Lassie (1989), but it wasn't until 1991 that DiCaprio made his film debut in Critters 3 (1991), a low-budget horror movie.While Critters 3 (1991) did little to help showcase DiCaprio's acting abilities, it did help him develop his show-reel, and attract the attention of the people behind the hit sitcom Growing Pains (1985), in which Leonardo was cast in the "Cousin Oliver" role of a young homeless boy who moves in with the Seavers. While DiCaprio's stint on Growing Pains (1985) was very short, as the sitcom was axed the year after he joined, it helped bring DiCaprio into the public's attention and, after the show ended, DiCaprio began auditioning for roles in which he would get the chance to prove his acting chops. Leonardo took up a diverse range of roles in the early 1990s, including a mentally challenged youth in What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993), a young gunslinger in The Quick and the Dead (1995) and a drug addict in one of his most challenging roles to date, "Jim Carroll", in The Basketball Diaries (1995), a role which the late River Phoenix originally expressed interest in.While these diverse roles helped establish Leonardo's reputation as an actor, it wasn't until his role as "Romeo" in Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet (1996) that Leonardo became a household name, a true movie star. The following year, DiCaprio starred in another movie about doomed lovers, Titanic (1997), which went on to beat all box office records held before then, as, at the time, Titanic (1997) became the highest grossing movie of all time, and cemented DiCaprio's reputation as a teen heartthrob.Following his work on Titanic (1997), DiCaprio kept a low profile for a number of years, with roles in The Man in the Iron Mask (1998) and the low-budget The Beach (2000) being some of his few notable roles during this period. However, in 2002, he burst back into screens throughout the world with leading roles in Catch Me If You Can (2002) and Gangs of New York (2002), his first of many collaborations with director Martin Scorsese.With a current salary of $20 million a movie, DiCaprio is now one of the biggest movie stars in the world. However, he has not limited his professional career to just acting in movies, as DiCaprio is a committed environmentalist, who is actively involved in many environmental causes, and his commitment to this issue led to his involvement in The 11th Hour, a documentary movie about the state of the natural environment.As someone who has gone from bit parts in television commercials to one of the most respected actors in the world, DiCaprio has had one of the most diverse careers in cinema. DiCaprio continues to defy conventions about the types of roles he will accept, and with his career now seeing him leading all star casts in action thrillers such as The Departed (2006), Shutter Island (2010) and Christopher Nolan's Inception (2010), DiCaprio continues to wow audiences by refusing to conform to any cliché about actors. DiCaprio is not merely a former teen heartthrob turned leading man, he is one of the most respected, daring and challenging actors working today.
        Often plays conflicted, tortured-by-their-own-demons characters, who need to deal with their past
        Often plays characters who are ill-fated (e.g. The Quick and the Dead, Romeo + Juliet, Titanic, The Departed, The Great Gatsby etc.)
        Often plays troubled or twisted tycoons (The Aviator, The Great Gatsby, Django Unchained and The Wolf of Wall Street)
      (April 16, 1999) While filming The Beach (2000) off the coast of Thailand, Leonardo and others were swept off a camera boat by strong winds and waves. No one was injured.
      Sues Playgirl magazine over plans to publish pictures --including full frontal nudity -- of himself. [March 1998]
      Ranked #75 in Empire (UK) magazine's "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time" list. [October 1997]
      Was considering starring in a movie about actor James Dean, but turned down the role because he felt he wasn't experienced enough to do the film.
      Auditioned for the role of Dick Grayson/Robin in Batman Forever (1995), which went to Chris O'Donnell.
      He and his family funded a state-of-the-art computer center at the Los Feliz branch of the Los Angeles Public Library, which was rebuilt after the 1994 Northridge earthquake.
      A Manhattan appeals court decided to go ahead with a $45 million lawsuit against DiCaprio by actor and screenwriter Roger Wilson for allegedly encouraging his friends in a street fight with Wilson over advances DiCaprio's friends made toward Wilson's girlfriend, Elizabeth Berkley.
      At age 10, his agent advised him to change his name to a more American-friendly Lenny Williams. Needless to say, he did not follow that advice.
      Was initially set to star as Alan Jensen in Harvard Man (2001), but the film's low budget could not afford to pay his salary, so he dropped out and Adrian Grenier took the lead.
      Was set to star in American Psycho (2000) but had to drop it due to scheduling conflicts. Christian Bale took the part instead.
      When his camera went missing, he offered a substantial reward of many thousands of pounds for its return. [November 2003]
      Was once attached to star in American Psycho (2000) and was reputedly offered over $20 million for the role.
      Openly supported John Kerry in the 2004 election. He went around 11 states and gave 20 speeches about the environment and how the Bush Administration has damaged it.
      Was offered the role of the porn star Dirk Diggler in Boogie Nights (1997) at around the same time as he was offered his role in Titanic (1997). The Dirk Diggler role eventually went to Mark Wahlberg.
      (December 23, 2004) Mentioned in an interview with Katie Couric that while filming The Aviator (2004), it brought back his own obsessive-compulsive disorder that he had as a child.
      Was considered for the role of Peter Parker/Spider-Man in Spider-Man (2002), which went to Tobey Maguire.
      Filed police charges after being attacked with a bottle by a Canadian ex-model while leaving a private party. Although the wound was very close to his jugular vein, it was not expected to delay production on his latest movie. [June 2005]
      Won the role of Arthur Rimbaud in Total Eclipse (1995) after the death of actor River Phoenix in 1993.
      Was considered for the role of Anakin Skywalker for Star Wars: Episode II - Attack of the Clones (2002), which went to Hayden Christensen.
      He and Jason Robards received Oscar-nominations for portraying Howard Hughes. Robards played Hughes in Melvin and Howard (1980) and Leonardo played him in The Aviator (2004)
      He once said that playing Arnie in What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993) was "the most fun I've ever had".
      Has appeared on the television series Parenthood (1990), in the role originally played by Joaquin Phoenix. In the original film, Phoenix's grandfather is played by Jason Robards, who, like DiCaprio, has played Howard Hughes.
      He purchased a 104-acre island off the coast of Belize in 2005 and plans to develop a resort with renewable energy sources. Purchase price for the island, Blackadore Caye, was estimated to be $1.75 million.
      In 2006 in "The Independent", he named his ten favorite movies as: Ladri di biciclette (1948), Taxi Driver (1976), Lawrence of Arabia (1962), 8½ (1963), The Third Man (1949), Yôjinbô (1961), Sunset Blvd. (1950), The Shining (1980) and East of Eden (1955).
      In his childhood, he and his mother lived in poor neighborhoods in Los Angeles which he describes as "Ghettos of Hollywood".
      Early in his career he appeared as a contestant on a game show called "Fun House" where stunts were performed - his involved trying to catch fish in a small pool with only his teeth.
      Attended John Marshall High School in Los Feliz. Other alum include Bo Barrett, Heidi Fleiss, Jonathan Park, Anne-Marie Johnson and Julie Newmar.
      Turned down Michael Pitt's role in The Dreamers (2003) because he felt he was too old to play a twenty-year-old student.
      Was trained by renowned Hollywood Gun Coach Thell Reed, who has also trained such actors as: Brad Pitt, Val Kilmer, Edward Norton, Russell Crowe, Ben Foster and Girard Swan.
      Has once said his favorite female performance is Gena Rowlands' Mabel Longhetti in A Woman Under the Influence (1974).
      Has said his two favorite performances are Robert De Niro's Travis Bickle in Taxi Driver (1976) and James Dean's Cal Trask in East of Eden (1955).
      Has a Dutch song about him called "Ik ben verliefd op Leonardo DiCaprio/I'm in love with Leonardo DiCaprio" by Flemish girl band K3 (Kathleen Aerts, Karen Damen, and Kristel Verbeke).
      His father, George DiCaprio, is of German and Italian ancestry and is an underground writer, editor and distributor of comic books. His mother, Irmelin DiCaprio, is of German and Russian ancestry and a former legal secretary.
      In 1994, he became the seventh youngest actor ever to be nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor at age 19. He was nominated for his performance in What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993).
      When he was a child, his favorite films were Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory (1971), Watership Down (1978), and Bedknobs and Broomsticks (1971).
      DiCaprio, along with Kate Winslet and director James Cameron, publicly pledged to support the financial future of the last living Titanic survivor, Millvina Dean, after it was reported that she had been forced to sell her mementos to pay for nursing home bills. [May 2009]
      Bought Kate Winslet an inscribed gold ring, after they finished filming Revolutionary Road (2008) together. However, Winslet keeps the inscription a secret.
      Campaigned for the role of John Dillinger in Public Enemies (2009), but Johnny Depp was cast in the role instead.
      He stated in a Rolling Stone interview that in his younger years his mother took him to Germany about 10 times to visit his grandmother.
Quentin Tarantino considered casting Leo as SS Colonel Hans Landa in Inglourious Basterds (2009), but he eventually chose Christoph Waltz to play the role instead.
      Purchased a unit in Manhattan's new, eco-friendly Riverhouse development in Battery Park, paying $3,665,700. Other real estate holdings include: A 1765-square-foot house on Carbon Beach in Malibu that he purchased in 1998 for $1.6 million. A 2633-square-foot house in the Malibu Colony that he purchased in 2002 for exactly $6 million. A 4551-square-foot house in the Bird Streets area of Los Angeles' Hollywood Hills that he bought in late 1999 for $2,515,000. A 3980-square-foot house in the Bird Streets area of Los Angeles' Hollywood Hills (next door to the one mentioned above) that he purchased in the summer of 2003 for $3,780,000. A two-bedroom, 2374-square-foot contemporary-style oceanfront house in Malibu, California that he paid $6.350 million for in 2007. And in Las Vegas, he spent $1.5 million for two adjacent two-bedroom units at Las Vegas's Panorama Towers in 2004.
      Has been in a relationship with Bar Refaeli twice. They began a relationship in December 2005, but separated in October 2007. However, they later reconciled in December 2007, only to separate again in May 2011.
      As a board member with World Wildlife Fund (WWF), he has traveled to such places as Bhutan, Nepal and Russia.
      While attempting to travel to St. Petersburg, Russia to attend the International Tiger Conservation Forum as a guest of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), but he was held up not once, but twice by flights. The first, Delta Flight 30, which departed from JFK bound for Moscow, was forced to make an emergency landing back at JFK shortly after takeoff due to engine flame out and malfunction, later his replacement flight had to make an unscheduled landing in Helsinki, Finland to refuel due to strong winds over the Atlantic ocean that used up the plane's fuel. Prime Minister of Russia, Vladimir Putin, who hosted the event, acknowledged that a lesser man, "could have read it as a sign - that it was not worth going," but instead Leo, who's late grandparents were Russian, made it to the summit and gained Putin's respect. The summit's aim is to double wild tiger populations worldwide from 3,500 to 7,000 by 2022. While in St. Petersburg, DiCaprio committed $1 million to WWF for urgent tiger conservation efforts through his Fund at the California Community Foundation. [November 2010]
      Won the 2010 'Do Something' Award for his Haiti relief efforts and the television show "Greensburg".
      Has worked with numerous acclaimed directors: Martin Scorsese, Woody Allen, Steven Spielberg, Clint Eastwood, Ridley Scott, James Cameron, Christopher Nolan, Sam Mendes, Danny Boyle, Baz Luhrmann, Lasse Hallström, Sam Raimi and Edward Zwick.
      Celebrated his 37th birthday at New York City Hotspot Avenue, which he rented out. Guests included pals Russell Simmons and Bradley Cooper and his mother Irmelin. The party raised money for DiCaprio's various wildlife protection projects and disaster relief for Haiti. [November 2011]
      His movie J. Edgar (2011) was released in cinemas in the United States and Canada on his 37th birthday.
      Is a staunch liberal Democrat who has been both personally and financially active in the campaigns and elections of Bill Clinton, Al Gore, John Kerry and Barack Obama.
      Was considered for the role of Roark Jr./ Yellow Bastard in Sin City (2005), which went to Nick Stahl.
      Attended the Blood Diamond (2006) premieres in Madrid, Spain (January 26th) and London, England (January 23rd). [January 2007]
      American representative at Tiger Conservation Efforts At Russia Summit. Donated $1.000.000 to preservation of Asian Tiger. [November 2010]
      Attended the international premieres for Catch Me If You Can (2002) in Paris, France (January 28th) and London, England (January 27th). [January 2003]
      Attended the international premieres for The Aviator (2004) in Madrid, Spain (January 11th) Paris, France (January 6th) and Rome, Italy (January 4th). [January 2005]
      Ranked #8 on Forbes list of Hollywood's Top Earning On-Screen Couples alongside Marion Cotillard in 2012. They are the only couple from a non-franchise film: Inception (2010), the film made $825 million at the global box-office.
      Bought a multi-million-dollar apartment, in Manhattan's Greenwich Village area, at 66 E. 11th Street. [November 2013]
      Optioned the 2013 biography of President Woodrow Wilson by Pulitzer Prize-winner A. Scott Berg, and hopes to play the President himself. A previous biopic about the 28th U.S. president was made in 1944, but was a major failure with audiences despite being nominated for 10 Oscars, and being the costliest film ever made up to that point.
      Perhaps one of the most outrageous on-camera introductions ever given to a person (celebrity or otherwise) was the one co-host Tina Fey bestowed on DiCaprio during the 2014 Golden Globes telecast when she asked the audience to give him the same type of warm welcome he's used to receiving from "supermodels' vaginas.".
      Leo has been nominated for 31 different awards (4 Academy Awards, 3 BAFTA Awards, 6 Critic's Choice Awards, 10 Golden Globe Awards, and 8 Screen Actors Guild Awards) but has only won 2 Golden Globes. The first was for The Aviator in 2005, and the second was for The Wolf of Wall Street in 2014.
      The longest he has gone without an Oscar nomination is the 11 years between What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993) and The Aviator (2004).
      As of 2014, has appeared in seven films that were nominated for the Best Picture Oscar: Titanic (1997), Gangs of New York (2002), The Aviator (2004), The Departed (2006), Inception (2010), Django Unchained (2012) and The Wolf of Wall Street (2013). Of those, Titanic (1997) and The Departed (2006) are winners in the category.
      The best thing about acting is that I get to lose myself in another character and actually get paid for it. It's a great outlet. As for myself, I'm not sure who I am. It seems that I change every day.
      People want you to be a crazy, out-of-control teen brat. They want you miserable, just like them. They don't want heroes; what they want is to see you fall.
      On working with Martin Scorsese in Gangs of New York (2002): He's a perfectionist, obsessed with detail. That's why he went over budget and over schedule.
      You can either be a vain movie star, or you can try to shed some light on different aspects of the human condition.
      It's a really obvious thing to say, but the more people know too much about who you really are, and it's a fundamental thing, the more the mystery is taken away from the artist, and the harder it is for people to believe that person in a particular role.
      On fame: As soon as enough people give you enough compliments and you're wielding more power than you've ever had in your life, it's not that you become an arrogant little prick, or become rude to people... but you get a false sense of your own importance and what you've accomplished. You actually think you've altered the course of history.
      I don't really have many extravagances. I don't fly private jets and I don't have bodyguards and I don't buy crazy things. I have a couple of houses here and there. I bought a very expensive watch, and I am going to buy a really expensive movie poster, the original for The Thief of Bagdad (1940). I love movie posters.
      On turning 30: I kind of feel like the same person except more time has gone by. I hate to say that I feel like an adult now. I have to admit I wish I was still 18. After all, even through the time while I was representing that wild kid, I really wasn't. I was just living my life. I was just not making movies at the time.
      On Martin Scorsese: Martin has brought so much to the art form of film, and he is not the type of person who would be upset by not receiving an Oscar, although it is a practical joke that he has not won an Academy Award after all these years. Whatever opinions critics will have of The Aviator (2004), I really think that this is a great piece of art: once again, he has made a great classic film.
      The great thing about turning 30 in this business is that you get to perpetuate being young or old as long as we want.
      On whether there are any aspects of fame he dislikes: You kidding? I feel very fortunate. A lot of people would love to be in my position. There are so many people out there who are suffering trillions of times more than I could ever suffer, and would love to be me. I am a lucky little bastard.
      Yes, I can play younger than my age. But I can play characters older than I am, too. I'm not an actor who can just play the kid.
      I think people read the tabloids because they want to see you eating a burger, or out of your makeup or doing something stupid because they just want to see that you're like everyone else. And that's okay. I don't want to catch myself anymore saying that my life is hard, because the good far outweighs the bad in my life. And it's easier to focus on those things, on the things that are important.
      You learn after you've been in the business for a while that it's not getting your face recognized that's the payoff. It's having your film remembered.
      I lived in Hollywood and, ironically, I didn't know you could just go out and get an agent and go on auditions and try and become an actor, I thought it was like a Masonic thing, like a blood line you had to belong to - until I was 13. Then I realised what you had to do. It is the one thing I know I want to do for the rest of my life.
      [on losing out on the Oscar to Jamie Foxx during the 2005 Academy Awards] I wasn't surprised that Jamie got the award. But I knew that cameras would be stuffed up my face so I had my response ready. Anyone who says they don't practice is a liar.
      I was behind a woman at the checkout counter who was looking at the magazines. She turned to me and goes, "There he is again, that Leonardo DiCaprio. Don't you wish he'd just disappear?" I said (to myself), this is the moment where I either go, "Do you know who I am?" or put my hat further down, pay for my corn-nuts and get out of there... I choose to avoid that. (2005)
      My first date was with a girl named Cessi. We'd had a beautiful relationship over the phone all summer long. Then she came home and we met to go out for the first time to the movies. When I saw her I was petrified. I couldn't even look her in the eye to talk to her.
      I don't know if I'm ever getting married. I'm probably not going to get married unless I live with somebody for 10 or 20 years. But these people took a chance and they did it. We don't have the guts that Romeo did.
      As a little kid growing up in Hollywood, I was called 'a little crazy'. And now I guess I'm still that way.
      I cheated a lot, because I just couldn't sit and do homework. I usually sat next to someone extremely smart.
      I like to help the whales, the otters, and the dolphins. When I'm acting and I take a break, the first thing on my list is spending time by the sea.
      My mom and I lived at Hollywood and Western, a drug-dealer and prostitute corner. It was pretty terrifying. I got beat up a lot. I saw people have sex in the alleys. I remember I was five years old, and this guy with a trench coat, needles and crack cornered me. Early on, seeing the devastation on my block, seeing heroin addicts, made me think twice about ever getting involved in drugs. It's evil. Once you take that step and experiment, drugs can take over your life. You are not yourself anymore. That's something I never wanted. I didn't have a lot of friends growing up. It was kind of just me and my parents. But because of them, the neighborhood did not have a bad effect on me. My dad introduced me to artists, and every few months we'd go to some hippie doo-dah parade as Mudmen in our underwear, carrying sticks and covered in mud. My mother did everything to get me into the best schools she could find.
      When a role for a young guy is being offered to me, I think of River Phoenix. It feels like a loss.
      When I was young, I used to have this thing where I wanted to see everything. I used to think, "How can I die without seeing every inch of this world?".
      On his life: What I would do in order to be popular was, I'd put myself on line and joke around and be funny, and I was always known as the crazy kid.
      It's a weird adjustment living alone, because you don't realize how much you really miss Mumsie until she's not there.
      Dark green is my favorite color. It's the color of nature and the color of money and the color of moss!
      I'm not really the quiet type, although some people think I am. But I'm the rebel type in the sense that I don't think I'm like everyone else. I try to be an individual.
      I don't have emotions about a lot of things. I rarely get angry, I rarely cry. I guess I do get excited a lot, but I don't get sad and enormously happy. I think a lot of people who talk about all that crap are lying. Right now I'm just trying to maintain happiness - that's all I really care about. Anyway, when you're my age and your hormones are kicking in, there's not much besides sex that's on your mind.
      I hate speaking in front of a large audience. I don't know where it came from... but its just this gut-wrenching fear of slipping up and doing something horrible.
      It's tricky stuff. If you're not perfect in every film, then people say "See, he was just lucky in one role.".
      On his career: I admit I've done a few lousy roles in the beginning of my career, like my role in Critters 3 (1991). But at that age, you'll do anything for attention!
      People want you to be a crazy out-of-control teen brat. They want you to be miserable, just like them. They don't want heroes. What they want is to see you fall.
      Everywhere I go, somebody is staring at me. I don't know if people are staring because they recognize me or because they think I'm a weirdo.
      On rumors: I've heard some pretty bad rumors... that I'm gay. If I want to go to a party with a few male friends, it doesn't mean that I'm gay. I don't see why I can't have friends of both sexes without rumors being spread about me. It's crazy.
      People always like to make up stories. I am not planning on getting married. Then again, I might wake up tomorrow and decide to get married!
      If you hear of any incident about me - a fight, a change of clothes, a little extra gel in the hair, don't believe it till you talk to me.
      Fame is not the worst thing. I went to dinner the other night, and the girls in the restaurant ignored me. It was so annoying.
      I insist on keeping a level head. I've maintained the same exact home life that I've had for 20 years. All I see is more people looking at me than before. But, you know, who cares? You just can't obsess yourself with this fame stuff.
      My God, no! I hate this whole hunk thing! I feel when I see myself in that, and these other cute faces, that I'm just part of this meat factory, like, "Wow! Here's the hunk of the month! This month we're shoving Leonardo DiCaprio down your throat! Isn't he cute. Let's put him on the cover and we'll sell so many more magazines..." That's definitely not what I want to be, and I've tried real hard to get away from that whole situation.
      The main thing for me right now is just to live my life with my family and friends. They treat me like Leo, not 'Leonardo, Master Thespian'. That's all I need to keep my sanity.
      The last thing I want to turn into is a fat Hollywood jerk. I was brought up without much money and I was happy. I don't think that I will strive for money or success and end up greedy or big-headed. That only leads to unhappiness. I can still be down-to-earth and do this job as long as I enjoy it.
      On success: I've just been jolting along from one film to another... Now, it's sort of a shock to realize what I've achieved.
      I'm just starting to scratch the surface of what makes me happy, and it has taken me a while to admit that acting like a child and a jerk is fun.
      On acting: Don't think for a moment that I'm really like any of the characters I play. That's why it's called acting.
      On Titanic (1997): It was pretty disheartening to be objectified like that. I wanted to stop acting for a little bit. But it changed my life in a lot of ways, but at the same time, I can't say that it didn't give me opportunities. It made me, for the first time, in control of my career.
      [Told to thousands at the New Jersey concert for Live Earth] A consensus has emerged in our scientific community that global warming is no longer merely a theory but a reality, a crisis with truly global implications for planet Earth and all of us who share it.
      On working with Jack Nicholson on The Departed (2006): One table scene in particular, I remember coming in, we did it one way, and I remember Jack speaking to Marty (Martin Scorsese), saying that he didn't feel he was intimidating enough. And then, the next day we came in and the prop guy told me, "Be careful, he's got a fire extinguisher, a gun, some matches, and a bottle of whisky!".
      In this business nothing is as dangerous and as feared as loneliness. You shoot films in the most remote areas of the world; you're separated from your family and your friends. And at some point you're in your hotel room looking at yourself in the mirror and you realize how lonely you are and how far you are from leading a normal life. That is quite a punch in the gut.
      I respect Russian culture and Russian cinema, especially Eisenstein, (Andrei) Tarkovsky, and Sergei Parajanov.
      [on one of his favorite movies, East of Eden (1955)] - I remember seeing the hunger in James Dean's eyes. I watched it five times in a row.
      I was 18 when I got to work with Meryl Streep. I remember going over my lines with her off-camera, looking at her and thinking to myself, "What is going on here? How is this going to look good?" Then when I sat in the theater, it was, "Oh, my God, she's the only person who looks completely natural." Meryl may be the greatest actor in the world.
      [on filming one scene in The Departed (2006) with Jack Nicholson where the veteran actor wanted to take a few extra steps to make sure Leo seemed "sincerely threatened"] - I come on the set the next day and hear we're doing the scene over for lighting reasons. But then a prop guy comes over to me and says, "Just to let you know, there were some props Jack asked for. I had to get him a fire extinguisher, a bottle of whiskey, a lighter, and a gun.".
      Out of any actor, I can't think of anyone who's got more memorable moments in cinema than Jack Nicholson. Jack never takes a single line straight on. Never takes an emotion written in the script at face value. He brings terror into what you thought was supposed to be a light moment and makes a light moment out of a cutthroat vicious line. He flips everything on its side.
      [on not being comfortable with fame] - Just because you've done a good performance once, doesn't mean you're always going to be good. That's why some of the greatest actors in the world have gone a little bit nuts. They're saying to themselves, "What happened? You used to love me?" It's an easy trap to fall into. You just have to realize that when you're hot, you're hot, and when you're not, you're not.
      [on Martin Scorsese] - If you'd asked me, at 16, the director I wanted to work with, it would have been Marty. Marty's not afraid to sit there for days on end just to get a scene right. Most important, I trust him, which makes my job as an actor a lot easier.
      [on working on Shutter Island (2010)] - ... we explored what the mentally ill had to face in the days when mental hospitals were called insane asylums. It was really very traumatic, and I don't say that about a film very often. I went to places and unearthed some things that I didn't think I was capable of. It was like an emotional layer cake that just kept getting deeper and deeper.
      [on proving himself] - Probably the only thing I knew with complete clarity was that I wanted to be an actor. But there was a lot of rejection early on, and so it never felt like, Hey, I've got something here. There was always an element of me that needed to prove something to myself. It's something I don't want to get rid of, because it's what drives me. I'm never settled and I'm never satisfied.
      [on the nude scene in Revolutionary Road (2008)] - Kate Winslet is one of my dearest friends. We have the ultimate trust in each other and the best of intentions for what we want to do. I knew Kate before Sam Mendes [her husband] even met her. So on the outside, it may seem strange to do a sex scene with a woman while her husband is directing. But it didn't feel that way to me.When the scene was about to start, Kate said, in front of the crew, "Wait, wait, this is totally weird". She turned to both Sam and I and said, "Are you guys okay?"We both looked at each other and said, Yeah, we're totally fine.She said, "It's even weirder that you're both totally fine".
      [on Scorsese versus Spielberg] - The only other person who knows as much about film as Martin Scorsese is Steven Spielberg. People would always ask me, What are the differences between Spielberg and Scorsese? All I could find myself talking about was the similarities.
      [on risks and really growing up] - What you risk just to have thrills when you're in your twenties is absurd. It's all part of that process of doing things that are daring to be accepted by your peers - and it's absolutely insane. You can enter a never-ending vapid hole trying to catch the next exciting moment without ever stopping to appreciate it. It can be a never-ending process of chasing something that isn't there. I know it's a cliché, but I'm happy to be alive. I went skydiving and my chutes didn't open. Two of them.
      [on growing up] - The earliest memories I have are jumping up onstage before concerts in downtown L.A. and trying to get on the mic and break-dance, or do imitations of my mother's friends or my father's friends, or be a comic in class. I was the most insane child you can imagine, pretty intolerable to be around. High-octane energy all the time, never wanting to focus on schoolwork.
      [on fame after Titanic (1997)] - It wasn't the era of penetrating Internet paparazzi that we have now. But my name wasn't me anymore. I was sort of this thing. Kate felt it, too. But a lot of the attention was on me because of the teenage girls who repeatedly went to see the movie. I had the blond hair, and I was Jack Dawson, this heroic figure.So I set up everything in my personal life to rebel against that image in order to strip it down. I had a lot of fun stripping it down. But ultimately, that knocked me a few rungs down the ladder.
      [on James Cameron] - Jim knows exactly what he wants. Needless to say, when somebody felt a different way on the set of Titanic (1997), there was a confrontation. Jim had it out with them right there in front of everybody. He lets you know exactly how he feels. But he's of the lineage of John Ford. He knows what he wants his film to be.I remember sitting in a theater after it was done and being in awe. He got what he wanted.
      [on the night River Phoenix died] - When I was eighteen, River Phoenix was far and away my hero. Think of all those early great performances - My Own Private Idaho (1991). Stand by Me (1986). I always wanted to meet him. One night, I was at this Halloween party, and he passed me. He was beyond pale - he looked white. Before I got a chance to say hello, he was gone, driving off to the Viper Room, where he fell over and died.That's a lesson.
      [on what surprised him about Shutter Island (2010)] The thing that surprised me the most about this material is as many different genres that are mixed in, whatever Martin Scorsese did stylistically with this film, at it's very essence it is a film about the human condition and human trauma and the dark side of who we are.
      [on his influence in Hollywood and producing] I am never going to act again, yeah (laughs). No, I have a production company that all stemmed from 10 years ago wanting to be able to develop my own material because I just wasn't finding things I got excited about. It all stemmed from Gangs of New York (2002) and searching that out and saying, "Well, if I was able to search this out and I got to be able to work with Martin Scorsese on this project, there has got to be other projects out there that maybe the studios aren't paying attention to.".
      [on being one of the industry's top earners and his thoughts on salaries given to A-list actors] Yes, I think it is absolutely justified. A lot of actors draw in a certain audience, it's the truth. You put Brad Pitt or George Clooney or Johnny Depp or all these guys who are able to finance movies because of their name. With somebody else it wouldn't possibly get the same attention... People who are able to bring in a certain audience deserve to get paid for that not just the studios.
      [on if Shutter Island (2010) gave him any nightmares] - I never had nightmares. It took me back to the one time I really remembered my dreams because I usually don't. But when I used a nicotine patch when I was trying to quit smoking, I did have bloodcurdling nightmares of mass murders, and I woke up in the middle of the night and had to take the patches off. I guess I had moments like that in the film.
      [2010 - On relaxing outside films] I go out and have a drink every once in a while. Ooh, I know that's controversial, isn't it? I sometimes go on a vacation, too. I take what I do very seriously, and when I'm on the set that's all I focus on, so my vice is to hang out with my friends and talk about absolutely nothing of importance whatsoever and act like a complete idiot because I've got to filter out a lot of the serious stuff I'm dealing with all the time. It's like therapy to just be a complete idiot with my friends and it's fantastic.
      [on making Shutter Island (2010)] Usually when I'm on a movie set, I'm able to detach myself from the process at the end of the day and go home and learn my lines for the next day, but this situation was a whole lot different. There were a couple of weeks when I was in a hole and it was the deepest I've ever gone with a character, emotionally.
      [on making Inception (2010) and director Christopher Nolan] I don't know what I'm supposed to say about it, but it's Chris Nolan delving into dream psychoanalysis and also making a high octane, action-filled, surreal film that is all spawned from his mind. He wrote the entire thing, and it all made sense to him. It didn't make much sense to us when we were doing it, and we had to do a ton of detective work to try to figure out what the movie was and what we were doing from day to day, but, thank God, we had somebody who knew what he was doing.
      (2010) These last couple of films have taken a lot out of me so I don't know what I'm going to do next. I have no idea and it's kind of a cool place to be. This year is going to be the year of really taking care of myself because I've reached 35 and I've taken a lot of things seriously, maybe too seriously at times, so I'm going to make sure that whatever I do next and whatever choices I make are really right for me. And we'll see where that takes me.
      [on filming in Mozambique for Blood Diamond (2006)] Forget weather-wise. Condition-wise, there are a lot of hardships for the people that live in Mozambique, and there's a lot of situations going on with poverty and AIDS and unsanitary water. You name it. But the most intriguing thing I found about shooting in Mozambique was the triumph and adaptability of the human spirit: People were still filled with so much joy. They were literally dancing in the streets every night. It was an amazing thing to see.
      (2010) I want to be an actor just like my role models, Robert De Niro, for example. Being discreet in his private life has allowed him to be even more credible in different roles on the big screen.
      [on his post-"Titanic" romantic life] - I had better success meeting girls before Titanic (1997). My interactions with them didn't have all the stigma behind it, not to mention there wasn't a perception of her talking to me for only one reason.
      [on how he dealt with post-"Titanic" youth] I got to be wild and nuts, and I didn't suffer as much as people do now, where they have to play it so safe that they ruin their credibility. I didn't care what anyone thought.It was also about avoiding the tornado of chaos, of potential downfall. My two main competitors in the beginning, the blond-haired kids I went to audition with, one hung himself and the other died of a heroin overdose... I was never into drugs at all. There aren't stories of me in a pool of my own vomit in a hotel room on the Hollywood Strip.
      During Gilbert Grape [What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993)] I didn't know where I was gonna go as an actor so I didn't know what types of movies I wanted to do. I just felt like doing a movie is doing a movie. I get money and fame, and that's great, and I can act and have fun. And I was up for a movie called Hocus Pocus (1993) with Bette Midler, and I knew it was awful, but it was just like, "Okay, they're offering me more and more money. Isn't that what you do? You do movies and you get more and more money." But something inside of me kept saying, "Don't do this movie." And everyone around me was saying, "Leonardo, how could you not take a movie?" And I said to myself, "Okay, I'll audition for this movie Gilbert Grape. If I don't get that, I'll do Hocus Pocus." I found myself trying so hard, investing so much time and energy in Gilbert Grape, I worked so damn hard at it and I finally got it, and it was like such a weight off my shoulders.
      (On landing This Boy's Life (1993)) When I was fifteen, I got this amazing opportunity to audition for this plum role opposite Robert De Niro and Ellen Barkin in This Boy's Life. Before that, it was The New Lassie or a Bubble Yum commercial. They were using the mustard-jar scene in the audition. De Niro was going up to the kids with this almost empty mustard jar and cramming it into their faces, really pushing the kids' buttons. The scene was being used to see if the kid could stand up to De Niro, and it was hard not to be overwhelmed. When he started bludgeoning me, I completely overcompensated. He said, "Is this empty? Is this empty?" I slapped the jar out of his hand, got right up in his face, and screamed at the top of my lungs, "Noooooooo!" It was the most god-awful way to do the scene. I was supposed to be the victim, not the antagonizer, and there was complete silence. De Niro looks at me and goes, "Heh, heh, heh, heh, heh", in that way only De Niro can laugh. "That was good. That was goooood. I like that. A little over-the-top but good". My audition was supposed to go on, but they just stopped it. Even though De Niro said he liked it, I left the room thinking, Oh, shit, I'm a laughingstock. I'm buried. I'm done. Getting that part felt like winning the lottery. Sometimes you've got to go to the wrong place just to show that you're not afraid to go there.
      (2010) Probably the only thing I knew with complete clarity was that I wanted to be an actor. But there was a lot of rejection early on, and so it never felt like, Hey, I've got something here. There was always an element of me that needed to prove something to myself. It's something I don't want to get rid of, because it's what drives me. I'm never settled and I'm never satisfied.
      (2010) I was the most insane child you can imagine, pretty intolerable to be around. High-octane energy all the time, never wanting to focus on schoolwork.
      [on playing Jack Dawson in Titanic (1997)] I'm not haunted by it but it certainly follows me. I've been to the Amazon and people with no clothes on - and I'm not exaggerating - know about that film. I've accepted it.
      When I can't immediately define the character and there's an element of mystery to it and still a lot to be explored, that's when I say yes. I like those kinds of complicated characters.
      There are a lot of pitfalls to success, and one is not listening to criticism. One of the the most important things you can do is hear criticism of yourself and embrace it, whether it be - in my case - artistic or personal.
      [on what drew him to portraying Jay Gatsby] The idea of a man who came from absolutely nothing, who created himself solely from his own imagination. Gatsby's one of those iconic characters because he can be interpreted in so many ways: a hopeless romantic, a completely obsessed wacko or a dangerous gangster, clinging to wealth.
      [on playing the plantation owner in Django Unchained (2012)] There was absolutely nothing about this man that I could identify with. I hated him. It was one of the most narcissistic, self-indulgent, racist, horrible characters I've ever read in my entire life.
      [on Charlie Rose] There's going to be a wider gap between the independent genre filmmaking and the big budget, sort of spectacle movies. And the movies that are a hybrid of those two things - that have deep content in them and that also have some scope - will kind of dissolve away. I see that happening more and more in the industry, it's either like: "This is a regurgitation of films you've seen a thousand times that work... Or you can take a chance and do a really low budget, small movie and see how it turns out.".
      [on The Wolf of Wall Street (2013)] I think it's amazing somebody like Martin Scorsese is still making films that are vital and talked about, and have an element of controversy about them and are appealing to people of my generation. We grew up watching his films and he's still making stuff that's punk rock. It's an amazing achievement.
      [on working with Martin Scorsese] I grew up a fan of the Golden Age of cinema which, to me and all of my friends, was the '70s and the great age of films where the director had control. We got to see some of the most memorable films and performances of all time during that era and everything since then has always been a reversion and comparison back to those films. Any one of my friends, whenever we talk about movies, we always reference something from the '70s. And to me, the greatest cinematic partnership maybe of all time, and certainly of that time period, was De Niro and Scorsese. In a lot of ways, they were a part of my upbringing and my childhood, as far as being a fan of cinema. So to get to work with him, being of completely different generations -- we just have a shared understanding that we're out there to do the same thing. I think that's taken a while to truly understand on his part -- not a while but, I mean, it's been a culmination of more and more trust with one another. And, in a lot of ways, I think [The Wolf of Wall Street] is the result of being able to work with each other on our films before it. We were not going to try to do something in a traditional sense in this film. We'd been given the opportunity to make a film that was going to hopefully be outrageous and daring and push the envelope a little bit. So it wasn't necessarily a dialogue about what type of movie we wanted to do after the experiences that we've had together. At this point, it was just about us reminding one another, with very specific character decisions or plot points. But, just to backtrack a little, I understand his mentality, too. You have to understand: This man is the greatest admirer of cinema as an art form of anyone you'll ever meet, and there's nothing in his life that he doesn't reference cinema to. He lives and breathes this. He's got such an admiration and appreciation for what's been done in the past. And he's got that hunger in him, as well, and that excitement for us to just be able to do the type of films that we want to do. The fact that, through the years now, we've trusted one another to know that we're not doing anything for our own self-interest -- it's more about making the best, most original movie we can -- has been an incredible experience for me. And I don't stop learning. I mean, every time I'm on set with him I learn more about the reason I make movies and the reason I'm an actor than anything I've ever done.
      [on getting awards attention for The Wolf of Wall Street (2013)] Of course it would be meaningful. I think everyone wants to be recognized by their peers, absolutely, without question. But, the truth of the matter is you learn very quickly you have absolutely no control of what critics or audiences are going to think. You really just have to do everything you can to make the best film. That's the one thing that I do know. But, of course, you know, I would love for this film on all fronts to get some attention because there's only been two films in my entire career that I've really developed myself, really championed to get financed and got a director involved with, and that's been The Aviator and this. And so, in a lot of ways -- and I hate to use the term -- those two are my "babies." Those were the films that I really did everything I possibly could to get made in the right way. And I think that they're very difficult movies to pull off, especially with this one, a film that opens yourself and the movie up to a lot of criticism. So to get any kind of recognition would be amazing for this, absolutely.
      [on Jordan Belfort, the character he plays in The Wolf of Wall Street (2013)] He was like a modern-day emperor Caligula. He held nothing back and was unapologetic about his lust for wealth and mad consumption.
      [on his childhood] There was a major prostitution ring on my street corner, crime and violence everywhere. It really was like Taxi Driver (1976) in a lot of ways. I grew up very poor and I got to see the other side of the spectrum. I've never done drugs. That's because I saw this stuff literally every day when I was three or four years old. So Hollywood was a walk in the park for me. I'd go to parties and it was there, and yeah, there's that temptation.
$59,000,000 (includes salary and all back end points off worldwide gross + share of DVD and pay-TV revenue)      
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio (/dɨˈkæpri.oʊ/; born November 11, 1974)[1] is an American actor and film producer. He has been nominated for five Academy Awards and ten Golden Globe Awards. He won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Drama for The Aviator (2004) and the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Musical or Comedy for The Wolf of Wall Street (2013). He has also been nominated by the Screen Actors Guild, Satellite Awards, and the British Academy of Film and Television Arts.
DiCaprio started his career by appearing in television commercials prior to landing recurring roles in TV series such as the soap opera Santa Barbara and the sitcom Growing Pains in the early 1990s. His major movie debut was in This Boy's Life (1993) alongside Robert De Niro. DiCaprio obtained recognition for his subsequent work in a supporting role in What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993), as well as leading roles in The Basketball Diaries (1995) and Romeo + Juliet (1996), before achieving international fame in James Cameron's Titanic (1997), which became the highest grossing movie at the time.
Since the 2000s, DiCaprio has received critical acclaim for his work in such films as Catch Me If You Can (2002), Gangs of New York (2002), Blood Diamond (2006), The Departed (2006), Revolutionary Road (2008), Shutter Island, Inception (2010), and Django Unchained (2012).[2] The 2010 movie Inception achieved both widespread critical acclaim and commercial success. DiCaprio owns a production company named Appian Way Productions. A committed environmentalist, DiCaprio has received praise from environmental groups for his activism.[3]
DiCaprio, an only child, was born in Los Angeles, California. His mother, Irmelin (née Indenbirken), is a former legal secretary; born in Germany, she moved with her family from Oer-Erkenschwick in the Ruhr to the U.S. during the 1950s. His father, George DiCaprio, is an underground comic artist and producer and distributor of comic books.[4] DiCaprio's father is of half Italian (from the Naples area) and half German (from Bavaria) descent.[1][5][6] DiCaprio's maternal grandfather, Wilhelm Indenbirken, was German.[7] His maternal grandmother, Helene Indenbirken (1915–2008),[8] a German citizen, was born as Yelena Smirnova in Russia.[9][10]
DiCaprio's parents met while attending college and subsequently moved to Los Angeles.[1] He was named Leonardo because his pregnant mother was looking at a Leonardo da Vinci painting in a museum in Italy when DiCaprio first kicked.[11] His parents divorced when he was a year old and he lived mostly with his mother. The two lived in several Los Angeles neighborhoods, such as Echo Park, and at 1874 Hillhurst Avenue, Los Feliz district (which was later converted into a local public library), while his mother worked several jobs to support them.[1] He attended Seeds Elementary School and graduated from John Marshall High School a few blocks away, after attending the Los Angeles Center for Enriched Studies for four years.[12] DiCaprio spent part of his childhood in Germany with his maternal grandparents, Wilhelm and Helene. He speaks German fluently.[13]
DiCaprio's career began with his appearance in several commercials and educational films. After being removed from the set of children's television series Romper Room for being disruptive at the age of five,[14] he followed his older stepbrother Adam Farrar into television commercials, landing an ad for Matchbox cars at 14.[14] In 1990, he got his break on television when he was cast in the short-lived series based on the movie Parenthood. After Parenthood, DiCaprio had bit parts on several shows, including The New Lassie and Roseanne, as well as a brief stint on the soap opera Santa Barbara, playing the young Mason Capwell. His involvement in Parenthood and the daily soap earned him a nomination for the Young Artist Award for Best Young Actor each.
His debut film role was in the comedic sci-fi horror film Critters 3, in which he played the stepson of an evil landlord, a role that DiCaprio described as "your average, no-depth, standard kid with blond hair."[15] Released in 1991, the movie went direct-to-video.[15] Soon after, he became a recurring cast member on the ABC sitcom Growing Pains, playing Luke Brower, a homeless boy who is taken in by the Seaver family. DiCaprio made his big screen breakthrough in 1992, when he was handpicked by Robert De Niro out of 400 young actors to play the lead role in This Boy's Life, co-starring Ellen Barkin and De Niro himself.[14]
Later in 1993, DiCaprio co-starred as the mentally handicapped brother to Johnny Depp in What's Eating Gilbert Grape, a comic-tragic odyssey of a dysfunctional Iowa family. Director Lasse Hallström admitted he was initially looking for a less good-looking actor but finally settled on DiCaprio as he had emerged as "the most observant [actor]" among all auditioners.[15] Budgeted at US$11.0 million,[16] the film became a financial and critical success, resulting in a domestic box office total of US$9.1 million and various accolades for DiCaprio, who was awarded the National Board of Review Award and nominated for both an Academy Award and a Golden Globe for his portrayal. New York Times critic Janet Maslin praised DiCaprio's performance, writing "the film's real show-stopping turn comes from Mr. DiCaprio, who makes Arnie's many tics so startling and vivid that at first he is difficult to watch. The performance has a sharp, desperate intensity from beginning to end."[17]
DiCaprio's first effort of 1995 was Sam Raimi's The Quick and the Dead, a western film in which he appeared alongside Gene Hackman, Sharon Stone, and Russell Crowe, playing the role of Hackman's alleged son named Kid. Sony Pictures was dubious over DiCaprio's casting, and as a result, Stone decided to pay for the actor's salary herself.[18] The film was released to a dismal box office performance, barely grossing US$18.5 million in the US, and received mixed reviews from critics.[19]
Next DiCaprio starred in Total Eclipse, a fictionalized account of the homosexual relationship between Arthur Rimbaud and Paul Verlaine, played by David Thewlis. He replaced River Phoenix, who had died during pre-production on the project.[20] A minor arthouse success, the film grossed US$0.34 million throughout its domestic theatrical run.[21]
DiCaprio appeared alongside friends Kevin Connolly and Tobey Maguire in the mostly improvised short film called Don's Plum, as a favor to aspiring director R.D. Robb.[14] When Robb decided to expand the black-and-white film to feature length, however, DiCaprio and Maguire had its release blocked by court order, arguing that they never intended to make it a theatrical release, as it would have commercial value thanks to their stardom.[14] The film eventually premiered at the 2001 Berlin International Film Festival, where it was well received by critics, with Time Out New York writer Mike D'Angelo calling it "the best film [I saw] in Berlin." DiCaprio's last film of the year 1995 was The Basketball Diaries, a biopic about Jim Carroll.
In 1996, DiCaprio appeared opposite Claire Danes in Baz Luhrmann's film Romeo + Juliet, an abridged modernization of William Shakespeare's romantic tragedy of the same name which retained the original Shakespearean dialogue. The project was one of the first films to cash in on DiCaprio's future star-status, with a worldwide box office take of $147 million.[22]
Later that year, he starred in Jerry Zaks' family drama Marvin's Room, reuniting with Robert De Niro. Based on Scott McPherson's screenplay adaptation of his own 1991 stage play of the same name, the film revolves around two sisters, played by Meryl Streep and Diane Keaton, who are reunited through tragedy after 17 years of estrangement.[23] DiCaprio portrayed the character of Hank, Streep's troubled son, who has been committed to a mental asylum for setting fire to his mother's house.[24]
In 1997, DiCaprio starred in James Cameron's Titanic (1997), alongside Kate Winslet. Cast as twenty-year-old Jack Dawson, a penniless Wisconsin man who wins two tickets for the third-class on the ill-fated RMS Titanic, DiCaprio initially refused to portray the character but was eventually encouraged to pursue the role by Cameron who strongly believed in his acting ability.[25] Against expectations, the film went on to become the highest-grossing film to date (it was surpassed in 2010 by Cameron's directorial follow-up, Avatar), grossing more than US$1.843 billion in box-office receipts worldwide,[26] and transformed DiCaprio into a commercial movie superstar, resulting in fan worship among teenage girls and young women in general that became known as "Leo-Mania";[27] more than 200 fans contacted the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to protest his not being nominated for the 70th Academy Awards.[28] He was nominated for other high-profile awards, including a second Golden Globe nomination. Upon the success of Titanic, DiCaprio stated in 2000: "I have no connection with me during that whole Titanic phenomenon and what my face became around the world [...] I'll never reach that state of popularity again, and I don't expect to. It's not something I'm going to try to achieve either."[29]
The following year, DiCaprio made a self-mocking cameo appearance in Woody Allen's caustic satire of the fame industry, Celebrity (1998). That year, he also starred in the dual roles of the villainous King Louis XIV and his secret, sympathetic twin brother Philippe in Randall Wallace's The Man in the Iron Mask, based on the same-titled 1939 film. Despite receiving a rather mixed to negative response,[30] the film became a box office success, grossing US$180 million internationally.[31] Though DiCaprio's performance was generally well-received, with Entertainment Weekly critic Owen Gleiberman writing that "the shockingly androgynous DiCaprio looks barely old enough to be playing anyone with hormones, but he's a fluid and instinctive actor, with the face of a mischievous angel,"[32] he was awarded a Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Screen Couple for both incarnations the following year.
DiCaprio's next project was the drama film The Beach (2000), an adaption of Alex Garland's same-titled 1996 novel. Starring alongside Tilda Swinton and Virginie Ledoyen, he played an American backpacking tourist looking for the perfect way of life in a secret island commune in the Gulf of Thailand. Budgeted at $US50 million, the film became a financial success, grossing $US144 million worldwide,[33] but as with DiCaprio's previous project, the film was largely panned by critics.[34] Todd McCarthy of Variety noted that "Richard [DiCaprio's role] is too much the American Everyman and not enough of a well-defined individual to entirely capture one's interest and imagination, and DiCaprio, while perfectly watchable, does not endow him with the quirks or distinguishing marks to make this man from nowhere a dimensional character."[35] The next year, he was nominated for another Razzie Award for his work on the film.
DiCaprio's first film of 2002 was the biographical crime drama film Catch Me If You Can, based on the life of Frank Abagnale Jr., who, before his 19th birthday, used his charm, confidence, and several different personas, to make millions in the 1960s writing bad checks. Directed by Steven Spielberg and co-starring Tom Hanks, Martin Sheen and Christopher Walken, the film was shot in 147 different locations in only 52 days, making it "the most adventurous, super-charged movie-making" DiCaprio had experienced yet.[36] Catch Me If You Can received favourable reviews and proved to be an international success, becoming Dicaprio's highest-grossing film since Titanic with a total of US$351.1 million worldwide.[37] Roger Ebert praised his performance, and noted that while "DiCaprio, who in recent films [...] has played dark and troubled characters, is breezy and charming here, playing a boy who discovers what he is good at, and does it."[38] The following year, DiCaprio received his third Golden Globe nomination for his work on the film.
Also in 2002, DiCaprio appeared in Martin Scorsese's Gangs of New York, a historical film set in the mid-19th century in the Five Points district of New York City. Director Scorsese initially struggled selling his idea of realizing the film until DiCaprio became interested in playing protagonist Amsterdam Vallon, a young leader of the Irish faction, and thus, Miramax Films got involved with financing the project.[39] Nonetheless production on the film was plagued by blown-out budgets and producer-director squabbles, resulting in a marathon eight-month shoot and, at US$103 million, the most expensive film Scorsese had ever made.[39] Upon its release, Gangs of New York became a financial and critical success however.[40] DiCaprio's acting was well-received but remained overshadowed by Daniel Day-Lewis' performance among most critics.[39][41]
Forging a collaboration with Scorsese, the two paired again for a biopic of the eccentric and obsessive American film director and aviation pioneer Howard Hughes in The Aviator (2004). Centering on Hughes' life from the late 1920s to 1947, DiCaprio initially developed the project with Michael Mann, who decided against directing it after back-to-back film biographies in Ali and The Insider.[41] The actor eventually pitched John Logan's script to Scorsese, who quickly signed on to direct. Altogether, DiCaprio reportedly spent more than a year and a half in preparation for the film which was not necessarily shot in continuity because of actors and locations schedules.[41] The Aviator became a critical and financial success.[42] DiCaprio received rave reviews for his performance and won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor, also receiving another Academy Award nomination.
In 2006, DiCaprio starred in both Blood Diamond and The Departed. In Edward Zwick's war film Blood Diamond, he co-starred alongside Jennifer Connelly and Djimon Hounsou as a diamond smuggler from Rhodesia who is involved in the Sierra Leone Civil War. The film itself received generally favorable reviews,[43] and DiCaprio was praised for the authenticity of his South African Afrikaner accent, known as a difficult accent to imitate.[44] In Scorsese's The Departed he played the role of Billy Costigan, a state trooper working undercover in an Irish Mob in Boston. Highly anticipated, the film was released to overwhelmingly positive reviews and became one of the highest-rated wide release films of 2006.[45] Budgeted at US$90 million, it also emerged as DiCaprio and Scorsese's highest-grossing collaboration to date, easily beating The Aviator´s previous record of US$213.7 million.[46] DiCaprio's performance in The Departed was applauded by critics and earned him a Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor. The same year, both the Golden Globes and the Screen Actors Guild nominated DiCaprio twice in the Best Actor category for both of his 2006 features, and in addition, DiCaprio earned his third Academy Award nomination for Blood Diamond.
In 2008, DiCaprio starred in Body of Lies, a spy film based on the novel of the same name by David Ignatius, set in context of the Middle East and the War on Terror, telling the story of three men battling a terrorist organization, and each other.[47] Directed by Ridley Scott and co-starring Russell Crowe and Vince Colosimo, DiCaprio dyed his hair brown and wore brown contacts for the role, which he chose to pursue because he considered it a throwback to political films of the 1970s such as The Parallax View (1974) and Three Days of the Condor (1975).[47] The film received mixed reviews from critics,[48] and at a budget of US$67.5 million, became a moderate box office success, grossing US$115 million worldwide.[49]
The same year, DiCaprio reunited with Kate Winslet to film the drama Revolutionary Road (2008), directed by Winslet's then-husband Sam Mendes. As both actors had been reluctant to make romantic films similar to Titanic, it was Winslet who suggested that both should work with her on a film adaptation of the 1961 novel of the same name by Richard Yates after reading the script by Justin Haythe, knowing that plot had little in common with the 1997 blockbuster.[50] Once DiCaprio agreed to do the film, it went almost immediately into production.[51] He noted that he saw his character as "unheroic" and "slightly cowardly" and that he was "willing to be just a product of his environment."[52] Portraying a couple in a failing marriage in the 1950s, DiCaprio and Winslet watched period videos promoting life in the suburbs to prepare themselves for Revolutionary Road, which eventually earned them favorable reviews.[53] For his portrayal DiCaprio garnered his seventh Golden Globes nomination.
DiCaprio continued his collaborative streak with Scorsese in the 2010 psychological thriller film Shutter Island (2010), based on the 2003 novel of the same name by Dennis Lehane. Co-starring Ben Kingsley, Mark Ruffalo and Michelle Williams in supporting roles, the actor played U.S. Marshal Edward "Teddy" Daniels, who is investigating a psychiatric facility located on an island and comes to question his own sanity. The film grossed $294 million[54] and became Scorsese's highest-grossing film worldwide.[55]
Also in 2010, DiCaprio starred in director Christopher Nolan's science-fiction film Inception. Inspired by the experience of lucid dreaming and dream incubation,[56] DiCaprio portrays the character of Dom Cobb, an "extractor" who enters the dreams of others to obtain information that is otherwise inaccessible.[57] Cobb is promised a chance to regain his old life in exchange for planting an idea in a corporate target's mind.[58] DiCaprio, the first actor to be cast in the film,[59] was "intrigued by this concept — this dream-heist notion and how this character's gonna unlock his dreamworld and ultimately affect his real life."[60] Released to critical acclaim, the film grossed over $825 million worldwide.[61] In July of the same year, it was announced that DiCaprio had pulled out of a Viking movie to be directed by Mel Gibson amid controversy over Gibson's rage-fueled rant tapes and domestic violence probe.[62]
In 2011, DiCaprio starred alongside Armie Hammer and Naomi Watts in Clint Eastwood's J. Edgar, a biopic about J. Edgar Hoover.[63] Written by Dustin Lance Black, the film focuses on the career of the FBI director from the Palmer Raids onwards, including an examination of his private life as an alleged closeted homosexual.[64] Reviews towards the film were mostly mixed, with many critics commending DiCaprio's performance but feeling that, overall, the film lacked coherence.[65] Roger Ebert praised DiCaprio's performance as a "fully-realized, subtle and persuasive performance, hinting at more than Hoover ever revealed, perhaps even to himself."[66]
In 2012, DiCaprio starred as villainous Calvin Candie in Quentin Tarantino spaghetti western, Django Unchained.[67][68] The film received positive reviews from critics[69] and earned DiCaprio his ninth nomination from the Golden Globes.[70] Django Unchained grossed $424 million worldwide.[71]
DiCaprio's next film was The Great Gatsby again with Baz Luhrmann (who filmed with him Romeo + Juliet in 1996), a big screen adaptation of F. Scott Fitzgerald's 1925 novel, also starring Carey Mulligan and Tobey Maguire; the film was released on May 10, 2013.[72][73] It received mixed reviews from critics;[74] however, DiCaprio's portrayal as Jay Gatsby was praised by critics. Critic Rafer Guzman of Newsday praised DiCaprio by stating, "As for Leonardo DiCaprio, he is now the Gatsby to beat. Despite a borderline comedic entrance -- haloed by fireworks and accompanied by Gershwin's "Rhapsody in Blue"—DiCaprio nails this maddeningly enigmatic character. He's as tough as Alan Ladd in '49, as suave as Redford in '74, but also vulnerable, touching, funny, a faker, a human. You hear it all in Gatsby's favorite phrase, "old sport," a verbal tic that stumped other actors. It's a tremendous, hard-won performance."[75] Matt Zoller Seitz of Roger Ebert.com described his performance as Gatsby as "The movie's greatest and simplest special effect," and states "This is an iconic performance — maybe his career best."[76] The film grossed $348 million worldwide[77] and became Luhrmann's highest grossing film.[78]
DiCaprio reunited with Scorsese for the fifth time in The Wolf of Wall Street, a true story based on the life of stockbroker Jordan Belfort, who was arrested in the late 1990s for securities fraud and money laundering.[79][80] Filming began on August 8, 2012, in New York,[81] and the film was released on December 25, 2013.[82] The role earned him a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Musical or Comedy and his fourth Academy Award nomination. In January 2013, DiCaprio said he was going to take a long break from acting and would "fly around the world doing good for the environment."[83] In June 2013, Warner Bros. acquired the rights to the upcoming crime novel Mean Business on North Ganson Street by S. Craig Zahler to make it into a feature film, as a re-teaming of Django Unchained with DiCaprio and Jamie Foxx. DiCaprio will also produce the film.[84]
DiCaprio is a close friend of actor Tobey Maguire, whom he met while auditioning for the Parenthood series in 1990, and is a longtime friend of both fellow actors Kevin Connolly and Lukas Haas,[85] and Titanic and Revolutionary Road co-star Kate Winslet. He was a childhood friend of actor Christopher Pettiet.[86]
His romantic relationships have been widely covered in the media.[87] DiCaprio dated model Kristen Zang on-and-off for several years, and British model and socialite Emma Miller.[88] In 2000, he met Brazilian model Gisele Bündchen with whom he had an on-and-off relationship until their separation in 2005.[89] DiCaprio began a relationship with model Bar Refaeli in November 2005 after meeting her at a Las Vegas party thrown for members of U2.[90] In the course of their trip to Israel in March 2007, the couple met with Israeli president Shimon Peres and visited Refaeli's hometown of Hod HaSharon.[91] The relationship was on hold for a period of six months starting in June 2009; in early 2010, the romance was rekindled.[92][93] In May 2011, it was reported that the couple had ended their romantic relationship, although still remaining friends.[94] In August 2011, it was reported that he was in a relationship with actress Blake Lively since mid-May.[95][96] They ended their relationship in October 2011.[97] DiCaprio dated model Erin Heatherton from December 2011[98] to October 2012.[99] Since May 2013, DiCaprio has been reported dating German model Toni Garrn.[100][101]
DiCaprio owns a home in Los Angeles and an apartment in Battery Park City in Lower Manhattan.[102] In 2009, he bought an island off mainland Belize on which he is planning to create an eco-friendly resort.
In 2005, DiCaprio's face was seriously injured when Aretha Wilson, a model, hit him over the head with a broken bottle at a Hollywood party. After pleading guilty in 2010, Wilson was sentenced to prison for two years.[103]
In 2014, he purchased the original Dinah Shore residence designed by mid-century modern architect Donald Wexler in Palm Springs.[104]
A committed environmentalist, DiCaprio has received praise from environmental groups for his activism.[3] He owns an electric Tesla Roadster,[105] a Fisker Karma plug-in hybrid,[106][107] and a Toyota Prius.[108] He has also installed solar panels on his house.[3] In an interview with Ukula about his film the 11th Hour, DiCaprio cited global warming as "the number-one environmental challenge".[109]
At the 2007 Oscar ceremony, DiCaprio and former Vice President Al Gore appeared to announce that the Academy Awards had incorporated environmentally intelligent practices throughout the planning and production processes, thus affirming their commitment to the environment, and on July 7, 2007, DiCaprio presented at the American leg of Live Earth. In 2010, his environmental work earned DiCaprio a nomination for the VH1 Do Something Award. The awards show, produced by VH1, is dedicated to honoring people who do good and is powered by Do Something, a New York-based organization that aims to empower and inspire young people.[110]
In 1998, DiCaprio and his mother donated $35,000 for a "Leonardo DiCaprio Computer Center" at the Los Feliz branch of the Los Angeles Public Library, the site of his childhood home. It was rebuilt after the 1994 Northridge earthquake and opened in early 1999.[111] During the filming of Blood Diamond, DiCaprio worked with 24 orphaned children from the SOS Children's Village in Maputo, Mozambique, and was said to be extremely touched by his interactions with the children.[112] In 2010, he donated $1,000,000 to relief efforts in Haiti after the earthquake.[113]
During the 2004 presidential election, DiCaprio campaigned and donated to John Kerry's presidential bid. The FEC showed DiCaprio gave $2,300 to Barack Obama's presidential campaign in the 2008 election, the maximum contribution an individual can give in that election cycle, and $5000 to Obama's 2012 campaign.[114][115]
In November 2010, DiCaprio donated $1,000,000 to the Wildlife Conservation Society at Russia's tiger summit. DiCaprio's persistence in reaching the event after encountering two plane delays caused then Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to describe him as a "muzhik" or "real man".[116][117] In 2011, DiCaprio joined the Animal Legal Defense Fund's campaign to free Tony, a tiger who has spent the last decade at the Tiger Truck Stop in Grosse Tete, Louisiana.[118] DiCaprio is an activist for gay rights and in April 2013 he donated $61,000 to GLAAD, an organization which promotes the image of LGBT people in the media.[119]
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Leonardo_DiCaprio&oldid=610607867"					
Categories: 1974 births20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsAmerican environmentalistsAmerican film producersAmerican male child actorsAmerican male film actorsAmerican male soap opera actorsAmerican male television actorsAmerican people of German descentAmerican people of Italian descentAmerican people of Russian descentBest Drama Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Musical or Comedy Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersCalifornia DemocratsFilm producers from CaliforniaLGBT rights activists from the United StatesLiving peopleMale actors from Los Angeles, CaliforniaPeople from Echo Park, Los AngelesSilver Bear for Best Actor winnersHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from April 2012Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleUse mdy dates from February 2014Articles with hCardsCommons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersGood articles 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Born in Hollywood on November11th 1974, Leonardo was an only child whose parents divorced when he was a baby. His mother signed her young son up with a talent agent and, aged five, Leonardo made his debut on a popular children’s television show before being removed for being too disruptive!
DiCaprio attended the John Marshall High School and the Centre for Enriched Studies but was, by his own admission, never destined for a career in academia (he is, however, fluent in German -DiCaprio spent a part of his childhood there with his maternal grandparents).
When he was 14 he signed to an agency and popped-up in a Matchbox cars commercial before landing acting roles in a few short-lived TV shows, most notably ‘Parenthood’ where he met Tobey Maguire and nominated for the ‘Young Artist Award for Best Young Actor.’
DiCaprio made his movie debut in 1991 with direct-to-video horror ‘Critters 3’ which indirectly led to a regular role in TV’s ‘Growing Pains’. Stardom beckoned when he was picked by Robert de Niro to play the lead in ‘This Boy’s Life’ (1993).
In the same year DiCaprio teamed up with Johnny Depp to play a teenager with learning difficulties in ‘What's Eating Gilbert Grape?’ The film was a huge success and earned DiCaprio an Academy Award nomination.1995’s ‘The Quick and the Dead’ wasn’t met with such favour, DiCaprio was a controversial choice from the off as Sony weren’t convinced by his suitability for the role so co-star Sharon Stone paid the young actor out of her own pocket.
In the same year DiCaprio starred in the relatively successful ‘Total Eclipse’ playing poet Arthur Rimbaud opposite David Thewlis’ Paul Verlaine. A fictionalised, at times, graphic account of their homosexual relationship DiCaprio was lucky to get the part having been brought in to replace River Phoenix who’d died during pre-production.
Also in 1995 was Jim Carroll biopic ‘The Basketball Diaries’ and ‘Don’s Plum’ which wasn’t released until 2001 after DiCaprio and co-star Toby Maguire attempted to get the film blocked by court order. Also starring Kevin Connolly, ‘Don’s Plum’ is a largely improvised movie that, DiCaprio and Maguire claim, was a project for/by an aspiring film director and not intended for theatrical release. Ironically, its DiCaprio’s most critically acclaimed effort of that year. 
In1996, DiCaprio starred in Baz Luhrmann’s adaptation of ‘Romeo and Juliet’. Notable for retaining the ‘original’ Shakespearean dialogue the movie was a huge hit but financially eclipsed by 1997 blockbuster ‘Titanic’ which was, until 2010, the highest grossing film ever made, even if DiCaprio wasn’t happy about his character, Jack Dawson. 
In 1998 he had a cameo role in Woody Allen’s ‘Celebrity’ (1998) and starred in ‘The Man with the Iron Mask’ that, despite negative criticism, was a box-office success. In 2000 he took the lead in ‘The Beach’, another critical flop but enormously successful at theatres worldwide. 
In 2002, a change of fortune. DiCaprio starred in two critically acclaimed movies, Stephen Spielberg’s ‘Catch me if you Can’ (co-starring Tom Hanks, Martin Sheen and Christopher Walken) is based on the life of a confidence trickster who made a fortune in the 1960’s and Martin Scorsese’s ‘Gangs of New York’, a historically based feature set in NYC in the mid 1800’s. DiCaprio went on to work with Scorsese again in 2004 with the critically acclaimed ‘The Aviator’ and won a Golden Globe and an Academy Award nomination for his troubles. 
DiCaprio’s third collaboration with Martin Scorsese was 2006 thriller, 'The Departed' with Matt Damon. The movie became one of the most acclaimed of the year but it was ‘Blood Diamond’ that earned DiCaprio his third Academy Award nomination playing a diamond smuggler opposite co-stars Jennifer Connelly and Djimon Hounsou.
Ridley Scott’s 'Body of Lies' (2008) visually aped the style and flavour of 1970s political films but received mixed reviews. In the same year he teamed up again with Kate Winslet in 'Revolutionary Road', directed by Winslet’s then husband Sam Mendes. The film is set in the 1950s and tells the story of a couple as their marriage collapses earning DiCaprio another Golden Globe nomination.
Scorsese and DiCaprio collaborated a third time for the hugely successful ‘Shutter Island’ in 2010 in which DiCaprio plays an unstable US Marshal investigating a psychiatric facility. The same year he played Dom Codd in Christopher Nolan’s sci-fi thriller ‘Inception’ and, again, the movie was received favourably by critics and public alike.
Not quite as successful was Clint Eastwood’s biopic of J Edgar Hoover, ‘J Hoover’. Starring alongside Naomi Watts and Armie Hammer, DiCaprio's role was well received but the critics turned on the finished article claiming the film lacked cohesion. The following year, 2012, DiCaprio received yet another Golden Globe nomination for his villainous role in Quentin Tarantino’s ‘Dango Unchained’.
In 2013 he worked again with Baz Lurhrmann for a big-screen adaptation of ‘The Great Gatsby’. As with ‘J Hoover’, the film had mixed reviews while DiCaprio was given the thumbs up by critics. That year he also starred in another Scorsese picture, ‘The Wolf of Wall Street’, based on the life of a stockbroker who was arrested in the late 1990’s for fraud. Another Golden Globe to add to his collection, a fourth Academy Award nomination and with other projects in the pipeline, it seems we’ve not heard the last of Leonardo DiCaprio just yet.
In addition to random acts of philanthropy, DiCaprio is a committed environmentalist and has been nominated for awards in his efforts to raise awareness of man’s impact on the planet. In January 2013 he announced he was going to take break from acting and ‘fly around the world doing good for the environment.’ 
Right, so: now that we’ve convinced you Lifetime is a thing you need to have in your life – what now? How do you get this on your telly? Here’s what you have to do.
=======================================================
Charlize Theron and Seth MacFarlane go hilariously off-topic in our "Million Ways to Die in the West" Unscripted.
'Gremlins' Star Zach Galligan on Auditioning for Spielberg, Malfunctioning Mogwais, and 'Gremlins 2' Getting Its Due
Enter your email address below to receive alerts on the latest news about "TAG NAME HERE" as it becomes available.
=======================================================
1988Higher LearningWhile attending John Marshall High School in L.A., DiCaprio follows his older stepbrother, Adam Farrar, into TV commercials. He signs with an agent and does an ad for Matchbox cars at 14. Though he completes high school with a tutor, he tells the San Francisco Examiner, "life is my college."
1991February 20Bum RoleAfter making his film debut in the campy horror film Critters 3, DiCaprio lands a recurring role as a homeless kid on Growing Pains. "I thought that on my gravestone they were going to write, 'This was the guy from Growing Pains,'" DiCaprio says in 1993. The show's star Alan Thicke requests to expand DiCaprio's role, which proves futile.1993April 09This Boy's BreakDiCaprio beats out hundreds of actors for the role of Robert De Niro's stepson in This Boy's Life. In 1996, he reunites with De Niro, who handpicks him to play a troubled teen in Marvin's Room. "He's always so compelling," costar Meryl Streep tells PEOPLE. "You can't watch anything else when he's acting." December 17Golden ChildDirector Lasse Hallstrüm almost doesn't cast DiCaprio, 19, in What's Eating Gilbert Grape for fear his good looks might take away from the role. DiCaprio's powerful performance as a mentally-challenged teenager, opposite Johnny Depp, earns him both Golden Globe and Oscar nominations.  1995April 21Dear DiaryIn The Basketball Diaries, based on poet-rocker Jim Carroll's infamous journals, DiCaprio takes on the dark role of a drug addict. "It was the first script I ever read where I really felt I could go in and explore a character," DiCaprio tells Teen People.1996November 01Modern Day TragedyDiCaprio stars with Claire Danes in Baz Luhrmann's William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet makes him the Romeo of girls around the world. His penchant for models and hard-partying ways also make him a tabloid coverboy. "Scandal sells," DiCaprio tells the New York Times. "If you hear of any incident about me – a fight, a change of clothes, a little extra gel in the hair – don't believe it 'til you talk to me." 1997May 12Reluctant RomeoAlthough named one of PEOPLE's 50 Most Beautiful People, DiCaprio is still surprised by the female attention. "Suddenly all these teenage girls have become hysterical," he says. "What they do is shocking, climbing over walls and stuff." He makes the list again the following year, saying, "You want to be remembered for your work rather than being sort of the hunk of the month. There's always a new pretty face."December 14King of the WorldBreaking out of teen roles and into superstardom, DiCaprio stars in Titanic with Kate Winslet. The film cost an estimated $200 million and goes on to earn more than $1.8 billion worldwide. He was initially reluctant to take on the blockbuster and the hoopla surrounding it. "Stardom may have captured his imagination for the moment," director James Cameron tells PEOPLE. "But I don't think it's where he started out, and I don't think it will be where he winds up." 1998March 23And the No-Show Is...Titanic captures 14 Academy Award nominations, but DiCaprio isn't recognized. Fans are outraged by the omission, sending hundreds of emails and calling the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to demand a recount. DiCaprio watches on TV as Titanic wins 11 Oscars, including Best Picture. According to PEOPLE, his mother Irmelin tells reporters of his absence: "Why should he go? He wasn't nominated." November 20Leo Takes a BreakFame takes its toll on DiCaprio and after parodying himself in Woody Allen's Celebrity, he takes a self-imposed, two-year acting hiatus. "I'll never reach that state of popularity again, and I don't expect to," DiCaprio tells Time. "It's not something I'm going to try to achieve either." He resurfaces in 2000 with a starring role in The Beach. Although he reportedly receives a $20 million paycheck, the film grosses less than $40 million.  
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): ABC/Photofest; Everett Collection; EVERETT; K.C. BAILEY/NEW LINE; MIRAMAX; MERIE W. WALLACE/NEW LINE; SANTIAGO BAEZ/SIPA 
									Toni Garrn (linked in 2013) Erin Heatherton, ex-girlfriend (2011 to 2012) Blake Lively, ex-girlfriend (May 2011 to Sept. 2011) Bar Refaeli, exgirlfriend, (2006 to 2011; on and off) Gisele Bündchen, ex-girlfriend (2000 to 2005) Kristin Zang, ex-girlfriend (1996 to 1997)  
   Sep 09, 2013 COMING THROUGH!  The wheels are turning for Leonardo DiCaprio, who takes another Citi Bike for a spin through N.Y.C. on… See Photo   Sep 05, 2013 ROLL WITH IT  Leonardo DiCaprio navigates his Citi Bike with ease during a spin around New York City on Wednesday.
=======================================================
BiographyLeonardo DiCaprio (born 11.11.1974)Leonardo DiCaprio is an American, Oscar-nominated actor.Leonardo DiCaprio: ChildhoodLeonardo DiCaprio was born in Los Angeles, California. He is an only child and his parents are Irmelin, a former legal secretary and George, a comic book artist and distributor of comic books. He was named Leonardo because Irmelin was stood in front of a Leonardo da Vinci painting when he first kicked in her womb.DiCaprio's parents divorced when he was just one year old. Although he lived with his mother, he did maintain contact with his father.It was DiCaprio's stepbrother Adam Farrar that inspired Leonardo to become an actor. Farrar is an actor and a film producer.Leonardo DiCaprio: Acting CareerLeonardo DiCaprio began his acting career with a string of television commercials. In 1990, he got a break in the TV series Parenthood, based on the film of the same name. Tobey Maguire also starred in the show and the pair became friends.DiCaprio's debut film role came in Critters 3, a low-budget horror sequel. In 1991, he was cast in a recurring role in Growing Pains, playing a homeless boy, taken in by the Seavers family.In 1992, Leonardo DiCaprio was cast in the role of Toby Wolff in This Boy's Life, which co-starred Ellen Barkin and Robert De Niro. His performance grabbed the attention of movie critics and DiCaprio quickly became one to watch in Hollywood.DiCaprio then went on to star as Johnny Depp's character's handicapped brother in 1993's What's Eating Gilbert Grape. His performance earned him an Oscar nomination and a Golden Globe nomination for Best Supporting Actor.In 1995, DiCaprio starred in four major movies. The first was The Quick and the Dead, with Gene Hackman, Russell Crowe and Sharon Stone. Next was Total Eclipse, the film about Paul Verlaine and Arthur Rimbaud's homosexual relationship. River Pheonix had originally been cast as Rimbaud but died before filming commenced. His third film of 1995 was Don's Plum, which saw him teal up with Tobey Maguire once more. Finally, DiCaprio starred in The Basketball Diaries, the cult classic story of drugs and prostitution, in which he starred as Jim Carroll.1996 saw DiCaprio star in Baz Luhrmann's modernized version of Romeo + Juliet, alongside Clare Danes. The same year, he also starred in Marvin's Room, with Diane Keaton, Meryl Streep and Robert De Niro.The next year, DiCaprio's career and status took a huge leap with the release of Titanic. Leonardo played the role of Jack Dawson, opposite Kate Winslet's portrayal of Rose DeWitt Bukater. The film won 11 Oscars and is one of the best selling films of all time.DiCaprio went on star in Danny Boyle's adaptation of Alex Garland's novel, The Beach. Although the film found moderate box office success, it was largely disliked by the media and the production team were criticised for their attempts to physically alter the environment of Ko Phi Phi island, were the film was shot.In 2002, Leonardo DiCaprio starred in Martin Scorsese's Gangs of New York and Steven Spielberg's Catch Me If You Can. DiCaprio's performances in both films were revered by film critics and the public alike.DiCaprio went on to earn himself a second Oscar nomination for Best Actor, this time for his performance in the biopic of Howard Hughes in The Aviator.In 2006 Leonardo DiCaprio and Martin Scorsese in The Departed, which also starred Mark Wahlberg and Ray Winstone. Later that year, Blood Diamond was also released. Leonardo was widely praised for his mastery of the South African Afrikaner accent for the film.In 2008, DiCaprio starred in Body of Lies, directed by Ridley Scott. The film also starred Russell Crowe. 2008 also saw DiCaprio team up with his Titanic co-stars, Kate Winslet and Kath Bates in Revolutionary Road.Leonardo DiCaprio: Personal LifeBetween 2001 and 2005, DiCaprio was in an on-off relationship with the model Gisele Bundchen. He is now dating the Israeli model Bar Rafaeli.In June 2005 Leonardo DiCaprio was seriously injured with a broken bottle at a party. His attacker, Aretha Wilson is undergoing an extradition process, after she escaped to Canada to escape prosecution.
Brad Pitt's alleged attacker has been charged with battery and assault.Vitalii Sediuk, who reportedly hit the 50-year-old star in the face and broke his designer sunglasses at the Hollywood premiere of his fiancée Angelina Jolie's...
Brad Pitt was attacked at the Hollywood premiere of 'Maleficent' last night (28.05.14).The actor joined his fiance, Angelina Jolie, at the El Capitan theater on Hollywood Boulevard when Ukrainian reporter Vitalii Sediuk allegedly punched him...
Brad Pitt has secured a restraining order against Vitalii Sediuk.The 50-year-old star, who was allegedly hit in the face by the Ukrainian prankster while attending the Hollywood premiere of his fiancée Angelina Jolie's new movie,...
Brad Pitt was ''struck in the face'' at the Hollywood premiere of 'Maleficent' last night (28.05.14).The Hollywood hunk walked the blue carpet at the El Capitan theater on Hollywood Boulevard with fiancee Angelina Jolie -...
Justin Bieber donated $545,000 to AIDS/HIV research this week.The 20-year-old singer, who is ''trying to be a better person'' after several brushes with the law in recent months, reportedly shocked his fellow VIP guests, including...
What would you pay to travel into space with Leonard DiCaprio?The Hollywood star auctioned off a ticket to board one of the first commercial flights into space in Cannes, France, for amFAR, an international non-profit...
John Travolta and Kelly Preston helped a friend propose at a charity gala in Antibes, France.The couple, who've been married for 23 years, were on hand to assist his 'Gummy Bear the Movie' director Oscar...
Leonardo DiCaprio has auctioned off a space voyage with him for $1.5 million.The 39-year-old star has sold the chance to be his intergalactic travel companion at this year's amfAR Cinema Against AIDS Gala, at the...
Quentin Tarantino wants to shoot a film in London.The 51-year-old filmmaker ''loves'' England's capital and would be keen to work on a project in the city. He told the Daily Telegraph newspaper: ''I love London...
'The Hunger Games: Catching Fire' triumphed at The Empire Cinemas Alternative Movie Awards.Jennifer Lawrence  won Sexiest Actress and Best Film Hero for her portrayal of Katniss Everdeen in the second installment of the adaptation...
Duchess Catherine, David Beckham and George Clooney have been voted as having the best celebrity smiles.The trio of stars topped a new poll to find the pearliest whites among the A-list, with the British royal...
Jean Dujardin insists winning an Oscar was a ''fabulous experience''.The 41-year-old star won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in silent film 'The Artist' in 2012, but he's admitted that although he's...
America Ferrera thought she was in a ''crazy weird dream'' when she became the latest victim of prankster Vitalii Sediuk.The 'How to Train Your Dragon 2' star was shocked when the Ukrainian TV reporter -...
Naomi Watts is in talks to star in 'Sea of Trees'.The 45-year-old star is in negotiations with the film's director Gus Van Sant to star alongside 'Dallas Buyers Club' actor Matthew McConaughey in the drama...
Leonardo DiCaprio's 'Blood On Snow' has landed a scribe.The 39-year-old actor and his Appian Way production company with partner Jennifer Davisson Killoran are set to be working on the film  with Kevin McCormick's Langley...
Leonardo DiCaprio has reportedly ''burned'' himself out. The 'Wolf of Wall Street' star has been told to slow down by his friends as they fear his hectic work schedule is having a negative effect on...
Leonardo DiCaprio wants to buy surfer paintings for his new home.The 'Wolf of Wall Street' actor - who recently splashed out $10 million on an eco-friendly New York apartment - has taken a keen interest...
Rihanna threw a star-studded party after the Met Gala on Monday (05.05.14).The 'Diamonds' hitmaker changed from Stella McCartney crop top and full-length skirt into a revealing gold gown for the bash at New York nightspot...
Leonardo DiCaprio has splashed out $10 million on a new apartmentThe 'Wolf of Wall Street' actor has bought a two-bedroom fourth-floor property at the Delos building in New York's Greenwich Village, and the complex -...
Bar Refaeli never wants to stop modelling.The Israeli beauty has no intention of putting her career on hold and plans to ''always'' be a model, as well as pursuing film and TV opportunities.She said: ''I've...
Bar Refaeli wants an intimate wedding. The 28-year-old model has been linked to businessman Adi Ezra and although she hasn't confirmed they are dating, she admits her current relationship is getting serious. Questioned on whether...
Dream team Leonardo DiCaprio and Danny Boyle may be teaming up once again to work on the Aaron Sorkin-written biopic of Apple co-founder Steve Jobs. Gatsby actor Leonardo DiCaprio has previously worked with English film...
It’s all going on. Sony have revealed plans to make a film surround the late Steve Jobs’ life; Leonardo DiCaprio is favourite to play the former CEO and Danny Boyle is leading the pack to...
Danny Boyle is in talks to direct Aaron Sorkin's Steve Jobs movie, which could be a masterstroke given the script's original and unusual narrative. According to the Hollywood Reporter, Boyle will replace David Fincher on...
Danny Boyle and Leonardo DiCaprio could reunite on Sony Pictures' Steve Jobs biopic.The Oscar-winning director is being eyed to replace fellow visionary David Fincher at the helm of the untitled movie - scripted by 'The...
Leonardo DiCaprio is reportedly being pursued to play the late Apple Computer co-founder Steve Jobs in the highly anticipated biopic. The 39 year-old actor has been approached by Danny Boyle, who is in negotiations to...
We’ve been waiting for a while to hear what Leonardo DiCaprio’s follow up to the Wolf of Wall Street will be (and no that Coachella video doesn't count.), but now it seems the actor has...
Leonardo DiCaprio will star in 'The Revenant'.The 39-year-old actor will take on the role of revenge-seeking frontiersman Hugh Glass, who is mauled by a grizzly bear in the movie adaptation of Michael Punke's book -...
Leonardo DiCaprio will continue his hunt for a best actor Oscar with Gonzalez Inarritu's The Revenant, a gritty thriller about a fur trapper in 1820s America. The movie is an adaptation of Michael Punke's 2003...
Eve will get married in Ibiza this summer.The 35-year-old rapper is planning to tie the knot with Gumball 3000 founder Maximillion Cooper in June at the Blue Marlin club, a nightspot frequented by stars including...
'Inception' star Leonardo Dicaprio discusses his new movie 'The Great Gatsby' directed by Baz Luhrmann....
All you really need to do for the next 10 minutes is relax, grab a coffee, and flick through the gallery.
A documentary focussing on the brotherly relationship between renowned rock star Matt Berninger and his metal head brother Tom.
What a wimpy looking "guy".  He looks like he should be Clay Aiken's girl friend or something.news://alt.music.michael-jacksonhttp://groups.google.com/group/alt.music.michael-jackson?hl=enhttp://www.childrenhatemj.nethttp://www.fluttergirl.com/michaeljackson/http://www.imagedump.com/index.cgi?pick=get&tp=426184
Y LOVE YOU.....REMEBER THE TIME TITANIC.......CLAUDIA......mi-a dat foc la casa basescu ....cu beatrix sa nu ma scoata cineva de mireasa.......anyway y love you
sant nascut pe data de 11 11 1974   ma numesc   gaibar mihai  sant cetatean roman si vreau sa vorbesc  personal cu leo   dialoguri care lar interesa cu mult respect gaibar mihai    te rog contacteazama pe adresa de imeil noiembrie1111@yahoo.com
hi leonardo... hapi new year....wishing u a good health always... we love you here in philippines...take care always...
HY LEO......BAD NEWS ....Y WAS ARESSTED IN THE STREET WITH MY DOG IN AMSTERDAM.......FOR 4 DAYS IN .....SOESTEMBERG..........WE DO NOT NOW WHY .....ANY WAY THE POLICE DUCH POLICE THEY BEAT ME .....NO WATER.......CRIMINALII///////CLAUDIA AND PRINCESS LINDA
LEO,YOU SEEM TO BE A REALLY GOOD PERSON,MOST OF US FANS HAVE FOLLOWED YOUR CAREER FOR MOST OF YOUR YOUMG LIFE.I PERSONALLY,AM PROUD OF THE MAN YOU HAVE GROWN TO BE.I WISH YOU MUCH CONTINUED SUCCESS FOR YOUR FUTURE.      YOUR BIGGEST FAN
Late Night Renaissance - How This Winter's Changes Are Paying Off For Fallon, Kimmel, Leno And The Networks
 Almost 20 Years On, Dave Coulier Is Still Hung Up On Alanis Morissette's "You Oughta Know ""Why Is Hugh Bouncing?": Hugh Jackman Jumps For Joy Ahead Of Tony AwardsJohn Lennon's Doodles Sell For $27k And Other Crazy Music Auction Prices [Pictures]Game Of Thrones Vs. The Sopranos: Is Popularity Indicative Of Quality? "Game Of Thrones" Topples "The Sopranos" As Hbo's Most Watched ShowGwar's Dave Brockie And Entertainment's Dangerous Relationship With HeroinShould Metallica Be Removed From Glastonbury Headline Slot?Hayden Panettiere Pregnant With Wladimir Klitschko's Baby: A Look At Their Love StoryAll You Need To Know About The Newest Additions To 'Homeland''True Detective': Our Top 10 Rust Cohle Quotes
Evan Rachel Wood's Representative Slams 'Preposterous' LawsuitJennifer Lopez Splits From Boyfriend - ReportFight For Your Right: Beastie Boys Collect $1.7M In Monster Copyright BattleLa Toya Jackson wants 'huge' weddingChris Brown's Celebrity Pals Gather For Post-prison PartyLupita Nyong'o To Reteam With Brad Pitt For New Movie 
Pharrell Williams - Full Show - #AmexUNSTAGED VideoJack White - Lazaretto VideoSharlto Copley - Maleficent Video Interview Sam Riley - Maleficent Video Interview Elle Fanning - Maleficent Video Interview  
Sharlto Copley - Maleficent Video InterviewSam Riley - Maleficent Video InterviewElle Fanning - Maleficent Video InterviewAngelina Jolie - Maleficent Video InterviewBlair Jollands - Interview 
Christopher Hall - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, United Kingdom -Jerry Lewis and Larry King - Jerry Lewis attends the Friars Club celebration ofWanda Sykes and Alex Sykes - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life AchievementSyd Wilder - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life Achievement Award honoring JaneMatthew Davies and Emma Willis - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, 
=======================================================
Home → Leonardo DiCaprio biographyLeonardo DiCaprio BioLeonardo DiCaprio BiographyLeonardo DiCaprio
Anyone who saw this Hollywood, California, native's first major starring role opposite Robert DeNiro and Ellen Barkin in This Boy's Life (1993) knew a star was born. DiCaprio sizzled on the screen, dominating every scene he appeared in with his acting elders. 
Supporting Actor. His outstanding performance in his next film, What's Eating Gilbert Grape? (1993), garnered DiCaprio his first Academy Award and Golden Globe nominations.
DiCaprio was the reason many young girls and women went back time and time again to see the film, making it the biggest blockbuster of all time and pushing DiCaprio's comparatively minuscule Titanic (1997) salary of $2.5 million up to the $21 million mark. It was even re-released in 3D in 2012. 
DiCaprio has certainly come a long way from the five-year-old boy who once appeared on TV's Romper Room and was almost kicked off the show for misbehaving. That first TV experience turned into  a series of commercials, some educational films ("Mickey's Safety Club") and occasional small roles in TV series, including recurring roles on the soap Santa Barbara and the sitcom Growing Pains.
In 2005, after receiving his fourth Golden Globe nomination, DiCaprio finally took home the coveted prize for his portrayal as Howard Hughes in The Aviator (2004). He went on to receive an Academy Award Leading Actor nomination for the same role, and although he didn't win, he was nominated two years later for Blood Diamond (2006). In 2009, he received another Golden Globe nomination for Revolutionary Road (2008), and though he didn't win, he did win a Kids' Choice award that year for his environmental work. 
In 2010, his mystery/thriller Shutter Island was not only well-received by critics, but was a box office hit, generating over $127 million domestically. After another box office hit that year with the Oscar-winning fantasy Inception (2010), he next worked with Clint Eastwood, who directed him in the title role in J. Edgar (2011). DiCaprio starred alongside Jamie Foxx in Quentin Tarantino's Django Unchained (2012) and in the film adaptation of a classic, The Great Gatsby (2013). More recently, he starred in The Wolf of Wall Street (2013), for which he won a second Golden Globe and received his fourth Academy Award nomination.
Filmography → Oscars™ Nominations And AwardsActorThe Great Gatsby 3D (2013)ActorThe Great Gatsby (2013)ActorThe Wolf of Wall Street (2013)ActorDjango Unchained (2012)ActorTitanic 3D (2012)ActorTitanic: An IMAX 3D Experience (2012)ActorJ. Edgar (2011)ActorIMAX: Hubble (2010)ActorIMAX: Hubble 3D (2010)ActorInception (2010)ActorInception: The IMAX Experience (2010)ActorShutter Island (2010)ActorRevolutionary Road (2009)ActorBody of Lies (2008)ActorThe 11th Hour (2007)ProducerThe 11th Hour (2007)ActorBlood Diamond (2006)Actor in a Leading RoleNomineeActorThe Departed (2006)ActorThe Aviator (2004)Actor in a Leading RoleNomineeActorCatch Me If You Can (2002)ActorGangs Of New York (2002)ActorThe Beach (2000)ActorCelebrity (1999)ActorTitanic (1997)ActorRomeo + Juliet (1996)
