=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Quentin Jerome Tarantino[2] (/ˌtærənˈtiːnoʊ/; born March 27, 1963) is an American film director, screenwriter, producer and actor. His films have been characterized by non-linear storylines, satirical subject matter, and an aestheticization/glorification of violence that often results in the exhibition of neo-noir characteristics.[3] Tarantino has been dubbed a "director DJ"; his stylistic use of mix-and-match genre and music infusion, morphing a variety of old works to create a new one, has been compared to the use of sampling in DJ exhibits.[4]
Tarantino grew up an avid film fan and worked in a video rental store while training to act. His career began in the late 1980s, when he wrote and directed My Best Friend's Birthday, the screenplay of which formed the basis for True Romance. In the early 1990s, he began his career as an independent filmmaker with the release of Reservoir Dogs in 1992; regarded as a classic and cult hit, it was called the "Greatest Independent Film of All Time" by Empire magazine. Its popularity was boosted by the release in 1994 of his second film, Pulp Fiction, a neo-noir crime film that became a major critical and commercial success and is widely regarded as one of the greatest films of all time. Paying homage to the blaxploitation films of the 1970s, Tarantino released Jackie Brown in 1997, an adaptation of the novel Rum Punch.
Kill Bill, a highly-stylized "revenge flick" in the cinematic traditions of Japanese martial arts, spaghetti westerns and Italian horror, followed six years later, and was released as two films: Vol. 1 in 2003, and Vol. 2 in 2004. Tarantino released Death Proof in 2007 as part of a double feature with friend Robert Rodriguez, under the collective title Grindhouse. His long-postponed Inglourious Basterds, which tells the fictional alternate history story of two plots to assassinate Nazi Germany's political leadership, was released in 2009 to positive reviews. His most recent and highest-grossing work is 2012's critically acclaimed Django Unchained, a western film set in the antebellum era of the Deep South. It became the highest-grossing film of his career so far, making over $425 million at the box office.
Tarantino's films have garnered both critical and commercial success. He has received many industry awards, including two Academy Awards, two Golden Globe Awards, two BAFTA Awards and the Palme d'Or, and has been nominated for an Emmy and a Grammy. He was named one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World by Time Magazine in 2005,[5] and filmmaker and historian Peter Bogdanovich has called him "the single most influential director of his generation".[6]
Tarantino was born in Knoxville, Tennessee in 1963.[7] He is the son of actor and amateur musician Tony Tarantino and nurse Connie McHugh.[8][9] He has a younger half-brother named Ron. Tarantino's father, from Queens, New York, is of Italian descent, while his mother has Irish and Cherokee ancestry.[10][11][12] His stepfather was Curt Zastoupil, a musician.[13] Tarantino was raised by his mother, as his parents separated before his birth.[14] Tarantino says that his mother dated NBA star Wilt Chamberlain.[15] When he was four years old, they moved to Torrance, California and later to the Harbor City neighborhood of Los Angeles, where he attended Fleming Junior High School.[14] He attended Narbonne High School in Harbor City for his first year, but dropped out of school when he was 15[16] to attend an acting class full-time at the James Best Theater Company in Toluca Lake.[17] In an interview with NPR in 2013, Tarantino talked about how his mother's boyfriends would take him to blaxploitation movies.[18]
Tarantino grew bored with the James Best Acting School and left after two years, although he kept in touch with all of his acting friends. He then landed a job which threatened to interfere with his long-term acting ambitions.[19] As an employee of Video Archives, a now-defunct video rental store in Manhattan Beach, he and fellow movie enthusiasts (including Roger Avary) discussed cinema and customer video recommendations at length. He paid close attention to the types of films people liked to rent and has cited that experience as inspiration for his directorial career.[20] Tarantino has been quoted as saying: "When people ask me if I went to film school, I tell them, 'no, I went to films.'"[10]
After Tarantino met Lawrence Bender at a Hollywood party, Bender encouraged him to write a screenplay. Tarantino co-wrote and directed a movie called My Best Friend's Birthday in 1987. The final reel of the film was almost completely destroyed in a lab fire that occurred during editing, but its screenplay later formed the basis for True Romance.
In January 1992,[21] Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs was screened at the Sundance Film Festival. It was an immediate hit, with the film receiving a positive response from critics. A dialogue-driven heist movie, it set the tone for Tarantino's later films. Tarantino wrote the script for the film in three-and-a-half weeks and Bender forwarded it to director Monte Hellman. Hellman helped Tarantino to secure funding from Richard Gladstein at Live Entertainment (which later became Artisan, now known as Lionsgate). Harvey Keitel read the script and also contributed to the funding, taking a role as co-producer and also playing a part in the movie.[22]
Tarantino's screenplay True Romance was optioned and the film was eventually released in 1993. The second script that Tarantino sold was for the film Natural Born Killers, which was revised by Dave Veloz, Richard Rutowski and director Oliver Stone. Tarantino was given story credit and in an interview stated that he wished the film well.[23][24] The film engendered enmity, and the publication of a 'tell all' book titled Killer Instinct by Jane Hamsher—who with Don Murphy had an original option on the screenplay and produced the film—led to Tarantino physically assaulting Murphy in the AGO restaurant in West Hollywood, CA in October 1997. Murphy subsequently filed a $5m lawsuit against Tarantino, which was eventually settled out of court.[25] Following the success of Reservoir Dogs, Tarantino was approached by Hollywood and offered numerous projects, including Speed and Men in Black, but he instead retreated to Amsterdam to work on his script for Pulp Fiction.
In Pulp Fiction (1994), Tarantino maintained the aestheticization of violence, for which he is known, as well as his non-linear storylines. Tarantino received an Academy Award in the Best Writing (Original Screenplay) category, which he shared with Roger Avary. He also received a nomination in the Best Director category. The film received another five nominations, including for Best Picture. Tarantino also won the Palme d'Or for the film at the Cannes Film Festival. The film has grossed over $200 million and was met with outstanding reviews.
After Pulp Fiction was completed, Tarantino directed episode four of Four Rooms, "The Man from Hollywood", a tribute to the episode "Man from the South" from the television show Alfred Hitchcock Presents, which starred Steve McQueen in an adaptation of a Roald Dahl story. Four Rooms was a collaborative effort with filmmakers Allison Anders, Alexandre Rockwell and Robert Rodriguez. The film was very poorly received by critics.
Tarantino appeared in and wrote the script for Robert Rodriguez's From Dusk till Dawn (1996), which saw mixed reviews from the critics. It nevertheless quickly reached cult status, spawning a continuing saga of two sequels, for which Tarantino and Rodriguez only served as executive producers.
Tarantino's third feature film was Jackie Brown (1997), an adaptation of Rum Punch, a novel by Elmore Leonard. A homage to blaxploitation films, it starred Pam Grier, who starred in many of the films of that genre in the 1970s. Leonard considered Jackie Brown to be the best of the 26 different screen adaptations of his novels and short stories.[citation needed]
Tarantino had next planned to make Inglourious Basterds, as it was provisionally titled, but postponed this to write and direct Kill Bill (released as two films, Vol. 1 and Vol. 2), a highly-stylized "revenge flick" in the cinematic traditions of Wuxia (Chinese martial arts), Jidaigeki (Japanese period cinema), spaghetti westerns and Italian horror. It was based on a character called The Bride and a plot that he and Kill Bill's lead actress Uma Thurman had developed during the making of Pulp Fiction.
In 2004, Tarantino attended the Cannes film festival, where he served as President of the Jury. Although Kill Bill was not in competition, Vol. 2 had an evening screening, and was also shown on the morning of the final day in its original 3-hour-plus version, with Tarantino himself attending the full screening. Tarantino went on to be credited as "Special Guest Director" in Robert Rodriguez's 2005 neo-noir film Sin City, for his work directing the car sequence featuring Clive Owen and Benicio del Toro.
Tarantino's next film project was Grindhouse, which he co-directed with Rodriguez. Released in theaters on April 6, 2007, Tarantino's contribution to the Grindhouse project was titled Death Proof. It began as a take on 1970s slasher films,[26] but evolved dramatically as the project unfolded. Ticket sales were low despite mostly positive reviews.
Among Tarantino's producing credits are: (1) the horror film Hostel, which included numerous references to his own Pulp Fiction; (2) the adaptation of Elmore Leonard's Killshot, for which Tarantino was credited as an executive producer, although he was no longer associated with the film after its 2009 release;[27] and (3) Hell Ride, written and directed by Larry Bishop and Jonny Lane, who both appeared in Kill Bill Vol. 2.
Tarantino's film Inglourious Basterds, released in 2009, is the story of a group of Jewish-American guerilla soldiers in Nazi-occupied France during World War II. Filming began in October 2008.[28] The film opened on August 21, 2009 to very positive reviews[29] and reached the No. 1 spot at the box office worldwide.[30] It went on to become Tarantino's highest-grossing film until it was surpassed by Django Unchained three years later.[31]
In 2011, production began on Django Unchained, a film about the revenge of a slave in the U.S. South in 1858. The film stemmed from Tarantino's desire to produce a spaghetti western set in America's Deep South. Tarantino called the proposed style "a southern",[32] stating that he wanted "to do movies that deal with America's horrible past with slavery and stuff but do them like spaghetti westerns, not like big issue movies. I want to do them like they're genre films, but they deal with everything that America has never dealt with because it's ashamed of it, and other countries don't really deal with because they don't feel they have the right to".[32] The film was released on December 25, 2012. During an interview with Krishnan Guru-Murthy about the film on Channel 4 News, Tarantino reacted angrily when, in light of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, he was questioned about an alleged link between movie violence and real-life violence.[33]
In November 2013, Tarantino said he was working on a new film and that it would be another Western. He stated that it would not be a sequel to Django.[34] On January 12, 2014, it was revealed that the film would be titled The Hateful Eight. The production of the western would most likely have begun in the summer of 2014, but after the script for the film leaked in January 2014, Tarantino considered dropping the movie and publishing it as a novel instead.[35][36] However, on April 19, he gave a public reading of the leaked script, announced that he was writing new drafts, and unveiled the whole cast.[37] On May 28, Tarantino said that he had calmed down and was going to start filming The Hateful Eight on November, with all the cast members from the script reading confirmed that of: Samuel L. Jackson, Bruce Dern, Walton Goggins, Tim Roth, Michael Madsen, Kurt Russell, Dana Gourrier, James Remar, James Parks, Amber Tamblyn, Denis Menochet and Zoe Bell with possible 2015 release date.[38] [39]
Tarantino's Chevy Malibu car, stolen from the set of Pulp Fiction in 1994, was recovered in 2013.[40]
In recent years, Tarantino has used his Hollywood power to give smaller and foreign films more attention than they might have received otherwise. These films are usually labeled "Presented by Quentin Tarantino" or "Quentin Tarantino Presents". The first of these productions was in 2001 with the Hong Kong martial arts film Iron Monkey, which made over $14 million in the United States, seven times its budget. In 2004 he brought the Chinese martial arts film Hero to U.S. shores. It ended up having a No. 1 opening at the box office and making $53.5 million. In 2006, the latest "Quentin Tarantino presents" production, Hostel, opened at No. 1 at the box office with a $20.1 million opening weekend, good for 8th all time in January. He presented 2006's The Protector, and is a producer of the 2007 film Hostel: Part II. In 2008 he produced the Larry Bishop-helmed Hell Ride, a revenge biker film.
In addition, in 1995 Tarantino formed Rolling Thunder Pictures with Miramax as a piece to release or re-release several independent and foreign features. By 1997, Miramax had shut down the company due to "lack of interest" in the pictures released. The following films were released by Rolling Thunder Pictures: Chungking Express (1994, dir. Wong Kar-wai), Switchblade Sisters (1975, dir. Jack Hill), Sonatine (1993, dir. Takeshi Kitano), Hard Core Logo (1996, dir. Bruce McDonald), The Mighty Peking Man (1977, dir. Ho Meng-Hua), Detroit 9000 (1973, dir. Arthur Marks), The Beyond (1981, dir. Lucio Fulci) and Curdled (1996, dir. Reb Braddock).
Before Inglourious Basterds, Quentin Tarantino had considered making The Vega Brothers. The film would have starred Michael Madsen and John Travolta reprising their roles of Vic (Mr. Blonde) from Reservoir Dogs and Vincent from Pulp Fiction. In 2007, because of the age of the actors and the onscreen deaths of both characters, he claimed that the film—which he intended to call Double V Vega—is "kind of unlikely now".[41]
In 2009, in an interview for Italian TV, after being asked about the success of the two Kill Bill films, Tarantino said, "You haven't asked me about the third one", and implied that he would be making a third Kill Bill film with the words, "The Bride will fight again!"[42] Later that year, at the Morelia International Film Festival,[43] Tarantino announced that he would like to film Kill Bill: Vol. 3. He explained that he wanted ten years to pass between The Bride's last conflict, in order to give her and her daughter a period of peace.[44]
In a 2012 interview for the website We Got This Covered, Tarantino said that a third Kill Bill film would "probably not" happen. He also said that he would not be directing a new James Bond film, saying that he was only interested in directing Casino Royale at one point.[45] In a late 2012 interview with the online magazine The Root, Tarantino clarified his remarks and described his next film as being the final entry in a ″Django-Inglourious Basterds″ trilogy called Killer Crow. The film will depict a group of World War II-era black troops who have "been fucked over by the American military and kind of go apeshit. They basically – the way Lt. Aldo Raine (Brad Pitt) and the Basterds are having an 'Apache resistance' – [the] black troops go on an Apache warpath and kill a bunch of white soldiers and white officers on a military base and are just making a warpath to Switzerland."[46]
A long-running rumor in the industry is that Tarantino is interested in filming a new version of Bret Easton Ellis′ 1985 novel, Less Than Zero. His friend Roger Avary adapted Rules of Attraction, another novel by Ellis, to film in 2002, and since both he and Tarantino like the works by Ellis, Tarantino has been eyeing the possibility of adapting Less Than Zero. Ellis recently confirmed, in an interview for Vice magazine, that Tarantino had been "trying to get Fox to let him remake it".[47] At a Q&A session at Harvard Book Store in 2012, in reply to a question asking whether Less Than Zero would be remade, Ellis once again confirmed that Tarantino "has shown interest" in adapting the story.[48]
Tarantino has been romantically linked with American actress Mira Sorvino,[49] directors Allison Anders[citation needed] and Sofia Coppola,[citation needed] actress Julie Dreyfus,[citation needed] actress/model Didem Erol from 2007 to 2011,[50] and comedienne Margaret Cho.[51] There have been rumors about his relationship with Uma Thurman, whom he has referred to as his "muse".[52] However, Tarantino has stressed that their relationship is strictly platonic.[53]
Tarantino has also said, "I'm not saying that I'll never get married or have a kid before I'm 60, but I've made a choice, so far, to go on this road alone. Because this is my time to make movies."[54] He says that he believes in God, but does not belong to a specific religion.[55]
His best friend is fellow filmmaker and frequent collaborator Robert Rodriguez who, in the credits of Kill Bill Volume 2, he refers to as his brother. He is also close friends with Fiona Apple, Eli Roth, Paul Thomas Anderson, Kevin Smith and Harvey Keitel.
Tarantino has said that he plans to retire from filmmaking when he is 60, in order to focus on writing novels and film literature. He is skeptical of the film industry going digital, saying, "If it actually gets to the place where you can't show 35 mm film in theatres anymore and everything is digital projection, I won't even make it to 60."[56] On February 18, 2010, it was announced that Tarantino had bought the New Beverly Cinema. Tarantino has allowed the current owners to continue operating the theater, but he will be making programming suggestions from time to time. He was quoted as saying: "As long as I'm alive, and as long as I'm rich, the New Beverly will be there, showing films shot on 35mm."[57]
An awards ceremony in the Critics Choice Awards celebrated Tarantino, citing his start in filmmaking when he was in his twenties. Music is an important part of Tarantino's filmmaking style, and he said that he would listen to music in his bedroom and create scenes which correlated to the music that was being played.[58]
In the 2012 Sight & Sound directors' poll, Tarantino listed his top 12 films: Apocalypse Now, The Bad News Bears, Carrie, Dazed and Confused, The Great Escape, His Girl Friday, Jaws, Pretty Maids All in a Row, Rolling Thunder, Sorcerer, Taxi Driver and The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, with the last being his favorite.[59] In 2009, he named Kinji Fukasaku's violent action film Battle Royale as his favorite film released since he became a director in 1992.[60] He is also a fan of the 1981 film Blow Out directed by Brian De Palma, so much so that he used the main star of the film, John Travolta, in Pulp Fiction.[61] Tarantino praised Mel Gibson's 2006 film Apocalypto, saying, "I think it's a masterpiece. It was perhaps the best film of that year."[62]
In August 2007, while teaching in a four-hour film course during the 9th Cinemanila International Film Festival in Manila, Tarantino cited Filipino directors Cirio Santiago, Eddie Romero and Gerardo de León as personal icons from the 1970s.[63] He referred to De Leon's "soul-shattering, life-extinguishing" movies on vampires and female bondage, citing in particular Women in Cages; "It is just harsh, harsh, harsh", he said, and described the final shot as one of "devastating despair".[63] Upon his arrival in the Philippines, Tarantino was quoted in the local newspaper as saying, "I'm a big fan of RP [Republic of the Philippines] cinema."
Tarantino often uses graphic violence that has proven seductive to audiences, and he has been harshly criticised for his use of gore and blood in an entrancing yet simultaneously repulsive way. His films have been staunchly criticised and scorned for their use of violence, blood and action as a "colour" within cinema, and rebuked for allegedly using human suffering as a punchline.[64]
Actor Steve Buscemi has described Tarantino's novel style of filmmaking as "bursting with energy" and "focused",[65] a style that has earned him many accolades worldwide. According to Tarantino, a hallmark of all his movies is that there is a different sense of humor in each one, which gets the audience to laugh at things that are not funny.[66] However, he insists that his films are dramas, not comedies.[67] Michael Winner, while appearing on an episode of Piers Morgan's Life Stories, a British ITV production, stated that Quentin Tarantino was a "big fan" of his own film Death Wish.
Tarantino has stated that the celebrated animation-action sequence in Kill Bill (2003) was inspired by the use of 2D animated sequences in actor Kamal Hassan's Tamil film Aalavandhan. He often seeks to harness, manipulate and ultimately imitate the aesthetic elements and conventions typically used in the cartoon medium. More specifically, he often attempts to meld comic strip formulas and aesthetics within a live action film sequence, in some cases by the literal use of cartoon or anime images. Tarantino's cinematic ambition to marry artistic expression via live action and cartoonism is yet another example of his ability to morph genres and conventions to produce a new and authentic style of his own.[68]
Tarantino often manipulates the use of commodities in order to propel plot development or to present an intriguing juxtaposition that ultimately enhances his notorious combination of humor and violence, equating a branded genre with branded consumption.[3] He often pairs bizarre props with an equally bizarre scene, in which the prop itself develops into something of higher substance. Likewise, he often favors particular brand names of his own creation to make promotional appearances. The typical brands he uses within his films are "Acuña Boys Tex-Mex Food", "Big Kahuna Burger", "G.O. Juice", "Jack Rabbit Slim's", "K-Billy", "Red Apple cigarettes", "Tenku Brand Beer" and "Teriyaki Donut".[69]
On the biopic genre, Tarantino has said that he has "no respect" for biopics, saying that they "are just big excuses for actors to win Oscars. ... Even the most interesting person – if you are telling their life from beginning to end, it’s going to be a fucking boring movie.”[70]However, in an interview with Charlie Rose, he said:
There is one story that I could be interested in, but it would probably be one of the last movies I [ever make] ... My favorite hero in American history is John Brown. He's my favorite American who ever lived. He basically single-handedly started the road to end slavery and ... he killed people to do it. He decided, 'If we start spilling white blood, then they're going to start getting the idea.' "[71]
Tarantino has stated in many interviews that his writing process is like writing a novel before formatting it into a script, saying that this creates the blueprint of the film and makes the film feel like literature. About his writing process he told website The Talks:
[My] head is a sponge. I listen to what everyone says, I watch little idiosyncratic behavior, people tell me a joke and I remember it. People tell me an interesting story in their life and I remember it. ... when I go and write my new characters, my pen is like an antenna, it gets that information, and all of a sudden these characters come out more or less fully formed. I don’t write their dialogue, I get them talking to each other.[70]
In 2013, a survey of 17 academics was carried out to discover which filmmakers had been referenced the most in essays and dissertations on film that had been marked in the previous five years. It revealed that Tarantino was the most-studied director in the UK, ahead of Christopher Nolan, Alfred Hitchcock, Martin Scorsese and Steven Spielberg.[72]
Tarantino does not believe that violence in movies inspires acts of violence in real life. In an interview after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in 2012, he expressed "annoyance" at the suggestion that there is a link between the two, saying, "I think it's disrespectful to [the] memory of those who died to talk about movies. ... Obviously the issue [here] is gun control and mental health." [73] When asked in 2013 by Britain's Channel 4 News reporter Krishnan Guru-Murthy, "Why are you so sure that there's no link between enjoying movie violence and enjoying real violence?", Tarantino responded by saying, "I refuse your question. I'm not a slave and you're not my master ... It's none of your damn business what I think about that. ... I have explained [my view on this] many times over the last 20 years, I just refuse to repeat myself over and over again."[74]
Spike Lee questioned Tarantino's use of racial epithets in his films, particularly the word "nigger". In a Variety interview discussing Jackie Brown, Lee said, "I'm not against the word...And some people speak that way. But Quentin is infatuated with that word. What does he want to be made–an honorary black man?"[75] Tarantino responded on Charlie Rose by stating:
As a writer, I demand the right to write any character in the world that I want to write. I demand the right to be them, I demand the right to think them and I demand the right to tell the truth as I see they are, all right? And to say that I can't do that because I'm white, but the Hughes brothers can do that because they're black, that is racist. That is the heart of racism, all right. And I do not accept that ... That is how a segment of the black community that lives in Compton, lives in Inglewood, where Jackie Brown takes place, that lives in Carson, that is how they talk. I'm telling the truth. It would not be questioned if I was black, and I resent the question because I'm white. I have the right to tell the truth. I do not have the right to lie.[76]
In addition, Tarantino retaliated on The Howard Stern Show by stating Lee would have to "stand on a chair to kiss my ass".[77] Samuel L. Jackson, who has appeared in both directors' films, defended Tarantino's use of the word. At the Berlin Film Festival, where Jackie Brown was being screened, Jackson responded to Lee's criticism by saying:
I don't think the word is offensive in the context of this film ... Black artists think they are the only ones allowed to use the word. Well, that's bull. Jackie Brown is a wonderful homage to black exploitation films. This is a good film, and Spike hasn't made one of those in a few years.[78]
Tarantino has defended his use of the word, arguing that black audiences have an appreciation of his blaxploitation-influenced films that eludes some of his critics, and, indeed, that Jackie Brown, another oft-cited example, was primarily made for "black audiences".[79]
According to a 1995 Premiere magazine article, actor Denzel Washington also confronted Tarantino on his usage of racial slurs in his pictures, but mentioned that Tarantino was a "fine artist".[80]
Django Unchained was the subject of controversy due to its use of racial epithets and depiction of slavery; many reviewers[81] have defended the usage of the language by pointing out the historic context of race and slavery in America.[82] Spike Lee, in an interview with Vibe magazine said he would not see the film, explaining, "All I'm going to say is that it's disrespectful to my ancestors. That's just me...I'm not speaking on behalf of anybody else."[83] Lee later tweeted, "American Slavery Was Not A Sergio Leone Spaghetti Western. It Was A Holocaust. My Ancestors Are Slaves. Stolen From Africa. I Will Honor Them."[84] Writing in The Los Angeles Times, journalist Erin Aubry Kaplan noted the difference between Tarantino's Jackie Brown and Django Unchained: "It is an institution whose horrors need no exaggerating, yet Django does exactly that, either to enlighten or entertain. A white director slinging around the n-word in a homage to '70s blaxploitation à la Jackie Brown is one thing, but the same director turning the savageness of slavery into pulp fiction is quite another".[85]
In January 2014, Tarantino filed a copyright lawsuit against Gawker Media for distribution of his 146-page script for The Hateful Eight. He claimed to have given the script to a few trusted colleagues, including Bruce Dern, Tim Roth and Michael Madsen.[86][87] However, when the script spread to others, Tarantino told the media that he would not continue with the movie. "Gawker Media has made a business of predatory journalism, violating people’s rights to make a buck", Tarantino said in his lawsuit, which went on to say, "This time they went too far ... Rather than merely publishing a news story reporting that Plaintiff’s screenplay may have been circulating in Hollywood without his permission, Gawker Media crossed the journalistic line by promoting itself to the public as the first source to read the entire Screenplay illegally."[88][89][90]
On April 19, Tarantino directed a live reading of the leaked script at the United Artists Theater, in the Ace Hotel Los Angeles. The event was organized by the Film Independent at LACMA, as part of the Live Read series.[91] Tarantino explained that they would read the first draft of the script, and he added that he was writing two new drafts with a different ending. The actors who joined Tarantino included Samuel L. Jackson, Kurt Russell, Amber Tamblyn, James Parks, Walton Goggins and the first three actors to be given the script before the leakage, Bruce Dern, Tim Roth and Michael Madsen.[37]
Like many directors, Tarantino has built up an informal "repertory company"[92] of actors who have appeared in multiple roles in films that he has directed.[93] Most notable of these is Samuel L. Jackson,[94] who has appeared in five films directed by Tarantino, and a sixth that was written by him, True Romance.[95] Other frequent collaborators include Uma Thurman, whom Tarantino has described as his "muse",[95][96]Christoph Waltz[97] and Zoë Bell.[98]
Editor Sally Menke, who worked on all Tarantino films until her death in 2010, was described by Tarantino in 2007 as "hands down my number one collaborator".[99][100]
Several of Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez's films take place in the same universe, linked via several characters.
Reservoir Dogs was given the Critic's Award at the 4th Yubari International Fantastic Film Festival in 1993.[101]
Pulp Fiction won the Palme d'Or (Golden Palm) at the 1994 Cannes Film Festival.[102] The film was nominated for seven Oscars, winning one for Best Original Screenplay, which was shared jointly by Tarantino and co-writer Roger Avary.
In 1996, Tarantino was nominated for a Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Supporting Actor in From Dusk Till Dawn, but lost against Marlon Brando in The Island of Dr. Moreau.
On August 15, 2007, Philippine President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo presented Tarantino with a lifetime achievement award at the Malacañan Palace in Manila.[103]
In 2008, Quentin Tarantino was honored with the Filmmaker on the Edge Award at the Provincetown International Film Festival.
In 2009, his film Inglourious Basterds was nominated for eight Oscars including Best Picture, Best Director and Best Original Screenplay, winning one for Best Supporting Actor.
In March 2010, Tarantino was awarded the Order of Merit of the Hungarian Republic along with Lucy Liu and Andy Vajna for producing the 2006 movie Freedom's Fury.[104]
In February 2011, Tarantino received an honorary César from the Académie des Arts et Techniques du Cinéma.[105]
In February 2013, Django Unchained was nominated for five Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay. Tarantino won the latter.
Quentin Tarantino Film Festival, a film festival in Austin, Texas, United States, hosted by Tarantino.
Greene, Richard; Mohammad, K. Silem, eds. (2007). Quentin Tarantino and Philosophy. Chicago: Open Court Books. ISBN 0-8126-9634-4. 
Waxman, Sharon, ed. (2005). Rebels on the Backlot: Six Maverick Directors and How They Conquered the Hollywood Studio System. New York: Harper Entertainment. ISBN 0060540176. 
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Quentin_Tarantino&oldid=611813788"					
Categories: 1963 birthsLiving peopleAmerican agnosticsAmerican film directors of Italian descentAmerican film producersAmerican male film actorsAmerican people of Cherokee descentAmerican people of Irish descentAmerican screenwritersAmerican male television actorsAmerican victims of crimeBAFTA winners (people)Best Director Empire Award winnersBest Original Screenplay Academy Award winnersCAS Filmmaker Award honoreesEdgar Award winnersFilm directors from CaliforniaGerman-language film directorsIndependent Spirit Award for Best Director winnersLégion d'honneur recipientsObscenity controversiesPeople from Knoxville, TennesseeActors from Torrance, California20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsBest Screenplay Golden Globe winnersMale actors from TennesseeHidden categories: All pages needing factual verificationWikipedia articles needing factual verification from May 2014All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from June 2012Articles with dead external links from October 2012Articles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from October 2012Articles with unsourced statements from May 2014Use mdy dates from December 2013Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          In January of 1992, Reservoir Dogs (1992) appeared at the Sundance Film Festival, by first-time writer-director Quentin Tarantino. The film garnered critical acclaim and the director became a legend immediately. Two years later, he followed up Dogs success with Pulp Fiction (1994) which premiered at the Cannes film festival, winning the coveted Palme D'Or Award. At the 1995 Academy Awards, it was nominated for the best picture, best director and best original screenplay. Tarantino and writing partner Roger Avary came away with the award only for best original screenplay. In 1995, Tarantino directed one fourth of the anthology Four Rooms (1995) with friends and fellow auteurs Alexandre Rockwell, Robert Rodriguez and Allison Anders. The film opened on December 25th in the United States to very weak reviews. Tarantino's next film was From Dusk Till Dawn (1996), a vampire/crime story which he wrote and co-starred with George Clooney. The film did fairly well theatrically.
        Lead characters usually drive General Motors vehicles, particularly Chevrolet and Cadillac, such as Jules' 1974 Nova and Vincent's 1960s Malibu.
        Briefcases and suitcases play an important role in Pulp Fiction (1994), Reservoir Dogs (1992), Jackie Brown (1997), True Romance (1993), and Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004).
        Frequently works with Harvey Keitel, Tim Roth, Michael Madsen, Uma Thurman, Michael Bowen, Samuel L. Jackson and Christoph Waltz.
        He always has a Dutch element in his films: The opening tune, Little Green Bag,  in Reservoir Dogs (1992) was performed by George Baker and written by  Jan Gerbrand Visser and Benjamino Bouwens who are all Dutch. The character  Freddy Newandyke, played by Tim Roth is a direct translation to a typical  Dutch last name, Nieuwendijk. The code name of Tim Roth is Mr. Orange,  the royal color of Holland, and the last name of the royal family. The Amsterdam  conversation in PulpFiction, Vincent Vega smokes from a Dutch tobacco shag  (Drum), the mentioning of Rutger Hauer in Jackie Brown (1997), the  bride's name is Beatrix, the name of the Royal Dutch Queen.
        [The Mexican Standoff] All his movies (including True Romance (1993), which he only wrote and did not direct) feature a scene in which three or more characters are pointing guns at each other at the same time.
        Often uses an unconventional storytelling device in his films, such as retrospect (Reservoir Dogs (1992)), non-linear (Pulp Fiction (1994)), or "chapter" format (_Kill Bill: Vol.1 ( 2003)_).
        His films will often include one long, unbroken take where a character is  followed around somewhere.
        Often casts comedians in small roles: 'Stephen Wright' as the DJ in Reservoir Dogs (1992), Kathy Griffin as an accident witness and Julia Sweeney as the junkyard guy's daughter in Pulp Fiction (1994), 'Chris Tucker' as Beaumont in Jackie Brown (1997), 'Mike Myers' as 'General Ed Fenech' in _Inglorious Basterds (2009)_, and Jonah Hill in Django Unchained (2012).
        Widely imitated quick cuts of character's hands performing actions in extreme  closeup, a technique reminiscent of Brian De Palma.
        Long closeup of a person's face while someone else speaks off-screen (closeup  of The Bride while Bill talks, of Butch while Marsellus talks).
        [Aliases] He uses aliases in nearly all of his movies: Honey Bunny and Pumpkin from Pulp Fiction (1994), Mr White, Blonde, Orange etc. from Reservoir Dogs (1992). Bill's team in Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003) (Black Mamba, Copperhead, Cottonmouth, and California Mountain Snake), The Basterds and other major characters in Inglourious Basterds (2009)
        [Director's Cameo] Often plays a small role in all his films (ex.) (Mr. Brown in Reservoir Dogs (1992), Jimmie Dimmick in Pulp Fiction (1994), the answering machine voice in Jackie Brown (1997), The Rapist in Grindhouse (2007) and Warren in Death Proof (2007)).
        Frequently uses Mêlée weapons, such as the "samurai sword" (Katana) that Butch uses in Pulp Fiction (1994) and the bride uses in the Kill Bill movies, also the stake attached to a jackhammer used by George Clooney in From Dusk Till Dawn (1996).
        Frequently has a female character who wears a black and white pant suit (Uma Thurman in Pulp Fiction (1994), Pam Grier in Jackie Brown (1997), Daryl Hannah in Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004)).
        Often creates fictional brands of objects due to his dislike of product placement. The Red Apple cigarettes and Big Kahuna burger established in Pulp Fiction (1994) are often referenced in his other films.
        A character cooly talks through an intense situation, either delaying the occurrence of violence or avoiding it through resolution.
        Interjects scenes with introduction of a character's background (Hugo Stieglitz is introduced in the middle of the Nazi torture scene in _Inglorious Basterds (2009)_, O-Ren is introduced with a interuption in the main story in _Kill Bill: Vol.1 (2003)_).
        Known for giving comebacks to "forgotten" actors and/or cult actors by giving them important roles in his movies: John Travolta (Pulp Fiction (1994)), David Carradine (Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004)), Lawrence Tierney (Reservoir Dogs (1992)), Pam Grier (Jackie Brown (1997)), Robert Forster (Jackie Brown (1997)), Shin'ichi Chiba (Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003))... even in smaller/cameo roles: Sid Haig (Jackie Brown (1997), Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004)), Edward Bunker (Reservoir Dogs (1992)), Rod Taylor in _Inglorious Basterds (2009)_) and Michael Parks (Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003), Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004), and_From Dusk Till Dawn (1996)_).
        Frequently references his home state of Tennessee in his films: In Pulp Fiction (1994), Butch plans to meet his connection in Knoxville, which is also where his grandfather bought the gold watch; the song "Tennessee Stud" by 'Johnny Cash' appears in Jackie Brown (1997); Death Proof (2007) is set in Lebanon, Tennessee; "Lt.. Aldo Raine" in Inglourious Basterds (2009) hails from Maynardville, Tennessee.
        Often interjects titles to tell the audience of a new portion of the story (Character names in Reservoir Dogs (1992), Chapter form in Inglourious Basterds (2009), Explanations of what audience will see such as in Pulp Fiction (1994)
        Shots with only a woman's bare feet (Uma Thurman is barefoot in the introduction of Mia in Pulp Fiction (1994) and while the Bride is sitting in the back of Buck's truck trying to move her big toe in _Kill Bill Vol. 1 (2004)_, In Death Proof (2007) 'Sydney Tamiia Poiter' (Jungle Julia) is barefoot almost constantly and Rosario Dawson (Abernathy) has her feet hanging out the window of a car while she is asleep) or characters who discuss bare feet (Jules (Samuel L. Jackson) discusses the ethics of foot massages with Vincent (John Travolta) in Pulp Fiction (1994), In Death Proof (2007) Abernathy (Rosario Dawson) talks about Stuntman Mike ('Kurt Russell') bumping into her feet when he walks by.
        Characters often utilize sharp, bladed weapons. (Mr. Blonde uses a straight razor to cut off Marvin Nash's ear in _Reservoir Dogs (1993)_, Butch uses a samurai sword to kill Maynard in Pulp Fiction (1994), The Bride uses a samurai sword to kill several characters in _Kill Bill Vol. 1 (2003)_ and _Kill Bill Vol. 2 (2004)_, Lt. Aldo Raine uses a Bowie knife to cut a swastika in Col. Hans Landa's forehead in _Inglorious Basterds (2009)_, Vernita Greene fights The Bride with a butcher knife in _Kill Bill Vol. 1 (2003)_)
        Often shows a relationship between an older experienced character and a younger character in a manner similar to a parent or teacher
        His characters often discuss Their favorite films or shows while carrying out Their activities
        His films often feature at least one character who is deeply Religious or spiritual and tries to reconcile that faith with Their actions (Jules in ''Pulp Fiction'', Jacob in ''From Dusk Till Dawn'')
        Often frames dialogue scenes around a character preparing food, usually intercut with close-ups of their hands and food items: Vernita Green making her daughter cereal in _Kill Bill: Volume 1 (2003)_, Bill making B.B. a sandwich in _Kill Bill: Volume 2 (2004)_, Hans Landa offering Shosanna Dreyfus a strudel in Inglourious Basterds (2009), King Schultz pouring beers in Django Unchained (2012).
        Many of his protagonists are morally suspect, violent-tempered individuals who ultimately best their antagonists by outmatching them in sheer brutality
        Colorful main antagonists with an elaborately thought-out, vivid but extremely twisted (and often bigoted) world view and philosophy
        Scenes are more often than not loaded with homages or visual references to other director's works
        Often times the violence in his films is over exagerrated and rooted in a darkly comic context.
        Never includes his name in a director's credit in the opening titles of his films. The credits always end with the name of his producer(s).
        It is common for the antagonist character in Quentin Tarantino films to have a low or non-existent on-screen body count, although many can be seen to torture others, kill off-screen or order others to kill. Mr. Blonde from Reservoir Dogs (1992), Marsellus Wallace from _Pulp Fiction (1994), Bill from _Kill Bill Vol. 1 (2003)_ and _Kill Bill Vol. 2 (2004) and Calvin Candie from Django Unchained (2012) don't kill anyone on-screen, Hans Landa from Inglourious Basterds (2009) kills 1 person on-screen, Ordell from Jackie Brown (1997) kills 2 on-screen but Stuntman Mike from Death Proof (2007) kills several on-screen.
      Was sued by Don Murphy for $5,000,000, accused of assault. Tarantino attacked Murphy in restaurant, slammed him against the wall and punched him. [November 1997]
      Together with Lawrence Bender founded record company called A Band Apart Records. It will focus on film soundtracks and its releases will be distributed through Maverick Records, owned by Madonna. [July 1997]
      Was planning to direct an episode of The X Files (1993) but refused to join the Director's Guild of America. The Guild refused his request for a waiver so that he could direct the show. [November 1996]
      Claims that Tarantino acted in the film Dawn of the Dead (1978) or the film King Lear (1987) are incorrect. Quentin falsely listed these credits years ago on his acting resume to compensate for his lack of experience and these incorrect credits have subsequently been attributed to him in such places as Leonard Maltin's Movie and Video Guide and the Cinemania CD ROM.
      First noted screenplay was titled "Captain Peachfuzz and the Anchovy Bandit," which was written in 1985.
      Collects old board games having to do with TV shows like I Dream of Jeannie (1965), The Dukes of Hazzard (1979), The A-Team (1983), etc.
      In all of his original screenplays, the name of a police detective named Scagnetti is referred to at least once. Most of the times the particular scene was cut out of the final versions.
      As of the year 2001, he wanted to begin filming the film Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003) with Uma Thurman. Production was delayed because of Thurman's pregnancy.
      He is the son of Tony Tarantino and Connie McHugh. His father is from New York, and Quentin's paternal grandparents, Dominic James Tarantino and Elizabeth Jean Salvaggio, were both of Italian descent. Quentin's mother was adopted by a couple with the surname "Shaffer", and was raised in Knoxville, Tennesse and Ohio. She is said to have Irish and Cherokee Native American ancestry.
      Two of Tarantino's favorite films are Manos: The Hands of Fate (1966) (which he owns a 35mm copy of) and Star Trek: The Wrath of Khan (1982), which he references in Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003).
      Was the head judge at the 2004 Cannes Film Festival, where Pulp Fiction (1994) won the Palme D'or, the top honor, only ten years earlier.
      Considers Ride in the Whirlwind (1966) one of the finest Westerns ever made, even writing an extensive article about it for Sight And Sound magazine titled A Rare Sorrow. The article was featured in the Pulp Fiction (1994) Special Edition DVD as an extra and also appears in Paul A. Woods' Film Geek Files (pgs. 129-132). Interestingly, the director of Ride in the Whirlwind, Monte Hellman, was the executive producer of Reservoir Dogs (1992).
      Was at one point in his life considering to become a novelist. He said that he tried writing two chapters of a novel about his experiences working at the Video Archives in Manhattan Beach. As can be immediately seen, novelistic narrative techniques bear a strong influence on his distinct filmmaking style.
      In 1994, before Pulp Fiction (1994), in an interview with Charlie Rose, he cited his three favorite films as Blow Out (1981) (directed by Brian De Palma), Rio Bravo (1959) (directed by Howard Hawks) and Taxi Driver (1976) (directed by Martin Scorsese).
      In the last Sight & Sound Greatest Films Poll (2002), he listed his Top Ten films as: Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo. (1966) (aka "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly," Leone), Rio Bravo (1959) (Hawks), Taxi Driver (1976) (Scorsese), His Girl Friday (1940) (Hawks), Rolling Thunder (1977) (Flynn), They All Laughed (1981) (Bogdanovich), The Great Escape (1963) (J. Sturges), Carrie (1976) (De Palma), Coffy (1973) (Hill), Dazed and Confused (1993) (Linklater), Tian xia di yi quan (1972) (aka "Five Fingers of Death," Chang) and Hi Diddle Diddle (1943) (Stone).
      Once a vocal proponent of celluloid-over-digital film-making, Tarantino got his first experience with the latter technology by directing a segment of the film Sin City (2005) with his friend 'Robert Rodriguez' (I) . Rodriguez, who lauds the technology at every opportunity, made it his mission to convert Tarantino as well. At the end of shooting, Tarantino is reported to have said simply, "Mission accomplished."
      On The Tonight Show with Jay Leno (1992), he stated his all-time favorite James Bond film is From Russia with Love (1963).
      Hates product placement hence, the use of the fictional cigarette Red Apple and now-defunct cereal Fruit Brute in his films.
      Dropped out of Narbonne High School in Harbor City, California, at the age of sixteen to pursue film making.
      Six of his movies are mentioned in FHM's (DK) 100 Best Male Movies Ever (7 October 2004 issue): True Romance (1993) at #75, From Dusk Till Dawn (1996) at #73, Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004) at #26, Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003) at #25, Reservoir Dogs (1992) at #11, and Pulp Fiction (1994) at #1.
      Was offered the role of the President of the United States of America in Batoru rowaiaru II: Chinkonka (2003) but had to decline due to scheduling conflicts.
      Frequently cites Rio Bravo (1959), Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo. (1966), and Batoru rowaiaru (2000) among his favorite films.
      Named his production company, A Band Apart, after the Jean-Luc Godard film Bande à part (1964) (Band of Outsiders).
      Often references numerous attributes of the works of Jean-Luc Godard, particularly in Pulp Fiction (1994). The disjointed structure of Pulp Fiction (1994) may itself be an homage to Godard's use of jump cuts in À bout de souffle (1960) (Breathless), the film that launched the French New Wave of cinema.
      Is a huge fan of the Half-Life computer game series, and has considered possibilities of directing a movie adaptation.
      Was the spokesman for SkyperfecTV, a Japanese based satellite TV network, a competitor to the now locally defunct DirecTV endorsed by Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Eli Roth wanted to have the world premiere of Hostel (2005) at the 2005 Iceland Film Festival. During the festival, Roth and Quentin Tarantino were made honorary vikings at Viking Village, in a ceremony arranged by Eythor Gudjonsson. Roth's Icelandic name is Eli Sheldonsson, and Tarantino's Icelandic name is Quentin Conniesson.
      Each of his movies, with the exception of Death Proof (2007), features someone from the cast of Martin Scorsese's Mean Streets (1973). Harvey Keitel from Reservoir Dogs (1992) and Pulp Fiction (1994), Robert De Niro from Jackie Brown (1997), David Carradine from Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003) and Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004), and David Proval is in Four Rooms (1995).
      Is godfather to two of Michael Madsen's sons Hudson and Calvin Michael. Michael and his wife DeAnna joked in OK! magazine about naming Quentin godfather to their newest son Luke Ray as well.
      Is spoofed in the short film Let's Get Real! (1999), which contains several satirical references to Pulp Fiction (1994).
      Has stated that he would like to make and star in a film telling the story of John Brown, the abolitionist.
      Named his favorite films of 2005 as Sin City (2005), Domino (2005), Hustle & Flow (2005) and The Devil's Rejects (2005).
      During his stay in the Philippines, Tarantino got trapped in traffic due to flooding as he was traveling to Malacanang Palace to meet President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo and receive a lifetime achievement award. Refusing to give up, he and his partner Tikoy Aguiluz got off their limousine and took a pedicab each to reach the palace. After arriving, Tarantino stated "It was a lot of fun. It just took a long time but it was not bad at all".
      Has two sisters and one brother: Tanya Marie Tarantino (b. Pasadena, California, 4 Oct 1964), Ronnajean Tarantino (b. Phoenix, Arizona, 22 June 1969) and Edward James Tarantino (b. Simi Valley, California, 3 Oct 1974).
      His father was born in Queens, New York, and has a sister named Diane. Their parents are Dominic Tarantino and wife Elizabeth.
      His mother was born in Tennessee on September 3, 1946. She is the adopted daughter of Ellis and Elizabeth (Betty) Shaffer.
      As a child, one of his favorite movies was Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein (1948). He credits the film with helping him learn genre distinctions.
      In the 2008 Empire Magazine poll of the 500 Greatest Movies of All Time, Tarantino listed his favorite films as: 1. The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (1966), (Sergio Leone), 2. Rio Bravo (1959), (Howard Hawks), 3. Blow Out (1981), (Brian De Palma), 4. Taxi Driver (1976), (Martin Scorsese), 5. His Girl Friday (1940), Howard Hawks), 6. 5 Fingers of Death / King Boxer (1972), (Chang-hwa Jeong), 7. Pandora's Box (1929), ('Georg Wilhelm Pabst'), 8. Carrie (1976), (Brian De Palma), 9. Unfaithfully Yours (1948), (Preston Sturges), 10. Five Graves to Cairo (1943), (Billy Wilder), 11. Jaws (1975), (Steven Spielberg). Choices #2, 3 and 4 are marked as "interchangeable".
      Directed 5 actors in Oscar nominated performances: John Travolta, Samuel L. Jackson, Uma Thurman, Robert Forster, and Christoph Waltz (twice). Waltz won for his performances in both Inglourious Basterds (2009) and Django Unchained (2012).
      His three favourite Alfred Hitchcock movies are; Suspicion (1941), Sabotage (1936) and Torn Curtain (1966).
      He is mentioned in the cartoon "Courage The Cowardly Dog" as the zombie director Quintin Tarantella in several episodes, the first being "Everyone Wants To Direct".
      His films mainly feature criminals and characters committing horrible crimes involving murder and drugs. The only crime Tarantino has committed was shoplifting from a bookstore when he was a teenager.
      Has said that the three films that have most influenced him as a director are: "The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly" (which he says "is obvious"), Mario Bavo's "Black Sabbath" (because it taught him the importance of having a distinct directorial voice), and "Abbot & Costello Meet Frankenstein" (because it taught him about mixing genres).
      (At MTV Movie Awards 1994) As he won Best Picture for Pulp Fiction (1994) "Pop quiz, hotshot: you go to the awards ceremonies all year long; you keep losing to Forrest Gump (1994)! It's really annoying the hell out of you - what do you do? You go to the MTV Awards!"
      On "rival" director Guy Ritchie marrying Madonna: "I guess I'll have to marry Elvis Presley to get even."
      If I've made it a little easier for artists to work in violence, great! I've accomplished something.
      On using surfing music, when hating the surfing culture: "It's like surf music, I've always like loved that but, for me, I don't know what surf music has to do with surf boards. To me, it just sounds like rock and roll, even Morricone music. It sounds like rock and roll Spaghetti Western music, so that's how I kind of laid it in."
      Movies are my religion and God is my patron. I'm lucky enough to be in the position where I don't make movies to pay for my pool. When I make a movie, I want it to be everything to me; like I would die for it.
      On the comparison between Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003)'s group fight and Neo vs. 100 Agent Smiths in The Matrix Reloaded (2003): "First off, I've always thought of the black suits as mine, so I don't think of them as Agent Smiths, I think of them as Reservoir Dogs with less cool sunglasses. The similarities between the fight sequences never occurred to me until I had a director's screening and Luc Besson turned up with Keanu Reeves as his guest. I watched Keanu watching and suddenly I felt it."
      On media criticisms of violence in his movies: "Sure, Kill Bill's a violent movie. But it's a Tarantino movie. You don't go to see Metallica and ask the fuckers to turn the music down."
      On media criticisms of violence in his movies: "What if a kid goes to school after seeing Kill Bill and starts slicing up other kids? You know, I'll take that chance! Violent films don't turn children into violent people. They may turn them into violent filmmakers but that's another matter altogether."
      On collecting movies: "If you're a film fan, collecting video is sort of like marijuana. Laser discs, they're definitely cocaine. Film prints are heroin, all right? You're shooting smack when you start collecting film prints. So, I kinda got into it in a big way, and I've got a pretty nice collection I'm real proud of."
      On how to take the violence in Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003) (re: The final duel with Lucy Liu): "It's supposed to be kind of amusing and poetic at the same time. And also just a teeny-tiny bit solemn. When you see her head, it's funny. And then her line, 'that really was a Hattori Hanzo sword,' that's funny. But then, the next shot is not funny, when she tips over and Meiko Kaji is singing about revenge on the soundtrack. So, it's all together. Funny. Solemn. Beautiful. Gross. All at the same time."
      On becoming famous: "Going into a videostore and going through the videos, looking at every title they have, trying to find some old spaghetti western, that's gone."
      I have an idea for a Godzilla movie that I've always wanted to do. The whole idea of Godzilla's role in Tokyo, where he's always battling these other monsters, saving humanity time and again- wouldn't Godzilla become God? It would be called Living Under the Rule of Godzilla. This is what society is like when a big fucking green lizard rules your world.
      On violence in Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003): "When I was on The View (1997), Barbara Walters was asking me about the blood and stuff, and I said, 'Well, you know, that's a staple of Japanese cinema.' And then she came back,'But this is America.' And I go, 'I don't make movies for America. I make movies for planet Earth.'"
      On directing the ER (1994) episode "Motherhood": "When I was directing ER, I didn't want to stand out. Everyone else is wearing all that crap. I wanted to fit in. I didn't want to be the odd man out. I wanted to be inside, not on the outside. When I was directing the ER thing, the emergency room guys wore the green scrubs. I wore those for a few days. Then, I wore the blue scrubs, which were the surgeons,' for a few days. When I wore the nurse's pink scrubs, though, that's when I became a hero on the set. The nurses didn't think I was going to throw in with them. I ended the episode, the last two days, wearing the nurses' scrubs. When I walked on the set all the nurses applauded me. They were like, 'Oh my God, he's so cool!'"
      On Thriller - en grym film (1973) and its influences on Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003): "And that is, of all the revenge movies I've ever seen, that is definitely the roughest. The roughest revenge movie ever made! There's never been anything as tough as that movie."
      If you want to make a movie, make it. Don't wait for a grant, don't wait for the perfect circumstances, just make it. - Giving advice to young aspiring filmmakers at the 1994 Independent Spirit Awards.
      I hope to give you at least 15 more years of movies. I'm not going to be this old guy that keeps cranking them out. My plan is to have a theater by that time in some small town and I will be the manager - this crazy old movie guy. (March 2005)
      I will never do 'Pulp Fiction 2', but having said that, I could very well do other movies with these characters.
      (On making another "Kill Bill" movie) "Oh yeah, initially I was thinking this would be my "Dollars Trilogy". I was going to do a new one every ten years. But I need at least fifteen years before I do this again. I've already got the whole mythology: Sofie Fatale will get all of Bill's money. She'll raise Nikki, who'll take on The Bride. Nikki deserves her revenge every bit as much as The Bride deserved hers. I might even shoot a couple of scenes for it now so I can get the actresses while they're this age."
      I'm never going to be shy about anything, what I write about is what I know; it's more about my version of the truth as I know it. That's part of my talent, really - putting the way people really speak into the things I write. My only obligation is to my characters. And they came from where I have been.
      The exploitation films were made in such an artless way with these big wide shots of Sunset Boulevard or of Arcadia or downtown L.A. or wherever. In mainstream films, especially in the 1980s, the Los Angeles you saw wasn't the real one; it was a character with this back-lot sort of atmosphere. They tried to luxuriate it. In exploitation films, you see what the place really looked like, you see the bars and mom-and-pop restaurants.
      There's only one list that's more illustrious than the list of directors who won the Palme d'Or. It's the list of directors who didn't.
      I don't believe in putting in music as a band aid to get you over some rough parts or bad film making. If it's there it's got to add to it or take it to another level.
      When I give props to these movies, you have to understand - it's not like they were all good. There's an expression: You have to drink a lot of milk before you can appreciate cream. Well, with exploitation movies, you have to drink a lot of milk-gone-bad before you can even appreciate milk! That's what part of the love of these movies is - going through the rummage bin and finding the jewels.
      [on the death of David Carradine] He was a dream to direct, a fantastic actor, a great character actor and really one of Hollywood's great mad geniuses.
      [on how The Dirty Dozen (1967) could never be made today] Ernest Borgnine. Charles Bronson. Those guys were real men. They were a different breed. Many of them had been to war. Today's young actors are soft.
      [on the Cannes Film Festival] I just like Cannes. It's like the whole planet is checking your movie out - boom! - at one time, and - bam! - it either works or it doesn't. And especially when I'm there - it's the closest thing to Muhammad Ali having a championship fight. It's just - bam! You're throwing it down.
      I've had people write that I've seen too many movies. In what other art form would being an expert be considered a negative? If I were a poet, would I be criticized for knowing too much about Sappho? Or Aristotle?
      Some people will like Inglourious Basterds (2009). Some people won't. But it was made with all the passion I've made everything with - except maybe my first film, which was probably made with more passion than I'll ever have again.
      When you gotta go out and make a movie to pay for the kid's private school and for the three ex-wives, don't talk to me about your artistry. It's their job. It's not my job. It's my calling.
      [on why his characters in Inglourious Basterds (2009) use Native American fighting tactics] I'm actually equating the Jews in this situation, in World War II, with the Indians. It's not nothing that they're doing Apache resistance. It's not about dying. It's about killing. They ambush their guys. They trick the enemy. It's not a straight-up fight. And then they go and they just completely desecrate the bodies to win a psychological war.
      [on Late Night with Conan O'Brien, when asked how he comes up with such good dialog] Well, not to be facetious or anything, but....I'm a good writer!
      I think the opening chapter of Inglourious Basterds (2009) is one of the best things I've ever written - before that sequence my best piece of writing would be the Sicilian sequence in the True Romance (1993) script; that was the best thing I'd ever done in a beginning to end piece. And I think I finally matched it, or topped it with that sequence so I knew I couldn't just let it go. I would have been haunted by it and I wouldn't be able to move on to anything else until I had it out of the way.
      CGI has fully ruined car crashes. Because how can you be impressed with them now? When you watch them in the '70s, it was real cars, real metal, real blasts. They're really doing it and risking their lives. But I knew CGI was gonna start taking over.
      There's my realer-than-real movies like Reservoir Dogs (1992). And then there's my movie-movies. And Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003) is definitely one of those. It's the movies that Jules and Vince (from Pulp Fiction (1994)) would go and see...I always thought of Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003) as my Apocalypse Now (1979) and that House Of Blue Leaves is my 'Ride Of The Valkyries' helicopter sequences.
      When I first discovered Howard Hawks, I spent a year and a half reading the TV guide and they played about 80 percent of his entire oeuvre on Los Angeles TV. Brian De Palma, Martin Scorsese, Sergio Leone and Hawks were a huge influence on me.
      [on Avatar (2009)] I'm not James Cameron and I could never think like that - I don't think he could think like me either - but if I could go into a time machine and think like that and be able to do what he could do, that would be great.
      [on Inglourious Basterds (2009) being a catharsis and multi-layered] - I mean, it would be easy to just set up a situation where we just go oh, kill the Nazis, rah, rah. But I don't play it that easy. Like for instance, on the interrogation scene that you just saw, under any criteria of bravery in warfare, that German passes the test under any criteria.And, yes it would have been easy to make him a cringing coward and it would have been more rah, rah, rah in the audience. It would be like watching "Rocky." But you know, that's too easy for what I'm trying to do.
      [on "Inglourious Basterds" (2009) being the modern strategic history of al-Qaeda] - Yes. ... Now, I've seen people who have seen the movie like three or four times and it never quite sinks into them. But that was never something that I necessarily set out to do. I wasn't trying to make a terrorist Iraq commentary with the film.It was just what made sense for the characters to do at that time. Yes they're strapping bombs on themselves.... And they're walking into a theater crowded with evil civilians and they are prepared to blow it up.... Even the character, Landa, the Jew hunter, the Nazi character in the film - he even makes a reference to it. He goes your mission - some would call it a terrorist plot - is kaput.... It was funny. Again, I wasn't trying to necessarily make a political point in there. It literally was just the next step in the story as far as I was concerned.However, once I did it, the irony was not lost on me at all. But you know, that was one of the things that I actually thought that - it was one of the things that when I was all done. Because I think there are a lot of things like that - not about that issue, but there's a lot of things in this movie that are not used to seeing in other World War II movies.I thought that was one of the aspects that would actually make the movie not just seem like a World War II movie that it's like here and you're looking at it in the eyes of the past.I wanted the film sort of the way "Bonnie and Clyde" worked when it came out. It was an old genre took place in the '30s, but it was actually telling you something about the time today. And that was what I was trying to do with this in this genre.
      [on "Inglourious Basterds" (2009) being not just a revenge fantasy about World War II, but a torture and terrorism fantasy] - Definitely. You took it right out of my mouth. Yes. I mean, basically what they're doing - you described it really, really well. To put in even shorter nutshell, they're actually doing literally the Apache resistance, but against the Nazis, against the Germans.And that was one of the things - one of the reasons I wanted to do something like that, other than for all the other reasons you said before about - it's a revenge fantasy and this and that. We've never seen it before. I was trying to do like a spaghetti western but using World War II iconography.So in my re-imagining of this whole thing, I kind of placed the Jews as the Indians in this scenario. And that is part of the whole thing. You know, when they say they ambush a German patrol of six guys and then they scalp them, maybe even take their shoes off, so when they are found there is even less dignity in the death - all these little things that they do.
      [on the time spent watching old World War II movies that gave him the confidence to embark on "Inglourious Basterds"] - It wasn't that I needed permission. But what really struck me was that these were films made by directors who'd had to flee their country because of Hitler, and yet the movies they made weren't all terror or horror. In fact, while they definitely showed the Nazis and their cruelty, they were adventure films, whether you're talking about 'Hangmen Also Die' or 'Reunion in France' or 'To Be or Not to Be' or 'O.S.S.,' an Alan Ladd film that's like a prequel to 'The Good Shepherd.'They were fun and thrilling and exciting and, most amazingly, they had a lot of comedy in them, which really made an impact on me. I mean, for every movie with a sadistic Nazi, there's one with a Nazi who's more of a buffoon or a figure of ridicule.
      Here's my problem with this whole influence thing. Instead of critics reviewing my movies, now what they're really doing is trying to match wits with me. Every time they review my movies, it's like they want to play chess with the mastermind and show off every reference they can find, even when half of it is all of their own making. It feels like the critics are IMDB-ing everything I do. It just rubs me the wrong way because they end up using it as a stick to beat me down with.
      If there is something magic about the collaborations I have with actors it's because I put the character first.
      [on the British film industry] When I first came here in 1992 with Reservoir Dogs (1992) the film industry was very dire. The movies were Enchanted April (1991) and crap like that. But that has changed, and this year has highlighted how it's changed. You guys actually have a genuine, honest-to-goodness, bona fide film industry again, and that is fantastic.
      [on the inspiration for 'Pulp Fiction'] And so I thought the idea that would, in the case of Pulp Fiction, would be kind of cool, was to take three separate stories, and make them the oldest stories in the book, whether it be, um...Vincent's character, the hoodlum, has to go out with the boss's lady, but don't touch her! And there's the whole history of people who *have* touched her, and what happens. Well we've seen that before, a zillion times...and the case of the Bruce Willis story, that the boxer's supposed to throw the fight, and he doesn't, and now the mob's after him...we've seen that story a million times as well. And one of the things I thought about, like, the third story, was basically kind of the beginning of, at that time, almost every Joel Silver movie, which would start off with like a couple hit men showing up, boom boom, alright, 'you wanna witness something witness this!' (makes gun shooting noise, laughs). And then they shoot the guy and it cuts to Arnold Schwarzenegger walking through the forest and eventually he's gonna meet those guys. And so I thought, what happens if we hung out with them? All night long? Or...all day long? After they've killed the guy, what happens with the rest of their day? And so it was like taking these, these chestnuts and putting them together and then, actually having the characters kind of intertwine and it all kind of takes place in one...city, and it's an environment that they all live in, and characters kind of know each other, but you don't know that for a while. And we're just kind of hanging out with them for those two days.
      (On once working at an adult movie theater) To me, the greatest job a person could ever have is being an usher at a movie theater. You get to go to a movie theater all day long, and then you get to see all the movies for free. Irony of ironies, I end up getting a job at a movie theater where I could care less about the movies and was totally bored by them.
      [on Reservoir Dogs (1992)] This movie was never meant to be everything for everybody. And I don't mean that as a slam. I'm just saying I made this movie for myself and everybody else is invited.
      [acceptance speech winning the Oscar for Best Screenplay for Pulp Fiction (1994)] Uh thanks! Uh, this has been a very strange year. I can definitely say that. Uh, you know what? I was trying to think...I think this is the only award I'm going to win here tonight, so I was trying to think, maybe I should say a whole lot of stuff, right here right now, just get it out of my system, you know, all year long, everything roiling up, and everything, just blow it all, just tonight, just say everything! But I'm not. Thanks.
      I'm very happy with the way I write. I think I do it good. But I've never really considered myself a writer.
      If I'm on an airplane, a Kate Hudson movie is what I'm looking for. I'll sit there and I'll cry... I think it's the altitude or something like that.
      [on fan expectations] That's not a pressure I ever feel. That should always be there. I want people to expect a lot from me, I want people waiting with great anticipation for my next movie. Growing up I felt that way. The week before Scarface (1983) came out was Scarface week... That kind of excitement is what helps keep a filmmaker alive and vital.
=======================================================
From All Movie Guide: Born March 27th, 1963, director/screenwriter/actor/producer Quentin Tarantino was perhaps the most distinctive and volatile talent to emerge in American film in the early '90s. Unlike the previous generation of American filmmakers, Tarantino learned his craft from his days as a video clerk rather than as a film-school student. Consequently, he developed an audacious fusion of pop culture and independent arthouse cinema; his films were thrillers that were distinguished as much by their clever, twisting dialogue as their outbursts of extreme violence. Tarantino initially began his career as an actor (his biggest role was as an Elvis impersonator on an episode of The Golden Girls), taking classes while he was working at Video Archives in Manhattan Beach, CA. During his time at Video Archives, the fledgling filmmaker began writing screenplays, completing his first, True Romance, in 1987. With his co-worker, Roger Avary (who would later also become a director), Tarantino tried to get financial backing to film the script. After years of negotiations, he decided to sell the script, which wound up in the hands of director Tony Scott. During this time, Tarantino wrote the screenplay for Natural Born Killers. Again, he was unable to come up with enough investors to make a movie and gave the script to his partner, Rand Vossler. Tarantino then used the money he made from True Romance to begin pre-production on Reservoir Dogs, a film about a failed heist. Reservoir Dogs received financial backing from LIVE Entertainment after Harvey Keitel agreed to star in the movie. Word-of-mouth on Reservoir Dogs began to build at the 1992 Sundance Film Festival, which led to scores of glowing reviews, making the film a cult hit. While many critics and fans were praising Tarantino, he developed a sizable number of detractors. Claiming he ripped off the obscure Hong Kong thriller City on Fire, the critics only added to the director/writer's already considerable buzz. During 1993, Tarantino wrote and directed his next feature, Pulp Fiction, which featured three interweaving crime storylines; Tony Scott's big-budget production of True Romance was also released that year. In 1994, Tarantino was elevated from a cult figure to a major celebrity. Pulp Fiction won the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival that May, beginning the flood of good reviews for the picture. Before Pulp Fiction was released in October, Oliver Stone's bombastic version of Natural Born Killers hit the theaters in August; Tarantino distanced himself from the film and was only credited for writing the basic story. Pulp Fiction soon eclipsed Natural Born Killers in both acclaim and popularity. Made for eight million dollars, the film eventually grossed over 100 million dollars and topped many critics' top ten lists. Pulp Fiction earned seven Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay (Tarantino and Avary), Best Actor (John Travolta), Best Supporting Actor (Samuel L. Jackson), and Best Supporting Actress (Uma Thurman); it won one, for Tarantino and Avery's writing.After the film's success, Tarantino was everywhere, from talk shows to a cameo in the low-budget Sleep With Me. At the beginning of 1995, he directed a segment of the anthology film Four Rooms and acted in Robert Rodriguez's sequel to El Mariachi, Desperado, and the comedy Destiny Turns on the Radio, in which he had a starring role. Tarantino also kept busy with television, directing an episode of the NBC TV hit ER and appearing in Margaret Cho's sitcom All-American Girl.The latter half of the '90s saw Tarantino continue his multifaceted role as an actor, director, screenwriter, and producer. In 1996, he served as the screenwriter and executive producer for the George Clooney schlock-fest From Dusk Till Dawn, and the following year renewed some of his earlier acclaim as the director and screenwriter of Jackie Brown. The film, in which Tarantino had a voice-over cameo, reunited him with Fiction star Samuel L. Jackson and won him the raves that had been missing for much of his post-Fiction career. Also in 1997, Tarantino appeared in Full Tilt Boogie, a documentary about the making of From Dusk Till Dawn. His film work the following year was essentially confined to a role in friend Julia Sweeney's God Said, Ha!, and in 1999, he was back behind the camera as the producer for From Dusk Till Dawn 2: Texas Blood Money. Though Tarantino would lay relatively low in the early years of the new millennium, he did make a prominent guest-starring appearance in 2001 on a two-episode story arc of the spy show Alias. In late 2002/early 2003, hype would soon start to build around his fourth feature, Kill Bill (2003). Though originally envisioned to be a single release, Kill Bill was eventually seperated into two films entitled Kill Bill Vol. 1 and Kill Bill Vol. 2 when it became obvious that the story was simply too far-reaching to be contained in a single film. A kinetic homage to revenge movies of the 1970s, Kill Bill Vol. 1 featured Uma Thurman as a former assassin known as "The Bride." While the first film in the pair was an eye-popping homage to Asian cinema and all things extreme, the outrageous violence of Kill Bill Vol. 1 stood in stark contrast to the dialogue-driven second installment that concluded the epic tale of revenge and betrayal. The gambit of separate releases paid off, as both earned a combined sum of more than 130 million dollars domestically.In the wake of the Kill Bill films, rumors abounded concerning Tarantino's next feature, and eager fans were shocked to see his name mentioned as being a potential candidate to helm everything from the next Friday the 13th film to a remake of the James Bond classic Casino Royale.In 2005, Tarantino did step back into the director's chair to helm a segment of Robert Rodriguez's eagerly anticipated comic book adaptation Sin City. A longtime friend of Rodriguez, Tarantino agreed to take part in the filming of Sin City, not only to repay the versatile filmmaker for providing soundtrack music for the Kill Bill films, but also to try his hand at digital filmmaking -- a process increasingly championed by the seemingly inexhaustable Rodriguez. After this, the two directors joined forces again, for one of the most ballyhooed and hotly anticipated pictures of 2007: Grindhouse. A no-holds-barred elegy to the sleazy, seedy, often half-dilapidated inner-city theaters of the 1970s that would churn out similarly sleazy movies, Tarantino and Rodriguez divided Grindhouse into two portions: the first half, Death Proof, directed by Tarantino, starred Kurt Russell in homage to the high-octane auto thrillers of the '70s. Merging low-brow thrills with blunt, existential dialogue, the Tarantino segment garnered the lion's share of the film's considerable critical praise, although the three-hour-plus Grindhouse ultimately failed to connect with audiences, much to the dismay of The Weinstein Company, who released it. Separate versions of Death Proof and Rodriguez's Planet Terror were then prepped for European release, with Tarantino's effort screened in competition at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival.In 2009 Tarantino issued Inglorious Basterds, a sprawling World War II epic abuot a band of Jewish American soldiers fighting an Apache resistence behind enemy lines in Nazi-occupied France. The film, strring Brad Pitt, was a hit around the world, and garnered Tarantino nominations from the Writers Guild, the Directors Guild, the Hollywood Foreign Press, and the Academy for his screenplay and his direction.He took three years to craft his follow up, Django Unchained, a revenge tale set in the pre-Civil War American south that follows a slave who teams up with a bounty hunter to get his wife away from a sadistic plantation owner. The film was a another international box office hit, and earned a number of year-end awards including a second Best Original Screenplay Oscar for Tarantino. ~ Stephen Thomas Erlewine, Rovi      
© 2010 All Media Guide, LLC Portions of content provided by All Movie Guide ®, a trademark of All Media Guide, LLC
=======================================================
Home → Quentin Tarantino biographyQuentin Tarantino BioQuentin Tarantino BiographyQuentin Tarantino 
Born in Knoxville, Tennessee to a 16-year-old nursing student mother and a 21-year-old law student/aspiring actor father, Quentin Tarantino and his parents moved to Los Angeles when he was two. When he was just eight, his mother began taking him to restricted movies such as Carnal Knowledge (1971) and Deliverance (1972). He developed an obsession for films and in his early twenties he worked in a video store while taking acting lessons. With no experience as an actor, Tarantino listed phony credits on his resumé, saying he'd had roles in the films Dawn of the Dead (1978) and King Lear (1987).
He also began writing scripts, and in 1988 he wrote the screenplay for Natural Born Killers. He followed that up with True Romance in 1990. At about this time, Tarantino had gotten a job at a small Hollywood production company doing rewrites. A friend who knew actor Harvey Keitel showed the famous actor Tarantino's third script, called Reservoir Dogs. Keitel was so impressed with the screenplay that he worked to get it produced by rounding up financing, taking a role in the film and even helping with the casting. Tarantino directed and also made his acting debut in the film, which premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in 1992. The ultra-violent film won awards from film festivals around the world, and was picked up by Miramax for distribution.
Tarantino was an instant success and his previous screenplays were immediately bought up and made into films. True Romance (1993) was directed by Tony Scott and Natural Born Killers (1994) was directed by Oliver Stone. However, Tarantino angrily demanded that his credit on Natural Born Killers be purely for story, as he felt that Stone had changed his screenplay so much that it was unrecognizable. Meanwhile, Tarantino was busy writing his next screenplay, Pulp Fiction. The film was released in 1994 and became Tarantino's biggest success to date. Because he had fond memories of watching John Travolta on television when he was a child, Tarantino chose the actor, who hadn't had a success in years, for the starring role of Vincent Vega in the film, giving Travolta a second shot at stardom. 
The film won much critical acclaim as well as doing big business at the box office, grossing over 100 million dollars worldwide. Nominated for seven Academy Awards, it won one, for Best Original Screenplay. Tarantino also received a Golden Globe and a BAFTA award for his screenplay, as well as awards from festivals around the world, including the Golden Palm award at the Cannes Film Festival.
It was a hard act to follow, and Tarantino decided to direct one fourth of an anthology called Four Rooms (1995) with three of his friends. Unfortunately, it received weak reviews and bombed at the box office, as did his next big picture, Jackie Brown (1997), despite a cast loaded with stars such as Samuel L. Jackson, Robert De Niro and Bridget Fonda. 
In 2000, he played a small role in Adam Sandler's film Little Nicky, but returned to directing and writing with Kill Bill (2003), starring Uma Thurman as a hit woman out for revenge. In 2010 he received two more Academy Award nominations for his directorial work and original screenplay for Inglourious Basterds (2009). 
Tarantino lives in the Los Angeles area and collects old lunch boxes and board games that feature TV shows.
Filmography → Oscars™ Nominations And AwardsDirectorDjango Unchained (2012)DirectorInglourious Basterds (2009)DirectingNomineeActorSukiyaki Western Django (2008)DirectorGrindhouse (2007)ProducerGrindhouse (2007)ProducerGrindhouse Presents: Planet Terror (2007)DirectorKill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004)DirectorKill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003)DirectorPulp Fiction (1999)DirectorJackie Brown (1997)ActorReservoir Dogs (1992)DirectorReservoir Dogs (1992)ProducerReservoir Dogs (1992)
=======================================================
Quentin Jerome Tarantino (born March 27, 1963) is an American film director, actor, and Oscar-winning screenwriter. For movies, check the Filmography.
Quentin Tarantino was born on March 27, 1963 in Knoxville, Tennessee, the son of a 16 year old nursing student Connie and a 21 year old law student and aspiring actor Tony. Connie named him after Burt Reynolds' Indian character, "Quint" on the 60s TV series Gunsmoke. When Quentin was 2, they moved to South Los Angeles which is where Quentin grew up. His mother took him to the cinema from an early age, he saw films like Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein (which was a major inspiration), The Wild Bunch at age 6, Carnal Knowledge at age 8 and Deliverance at age 9. From these early introductions to cinema, Tarantino fell in love with the movies and went at every opportunity.
At the age of 22, he landed a job at the Manhattan Beach Video Archives, a now defunct video rental store in Manhattan Beach, California where he and fellow movie buffs like Roger Avary spent all day watching, discussing and recommending films to customers. He made his first (unfinished) film in 1986, 'My Best Friend's Birthday', written with acting class friend Craig Hamann, and followed this up by writing his first script, 'True Romance' a year later.
During this period, he was attending acting classes and put together a CV of his (non-existent) acting experience which included a role in Jean Luc Godard's 'King Lear' because nobody in Hollywood would have heard of the film or director and Dawn of the Dead by George A. Romero because he resembled a biker in one of the scenes. His role in 'King Lear' was actually listed in Leonard Maltin's video guide.
By 1988, Tarantino had written his second script, Natural Born Killers and in 1990 he sold the script for True Romance for $50,000. He decided to use this money to make his third script, Reservoir Dogs on 16mm and in black and white with his friends in the leading roles. It was around this point that Tarantino left the video store to do rewrites for CineTel, a small Hollywood production company - it was at this time he met Lawrence Bender and struck lucky;
Bender was attending acting classes with Peter Flood, who was divorced from acting teacher Lily Parker and knew Harvey Keitel from the Actors Studio. Keitel saw the script and was impressed enough to raise some more finance, act in the film and help Tarantino cast the main roles. At this point, producers Monte Hellman and Richard Gladstein also joined the project.
In 1991, Tarantino filmed some scenes at Sundance with him playing the role of Mr. White and Steve Buscemi playing Mr. Pink. These scenes were shown to various film people to comment on and the group containing Terry Gilliam were particularly impressed.
Reservoir Dogs finally premiered at Sundance '92 before appearing at various film festivals around the World. Miramax picked the film up for distribution after Sundance and it was released in the US later in 1992 and in the UK on January 8 1993.
Tarantino traveled around the various festivals in 1992 promoting his film and writing his next script, 'Pulp Fiction' which went on to win the Palme D'Or at Cannes in 1994. It finally opened amidst incredible hype and critical acclaim on October 14 in the US and October 21 in the UK.
Pulp Fiction went on to become one of the most highly acclaimed movies of 1994, grossing over 100 million dollars worldwide and picking up several Academy Award nominations for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Supporting Actor, Actress, Best Editing, and winning an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay.
Riding on the success of Pulp Fiction, Tarantino has gone on to be a major Hollywood player, Producing, Distributing films through Miramax with an arm of the company called Rolling Thunder Pictures, Co-Directing and Co-Writing Four Rooms, an anthology-type feature film, Directing an episode of 'ER', a popular TV show, and making many appearances in movies and TV.
After having already cooperated with Robert Rodriguez in 'Four Rooms', in 1996 the two of them realized Quentins old script From Dusk Till Dawn. Rodriguez directed. Apart from having written the screenplay he also co-produced and starred as Ritchie Gecko side by side with George Clooney. The movie was a big success and this also leaded to 2 sequels ('Texas Blood Money' and 'The Hangman's Daughter').
In 1996 he also appeared in the movie 'Girl 6', acting himself, Curdled where the 'Gecko Brothers' from 'Dusk' appear he was producing, he made some changes for 'The Rock' and appeared in Steven Spielberg's Director's Chair, a CD-Rom game.
Being a fan and friend of the american top-seller author Elmore Leonard, in 1997 he decided to make the movie 'Jackie Brown' based upon Leonard's novel Rum Punch.
After a few years of hiatus, he returned to the big screen in 2001 with his magnum opus Kill Bill, which turned out to be enough material for two movies, so it got split into Volume 1 and Volume 2, released about a year apart. The film rekindled a love for Asian and exploitation movies among consumers worldwide and became an instant classic. He also ventured a little into TV, directing the Season 5 finale of the popular crime show Crime Scene Investigation. That double episode, titled Grave Danger, got high ratings and featured many Tarantino signature tricks and interesting cameos.
In 2007, he made Grindhouse together with his long time friend Robert Rodriguez. The double feature, a throwback to drive-in exploitation cinema, consisted of Death Proof, directed by Quentin, and Planet Terror, directed by Robert. The movie was hyped, but was financially insuccessful. Nevertheless, it gained a cult following and just like Kill Bill, it led to re-releases of old exploitation films. The Grindhouse style has since been numerously replicated in low budget movies and commercials. Rodriguez has since turned one of the fake trailers included in Grindhouse into a feature film, Machete.
Tarantino has talked about a war movie for many many years, but not until 2008 did any of those rumors come together, when he announced that he had in fact finally finished a script for Inglourious Basterds, a massive war epic inspired by European cinema of the pre-war period and the Italian war movie genre, the Macaroni Combat films of the 60s and 70s. The movie went into production that same year, starring Brad Pitt in the leading role. It was a huge international success and gathered quite a few awards.
In 2011, Tarantino announced the completion of his latest script, a movie about Slavery in the old US south of the 1860s, titled Django Unchained. Production started in late fall of 2011, and the movie is slated for a release on Christmas Day 2012. The movie has attracted enormous attention, especially because it stars Jamie Foxx, Leonardo DiCaprio, Samuel L. Jackson and Christoph Waltz, who won an Oscar for his role in Inglourious Basterds, and whose career has since gone through the roof.
 Is a huge Elvis Presley fan. Many of his films and scripts have referenced the superstar Rock & Roll artist including True Romance, Pulp Fiction, and Kill Bill. He also has played an Elvis impersonator on the television series The Golden Girls, for which he still gets a decent check for to this day because it was a two part episode and everytime it airs they show his scene in the 'previously on' segment. It may not be a coincidence that Kurt Russell was chosen for the part of Stuntman Mike in his Grind House installment Death Proof, since he too played Elvis in a tv biopic for John Carpenter.
 Like Stephen King and other popular fiction writers, Quentin Tarantino has professed a desire to segregate his art from the unrealistic to the realistic. His scripts have always existed in one of two universes, the "Movie Movie" Universe and the "Realer Than Real World" Universe. The "Movie Movie" Universe (Kill Bill) are the kinds of films the characters in his Realer Than Real World Universe (Pulp Fiction) would go to see. They are not based in reality at all, they are hyperrealistic. Tarantino has explained that his 5th film Death Proof takes place in the "Realer Than Real World" Universe along with his films Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction.
 Tarantino, along with his friends Lawrence Bender and Michael Bodnarchek, was a co-founder of A Band Apart, through which he produced most of his films up till and past Jackie Brown.
Aged 6, she moves to Cleveland with adoptive parents Betty and Ellis Shaffer. Then moved to California. 
Pregnant at age of 16, from Tony Tarantino. Moves with Quentin to California. Marries musician Curt Zastoupil. Marries Jan Bohusch. She is now also a movie producer for Prague Indies Productions (PIP)
The Quentin Tarantino Archives Wiki hosts a rising number of Interviews with Mr Tarantino, please navigate to our Interviews Category.
We are working on a growing database of pictures. Please follow this link to our pictures page: Category:Pictures
Categories: People | Resources | Directors | Writers | Actors | Reservoir Dogs | Pulp Fiction | Jackie Brown | Kill Bill | Death Proof | Planet Terror | Grindhouse | Inglourious Basterds | Django Unchained | Sin City | From Dusk Till Dawn | Cinematographers 
					Mozilla Cavendish Theme based on Cavendish style by Gabriel Wicke modified by DaSch for the Web Community Wiki
=======================================================
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
   background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/twister/tiny-snake._V192199047_.gif') no-repeat scroll 0px 0px;
  cursor: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-in._V184888790_.bmp'),pointer;
  cursor: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-out._V184888738_.bmp),pointer;
.swSprite { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; margin: 0;padding: 0; position: relative; overflow: hidden; vertical-align: middle; background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler div.disabled-button { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image {  background-position: -60px -80px;background-color: white;}
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image { background-position: -30px -80px; background-color: white;}
.dpSprite { background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-dp-2._V384267953_.png'); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.udpSprite { background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/udp-sprite-dp-2._V358106326_.png') no-repeat; vertical-align: middle; display: inline-block;}
.cmtySprite { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-communities._V136632413_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192250049_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V156431432_.png);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192190832_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite._V192250042_.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192239831_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/customerimage/shuttle-gradient._V192250138_.gif); 
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V192238939_.gif');
    background: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/sprite-carousel-btns-stars2._V376388587_.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_left_17._V248144977_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_right_17._V248144979_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_left._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top._V265110086_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_left._V265110084_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom._V265110084_.png); }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-arrow-v._V219326286_.png);
     #twister .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; } #twister .a-dropdown-container span.a-button-dropdown { display: none !important } 	
     #buybox_feature_div .a-native-dropdown, #buybox .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; font-weight: normal;}
     #buybox_feature_div label.a-native-dropdown, #buybox label.a-native-dropdown {padding-right: 5px;}
     #buybox_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown, #buybox .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown  { display: none !important;} 
     #defaultChildDropdown_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown { display: none !important;}
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York TimesŽ Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
No Kindle device required. Download one of the free Kindle apps to start reading Kindle books on your smartphone, tablet and computer.
FREE Two-Day Shipping is available to Amazon Prime members. To join, select "Yes, I want FREE Two-Day Shipping with Amazon Prime" above the Add to Cart button and confirm your Amazon Prime free trial sign-up during checkout.
Important:  Your credit card will NOT be charged when you start your free trial or if you cancel during the trial period. If you're happy with Amazon Prime, do nothing. At the end of the free trial, your membership will automatically upgrade to an annual membership.
Comment: Shared Knowledge is a not for profit public charity! Check us out on facebook. We provide funding for educational programs in Richmond, Virginia. PLEASE READ FULL DESCRIPTION -USED GOOD- This book has been read and may show wear to the cover and or pages. There may be some dog-eared pages. In some cases the internal pages may contain highlighting/margin notes/underlining or any combination of these markings. The binding will be secure in all cases. This is a good reading and studying copy and has been verified that all pages are legible and intact. If the book contained a CD it is not guaranteed to still be included. Your purchase directly supports our scholarship program as well as our partner charities. All items are packed and shipped from the Amazon warehouse. Thanks so much for your purchase! 
Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) is a service we offer sellers that lets them store their products in Amazon's fulfillment centers, and we directly pack, ship, and provide customer service for these products. Something we hope you'll especially enjoy: FBA items qualify for FREE Shipping and .
    * https://omni-grok.amazon.com/xref/src/appgroup/websiteTemplates/retail/SoftlinesDetailPageAssets/udp-intl-lock/src/legacy.css?indexName=WebsiteTemplates#40
 Worshiped like a film star by fans of his ultrahip and violent movies, reviled and condemned by the self-appointed guardians of mortality, Quentin Tarantino has become the cult hero of the nineties.  Using exclusive material from her interviews with Tarantino and those close to him, Jami Bernard traces his fascinating rise from high school dropout and B-movie junkie to the darling Hollywood, exploring the philosophy and mythology of the writer and director who has, with just a few explosive films, turned the movie world on its head.  With the furor over Reservior Dogs, the triumph of Pulp Fiction, and the bitter conflict over Natural Born Killers, Tarantino's meteoric rise has been perspective of those who have worked, played, and done battle with him, Jami Bernard looks beyond the media icon and reveals the man--and his message.
{"currencyCode":"USD","itemData":[{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":11.81,"ASIN":"0060951613","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":13.45,"ASIN":"1557832277","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":12.6,"ASIN":"0714531162","isPreorder":0}],"shippingId":"0060951613::JRlMhM5J1GJ2LBwnWqli0tFIfr0trOw16jcDZ9aLGo2fwdHcwAFUHXmTXPb6tnj4JzBTgcyVh5uC2SuH0rWEVyWWSoCM5qGvK0fZ75AVUMc%3D,1557832277::GID1rhDThzSDHODt9UEYIt1YAykRWbsN4HVl0LyWbGH5wjrP8r%2F3%2FBwWngjJ78PzhcorMyE8WIt0A5pPl40EmL8ViWaN5Hnd9pvXZ419BSQ%3D,0714531162::sAfZlSMJ4yDtNjeeGUP56cYFt4pnnLgeHpaHb5DOeWUlRUmgASX%2BLX9J0ryswodELolOJgY00zLS9p4%2B2hd%2FLtpGme2uv9ydbJL2B4CaxTfAc8VfdbrUPg%3D%3D","sprites":{"addToWishlist":["wl_one","wl_two","wl_three"],"addToCart":["s_addToCart","s_addBothToCart","s_add3ToCart"],"preorder":["s_preorderThis","s_preorderBoth","s_preorderAll3"]},"shippingDetails":{"xz":"same","yz":"same","xy":"same","xyz":"same"},"tags":["x","y","z"],"strings":{"addToWishlist":["add to wishlist","Add both to Wish List","Add all three to Wish List"],"addToCart":["Add to Cart","Add both to Cart","Add all three to Cart"],"showDetailsDefault":"Show availability and shipping details","shippingError":"An error occurred, please try again","hideDetailsDefault":"Hide availability and shipping details","priceLabel":["Price:","Price for both:","Price for all three:"],"preorder":["Pre-order this item","Pre-order both items","Pre-order all three items"]}}
0812696344,1578060516,0714531162,161703875X,B00F902OT6,B000P0J0D8,0760344795,1557832277,0452271878,0316070351,B005LAIIJY,B00008975Z,B004SIP95G,B004U7MR14,B000HRVCB2,B002AF4Y9G,B009B0OG1O,B002T9H2LA,0802136850,0802134483,0753510715,0859653641,B0000C9V3T,0684862581,B004SIP9Z6,B004YCKK6Y,B000UAE7O0,B0031P77RU,B001CDFY50,B004S699LI,B003W88QVC,087910399X,1592406890,0451205766,0571211259,057121102X,0679756604,B004P7CN5O,1579128114,B003VMFWYI,B000002OTL,0713479906,193290705X,0802136869,0060823461,0786881046,0140127224,1844543668,3836527758,B005LAIIKI,0240812174,B000R7HY0K,1416553657,0240812093,B00A8V3VVG,B007D5E7C2,B003KGBIRA,0941188108,B0001LJCPC,0380798549,0684873168,1557042462,0452297281,0812697642,0306809060,0544114531,157806113X,1902588215,1902588258,0671682652,B009RKGUW6,1616135298,0879516771,0786883499,0671644173,039304601X,1904048366,0582473047
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V397906885_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-right._V192549178_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_br._V192190565_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_03._V192190907_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-topleft._V192549173_.gif');
Tell us that you'd like this title to be produced as an audiobook, and we'll alert our colleagues at Audible.com. If you are the author or rights holder, let Audible help you produce the audiobook: Learn more at ACX.com. 
  This book is a must-read for every true Tarantino fan.Jamie Bernard's book is simply amazing. It covers Tarantino's life from childhood till about 1996. The book is well-written, and goes deep into detail and uncovers Tarantino's life as hyperactive kid, movie theater regular, fatherless child and genius moviemaker. This is the single best book ever written about Quentin Tarantino. No other book delivers such great information, biographical facts and stories about the making of his early movies and involvements in projects. If you want to read a good book about Tarantino, get this one first. It's the best!trust me on this...
  I just finished reading this book, and it is a fine work of reporting. It interviews people from both sides of the Tarantino debate (those who love him and those who hate him), and allows you to draw your own conclusions  from all the statements. It covers Tarantino's life from his birth up to  the moment when he made Four Rooms.Too bad this book is out of print. I  hope there will be a reissue in the future, probably covering the latest  works of Tarantino.
  Very inspiring and interesting perspective on Tarantino. My oldest son is an aspiring writer and movie buff especially in the genre Tarantino focuses on. Well written and gives a better understanding of the man and his background which has made him the genius he is today.
      I will be glad to review it as soon as I have read it. Still waiting for it to arrive.I'll keep you posted.
      When Tarantino blew up in the early 90's, there were slews of quickie books written to cash in on his enormous popularity. This is not one of them.
      This book is a very good book.  It gets you very familiar with Quentin and his movis. Every Quentin fan should read this book.  I am going to read it again.  Read the book!!
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMens GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
.ap_classic { border-top:1px solid #ccc;border-left:1px solid #ccc;border-bottom:1px solid #2F2F1D; border-right:1px solid #2F2F1D;background-color:#EFEDD4;padding:3px; }
.ap_classic .ap_content { clear:both;background-color:white;border:1px solid #ACA976;padding:8px;font-size:11px; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png");  
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV  Amazons Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
