=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (June 2014)
Clive Staples Lewis (29 November 1898 – 22 November 1963), commonly called C. S. Lewis and known to his friends and family as "Jack", was a novelist, poet, academic, medievalist, literary critic, essayist, lay theologian, and Christian apologist. Born in Belfast, Ireland, he held academic positions at both Oxford University (Magdalen College), 1925–1954, and Cambridge University (Magdalene College), 1954–1963. He is best known both for his fictional work, especially The Screwtape Letters, The Chronicles of Narnia, and The Space Trilogy, and for his non-fiction Christian apologetics, such as Mere Christianity, Miracles, and The Problem of Pain.
Lewis and fellow novelist J. R. R. Tolkien were close friends. Both authors served on the English faculty at Oxford University, and both were active in the informal Oxford literary group known as the "Inklings". According to his memoir Surprised by Joy, Lewis had been baptized in the Church of Ireland (part of the Anglican Communion) at birth, but fell away from his faith during his adolescence. Owing to the influence of Tolkien and other friends, at the age of 32 Lewis returned to the Anglican Communion, becoming "a very ordinary layman of the Church of England".[1] His faith had a profound effect on his work, and his wartime radio broadcasts on the subject of Christianity brought him wide acclaim.
In 1956, he married the American writer Joy Davidman, 17 years his junior, who died four years later of cancer at the age of 45. Lewis died three years after his wife, from renal failure, one week before his 65th birthday. Media coverage of his death was minimal; he died on 22 November 1963—the same day that U.S. President John F. Kennedy was assassinated and that another famous author, Aldous Huxley, died. In 2013, on the 50th anniversary of his death, Lewis was honoured with a memorial in Poets' Corner, Westminster Abbey.
Lewis's works have been translated into more than 30 languages and have sold millions of copies. The books that make up The Chronicles of Narnia have sold the most and have been popularized on stage, TV, radio, and cinema. His works entered the public domain in 2014 in countries where copyright expires 50 years after the death of the creator, such as Canada.
Clive Staples Lewis was born in Belfast, Ireland, on 29 November 1898.[2] His father was Albert James Lewis (1863–1929), a solicitor whose father, Richard, had come to Ireland from Wales during the mid-19th century. His mother was Florence Augusta Lewis, née Hamilton (1862–1908), known as Flora, the daughter of a Church of Ireland (Anglican) priest. He had an elder brother, Warren Hamilton Lewis. At the age of four, shortly after his dog Jacksie was killed by a car, he announced that his name was now Jacksie. At first, he would answer to no other name, but later accepted Jack, the name by which he was known to friends and family for the rest of his life. When he was seven, his family moved into "Little Lea", the family home of his childhood, in the Strandtown area of East Belfast.
As a boy, Lewis had a fascination with anthropomorphic animals, falling in love with Beatrix Potter's stories and often writing and illustrating his own animal stories. He and his brother Warnie together created the world of Boxen, inhabited and run by animals. Lewis loved to read; and, as his father's house was filled with books, he felt that finding a book to read was as easy as walking into a field and "finding a new blade of grass".[3]
Lewis was schooled by private tutors before being sent to the Wynyard School in Watford, Hertfordshire, in 1908, just after his mother's death from cancer. Lewis's brother had enrolled there three years previously. The school was closed not long afterwards due to a lack of pupils; the headmaster Robert "Oldie" Capron was soon after committed to a psychiatric hospital. Lewis then attended Campbell College in the east of Belfast about a mile from his home, but he left after a few months due to respiratory problems. He was then sent to the health-resort town of Malvern, Worcestershire, where he attended the preparatory school Cherbourg House, which Lewis calls "Chartres" in his autobiography. It was during this time that Lewis abandoned his childhood Christian faith and became an atheist, becoming interested in mythology and the occult.[4] In September 1913, Lewis enrolled at Malvern College, where he remained until the following June. He found the school socially competitive.[5] After leaving Malvern, he studied privately with William T. Kirkpatrick, his father's old tutor and former headmaster of Lurgan College.
As a teenager, he was wonder-struck by the songs and legends of what he called Northernness, the ancient literature of Scandinavia preserved in the Icelandic sagas. These legends intensified an inner longing he later called "joy". He also grew to love nature; its beauty reminded him of the stories of the North, and the stories of the North reminded him of the beauties of nature. His teenage writings moved away from the tales of Boxen, and he began using different art forms (epic poetry and opera) to try to capture his new-found interest in Norse mythology and the natural world. Studying with Kirkpatrick ("The Great Knock", as Lewis afterwards called him) instilled in him a love of Greek literature and mythology and sharpened his skills in debate and sound reasoning. In 1916, Lewis was awarded a scholarship at University College, Oxford.[6] Before he was allowed to attend Oxford, Lewis was conscripted into the First World War. His experience of the horror of war confirmed his atheism.
Lewis experienced a certain cultural shock on first arriving in England: "No Englishman will be able to understand my first impressions of England", Lewis wrote in Surprised by Joy, continuing, "The strange English accents with which I was surrounded seemed like the voices of demons. But what was worst was the English landscape ... I have made up the quarrel since; but at that moment I conceived a hatred for England which took many years to heal."[7]
From boyhood, Lewis immersed himself firstly in Norse, Greek, and, later, in Irish mythology and literature and expressed an interest in the Irish language,[8][9] though there is not much evidence that he laboured to learn it. He developed a particular fondness for W. B. Yeats, in part because of Yeats's use of Ireland's Celtic heritage in poetry. In a letter to a friend, Lewis wrote, "I have here discovered an author exactly after my own heart, whom I am sure you would delight in, W. B. Yeats. He writes plays and poems of rare spirit and beauty about our old Irish mythology".[10]
In 1921, Lewis met Yeats twice, since Yeats had moved to Oxford.[11] Surprised to find his English peers indifferent to Yeats and the Celtic Revival movement, Lewis wrote: "I am often surprised to find how utterly ignored Yeats is among the men I have met: perhaps his appeal is purely Irish – if so, then thank the gods that I am Irish."[12][13][14] Early in his career, Lewis considered sending his work to the major Dublin publishers, writing: "If I do ever send my stuff to a publisher, I think I shall try Maunsel, those Dublin people, and so tack myself definitely onto the Irish school."[10] After his conversion to Christianity, his interests gravitated towards Christian spirituality and away from pagan Celtic mysticism.[15]
Lewis occasionally expressed a somewhat tongue-in-cheek chauvinism toward the English. Describing an encounter with a fellow Irishman, he wrote: "Like all Irish people who meet in England, we ended by criticisms on the invincible flippancy and dullness of the Anglo-Saxon race. After all, there is no doubt, ami, that the Irish are the only people: with all their faults, I would not gladly live or die among another folk".[16] Throughout his life, he sought out the company of other Irish people living in England[17] and visited Northern Ireland regularly, even spending his honeymoon there in 1958 at the Old Inn, Crawfordsburn.[18] He called this "my Irish life".[19]
Various critics have suggested that it was Lewis's dismay over sectarian conflict in his native Belfast that led him to eventually adopt such an ecumenical brand of Christianity.[20] As one critic has said, Lewis "repeatedly extolled the virtues of all branches of the Christian faith, emphasising a need for unity among Christians around what the Catholic writer G. K. Chesterton called 'Mere Christianity', the core doctrinal beliefs that all denominations share."[21] On the other hand, Paul Stevens of the University of Toronto has written that "Lewis's mere Christianity masked many of the political prejudices of an old-fashioned Ulster Protestant, a native of middle-class Belfast for whom British withdrawal from Northern Ireland even in the 1950s and 1960s was unthinkable".[22]
In 1917, Lewis left his studies to volunteer for the British Army. During the First World War, he was commissioned into the Third Battalion of the Somerset Light Infantry. Lewis arrived at the front line in the Somme Valley in France on his nineteenth birthday and experienced trench warfare.
On 15 April 1918, Lewis was wounded and two of his colleagues were killed by a British shell falling short of its target.[23] Lewis suffered from depression and homesickness during his convalescence. Upon his recovery in October, he was assigned to duty in Andover, England. He was demobilized in December 1918 and soon returned to his studies.
Lewis received a First in Honour Moderations (Greek and Latin Literature) in 1920, a First in Greats (Philosophy and Ancient History) in 1922, and a First in English in 1923. In 1924 he became a philosophy tutor at University College and, in 1925, was elected a Fellow and Tutor in English Literature at Magdalen College, where he served for 29 years until 1954.
While being trained for the army, Lewis shared a room with another cadet, Edward Courtnay Francis "Paddy" Moore (1898–1918). Maureen Moore, Paddy's sister, said that the two made a mutual pact[24] that if either died during the war, the survivor would take care of both their families. Paddy was killed in action in 1918 and Lewis kept his promise. Paddy had earlier introduced Lewis to his mother, Jane King Moore, and a friendship quickly sprang up between Lewis, who was eighteen when they met, and Jane, who was forty-five. The friendship with Moore was particularly important to Lewis while he was recovering from his wounds in hospital, as his father did not visit him.
Lewis lived with and cared for Moore until she was hospitalized in the late 1940s. He routinely introduced her as his "mother", and referred to her as such in letters. Lewis, whose own mother had died when he was a child and whose father was distant, demanding and eccentric, developed a deeply affectionate friendship with Moore.
Speculation regarding their relationship re-surfaced with the publication, in 1990, of A. N. Wilson's biography of Lewis. Wilson (who never met Lewis) attempted to make a case for their having been lovers for a time. Wilson's biography was not the first to address the question of Lewis's relationship with Moore; George Sayer, who knew Lewis for 29 years, had sought to shed light on the relationship, during the period of 14 years prior to Lewis's conversion to Christianity, in his biography Jack: A Life of C. S. Lewis, in which he wrote:
Were they lovers? Owen Barfield, who knew Jack well in the 1920s, once said that he thought the likelihood was "fifty-fifty." Although she was twenty-six years older than Jack, she was still a handsome woman, and he was certainly infatuated with her. But it seems very odd, if they were lovers, that he would call her "mother." We know, too, that they did not share the same bedroom. It seems most likely that he was bound to her by the promise he had given to Paddy and that his promise was reinforced by his love for her as his second mother.[25]
Later Sayer changed his mind. In the introduction to the 1997 edition of his biography of Lewis he wrote:
I have had to alter my opinion of Lewis's relationship with Mrs. Moore. In chapter eight of this book I wrote that I was uncertain about whether they were lovers. Now after conversations with Mrs. Moore's daughter, Maureen, and a consideration of the way in which their bedrooms were arranged at The Kilns, I am quite certain that they were.[26]
Lewis spoke well of Mrs. Moore throughout his life, saying to his friend George Sayer, "She was generous and taught me to be generous, too."
In December 1917 Lewis wrote in a letter to his childhood friend Arthur Greeves that Jane and Greeves were "the two people who matter most to me in the world".
In 1930, Lewis and his brother Warnie moved, with Mrs. Moore and her daughter Maureen, into "The Kilns", a house in the district of Headington Quarry on the outskirts of Oxford, now part of the suburb of Risinghurst. They all contributed financially to the purchase of the house, which passed to Maureen, who by then was Dame Maureen Dunbar, when Warren died in 1973.
Jane Moore suffered from dementia in her later years and was eventually moved into a nursing home, where she died in 1951. Lewis visited her every day in this home until her death.
Lewis was raised in a church-going family in the Church of Ireland. He became an atheist at 15, though he later described his young self as being paradoxically "very angry with God for not existing".[27]
His early separation from Christianity began when he started to view his religion as a chore and as a duty; around this time, he also gained an interest in the occult, as his studies expanded to include such topics.[28] Lewis quoted Lucretius (De rerum natura, 5.198–9) as having one of the strongest arguments for atheism:[29]
Lewis's interest in the works of George MacDonald was part of what turned him from atheism. This can be seen particularly well through this passage in Lewis's The Great Divorce, chapter nine, when the semi-autobiographical main character meets MacDonald in Heaven:
... I tried, trembling, to tell this man all that his writings had done for me. I tried to tell how a certain frosty afternoon at Leatherhead Station when I had first bought a copy of Phantastes (being then about sixteen years old) had been to me what the first sight of Beatrice had been to Dante: Here begins the new life. I started to confess how long that Life had delayed in the region of imagination merely: how slowly and reluctantly I had come to admit that his Christendom had more than an accidental connexion with it, how hard I had tried not to see the true name of the quality which first met me in his books is Holiness.[30]
He slowly re-embraced Christianity, influenced by arguments with his Oxford colleague and friend J. R. R. Tolkien, whom he seems to have met for the first time on 11 May 1926, and by the book The Everlasting Man by G. K. Chesterton. He fought greatly up to the moment of his conversion, noting that he was brought into Christianity like a prodigal, "kicking, struggling, resentful, and darting his eyes in every direction for a chance to escape."[31] He described his last struggle in Surprised by Joy:
You must picture me alone in that room in Magdalen, night after night, feeling, whenever my mind lifted even for a second from my work, the steady, unrelenting approach of Him whom I so earnestly desired not to meet. That which I greatly feared had at last come upon me. In the Trinity Term of 1929 I gave in, and admitted that God was God, and knelt and prayed: perhaps, that night, the most dejected and reluctant convert in all England.[32]
After his conversion to theism in 1929, Lewis converted to Christianity in 1931, following a long discussion and late-night walk with his close friends Tolkien and Hugo Dyson. He records making a specific commitment to Christian belief while on his way to the zoo with his brother. He became a member of the Church of England – somewhat to the disappointment of Tolkien, who had hoped that he would join the Catholic Church.[33][page needed]
Lewis was a committed Anglican who upheld a largely orthodox Anglican theology, though in his apologetic writings, he made an effort to avoid espousing any one denomination. In his later writings, some believe that he proposed ideas such as purification of venial sins after death in purgatory (The Great Divorce and Letters to Malcolm) and mortal sin (The Screwtape Letters), which are generally considered to be Roman Catholic teachings, although they are also widely held in Anglicanism (particularly in high church Anglo-Catholic circles). Regardless, Lewis considered himself an entirely orthodox Anglican to the end of his life, reflecting that he had initially attended church only to receive communion and had been repelled by the hymns and the poor quality of the sermons. He later came to consider himself honoured by worshipping with men of faith who came in shabby clothes and work boots and who sang all the verses to all the hymns.[34]
After the outbreak of the war in 1939, the Lewises took child evacuees from London and other cities into The Kilns.[35]
Only 40 when the war started, Lewis tried to re-enter military service, offering to instruct cadets, but his offer was not accepted. He rejected the recruiting office's suggestion of writing columns for the Ministry of Information in the press as he did not want to "write lies"[36] to deceive the enemy. He later served in the local Home Guard in Oxford.[36]
From 1941 to 1943 Lewis spoke on religious programmes broadcast by the BBC from London while the city was under periodic air raids.[37] These broadcasts were appreciated by civilians and service people at that stage. For example, Air Chief Marshal Sir Donald Hardman wrote:
"The war, the whole of life, everything tended to seem pointless. We needed, many of us, a key to the meaning of the universe. Lewis provided just that."[38]
The broadcasts were anthologised in Mere Christianity. From 1941, invited by the R.A.F.'s Chaplain-in-Chief, Maurice Edwards, he was occupied at his summer holiday weekends visiting R.A.F. stations to speak on his faith.[39]
It was also during the same wartime period Lewis became, on invitation, first President of the Oxford Socratic Club in January 1942,[40] a position he enthusiastically held until he resigned on appointment to Cambridge University in 1954.
In 1954, Lewis accepted the newly founded chair of Mediaeval and Renaissance Literature at Magdalene College, Cambridge University, where he finished his career. He maintained a strong attachment to the city of Oxford, however, keeping a home there and returning on weekends until his death in 1963.
In Lewis's later life, he corresponded with and later met Joy Davidman Gresham, an American writer of Jewish background, a former Communist, and a convert from atheism to Christianity.[41] She was separated from her alcoholic and abusive husband, the novelist William L. Gresham, and came to England with her two sons, David and Douglas.[42] Lewis at first regarded her as an agreeable intellectual companion and personal friend, and it was at least overtly on this level that he agreed to enter into a civil marriage contract with her so that she could continue to live in the UK.[43] The civil marriage took place at the register office, 42 St Giles', Oxford, on 23 April 1956.[44][45] Lewis's brother Warren wrote: "For Jack the attraction was at first undoubtedly intellectual. Joy was the only woman whom he had met ... who had a brain which matched his own in suppleness, in width of interest, and in analytical grasp, and above all in humour and a sense of fun."[42] However, after complaining of a painful hip, she was diagnosed with terminal bone cancer, and the relationship developed to the point that they sought a Christian marriage. Since she was divorced, this was not straightforward in the Church of England at the time, but a friend, the Rev. Peter Bide, performed the ceremony at her bed in the Churchill Hospital on 21 March 1957.[46]
Gresham's cancer soon went into a brief remission, and the couple lived as a family (together with Warren Lewis) until her eventual relapse and death in 1960. The year she died, the couple took a brief holiday in Greece and the Aegean; Lewis was fond of walking but not of travel, and this marked his only crossing of the English Channel after 1918. Lewis's book A Grief Observed describes his experience of bereavement in such a raw and personal fashion that Lewis originally released it under the pseudonym NW Clerk to keep readers from associating the book with him. Ironically, many friends recommended the book to Lewis as a method for dealing with his own grief. After Lewis's death, his authorship was made public by Faber's, with the permission of the executors.[47]
Lewis continued to raise Gresham's two sons after her death. While Douglas Gresham is, like Lewis and his mother, a Christian,[48] David Gresham turned to the faith into which his mother had been born and became Orthodox Jewish in his beliefs. His mother's writings had featured the Jews, particularly one "shohet" (ritual slaughterer), in an unsympathetic manner. David informed Lewis that he was going to become a ritual slaughterer in order to present this type of Jewish religious functionary to the world in a more favourable light. In a 2005 interview, Douglas Gresham acknowledged he and his brother were not close, but he did say they are in email contact.[49] Douglas remains involved in the affairs of the Lewis estate.
In early June 1961, Lewis began experiencing medical problems and was diagnosed with inflammation of the kidneys which resulted in blood poisoning. His illness caused him to miss the autumn term at Cambridge, though his health gradually began improving in 1962 and he returned that April. Lewis's health continued to improve, and according to his friend George Sayer, Lewis was fully himself by early 1963. On 15 July that year he fell ill and was admitted to hospital. The next day at 5:00 pm, Lewis suffered a heart attack and lapsed into a coma, unexpectedly awaking the following day at 2:00 pm. After he was discharged from the hospital, Lewis returned to the Kilns, though he was too ill to return to work. As a result, he resigned from his post at Cambridge in August. Lewis's condition continued to decline, and in mid-November he was diagnosed with end-stage renal failure. On 22 November, exactly one week before his 65th birthday, Lewis collapsed in his bedroom at 5:30 pm and died a few minutes later. He is buried in the churchyard of Holy Trinity Church, Headington, Oxford.[50] His brother Warren Hamilton "Warnie" Lewis, who died on 9 April 1973, was later buried in the same grave.[51]
Media coverage of his death was almost completely overshadowed by news of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, which occurred on the same day, as did the death of Aldous Huxley, author of Brave New World. This coincidence was the inspiration for Peter Kreeft's book Between Heaven and Hell: A Dialog Somewhere Beyond Death with John F. Kennedy, C. S. Lewis, & Aldous Huxley.[52]
Lewis began his academic career as an undergraduate student at Oxford University, where he won a triple first, the highest honours in three areas of study.[54] Lewis was then elected a Fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford, where he worked for nearly thirty years, from 1925 to 1954. In 1954, Lewis was awarded the newly founded chair of Mediaeval and Renaissance Literature at Cambridge University and was elected a fellow of Magdalene College. Concerning his appointed academic field, he argued that there was no such thing as an English Renaissance. Much of his scholarly work concentrated on the later Middle Ages, especially its use of allegory. His The Allegory of Love (1936) helped reinvigorate the serious study of late medieval narratives like the Roman de la Rose. Lewis wrote several prefaces to old works of literature and poetry, like Layamon's Brut. His book "A Preface to Paradise Lost" is still one of the most valuable criticisms of that work. His last academic work, The Discarded Image: An Introduction to Medieval and Renaissance Literature (1964), is a summary of the medieval world view, the "discarded image" of the cosmos in his title.
Lewis was a prolific writer, and his circle of literary friends became an informal discussion society known as the "Inklings", including J. R. R. Tolkien, Nevill Coghill, Lord David Cecil, Charles Williams, Owen Barfield, and his brother Warren Lewis. At least one scholar points to December 1929 as the Inklings' beginning date.[55] Lewis's friendship with Coghill and Tolkien grew during their time as members of the Kolbítar, an Old Norse reading group Tolkien founded and which ended around the time of the inception of the Inklings.[56] At Oxford he was the tutor of poet John Betjeman, critic Kenneth Tynan, mystic Bede Griffiths, and Sufi scholar Martin Lings, among many other undergraduates. Curiously, the religious and conservative Betjeman detested Lewis, whereas the anti-Establishment Tynan retained a lifelong admiration for him.[57][page needed]
When I began teaching for the English Faculty, I made two other friends, both Christians (these queer people seemed now to pop up on every side) who were later to give me much help in getting over the last stile. They were HVV Dyson ... and JRR Tolkien. Friendship with the latter marked the breakdown of two old prejudices. At my first coming into the world I had been (implicitly) warned never to trust a Papist, and at my first coming into the English Faculty (explicitly) never to trust a philologist. Tolkien was both.[58]
In addition to his scholarly work, Lewis wrote a number of popular novels, including the science fiction Space Trilogy for adults and the Narnia fantasies for children. Most deal implicitly with Christian themes such as sin, humanity's fall from grace, and redemption.
His first novel after becoming a Christian was The Pilgrim's Regress (1933), which depicted his experience with Christianity in the style of John Bunyan's The Pilgrim's Progress. The book was poorly received by critics at the time,[15] although David Martyn Lloyd-Jones, one of Lewis's contemporaries at Oxford, gave him much-valued encouragement. Asked by Lloyd-Jones when he would write another book, Lewis replied, "When I understand the meaning of prayer."[59][page needed]
The "Space Trilogy" (also called the "Cosmic Trilogy" or "Ransom Trilogy") dealt with what Lewis saw as the de-humanising trends in contemporary science fiction. The first book, Out of the Silent Planet, was apparently written following a conversation with his friend JRR Tolkien about these trends. Lewis agreed to write a "space travel" story and Tolkien a "time travel" one, but Tolkien never completed "The Lost Road", linking his Middle-earth to the modern world. Lewis's main character Elwin Ransom is based in part on Tolkien, a fact Tolkien alludes to in his letters. The second novel, Perelandra, depicts a new Garden of Eden on the planet Venus, a new Adam and Eve, and a new "serpent figure" to tempt them. The story can be seen as an account of what could have happened if the terrestrial Eve had resisted the serpent's temptation and avoided the Fall of Man. The third novel, That Hideous Strength, develops the theme of nihilistic science threatening traditional human values, embodied in Arthurian legend.
Many ideas in the trilogy, particularly opposition to de-humanization as portrayed in the third book, are presented more formally in The Abolition of Man, based on a series of lectures by Lewis at Durham University in 1943. Lewis stayed in Durham, where he was overwhelmed by the cathedral.[clarification needed] That Hideous Strength is in fact set in the environs of 'Edgestow' university, a small English university like Durham, though Lewis disclaims any other resemblance between the two.[60][page needed]
Walter Hooper, Lewis's literary executor, discovered a fragment of another science-fiction novel by Lewis, The Dark Tower. Ransom appears in the story but it is not clear whether the book was intended as part of the same series of novels. The manuscript was eventually published in 1977, though Lewis scholar Kathryn Lindskoog doubts its authenticity.
The Mountains of Mourne inspired Lewis to write The Chronicles of Narnia. About them, Lewis wrote "I have seen landscapes ... which, under a particular light, make me feel that at any moment a giant might raise his head over the next ridge."[61]
The Chronicles of Narnia is a series of seven fantasy novels for children and is considered a classic of children's literature. Written between 1949 and 1954 and illustrated by Pauline Baynes, the series is Lewis's most popular work, having sold over 100 million copies in 41 languages (Kelly 2006) (Guthmann 2005). It has been adapted several times, complete or in part, for radio, television, stage and cinema.
The books contain Christian ideas intended to be easily accessible to young readers. In addition to Christian themes, Lewis also borrows characters from Greek and Roman mythology as well as traditional British and Irish fairy tales.
Lewis wrote several works on Heaven and Hell. One of these, The Great Divorce, is a short novella in which a few residents of Hell take a bus ride to Heaven, where they are met by people who dwell there. The proposition is that they can stay (in which case they can call the place where they had come from "Purgatory", instead of "Hell"); but many find it not to their taste. The title is a reference to William Blake's The Marriage of Heaven and Hell, a concept that Lewis found a "disastrous error" (Lewis 1946, p. vii). This work deliberately echoes two other more famous works with a similar theme: the Divine Comedy of Dante Alighieri, and Bunyan's The Pilgrim's Progress. Another short work, The Screwtape Letters, consists of suave letters of advice from a senior demon, Screwtape, to his nephew Wormwood, on the best ways to tempt a particular human and secure his damnation. Lewis's last novel was Till We Have Faces, which he thought of as his most mature and masterly work of fiction but which was never a popular success. It is a retelling of the myth of Cupid and Psyche from the unusual perspective of Psyche's sister. It is deeply concerned with religious ideas, but the setting is entirely pagan, and the connections with specific Christian beliefs are left implicit.
Before Lewis's conversion to Christianity, he published two books: Spirits in Bondage, a collection of poems, and Dymer, a single narrative poem. Both were published under the pen name Clive Hamilton. Other narrative poems have since been published posthumously, including: Launcelot, The Nameless Isle, and The Queen of Drum.[62]
He also wrote The Four Loves, which rhetorically explains four categories of love: friendship, eros, affection and charity.
In 2009, a partial draft was discovered of Language and Human Nature, which Lewis had begun co-writing with J.R.R. Tolkien, but which was never completed.[63]
In addition to his career as an English professor and an author of fiction, Lewis is regarded by many as one of the most influential Christian apologists of his time; Mere Christianity was voted best book of the twentieth century by Christianity Today in 2000.[64] Due to Lewis's approach to religious belief as a skeptic, and his following conversion, he has been called "The Apostle to the Skeptics."
Lewis was very interested in presenting a reasonable case for Christianity. Mere Christianity, The Problem of Pain, and Miracles were all concerned, to one degree or another, with refuting popular objections to Christianity, such as "How could a good God allow pain to exist in the world?". He also became known as a popular lecturer and broadcaster, and some of his writing (including much of Mere Christianity) originated as scripts for radio talks or lectures.[65][page needed]
According to George Sayer, losing a 1948 debate with Elizabeth Anscombe, also a Christian, led Lewis to reevaluate his role as an apologist, and his future works concentrated on devotional literature and children's books.[66] Anscombe, however, had a completely different recollection of the debate's outcome and its emotional effect on Lewis.[66] Victor Reppert also disputes Sayer, listing some of Lewis's post-1948 apologetic publications, including the second and revised edition of his Miracles in 1960, in which Lewis addressed Anscombe's criticism.[67] Noteworthy too is Roger Teichman's suggestion in The Philosophy of Elizabeth Anscombe[68][page needed] that the intellectual impact of Anscombe's paper on Lewis's philosophical self-confidence should not be overrated: "... it seems unlikely that he felt as irretrievably crushed as some of his acquaintances have made out; the episode is probably an inflated legend, in the same category as the affair of Wittgenstein's poker. Certainly Anscombe herself believed that Lewis's argument, though flawed, was getting at something very important; she thought that this came out more in the improved version of it that Lewis presented in a subsequent edition of Miracles – though that version also had 'much to criticize in it'."
Lewis also wrote an autobiography titled Surprised by Joy, which places special emphasis on his own conversion. (It was written before he met his wife, Joy Gresham; the title of the book came from the first line of a poem by William Wordsworth.) His essays and public speeches on Christian belief, many of which were collected in God in the Dock and The Weight of Glory and Other Addresses, remain popular today.
His most famous works, the Chronicles of Narnia, contain many strong Christian messages and are often considered allegory. Lewis, an expert on the subject of allegory, maintained that the books were not allegory, and preferred to call the Christian aspects of them "suppositional". As Lewis wrote in a letter to a Mrs. Hook in December 1958:
If Aslan represented the immaterial Deity in the same way in which Giant Despair [a character in The Pilgrim's Progress] represents despair, he would be an allegorical figure. In reality however he is an invention giving an imaginary answer to the question, 'What might Christ become like, if there really were a world like Narnia and He chose to be incarnate and die and rise again in that world as He actually has done in ours?' This is not allegory at all.[69]
In a much-cited passage from Mere Christianity, Lewis challenged the view that Jesus, although a great moral teacher, was not God. He argued that Jesus made several implicit claims to divinity, which would logically exclude this:
I am trying here to prevent anyone saying the really foolish thing that people often say about Him: 'I'm ready to accept Jesus as a great moral teacher, but I don't accept his claim to be God.' That is the one thing we must not say. A man who was merely a man and said the sort of things Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher. He would either be a lunatic – on the level with the man who says he is a poached egg – or else he would be the Devil of Hell. You must make your choice. Either this man was, and is, the Son of God, or else a madman or something worse. You can shut him up for a fool, you can spit at him and kill him as a demon or you can fall at his feet and call him Lord and God, but let us not come with any patronising nonsense about his being a great human teacher. He has not left that open to us. He did not intend to.[70]
This argument, which Lewis did not invent but developed and popularized, is sometimes referred to as "Lewis's trilemma". It has been used by the Christian apologist Josh McDowell in his book More Than a Carpenter (McDowell 2001). Although widely repeated in Christian apologetic literature, it has been largely ignored by professional theologians and biblical scholars.[71]
Lewis's Christian apologetics, and this argument in particular, have been criticized. Philosopher John Beversluis described Lewis's arguments as "textually careless and theologically unreliable,"[72] and this particular argument as logically unsound and an example of false dilemma.[73] Theologian John Hick argues that New Testament scholars do not now support the view that Jesus claimed to be God,[74] New Testament scholar N. T. Wright criticizes Lewis for failing to recognize the significance of Jesus' Jewish identity and setting – an oversight which "at best, drastically short-circuits the argument" and which lays Lewis open to criticism that his argument "doesn't work as history, and it backfires dangerously when historical critics question his reading of the gospels," although he believes this "doesn't undermine the eventual claim." [75]
Lewis used a similar argument in The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, when Digory Kirke advises the young heroes that their sister's claims of a magical world must logically be taken as either lies, madness, or truth.[67]
One of the main theses in Lewis's apologia is that there is a common morality known throughout humanity. In the first five chapters of Mere Christianity Lewis discusses the idea that people have a standard of behaviour to which they expect people to adhere. This standard has been called Universal Morality or Natural Law. Lewis claims that people all over the earth know what this law is and when they break it. He goes on to claim that there must be someone or something behind such a universal set of principles.[76]
These then are the two points that I wanted to make. First, that human beings, all over the earth, have this curious idea that they ought to behave in a certain way, and cannot really get rid of it. Secondly, that they do not in fact behave in that way. They know the Law of Nature; they break it. These two facts are the foundation of all clear thinking about ourselves and the universe we live in.[77]
Lewis also portrays Universal Morality in his works of fiction. In The Chronicles of Narnia he describes Universal Morality as the "deep magic" which everyone knew.[78]
In the second chapter of Mere Christianity Lewis recognizes that "many people find it difficult to understand what this Law of Human Nature ... is". And he responds first to the idea "that the Moral Law is simply our herd instinct" and second to the idea "that the Moral Law is simply a social convention". In responding to the second idea Lewis notes that people often complain that one set of moral ideas is better than another, but that this actually argues for there existing some "Real Morality" to which they are comparing other moralities. Finally he notes that sometimes differences in moral codes are exaggerated by people who confuse differences in beliefs about morality with differences in beliefs about facts:
I have met people who exaggerate the differences, because they have not distinguished between differences of morality and differences of belief about facts. For example, one man said to me, "Three hundred years ago people in England were putting witches to death. Was that what you call the Rule of Human Nature or Right Conduct?" But surely the reason we do not execute witches is that we do not believe there are such things. If we did – if we really thought that there were people going about who had sold themselves to the devil and received supernatural powers from him in return and were using these powers to kill their neighbours or drive them mad or bring bad weather, surely we would all agree that if anyone deserved the death penalty, then these filthy quislings did. There is no difference of moral principle here: the difference is simply about matter of fact. It may be a great advance in knowledge not to believe in witches: there is no moral advance in not executing them when you do not think they are there. You would not call a man humane for ceasing to set mousetraps if he did so because he believed there were no mice in the house.[79]
Lewis also had fairly progressive views on the topic of "animal morality", in particular the suffering of animals, as is evidenced by several of his essays: most notably, On Vivisection[80] and "On the Pains of Animals."[81][82]
Ross Wilson's statue of C. S. Lewis in front of the wardrobe from his book The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe in East Belfast
Lewis continues to attract a wide readership. In 2008, The Times ranked him eleventh on their list of "the 50 greatest British writers since 1945".[83] Readers of his fiction are often unaware of what Lewis considered the Christian themes of his works. His Christian apologetics are read and quoted by members of many Christian denominations.[84] In 2013, on the 50th anniversary of his death, Lewis joined some of Britain's greatest writers recognized at Poets' Corner, Westminster Abbey.[85] The dedication service, at noon on 22 November 2013, included a reading from The Last Battle by Douglas Gresham, younger stepson of Lewis. Flowers were laid by Walter Hooper, trustee and literary advisor to the Lewis Estate. An address was delivered by former Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams.[86] The floor stone inscription is a quotation from an address by Lewis:
I believe in Christianity as I believe that the Sun has risen, not only because I see it but because by it I see everything else.[86]
Lewis has been the subject of several biographies, a few of which were written by close friends, such as Roger Lancelyn Green and George Sayer. In 1985 the screenplay Shadowlands by William Nicholson, dramatising Lewis's life and relationship with Joy Davidman Gresham, was aired on British television, starring Joss Ackland and Claire Bloom. This was also staged as a theatre play starring Nigel Hawthorne in 1989, and made into the 1993 feature film Shadowlands starring Anthony Hopkins and Debra Winger. In 2005, a one-hour television movie entitled C. S. Lewis: Beyond Narnia, starring Anton Rodgers, provided a general synopsis of Lewis's life.
Many books have been inspired by Lewis, including A Severe Mercy by his correspondent and friend Sheldon Vanauken. The Chronicles of Narnia have been particularly influential. Modern children's literature such as Daniel Handler's A Series of Unfortunate Events, Eoin Colfer's Artemis Fowl, Philip Pullman's His Dark Materials, and J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter have been more or less influenced by Lewis's series (Hilliard 2005). Pullman, an atheist and so fierce a critic of Lewis's work as to be dubbed "the anti-Lewis",[87][88] considers him a negative influence and has accused Lewis of featuring religious propaganda, misogyny, racism and emotional sadism (BBC News 2005) in his books. Authors of adult fantasy literature such as Tim Powers have also testified to being influenced by Lewis's work.[89]
Most of Lewis's posthumous work has been edited by his literary executor, Walter Hooper. An independent Lewis scholar, the late Kathryn Lindskoog, argued that Hooper's scholarship is not reliable and that he has made false statements and attributed forged works to Lewis.[90] C. S. Lewis's stepson Douglas Gresham denies the forgery claims, saying that "The whole controversy thing was engineered for very personal reasons ... Her fanciful theories have been pretty thoroughly discredited."[91]
A mural depicting Lewis and characters from the Narnia series, Convention Court, Ballymacarrett Road, East Belfast
A bronze statue of Lewis's character Digory, from The Magician's Nephew, stands in Belfast's Holywood Arches in front of the Holywood Road Library.[92]
Lewis was strongly opposed to the creation of live-action versions of his works. His major concern was that the anthropomorphic animal characters "when taken out of narrative into actual visibility, always turn into buffoonery or nightmare".
Several C. S. Lewis Societies exist around the world, including one which was founded in Oxford in 1982 to discuss papers on the life and works of Lewis and the other Inklings, and generally appreciate all things Lewisian.[93] His name is also used by a variety of Christian organisations, often with a concern for maintaining conservative Christian values in education or literary studies.
Film adaptations have been made of three of The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe (2005), Prince Caspian (2008) and The Voyage of the Dawn Treader (2010).
Lewis is featured as a main character in The Chronicles of the Imaginarium Geographica series by James A. Owen. He is one of two characters in Mark St. Germain's 2009 play Freud's Last Session, which imagines a meeting between Lewis, aged 40, and Sigmund Freud, aged 83, at Freud's house in Hampstead, London, in 1939, as the Second World War is about to break out.
Marion E. Wade Center at Wheaton College (Illinois), has the world's largest collection of works by and about Lewis
John Beversluis (1985) C. S. Lewis and the Search for Rational Religion. Grand Rapids: Eerdmans ISBN 0-8028-0046-7
Ronald W. Bresland (1999) The Backward Glance: C. S. Lewis and Ireland. Belfast: Institute of Irish Studies at Queen's University of Belfast
Humphrey Carpenter (1978) The Inklings: C. S. Lewis, J. R. R. Tolkien, Charles Williams and Their Friends. London: George Allen & Unwin ISBN 0-04-809011-5
Joe R. Christopher & Joan K. Ostling (1972) C. S. Lewis: An Annotated Checklist of Writings About Him and His Works. Kent, Ohio: Kent State University Press, n.d. ISBN 0-87338-138-6
James Como (2006) Remembering C. S. Lewis (3rd ed. of C. S. Lewis at the Breakfast Table). Ignatius Press
Sean Connolly (2007) Inklings of Heaven: C. S. Lewis and Eschatology. Gracewing ISBN 978-0-85244-659-1
Michael Coren (1994) The Man Who Created Narnia: The Story of C. S. Lewis. Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, reprint edition 1996 (First published 1994 in Canada by Lester Publishing Limited) ISBN 0-8028-3822-7
Christopher Derrick (1981) C. S. Lewis and the Church of Rome: A Study in Proto-Ecumenism. Ignatius Press ISBN 978-99917-1-850-7
David C. Downing (2005) Into the Region of Awe: Mysticism in C. S. Lewis. InterVarsity ISBN 0-8308-3284-X
David C. Downing (2005) Into the Wardrobe: C. S. Lewis and the Narnia Chronicles. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass ISBN 0-7879-7890-6
David C. Downing (2002) The Most Reluctant Convert: C. S. Lewis's Journey to Faith. InterVarsity ISBN 0-8308-3271-8
David C. Downing (1992) Planets in Peril: A Critical Study of C. S. Lewis's Ransom Trilogy. Amherst: University of Massachusetts Press ISBN 0-87023-997-X
Colin Duriez (2003) Tolkien and C. S. Lewis: The Gift of Friendship. Paulist Press ISBN 1-58768-026-2
Colin Duriez & David Porter (2001) The Inklings Handbook: The Lives, Thought and Writings of C. S. Lewis, J. R. R. Tolkien, Charles Williams, Owen Barfield, and Their Friends. London: Azure ISBN 1-902694-13-9
Bruce L. Edwards (2005) Further Up and Further In: Understanding C. S. Lewis's The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. Broadman and Holman ISBN 0-8054-4070-4
Bruce L. Edwards (ed.) (2007) C. S. Lewis: Life, Works, and Legacy. 4 vols. Praeger Perspectives ISBN 0-275-99116-4
Bruce L. Edwards, ed. (1988), The Taste of the Pineapple: Essays on C. S. Lewis as Reader, Critic, and Imaginative Writer, The Popular Press, ISBN 0-87972-407-2 
———————— (1986), A Rhetoric of Reading: C. S. Lewis's Defense of Western Literacy, Center for the Study of Christian Values in Literature, ISBN 0-939555-01-8 .
Helen Gardner (1966) "† Clive Staples Lewis, 1898–1963". Biographical memoir, in Proceedings of the British Academy 51 (1966), 417–28.
Jocelyn Gibb (ed.) (1965) Light on C. S. Lewis. Geoffrey Bles, 1965 & Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1976. ISBN 0-15-652000-1
Douglas Gilbert & Clyde Kilby (1973) C. S. Lewis: Images of His World. Eerdmans, 1973 & 2005. ISBN 0-8028-2800-0
Diana Glyer (2007), The Company They Keep: C. S. Lewis and J. R. R. Tolkien as Writers in Community, Kent, Ohio: Kent State University Press, ISBN 978-0-87338-890-0 .
Roger Lancelyn Green & Walter Hooper, C. S. Lewis: A Biography. Fully revised & expanded edition. HarperCollins, 2002. ISBN 0-00-628164-8
Douglas Gresham (2005) Jack's Life: A Memory of C. S. Lewis. Broadman & Holman Publishers ISBN 0-8054-3246-9
Douglas Gresham (1994) Lenten Lands: My Childhood with Joy Davidman and C. S. Lewis. HarperSanFrancisco ISBN 0-06-063447-2
William Griffin (2005) C. S. Lewis: The Authentic Voice (formerly C. S. Lewis: A Dramatic Life). Lion ISBN 0-7459-5208-9
Dabney Adams Hart (1984) Through the Open Door: A New Look at C. S. Lewis. University of Alabama Press ISBN 0-8173-0187-9
Joel D. Heck (2006) Irrigating Deserts: C. S. Lewis on Education. Concordia Publishing House ISBN 0-7586-0044-5
Walter Hooper (1996), C. S. Lewis: A Companion and Guide, London: HarperCollins, ISBN 0-00-627800-0 
Walter Hooper (1982), Through Joy and Beyond: A Pictorial Biography of C. S. Lewis, London: Macmillan, ISBN 0-02-553670-2 
Alan Jacobs (2005), The Narnian: The Life and Imagination of C. S. Lewis, San Francisco: Harper, ISBN 0-06-076690-5 
Clyde S. Kilby (1964) The Christian World of C. S. Lewis. Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1964, 1995. ISBN 0-8028-0871-9
Don W. King (2001) C. S. Lewis, Poet: The Legacy of His Poetic Impulse. Kent, Ohio: Kent State University Press ISBN 0-87338-681-7
W. H. Lewis, ed. (1966), Letters of C. S. Lewis, London: Geoffrey Bles, ISBN 0-00-242457-6  (followed by Hooper, Walter, ed. (1988), Letters of C. S. Lewis (paperback|format= requires |url= (help)) (expanded ed.), Fount, ISBN 0-00-627329-7 .)
Kathryn Lindskoog (1994) Light in the Shadowlands: Protecting the Real C. S. Lewis. Multnomah Pub. ISBN 0-88070-695-3
Thomas L. Martin (ed.) (2000) Reading the Classics with C. S. Lewis. Baker Academic ISBN 1-84227-073-7
David Mills (ed) (1998) The Pilgrim's Guide: C. S. Lewis and the Art of Witness. Grand Rapids: Eerdmans ISBN 0-8208-4689-0
Markus Mühling (2005), A Theological Journey into Narnia: An Analysis of the Message Beneath the Text, Göttingen: Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, ISBN 3-525-60423-8 .
Joseph Pearce (1999) C. S. Lewis and the Catholic Church. HarperCollins, 1999; then Ignatius Press, 2003. ISBN 0-89870-979-2
Thomas C. Peters (1998) Simply C. S. Lewis: A Beginner's Guide to His Life and Works. Kingsway Publications ISBN 0-85476-762-2
Justin Phillips (2003) C. S. Lewis at the BBC: Messages of Hope in the Darkness of War. Marshall Pickering ISBN 0-00-710437-5
Harry Lee Poe & Rebecca Whitten Poe (eds.) (2006) C. S. Lewis Remembered: Collected Reflections of Students, Friends & Colleagues. Zondervan ISBN 978-0-310-26509-2
Victor Reppert (2003) C. S. Lewis's Dangerous Idea: In Defense of the Argument from Reason. InterVarsity Press ISBN 0-8308-2732-3
Peter J. Schakel (2002) Imagination and the Arts in C. S. Lewis: Journeying to Narnia and Other Worlds. University of Missouri Press ISBN 0-8262-1407-X
Peter J. Schakel (ed.) (1977) The Longing for a Form: Essays on the Fiction of C. S. Lewis. Kent, Ohio: Kent State University Press ISBN 0-87338-204-8
Peter J. Schakel (1984) Reason and Imagination in C. S. Lewis: A Study of "Till We Have Faces". Grand Rapids: Eerdmans ISBN 0-8028-1998-2
Peter J. Schakel & Charles A. Huttar (eds.) (1991) Word and Story in C. S. Lewis. University of Missouri Press ISBN 0-8262-0760-X
Jeffrey D. Schultz & John G. West, Jr. (eds.) (1998) The C. S. Lewis Readers' Encyclopedia. Zondervan Publishing House ISBN 0-310-21538-2
Sanford Schwartz (2009) C. S. Lewis on the Final Frontier: Science and the Supernatural in the Space Trilogy. Oxford University Press ISBN 978-0-19-537472-8.
G. B. Tennyson (ed.) (1989) Owen Barfield on C. S. Lewis. Wesleyan University Press ISBN 0-8195-5233-X
Andrew Walker, Patrick James (ed.) (1998) Rumours of Heaven: Essays in Celebration of C. S. Lewis, Guildford: Eagle ISBN 0-86347-250-8
Chad Walsh (1979) The Literary Legacy of C. S. Lewis. New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich ISBN 0-15-652785-5
Erik J. Wielenberg (2007) God and the Reach of Reason. Cambridge University Press ISBN 978-0-521-70710-7
Barker, Dan (1992), Losing Faith in Faith: From Preacher to Atheist, Madison: Freedom from Religion Foundation, ISBN 1-877733-07-5 
"Pullman attacks Narnia film plans", News (BBC) 2005 (16 October), 16 October 2005, retrieved 28 April 2010 
"City that inspired Narnia fantasy", News (BBC) 2004 (5 March), 5 March 2004, retrieved 28 April 2010 
———————— (2006) [1978], The Inklings: CS Lewis, JRR Tolkien and Their Friends, HarperCollins, ISBN 0-00-774869-8 
Dodd, Celia (8 May 2004), "Human nature: Universally acknowledged", The Times (London) 2004 (5–08), retrieved 28 April 2010 
Ezard, John (3 June 2002), "Narnia books attacked as racist and sexist", The Guardian (London) 2002 (6–3), retrieved 28 April 2010 
Fiddes, Paul (1990), 'CS Lewis the myth-maker', in Andrew Walker and James Patrick, A Christian for all Christians: essays in honour of CS Lewis (London: Hodder & Stoughton), pp. 132–55 [reprinted as Rumours of Heaven: essays in celebration of CS Lewis (Guildford: Eagle, 1998)]
History of the Building, Friends of Holy Trinity Church, archived from the original on 22 January 2009 
Gopnik, Adam (14 November 2005), "Prisoner in Narnia: How CS Lewis escaped", The New Yorker 2005 (11–21) 
"If you didn't find Narnia in your own wardrobe ...", The Guardian (London) (4–12), 4 December 2005, retrieved 28 April 2010 
Guthmann, Edward (10 December 2005), "'Narnia' tries to cash in on dual audience", San Francisco Chronicle 
Haven, Cynthia (31 December 2005 2006), "Lost in the shadow of CS Lewis' fame Joy Davidman was a noted poet, a feisty Communist and a free spirit", San Francisco Chronicle (1–01)  Check date values in: |date= (help)
Hooper, Walter (1979), They stand together: The letters of CS Lewis to Arthur Greeves (1914–1963), London: Collins, ISBN 0-00-215828-0 
Kreeft, Peter (1982), Between Heaven and Hell: A Dialogue Somewhere Beyond Death with John F. Kennedy, CS Lewis & Aldous Huxley, InterVarsity Press, ISBN 0-87784-389-9 
Lazo, Andrew (2004), Chance, Jane, ed., Gathered Round Northern Fires: The Imaginative Impact of the Kolbítar. Tolkien and the Invention of Myth: A Reader, Lexington, KY: University of Kentucky Press, pp. 191–226, ISBN 0-8131-2301-1 
Lewis, Clive Staples (CS) 'Jack' (2002) [1942], The Screwtape Letters, London: Collins, ISBN 978-0-00-767240-0 
———————— (1966b) [1955], Surprised by Joy: The Shape of My Early Life, London: Harvest Books, ISBN 978-0-15-687011-5 .
———————— (1984) [1966], Surprised by Joy: The Shape of My Early Life, New York: Harcourt .
———————— (1993), Hooper, Walter, ed., All My Road Before Me: The Diary of C. S. Lewis 1922–27, London: HarperCollins .
———————— (2000), Collected Letters, 1: Family Letters, 1905–1931, London: HarperCollins .
———————— (2004) [2000], Hooper, Walter, ed., The Collected Letters, 1: Family Letters, 1905–1931, New York: HarperCollins, ISBN 0-06-072763-2 
Lindskoog, Kathyrn (2001), Sleuthing C. S. Lewis: More Light In The Shadowlands, Mercer University Press, ISBN 0-86554-730-0 
Gresham, Douglas (2007), Behind The Wardrobe: An Interview Series with Douglas Gresham, Narnia Fans 
Murray, Iain (1990), David Martyn Lloyd-Jones: The Fight of Faith, 1939–1981, The Banner of Truth Trust, ISBN 0-85151-564-9 
Pratt, Alf (1998), "LDS Scholars Salute Author CS Lewis At BYU Conference", The Salt Lake Tribune 1998 (December) 
Tonkin, Boyd (11 November 2005), "CS Lewis: The literary lion of Narnia", The Independent (London) 2005 (11–11), retrieved 28 April 2010 
Toynbee, Polly (5 December 2005), "Narnia represents everything that is most hateful about religion", The Guardian (London) 2005 (5 December), retrieved 28 April 2010 
This audio file was created from a revision of the "C. S. Lewis" article dated 2005-11-20, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help)
C.S. Lewis Reading Room, with extensive links to online primary and secondary literature (Tyndale Seminary)
Categories: C. S. Lewis1898 births1963 deathsAlumni of University College, OxfordLay theologiansAnglicans from Northern IrelandBritish children's writersBritish fantasy writersBritish literary criticsBritish philosophersBritish science fiction writersBritish spiritual writersBurials in OxfordshireCarnegie Medal in Literature winnersChristian apologistsChristian novelistsChristian philosophersConverts to Anglicanism from atheism or agnosticismDeaths from renal failureIrish AnglicansPeople from Northern Ireland of Welsh descentDisease-related deaths in EnglandFellows of Magdalene College, CambridgeFellows of Magdalen College, OxfordInklingsIrish fantasy writersIrish novelistsIrish people of Welsh descentIrish poetsLiterary critics of EnglishMythopoeic writersPeople educated at Campbell CollegePeople educated at Malvern CollegePeople from BelfastWheaton College (Illinois)Somerset Light Infantry officersBritish Army personnel of World War IIrish philosophersBritish Christian theologiansIrish Christian theologiansIrish children's writersIrish literary criticsIrish science fiction writersIrish spiritual writersWriters from Northern Ireland20th-century British novelistsHidden categories: Articles containing Lithuanian-language textArticles lacking in-text citations from June 2014All articles lacking in-text citationsWikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pagesUse British (Oxford) English from August 2011Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesUse dmy dates from July 2012Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from March 2012Wikipedia articles needing clarification from August 2012Pages using citations with format and no URLCS1 errors: datesSpoken articlesArticles with hAudio microformatsWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
/*div.topbanner {position:absolute;top:0px;z-index:2;width:100%;height:94px;border-bottom:2px solid #333;margin:0 !important;padding:0 !important;text-align:center}*/
/*#lb, #bigleader {width:728px;margin:0 auto;padding-left:14px;background:url("http://i.factmonster.com/images/admarker_90.gif") 0 2px no-repeat #ccc;}*/
.bodybg {background-color:#fff;border-bottom:1px solid #352061;border-top:1px solid #352061;border-left:1px solid #352061}
		Flag DaySummer Guide2014 Holidays2014 CalendarThe Fifty StatesU.S. GeographyConversion CalculatorMost Populous Cities of the WorldCountry ProfilesMath FlashcardsThe Tallest Buildings in the WorldGreek and Roman MythologyReference Desk
  however, Lewis chose to volunteer for active duty in World War I, to serve in the British Army then
  less prolifically. Mainly he was preoccupied with the health crises of his wife, Joy Gresham, whom he
=======================================================
Clive Staples Lewis was born on November 29 in Belfast, Northern Ireland, to Albert J. Lewis (1863-1929) and Florence Augusta Hamilton Lewis (1862-1908). His brother Warren Hamilton Lewis had been born on June 16, 1895.
Flora Hamilton Lewis died of cancer on August 23, Albert Lewis’ (her husband’s) birthday. During this year Albert Lewis’ father and brother also died. In September Lewis was enrolled at Wynyard School, Watford, Hertfordshire referred to by C.S. Lewis as “Oldie’s School” or “Belsen”. His brother, Warren, had been enrolled there in May 1905.
Lewis left “Belsen” in June and, in September, was enrolled as a boarding student at Campbell College, Belfast, one mile from “Little Lea,” where he remained until November, when he was withdrawn upon developing serious respiratory difficulties.
Lewis was sent to Malvern, England, which was famous as a health resort, especially for those with lung problems. Lewis was enrolled as a student at Cherbourg House (which he referred to as “Chartres”), a prep school close by Malvern College where Warnie was enrolled as a student. Jack remained there until June 1913. It was during this time that he abandoned his childhood Christian faith. He entered Malvern College itself (which he dubbed “Wyvern”) in September 1913 and stayed until the following June.
In April, Lewis met Arthur Greeves (1895-1966), of whom he said, in 1933, “After my brother, my oldest and most intimate friend.” On September 19, Lewis commenced private study with W.T. Kirkpatrick, “The Great Knock,” in Great Bookham Surrey, with whom he was to remain until April 1917. William T. Kirkpatrick (1848-1921) was former Headmaster of Lurgan College, County Armagh, Northern Ireland, from 1874-99. Albert Lewis had attended Lurgan from 1877-79 and later was Kirkpatrick’s solicitor. After Kilpatrick retired from Lurgan in 1899, he began taking private students and had already successfully prepared Lewis’ brother, Warnie, for admission to the Royal Military College at Sandhurst.
In February, Lewis first read George MacDonald’s, Phantastes, which powerfully “baptized his imagination” and impressed him with a deep sense of the holy. He made his first trip to Oxford in December to take a scholarship examination.
From April 26 until September, Lewis was a student at University College, Oxford. Three years after the outbreak of WWI in Britain, he enlisted in the British army and was billeted in Keble College, Oxford, for officer’s training. His roommate was Edward Courtnay Francis “Paddy” Moore (1898-1918). Jack was commissioned an officer in the 3rd Battalion, Somerset Light Infantry, on September 25 and reached the front line in the Somme Valley in France on his 19th birthday.
On April 15 Lewis was wounded on Mount Berenchon during the Battle of Arras. He recuperated and was returned to duty in October, being assigned to Ludgerhall, Andover, England. He was discharged in December 1919. His former roommate and friend, Paddy Moore, was killed in battle and buried in the field just south of Peronne, France.
The February issue of Reveille contained “Death in Battle,” Lewis’ first publication in other than school magazines. The issue had poems by Robert Bridges, Siegfried Sassoon, Robert Graves, and Hilaire Belloc. From January 1919 until June 1924, he resumed his studies at University College, Oxford, where he received a First in Honour Moderations (Greek and Latin Literature) in 1920, a First in Greats (Philosophy and Ancient History) in 1922, and a First in English in 1923. His tutors during this time included A.B. Poynton for Honour Mods, E.F. Carritt for Philosophy, F.P. Wilson and George Gordon in the English School, and E.E. Wardale for Old English.
During the summer, Paddy Moore’s mother, Mrs. Janie King Moore (1873-1951) and her daughter, Maureen, moved to Oxford, renting a house in Headington Quarry. Lewis lived with the Moores from June 1921 onward. In August 1930, they moved to “Hillsboro,” Western Road, Headington. In October 1930, Mrs. Moore, Jack, and Major Lewis purchased “The Kilns” jointly, with title to the property being taken solely in the name of Mrs. Moore with the two brothers holding rights of life tenancy. Major Lewis retired from the military and joined them at “The Kilns” in 1932.
W.T. Kirkpatrick died in March. Lewis’ essay “Optimism” won the Chancellor’s English Essay Prize in May. (No copy of “Optimism” has been found as of this date.)
From October 1924 until May 1925, Lewis served as philosophy tutor at University College during E.F. Carritt’s absence on study leave for the year in America.
On May 20, Lewis was elected a Fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford, where he served as tutor in English Language and Literature for 29 years until leaving for Magdalene College, Cambridge, in 1954.
Lewis became a theist: “In the Trinity Term of 1929 I gave in, and admitted that God was God, and knelt and prayed….” Albert Lewis died on September 24.
Lewis became a Christian: One evening in September, Lewis had a long talk on Christianity with J.R.R. Tolkien (a devout Roman Catholic) and Hugo Dyson. (The summary of that discussion is recounted for Arthur Greeves in They Stand Together.) That evening’s discussion was important in bringing about the following day’s event that Lewis recorded in Surprised by Joy: “When we [Warnie and Jack] set out [by motorcycle to the Whipsnade Zoo] I did not believe that Jesus Christ was the Son of God, and when we reached the zoo I did.”
The fall term marked the beginning of Lewis’ convening of a circle of friends dubbed “The Inklings.” For the next 16 years, on through 1949, they continued to meet in Jack’s rooms at Magdalen College on Thursday evenings and, just before lunch on Mondays or Fridays, in a back room at “The Eagle and Child,” a pub known to locals as “The Bird and Baby.” Members included J.R.R. Tolkien, Warnie, Hugo Dyson, Charles Williams, Dr. Robert Havard, Owen Barfield, Weville Coghill and others. (See Humphry Carpenters The Inklings for a full account of this special group.)
At the suggestion of Prof. F.P. Wilson, Lewis agreed to write the volume on 16th Century English Literature for the Oxford History of English Literature series. Published in 1954, it became a classic.
Lewis received the Gollancz Memorial Prize for Literature in recognition of The Allegory of Love (a study in medieval tradition).
At the outbreak of World War II in September, Charles Williams moved from London to Oxford with the Oxford University Press to escape the threat of German bombardment. He was thereafter a regular member of “The Inklings.”
From May 2 until November 28, The Guardian published 31 “Screwtape Letters” in weekly installments. Lewis was paid 2 pounds sterling for each letter and gave the money to charity. In August, he gave four live radio talks over the BBC on Wednesday evenings from 7:45 to 8:00. An additional 15-minute session, answering questions received in the mail, was broadcast on September 6. These talks were known as “Right and Wrong.”
The first meeting of the “Socratic Club” was held in Oxford on January 26. In January and February, Lewis gave five live radio talks on Sunday evenings from 4:45 to 5:00, on the subject “What Christians Believe.” On eight consecutive Sundays, from September 20 to November 8 at 2:50 to 3:05 p.m., Lewis gave a series of live radio talks known as “Christian Behavior.”
In February, at the University of Durham, Lewis delivered the Riddell Memorial Lectures (Fifteenth Series), a series of three lectures subsequently published as The Abolition of Man.
On seven consecutive Tuesdays, from February 22 to April 4 at 10:15 to 10:30 p.m., Lewis gave the pre-recorded talks known as “Beyond Personality.” Taken together, all of Lewis’ BBC radio broadcast talks were eventually published under the title Mere Christianity. From November 10, 1944 to April 14, 1945, The Great Divorce was published in weekly installments in The Guardian. (The Guardian was a religious newspaper that ceased publication in 1951; it had no connection with the Manchester Guardian.)
On February 2, Elizabeth Anscombe, later Professor of Philosophy at Cambridge, read her “Reply to Mr. C.S. Lewis’ Argument that ‘Naturalism is Self-refuting’” to the Socratic Club; Anscombe’s argument caused Lewis to revise Chapter 3 of Miracles when it was reprinted by Fontana in 1960. Later in the year, Lewis was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature.
The first book in the Chronicles of Narnia series, The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, is released.  The series became extremely popular and Wardrobe is one of Lewis’s most enduring and beloved books.
Mrs. Moore died on January 12. Since the previous April, she had been confined to a nursing home in Oxford. She is buried in the yard of Holy Trinity Church in Headington Quarry, Oxford. Lewis lost the election for the position of Professor of Poetry at Oxford to C. Day Lewis. In December, he declined election to the Order of the British Empire.
Lewis was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters by Laval University, Quebec. In September, he met Joy Davidman Gresham, fifteen years his junior (b. April 18, 1915 – d. July 13, 1960), for the first time.
In June, Lewis accepted the Chair of Medieval and Renaissance Literature at Cambridge. He gave his Inaugural Lecture, “De Description Temporum,” on his 56th birthday and gave his last tutorial at Oxford on December 3. His review of Tolkien’ Fellowship of the Ring appeared in Time and Tide in August.
Lewis assumed his duties at Cambridge in January. During his years at Cambridge, he lived at Magdalene College, Cambridge, during the week in term and at The Kilns in Oxford on weekends and during vacations. Lewis was elected an Honorary Fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford, and was also elected a Fellow of the British Academy.
Lewis received the Carnegie Medal in recognition of The Last Battle. On April 23, he entered into a civil marriage with Joy Davidman at the Oxford Registry Office for the purpose of conferring upon her the status of British citizenship in order to prevent her threatened deportation by British migration authorities. In December, a bedside marriage was performed in accordance with the rites of the Church of England in Wingfield Hospital. Joy’s death was thought to be imminent.
Throughout 1957, Joy had experienced an extraordinary recovery from her near terminal bout with cancer. In July of 1958, Jack and Joy went to Ireland for a 10-day holiday. On August 19 and 20, he made tapes of ten talks on The Four Loves in London. Lewis was elected an Honorary Fellow of University College, Oxford.
Subsequent to learning of the return of Joy’s cancer, Jack and Joy, together with Roger Lancelyn Green and his wife, Joy, went to Greece from April 3 to April 14, visiting Athens, Mycenae, Rhodes, Herakleon, and Knossos. There was a one-day stop in Pisa on the return. Joy died on July 13 at the age of 45, not long after their return from Greece.
Lewis died at 5:30 p.m. at The Kilns, one week before his 65th birthday on Friday, November 22; the same day on which President Kennedy was assassinated and Aldous Huxley died. He had resigned his position at Cambridge during the summer and was then elected an Honorary Fellow of Magdalene College, Cambridge. His grave is in the yard of Holy Trinity Church in Headington Quarry, Oxford. Warren Lewis died on Monday, April 9, 1973. Their names are on a single stone bearing the inscription “Men must endure their going hence.” Warnie had written, “…there was a Shakespearean calendar hanging on the wall of the room where she [our mother] died, and my father preserved for the rest of his life the leaf for that day, with its quotation: ‘Men must endure their going hence’.” –W.H. Lewis, “Memoir,” in Letters of C.S. Lewis.
TestimonialsWe are in the throes of culturally sanctioned forgetfulness concerning much of the best in our literary, philosophical, and theological legacy.  The C.S. Lewis Foundation is exemplary in fighting this forgetfulness and reminding us that an intelligent present can only be based on interpretation and engagement with those who have gone before us.Jean Bethke-ElshtainLaura Spelman Rockefeller Prof. of Social and Political EthicsUniversity of ChicagoBuilding a network of Christian scholars across the disciplines is a work of vital importance for the next phase of dialogue between Christians and other colleagues in the university world.  I am happy to be a part of this worthy effort.David Lyle JeffreyDistinguished Professor of LiteratureBaylor UniversityI have known the work of Dr. Mattson and the C.S. Lewis Foundation since 1986 and endorse its mission wholeheartedly.  We Christians must be one, that the world might believe.Paul F. Ford Professor of Systematic Theology & LiturgySt. John’s SeminaryThe work of the C.S. Lewis Foundation is admirably carrying on the tradition of Jack Lewis.  By providing opportunities for scholarly inquiry, deep conversation, prayerful explorations of truth, and celebrations of the joy of a vibrant faith, Stan Mattson and his staff are giving a loving gift to all of us who have the chance to be part.Dr. Francis CollinsDirectorNational Institutes of HealthThere’s hardly a Christian I know who hasn’t been influenced by the writings of C.S. Lewis.  And now, through the C.S. Lewis Foundation . . . many more generations will benefit from Lewis’ life and ministry.Joni Earickson TadaJAF MinistriesThe concept of an international network of Christians serving within the world of higher education is long overdue and who better to undertake it than the C.S. Lewis Foundation!  Its ‘Mere Christian’ approach is just what is needed, and I very much look forward to active involvement.Lawrence T. GeratyPresident EmeritusLa Sierra UniversityI can tell you that as one of the alumni of the the Ivy League, Brown University, I would recommend that anybody interested in a real education today go to a great books school.  Knowing how you work and what your plan is for [C.S. Lewis College], I think it would be at the top of my recommendation list.Charles ColsonFounderBreakpoint and Prison FellowshipNo individual has had a greater influence on the Christian Church in the 20th Century than C.S. Lewis.  The C.S. Lewis Foundation is a ministry of strategic importance to the recovery of a vital Christian presence within the mission field of the modern university world.  It has my unqualified support.
Ted W. EngstromPresident EmeritusWorld Vision InternationalFirst Time Visitor? If this is your first time visiting the C.S. Lewis Foundation website, welcome!  We encourage you to check out the links below to learn more about us.
Inspired by the life and legacy of C.S. Lewis, the C.S. Lewis Foundation is dedicated to advancing the renewal of Christian thought and creative expression throughout the world of learning and the culture at large.
The C.S. Lewis Foundation hosts many events, ranging from seminars annually at C.S. Lewis's home in Oxford, retreats around the country, and the triennial Summer Institute at Oxbridge. 
C.S. Lewis College is an envisioned Great Books college, characterized by a firm commitment to “Mere Christianity,” and therefore be inclusive of Christians of all traditions.
=======================================================
=======================================================
        British Broadcasting CorporationHome   Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help   
In order to see this content you need to have both Javascript enabled and Flash installed. Visit BBC Webwise for full instructions
CS Lewis was a writer. He was also a professor, teaching university students at Oxford and Cambridge.
His most famous stories are for children, about the fantasy world of Narnia. Lewis wrote serious books for adults too, about literature and religion, and science fiction stories.
Lewis was born in Northern Ireland in 1898. He studied at Oxford University in England. He was a soldier in World War I (1914-1918). For most of his life, he worked as a professor. He married in 1957, and died in 1963.
Many children enjoy reading The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe. It is the most famous book by CS Lewis. There are 6 more books in The Chronicles of Narnia series. The Narnia books have been translated into more than 45 languages. You can enjoy the adventures in films and on TV too. 
Clive Staples Lewis was born on 29 November 1898. Queen Victoria was still on the throne. His brother Warren, known as 'Warnie', was three years older.
His father Albert was a solicitor. His grandfather Richard had come to Ireland from Wales. His mother Florence died when Lewis was 10.
Lewis was known as Jack from the age of 4. One story says he chose the name after his pet dog Jacksie was run over and killed by a car. He told his family he was now 'Jacksie', which soon became Jack.
Lewis loved animals, real and storybook. He read Beatrix Potter's tales of Peter Rabbit. He made up stories about talking animals. He and his brother Warnie invented a make-believe world they called Boxen, run by animals.
Lewis was first taught at home. Then his mother Florence became ill. After she died, when Lewis was 10, his father sent him to boarding school in England. The school was horrid, and soon closed. Lewis was very glad to come home.
His next school was close to his family home in Belfast. But he was often ill, so he was sent back to England, to a school in Malvern, Worcestershire, where the air was better for 'weak chests'. His brother was at the same school, but Lewis was unhappy there.
In the end Lewis had lessons with a tutor, WT Kirkpatrick who had taught Lewis' father. He was happy. He learned lots of wonderful stories - Greek myths, Viking tales of dragons and elves, and old Irish stories about heroes and giants.
World War I began in 1914. In 1916 CS Lewis went to Oxford University. Many students were already in the Army. In 1917 he volunteered to be a soldier, and at 19 he went to France to fight.
Lewis and his friend 'Paddy' Moore shared the dangers of battles. Sadly, Paddy was killed. In April 1918 Lewis was wounded. The war ended in November 1918.
In 1925 Lewis got a job at a university, teaching English literature. In 1954, he moved to Cambridge University.
Lewis and his Oxford friends met in a pub to talk about books. They called themselves the 'Inklings'. One friend named JRR Tolkien read bits from a story he was writing. It became The Lord of the Rings.
Lewis was brought up a Christian, but later became an atheist. At the age of 33 he returned to Christianity. For him, this was the most important moment in his life.
Lewis had promised his soldier-friend Paddy to look after his mother Mrs Jane Moore. He and his brother Warnie shared a home with Mrs Moore and her daughter.
Later he met an American woman, Joy Gresham. They were married in 1957. Joy was already ill, and died in 1960. Lewis looked after her two sons, by her first marriage.
One day, Lewis and his friend Tolkien agreed to write science fiction stories. In 1938, Lewis wrote a space-travel book, Out of the Silent Planet. Tolkien was going to write a time-travel book, but never finished it. Lewis wrote two more science fiction books.
Lewis wrote serious books. He was interested in the literature of the Middle Ages. He wrote books about religion too. In one book, he made up letters from one devil to another! He gave talks on the radio about religion.
The first of The Chronicles of Narnia books was The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe. This book made CS Lewis famous.
Lewis wrote seven Narnia books, the last was published in 1956. The stories mix Christian ideas, Greek and Roman myths, and old British and Irish fairy tales.
It was the same day that President John F Kennedy was shot dead in America. Newspapers and TV were full of news of the shooting. That day, the death of the 'Narnia' writer was hardly noticed. But CS Lewis is still famous all over the world.
The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe began (Lewis said) when he pictured a faun with an umbrella and parcels in a snowy wood.
When World War II began in September 1939, three girls from London came to live with Lewis and the Moores in Oxford. The children were evacuees. It was then he started to write his story about the faun. 
In The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe we meet the four Pevensie children: Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy. In the land of Narnia, entered through an old wardrobe, they meet lots of other characters, including Aslan the talking lion and the wicked White Witch.
In Prince Caspian, the children go back to Narnia. Edmund and Lucy reappear in The Voyage of the Dawn Treader, with their cousin Eustace. In The Silver Chair the main human characters are Eustace and his school-friend Jill. Eustace and Jill return in The Last Battle.
People have different ideas about the order you should read the seven Narnia books. CS Lewis told someone that when he wrote The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, he didn't know he was going to write any more Narnia books. So perhaps it doesn't matter!
Lewis liked mice and would never trap them. Reepicheep is a talking mouse in The Voyage of the Dawn Treader. 
There was a big old wardrobe in Lewis' boyhood home in Belfast. He and his brother sat in it, telling stories. 
         Search term:     BBC navigation  News Sport Weather  Capital  TV Radio More…       CBBC CBeebies Comedy Food History   Learning Music Science Nature Local   Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Full A-Z of BBC sites        BBC links    Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC     Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help     Ad Choices Cookies Contact the BBC     Parental Guidance      BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  
=======================================================
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
   background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/twister/tiny-snake._V192199047_.gif') no-repeat scroll 0px 0px;
  cursor: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-in._V184888790_.bmp'),pointer;
  cursor: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-out._V184888738_.bmp),pointer;
.swSprite { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; margin: 0;padding: 0; position: relative; overflow: hidden; vertical-align: middle; background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler div.disabled-button { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image {  background-position: -60px -80px;background-color: white;}
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image { background-position: -30px -80px; background-color: white;}
.dpSprite { background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-dp-2._V384267953_.png'); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.udpSprite { background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/udp-sprite-dp-2._V358106326_.png') no-repeat; vertical-align: middle; display: inline-block;}
.cmtySprite { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-communities._V136632413_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192250049_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V156431432_.png);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192190832_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite._V192250042_.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192239831_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/customerimage/shuttle-gradient._V192250138_.gif); 
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V192238939_.gif');
    background: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/sprite-carousel-btns-stars2._V376388587_.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_left_17._V248144977_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_right_17._V248144979_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_left._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top._V265110086_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_left._V265110084_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom._V265110084_.png); }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-arrow-v._V219326286_.png);
     #twister .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; } #twister .a-dropdown-container span.a-button-dropdown { display: none !important } 	
     #buybox_feature_div .a-native-dropdown, #buybox .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; font-weight: normal;}
     #buybox_feature_div label.a-native-dropdown, #buybox label.a-native-dropdown {padding-right: 5px;}
     #buybox_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown, #buybox .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown  { display: none !important;} 
     #defaultChildDropdown_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown { display: none !important;}
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York TimesŽ Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
No Kindle device required. Download one of the free Kindle apps to start reading Kindle books on your smartphone, tablet and computer.
FREE Two-Day Shipping is available to Amazon Prime members. To join, select "Yes, I want FREE Two-Day Shipping with Amazon Prime" above the Add to Cart button and confirm your Amazon Prime free trial sign-up during checkout.
Important:  Your credit card will NOT be charged when you start your free trial or if you cancel during the trial period. If you're happy with Amazon Prime, do nothing. At the end of the free trial, your membership will automatically upgrade to an annual membership.
Comment: Eligible for *FREE* Super Saver Shipping! Excellent customer service, qualifies for Amazon A to Z satisfaction. All pages and cover are intact (including the dust cover, if applicable). Spine may show signs of wear. Pages may include limited notes and highlighting. May include "From the library of" labels. 
Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) is a service we offer sellers that lets them store their products in Amazon's fulfillment centers, and we directly pack, ship, and provide customer service for these products. Something we hope you'll especially enjoy: FBA items qualify for FREE Shipping and .
    * https://omni-grok.amazon.com/xref/src/appgroup/websiteTemplates/retail/SoftlinesDetailPageAssets/udp-intl-lock/src/legacy.css?indexName=WebsiteTemplates#40
 A subtle and poignant portrayal of the creator of The Chronicles of Narnia. Brilliant. Agnostic. Prejudiced. Gregarious. Bullying. Loyal friend. Heavy drinker. One of the most learned scholars of his generation. A controversial Christian apologist. Author of a children's fantasy that has sold millions upon millions of copies. And, after his death, almost a cult figure. C. S. Lewis was an incredibly complicated man, and, as revealed in this splendid biography, a mystery to those who knew him best. "I know of no modern biographer who equals Wilson's delicacy of touch and sensitivity to human quandaries. An astonishing book."—Leon Edel "The mixture presented in Wilson's biography of the life of learning...of domestic drama and bad temper, religion, and sex, is irresistible."—New York Review of Books 8 pages of black and white illustrations
{"currencyCode":"USD","itemData":[{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":12.64,"ASIN":"0393323404","isPreorder":0},{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buyingPrice":11.71,"ASIN":"0156870118","isPreorder":0}],"shippingId":"0393323404::Uyem11B9cR09ax7U0h0DSxIodfP4P3nilcEYYFK6TvE6uTDbXhXonIFMp8pxUex7AXOZ177kqlBDNNWpR%2FLQfCeKtOkxSkukm6iewIMQWYY%3D,0156870118::u9bBjhzcNuj1zoBlGXyGuYVrBX%2B3BTXT6B0T%2BVyayp8EPHjvLchFJ3PysCTtRqxSw1wMENlzOrOocZO4VnJ16zNXisHjKq8fvSg%2Brbkd%2FLk%3D","sprites":{"addToWishlist":["wl_one","wl_two","wl_three"],"addToCart":["s_addToCart","s_addBothToCart","s_add3ToCart"],"preorder":["s_preorderThis","s_preorderBoth","s_preorderAll3"]},"shippingDetails":{"xy":"same"},"tags":["x","y","z"],"strings":{"addToWishlist":["add to wishlist","Add both to Wish List","Add all three to Wish List"],"addToCart":["Add to Cart","Add both to Cart","Add all three to Cart"],"showDetailsDefault":"Show availability and shipping details","shippingError":"An error occurred, please try again","hideDetailsDefault":"Hide availability and shipping details","priceLabel":["Price:","Price for both:","Price for all three:"],"preorder":["Pre-order this item","Pre-order both items","Pre-order all three items"]}}
0156870118,1414339356,1581347391,0805432469,0060652934,0156904365,1587433354,0743234901,0060652381,B00005JPH2,0745955878,0060653205,1107639271,047067279X,0060652950,0064405052,0060652942,074323491X,1576583856,0156232057,0745955142,0865547300,0743234928,0310285038,1587680262,0195003454,0156027968,074595586X,1586171089,1405874120,0060819227
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V397906885_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-right._V192549178_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_br._V192190565_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_03._V192190907_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-topleft._V192549173_.gif');
Tell us that you'd like this title to be produced as an audiobook, and we'll alert our colleagues at Audible.com. If you are the author or rights holder, let Audible help you produce the audiobook: Learn more at ACX.com. 
       Known details of the Christian apologist's life, a veritable Freudian case history, appear along with fresh insights about his Oxford circle, the Inklings, and his friendship with J.R.R. Tolkien. "Wilson, though attuned to psychoanalytic theory, avoids reductionist psychobiography in this absorbing, intimate portrait of a secretive figure," said PW. Photos. Copyright 1991 Reed Business Information, Inc.
       More probing than the affectionate biographies now available, this is a welcome addition to Lewis studies. Author of the acclaimed Tolstoy (LJ 8/88), Wilson renders yet another extraordinary but thoroughly human life. His Lewis is no "plaster saint." Extremely reticent about his life and canonized by devotees since his death, Lewis was a unique challenge to the biographer. Wilson adeptly considers each of Lewis's books in the context of the life and reveals how the writer came to realize the importance of the imagination in Christian faith. Lewis's conversion to Christianity, his friendship with J.R.R. Tolkien, and his work on the Narnia books are presented insightfully. Recommended.- Kathleen Norris, Lemmon P.L., S.D.Copyright 1990 Reed Business Information, Inc.
    .quotes-bubble-arrow { height: 0; width: 0; left: 18px; border-color: #EEEEEE rgba(238,238,238,0); border-width: 15px 0 0 19px; border-style: solid; position:relative; content:""; }
  There are better biographies of Lewis available.David GrahamThere doesn't seem to be much reason to doubt many of them.Robert MooreHe was a very inspirational man.would recommend it.Marion Kennedy
There is great, though, as it turns out, pointless, irony in the fact that the English litterateur A. N. Wilson penned this life of a famous Christian apologist while he was in the process of giving up his own Christian faith.  One might anticipate from such a juxtaposition some unusual insight into  Lewis' (in this case unsuccessful) methods of argumentation.  Alas, nothing  of the sort occurs.  This is simply another Lewis biography, following the  familiar outline laid down by Lewis' own "Surprised by Joy" and  adding very little, save for catty psychological guesswork, that has not  appeared in earlier productions of the prolific Lewis  "industry".The book's great sensation is the assertion that  the young Lewis, at around age 20, had an affair with Mrs. Jane Moore, the  woman whom he "adopted" as a mother figure for the rest of his  life.  The theory lacks both plausibility and evidence.  Lewis had lost his  mother at a young age and had chafed under his father's well-meant but  wrong-headed tutelage.  Mrs. Moore's son, for a while Lewis' closest  friend, had died in the Great War.  That the two should have formed a  substitute family is not at all surprising.  Wilson offers no grounds for  supposing that any sexual undertones were present.  The kind of  "evidence" that he gathers demonstrates little.  To take one  telling item, he points to the fact that Lewis' diaries use the Greek  letter delta (our "D") as shorthand for Mrs. Moore.  Of the many  Greek words and names beginning with that letter, he singles out  "Diotimia", the courtesan who introduced Socrates to eros.  That  is just a wild guess, evidently made without knowledge of the fact that  delta is the first letter of the Greek transliteration of "Jane".Read more ›
  I cannot claim familiarity with all of the other biographies of C.S. Lewis, but I do know a good book when I read one.  This is an absorbing, revealing, if controversial, account of Lewis.  Readers should not be afraid to tackle a biography written by someone who did not know Lewis personally-- this distance is one of the strengths of Wilson's book, for it is not clouded by sentimental recollections.  Most importantly, you will be encouraged to read more of Lewis himself, particularly the lesser known works and literary criticism.  Wilson offers excellent insights into these works which are largely forgotten, due to the popularity of a handful of other writings.Wilson pushes readers to start from scratch in constructing an image of Lewis: Lewis the entire man--scholar, teacher, brother, lover, and fallen human being.  We are discouraged from holding fast to a more typical tidy portrait of Lewis: the affable author of a select group of Christian books and children's fantasy stories. (I love the Narnia books, by the way, and my esteem for them has not been dampened whatsoever by this book.)I didn't agree with every one of Wilson's assertions about Lewis's character or motivations, but again, Wilson's unwillingness merely to reinforce the accepted line is a great strength.  Wilson's analysis is a challenge, not a conclusive rendering of absolutes.  Approach it with that understanding, allow yourself to be challenged, and the experience of reading this book will be ultimately satisfying.  Antoher tip: read the preface again after you've finished the book for a more complete grasp of Wilson's intentions.Yes, read other accounts of Lewis for the broadest spectrum of perspectives possible.  But don't leave this one out.  Not surprisingly, those only interested in pointing out errors and shutting their minds to fresh insights will be disappointed.
33 of 40 people found the following review helpfulMainly useful as a corrective to more respectful biographies
Despite a vast amount of literature on C. S. Lewis, there are surprisingly a dearth of good biographies.  In most, Lewis emerges as a bit of a plastic saint, just a little too good to be true, a bit of a high-church protestant saint.  This is especially true in evangelical American circles, where many imagine Lewis to have been a nonsmoking abstainer from alcohol.  Many will react with shock and dismay upon learning that Lewis's smoked so heavily that he was the probable cause of his relatively early death and his drinking was considerable, and may have bordered on the alcoholic.As a corrective to this goody-goody Lewis, Wilson provides us with a warts and all flesh-and-blood corrective.  He gives us the hard drinking, mildly bawdy, addictive smoker who has a relationship with a woman old enough to be his mother and a premarital relationship with a woman he would later marry.There are two questions to ask here.  First, are Wilson's "facts" accurate?  There doesn't seem to be much reason to doubt many of them.  Second, are these adequate to create a good biography?  No.  Wilson's biography is valuable for one and only one reason:  he delves into the aspects of Lewis's life that the other biographers would prefer to either ignore or pretend didn't exist.  He also gives a slightly different slant on many of Lewis's intellectual and religious interests.  But apart from the book's valuable debunking, it is a fairly lame biography.  Lewis doesn't emerge as a particularly attractive person.  He doesn't, in fact, emerge much as a person at all.  Wilson doesn't doo much of a job of showing what made Lewis click at all.  And while he does do a good job of showing that the St. Jack portraits of Lewis are all mildly bogus, he doesn't really provide us with an alternative.Read more ›
      When I picked up A.N. Wilson’s highly readable C.S. Lewis – A Biography I thought Lewis might get a little rough treatment.
      Wilson has done the impossible and made Lewis boring. It must have been hard work to take the life of such an amazing and interesting man and make it as exciting as watching paint...
      Well written, helped my grandson with his biography of important Christian men. He was a very inspirational man.would recommend it.
      I have read several biographies of C. S. Lewis including this one and I must say my ultimate opinion of this book is one of disappointment.
      At first glance, I was skeptical of this biography of the dearly beloved C.S. Lewis.  Partly because he has been so dear to my heart from childhood and I am sure will be throughout...
      Despite a vast amount of literature on C. S. Lewis, there are surprisingly a dearth of good biographies.
      Despite a vast amount of literature on C. S. Lewis, there are surprisingly a dearth of good biographies.
      Despite a vast amount of literature on C. S. Lewis, there are surprisingly a dearth of good biographies.
      Despite a vast amount of literature on C. S. Lewis, there are surprisingly a dearth of good biographies.
      Despite a vast amount of literature on C. S. Lewis, there are surprisingly a dearth of good biographies.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMens GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
.ap_classic { border-top:1px solid #ccc;border-left:1px solid #ccc;border-bottom:1px solid #2F2F1D; border-right:1px solid #2F2F1D;background-color:#EFEDD4;padding:3px; }
.ap_classic .ap_content { clear:both;background-color:white;border:1px solid #ACA976;padding:8px;font-size:11px; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png");  
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV  Amazons Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
Our MinistryChristianityToday.orgAbout UsOur HistoryWhat People Are SayingThe Inside StoryPartner With Us
Christianity TodayChristianity Today magazineCurrent IssueMust-ReadsGleaningsHer.meneutics (CT women)Movies & TVBooksEn Español
Related SitesBooks & CultureChristian HistoryChristianity Today LibraryInternational ChristianityChristian College GuideSeminary/Grad School Guide
Church Law & TaxChurch Law & Tax ReportChurch Finance TodayManaging Your Church blogChurch Law & Tax Store
DiscipleshipChristian Bible StudiesChristian College GuideIgnite Your Faith (teens)Men of IntegritySmall Groups
C.S. Lewis: A Profile of His LifeLYLE DORSETT Lyle W. Dorsett is curator of the Marion E. Wade Collection, which houses C.S. Lewis's original manuscripts, letters, and papers at Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois. He is the author of And God Came In: The Extraordinary Story of Joy Davidman, Her Life and Marriage to C.S. Lewis, and co-editor of C.S. Lewis. Letters to ChildrenJuly 1, 1985
“I’m tall, fat, rather bald, red-faced, double-chinned, black-haired, have a deep voice, and wear glasses for reading,” C.S. Lewis wrote to a young admirer in 1954. If the famous author had been prone to notice clothing, he might have added that his trousers were usually in dire need of pressing, his jackets threadbare and blemished by snags and food spots, and his shoes scuffed and worn at the heels.
But Jack, as C.S. Lewis’s friends knew him, was not bothered by fashion. It is not that he was slovenly. On the contrary, he was meticulous about the precise use of words, the quality of evidence presented in arguments, and the meter in verse. Nevertheless, the style and condition of personal attire was near the bottom of his list of concerns, whereas books and ideas were among his top priorities.
Lewis was born into a bookish family of Protestants in Belfast, Ireland, November 29, 1898. His father, Albert, and his mother, Florence Augusta Hamilton, possessed first-rate minds, and they were members of the Church of Ireland. Eclectic in their reading tastes, they purchased and read many books, and their love for the printed word was passed on to their children. Jack and Warren (his only sibling, three years his senior) were not only read to aloud and taught to read, they were encouraged to use the large family library.
In his autobiography, Surprised by Joy, C.S. Lewis recalled early memories of “endless books.” “There were books in the study, books in the dining room, books in the cloakroom, books (two deep) in the great bookcase on the landing, books in a bedroom, books piled as high as my shoulder in the cistern attic, books of all kinds,” he remembered, and none were off limits to him. On rainy days—and there were many in northern Ireland—he pulled volumes off the shelves and entered into worlds created by authors such as Conan Doyle, E. Nesbit, Mark Twain, and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
After brother Warnie was sent off to boarding school in England, Jack became somewhat reclusive. He spent more time in books and an imaginary world of “dressed animals” and “knights in armor.” But he did more than read books, he wrote and illustrated his own stories as well.
If Warren Lewis’s exile across the Irish Sea to school in 1905 drove Jack further into himself and books, his mother’s death from cancer in 1908 made him even more withdrawn. Mrs. Lewis’s death came just three months prior to Jack’s tenth birthday, and the young man was hurt deeply by her passing. Not only did he lose a mother, his father never fully recovered from her death. For many years thereafter, both boys felt estranged from their father, and home life was never warm and satisfying again.
The death of Mrs. Lewis convinced young Jack that the God he encountered in church and in the Bible his mother gave him was, if not cruel, at least a vague abstraction. Four or five years later, by 1911 or 1912, and with the additional influence of a spiritually unorthodox boarding school matron, Lewis forsook Christianity and became an avowed atheist.
By autumn 1914 C.S. Lewis was somewhat adrift. He had lost his faith and his mother, and he felt alienated from his father. He was extremely close to his brother, but they saw one another only on holidays. A new friendship was beginning with a fellow student, Arthur Greeves, but it was interrupted in September when C. S. Lewis was sent to Great Bookham, Surrey, to be privately tutored by W.T. Kirkpatrick, a brilliant teacher and friend of Lewis’s father.
“The Great Knock,” as the Lewis family dubbed Mr. Kirkpatrick, had a profound effect upon the teenaged youth. He introduced him to the classics in Greek, Latin, and Italian literature, and helped him make a beginning in German. Kirkpatrick not only led Lewis to great books, he pushed him to understand them in the original languages. A most demanding tutor, Kirkpatrick helped Jack learn how to criticize and analyze, and he taught him how to think, speak, and write logically. Consequently, after nearly three years with Kirkpatrick, C.S. Lewis was tough-minded and widely read. Many years later, Lewis wrote in Surpised by Joy that “My debt to him is very great, my reverence to this day undiminished.”
The debt was large indeed. Kirkpatrick helped the young man prepare for scholarship examinations at Oxford, and the demanding mentor played no small role in Lewis’s outstanding performance at University College, where he took highest honors in honour moderations, greats, and English in 1920, 1922, and 1923 respectively.
If Kirkpatrick taught Lewis to think critically—to demand evidence for even the most casual assertions—Oxford introduced him to a wide horizon of ideas. Whereas Lewis’s hard-pressing mentor had helped him reinforce his atheism, a few associates at Oxford forced him to re-examine his belief in a universe without God.
Lewis entered the world of Oxford in 1917 as a student, and he never really left. Despite an interruption to fight in World War I and his professorship at Cambridge beginning in 1955, he always maintained his home and friends in Oxford. He loved the bookshops, the pubs, and the Bodleian Library, and he revelled in the company of local men who loved to read, write, and discuss books. His attachment to Oxford was so strong that when he taught at Cambridge from 1955 to 1963 he commuted back to Oxford on weekends so that he could be close to familiar places and beloved friends.
It was in Oxford that Lewis pursued things of the mind with fervor. Ideas, books, and debates were ordinary fare in this heady environment. With no particular purpose in life beyond stimulating his imagination, feeding his intellectual curiosity, and writing for publication and posterity, he thoroughly enjoyed academic life. In 1919 he published his first book, a cycle of lyrics titled Spirits in Bondage, which he wrote under the pseudonym Clive Hamilton. In 1924 he became a philosophy tutor at University College. Then in 1925 he was elected a Fellow of Magdalen College, where he tutored in English language and literature. The next year his second volume of poetry, Dymer, was published under the name Clive Hamilton.
Alongside the generally self-centered life Lewis was leading, he demonstrated a loyal and generous nature. When his college roommate, Paddy Moore, was killed in World War I, Jack befriended Paddy’s mother, Mrs. Janie King Moore, and her adolescent daughter Maureen. Then in 1920, after completing his first degree, Lewis decided to share lodgings with them so that he could more carefully look out for their needs.
This gesture of kindness did more than help Mrs. Moore and Maureen; it got C.S. Lewis outside of himself and taught him patience. The association with the Moores also introduced him to Mrs. Moore’s brother, a combat veteran who suffered from a severe war-inflicted nervous disorder. This personal encounter apparently shook Lewis’s confidence in materialism, because a letter he wrote in 1923 to his friend Arthur Greeves suggests a slight spiritual awakening. It seems that the “Doc,” as the Moores and Lewis referred to him, came to stay with the trio for three weeks. During the visit “Doc” underwent an ordeal of extreme mental torture. After the attack, when the poor wretch was hospitalized, Lewis wrote to his friend that “Doc” had believed he was in Hell. He wore out his body in the “awful mental tortures,” and then died from heart failure “unconscious at the end thank God.” Lewis concluded his observation by suggesting it is “a damned world—and we once thought we could be happy with books and music!”
The spiritual awakening continued, enhanced by reading books by George MacDonald and G.K. Chesterton. One MacDonald volume called Phantastes had a powerful impact on his thinking. “What it actually did to me,” wrote Lewis, “was to convert, even to baptize … my imagination.” At Oxford Lewis continued to read MacDonald, and he imbibed G.K. Chesterton as well. The latter author’s books, especially The Everlasting Man, raised serious questions about the young intellectual’s materialism.
While MacDonald and Chesterton were stirring Lewis’s thoughts, a close friend, Owen Barfield, with whom he spent much time during and after their student years, pounced on the logic of Jack Lewis’s atheism. Barfield became a theist, and then a Christian, and he frequently badgered Lewis about his materialism. So did Nevill Coghill, a fellow student and lifelong friend who was brilliant, yet was, to Lewis’s amazement, “a Christian and a thoroughgoing supernaturalist.”
Soon after joining the English faculty at Magdalen College, Lewis met two more Christians, Hugo Dyson and J.R.R. Tolkien. These men became close friends of Lewis. He admired their brilliance and their logic. Soon Lewis recognized that most of his friends, like his favorite authors—MacDonald, Chesterton, Johnson, Spenser, and Milton—held to this Christian angle of vision which threatened his whole world view.
Gradually during the 1920s, two paths were converging in Lewis’s mind: one was reason, the other intuition. In 1929 these roads met, and C.S. Lewis surrendered and admitted that “God was God, and knelt and prayed.” Within two years the reluctant convert admitted that Jesus Christ is the Son of God—God Incarnate. With this revelation the Oxford don became a communicant in the Church of England.
Christian history shows that when men and women meet Jesus, recognize His Nature, and then decide to trust and follow Him, they become strikingly different people. Those who convert—who turn around and obey Christ’s command to “follow me” are clearly people with changed lives.
If evidence of conversion is a new life, C.S. Lewis was obviously a believer after 1931. Many changes were apparent. His life now had a purpose—to know and obey God. This came to fruition most demonstrably in his writing. Earlier efforts to become a poet were laid to rest. The new Christian devoted his talent and energy to writing prose that reflected his recently found faith. Within two years of his conversion Lewis published The Pilgrim’s Regress: An Allegorical Apology for Christianity, Reason and Romanticism. This little volume opened a thirty-year stream of books on Christian apologetics and discipleship that became a lifelong avocation. Between 1933 and his death in 1963, C.S. Lewis wrote books including the seven volume Chronicles of Narnia, The Screwtape Letters, The Great Divorce, and Mere Christianity, that nudged atheists and agnostics toward the faith, and encouraged and nurtured believers.
As a good steward and responsible professional, Lewis did not ignore his academic discipline. He wrote literary history and criticism such as The Allegory of Love: A Study in Medieval Tradition, Rehabilitations and Other Essays, and English Literature in the Sixteenth Century Excluding Drama. These books are still widely read and highly regarded.
Despite the large quantity and high quality of his academic publications, Lewis became known as a literary evangelist. The tone and impact of his theological and apologetical books help account for this reputation, as did his own assertion in a rejoinder to his critic, Dr. W.N. Pittenger, published in The Christian Century November 26, 1958, where Lewis admitted that most of what he wrote “is evangelistic.”
If Christianity altered Lewis’s writing habits, the publication of those books had a palpable effect on his personal life. First of all, the change was manifested in the mail. Once Lewis’s books became popular, which they did by the 1940s, he was inundated by letters. Because the famous author believed it was God’s will for him to answer most of this mail himself, and because he was convinced, as he said in “The Weight of Glory,” that there are “no ordinary people,” he took time to write with care to each correspondent regardless of age, education, or place in society. This enterprise consumed many hours each week.
Furthermore, life with fame was laden with other pressures. There were numerous invitations to entertain guests, grant interviews, give lectures, and preach sermons. Writing, to be sure, is a lonely enterprise. This Lewis understood. And even though he felt called by God to write, he likewise felt it was required of him to counsel those who made the pilgrimage to The Kilns, his home on the edge of Oxford. Frequently he believed it was his calling to explain the Christian faith to people over BBC radio, and to the airmen at the RAF bases during World War II.
Preaching sermons, giving talks, and expressing his theological views over the radio throughout the United Kingdom bolstered Lewis’s reputation and increased his book sales. With these new circumstances came other changes—not the least being a marked upswing in annual income. Throughout the 1920s Lewis had been getting by on little money. During his student years his father provided an allowance, and Jack supplemented that in various ways. Nevertheless, money was always scarce. And when the young academician took on the responsibility for Mrs. Moore and her daughter, finances were always tight even with the regular tutorial stipend.
As book royalties mounted during the late 1940s, and continued to spiral upward thereafter, C.S. Lewis refused to upgrade his standard of living. Partly out of disdain for conspicuous living, but mostly out of commitment to Jesus Christ, he established a charitable fund for his royalty earnings.
Neither the extent nor the recipients of C.S. Lewis’s charity are fully known. Indeed, he made valiant efforts to conceal this information. It is known that he supported numerous improverished families, underwrote education fees for orphans and poor seminarians, and put monies into scores of charities and church ministries.
The outreach of Lewis’s books and the impact of his charity conspired to make still another significant change in his lifestyle. During the last decade of his earthly pilgrimage, Lewis’s world was invaded by an American woman and her two children. In autumn 1952 Joy Davidman Gresham, who had become a Christian partly because she read The Great Divorce and The Screwtape Letters, visited her spiritual mentor in England. Soon thereafter her husband abandoned her for another woman. In the meantime the divorcee, a writer in her own right, moved to London with her two adolescent boys, David and Douglas.
Joy Davidman Greshem gradually fell into financial trouble. Her acquaintance with C.S. Lewis led to his underwriting the boarding school education of David and Douglas. From charity and common literary interests grew a deep friendship, and eventually agape became eros. They were married in 1956.
Joy was sixteen years Lewis’s junior, but that did not prevent a happy marriage. A savage case of cancer, however, cut short their life together. After several years of reprieve from an earlier and nearly fatal bout with cancer, Joy Lewis passed away in Oxford July 13, 1960.
Joy’s entry into Jack’s life brought much happiness. As he wrote to one friend soon after their marriage, “It’s funny having at 59 the sort of happiness most men have in their twenties … ‘Thou hast kept the good wine till now.’ ” Joy brought C.S. Lewis love, companionship, and two stepsons, complete with all of the delights and problems that naturally come in such circumstances. Furthermore, Mrs. Lewis brought insights, ideas, and a new angle of vision. Raised in a Jewish home, and having written a book on the Ten Commandments, Smoke on the Mountain, she encouraged him to renew his writing of apologetics, in particular Reflections on the Psalms. Her influence on what Jack considered his best book, Till We Have Faces, was so profound that he told one close friend she was actually his co-author.
C.S. Lewis’s marriage to Joy Davidman did not enhance his reputation in Great Britian. Long assumed to be a confirmed bachelor, the esteemed professor not only married late in life, he married an American who was at once Jewish, divorced, and personally rather abrasive. In brief, the marriage did not set well with most of Mr. Lewis’s friends and acquaintances. The critics notwithstanding, Jack’s faithful brother Warren—who lived at The Kilns with Jack before, during, and after the years with Joy—supported him, as did a few other close friends.
C.S. Lewis was hurt by the disapproval of his old friends and colleagues, but it was by no means a new experience for him. Although he enjoyed the conviviality of weekly get-togethers with fellow Inklings (intellectuals and writers who met regularly to exchange ideas and share in good conversation), and the prodigious successes of his books, Lewis was frequently under attack for his decidedly Christian lifestyle. Close friends, among them Owen Barfield and J.R.R. Tolkien, openly disapproved of Lewis’s evangelistic speaking and writing. And if the opprobrium of fellow believers was unpleasant, it was mild compared with the attacks from colleagues and strangers who did not share the Oxford author’s faith.
It is common knowledge that Lewis’s “Christian” books caused so much disapproval that he was more than once passed over for a professorship at Oxford, with the honors going to men of lesser reputation. It was Magdalene College at Cambridge University that finally honored Lewis with a chair in 1955 and thereby recognized his original and important contributions to English literary history and criticism.
Along with Lewis’s international reputation, ever-growing royalties, and thousands of fans throughout the English-speaking world, came increasing alienation. Did Lewis take comfort in his Lord’s warning in the Sermon on the Mount that his disciples would indeed be insulted and persecuted? We do not know.
Lewis died at The Kilns on November 22, 1963. He is buried beside his brother, who lived ten more years, in the cemetery of Holy Trinity Church, Headington Quarry, Oxford. His letters and books, and the lives these writings touch, are his legacy.
Easily find high-quality, well-researched materials that provide a Christian perspective on topics ranging from headlines to history.
			Start using this invaluable tool TODAY for preparing your Bible studies, presentations, class lectures, sermons, meetings, and more.
It's easy and quick to join:2-for-1 Deal. Two powerful resources for 1 great price!A 1-Year Membership to CTLibrary & a 1-year print subscription to the magazine of your choice!  Enjoy your first 7days online FREE!
					Only $49.951-Year MembershipPlus your first 7 days are FREE!  You won't be charged until after your free trial.Only $49.951-Month MembershipIncludes automatic renewal each month.Only $9.951-Year for Print SubscribersSpecial offer if you are currently a print subscriber to Christianity Today, Leadership Journal, or Books & Culture.Only $29.95 first year
									Want to stay informed but a little short on free time? Try The Galli Report, a weekly newsletter giving you 5 must-read articles for thought leaders handpicked by CT Editor Mark Galli.Sign up today for the FREE e-newsletter! All fields required.Email Address:  
Christianity TodayThe Teetotalers I Never KnewAbstaining Christian activists of previous generations were radically committed to the common good.
Student Subdues Shooter After One Dead, 3 Injured at Seattle Pacific University(Updated) It's the latest of several Christian college attacks.
Church Law & TaxKentucky Court's Ruling Favors Churches, ClergyJudge’s opinion may shed light on how Wisconsin housing allowance appeal may go.
Church Payroll Tax Audits—the IRS Is WatchingGet these files and paperwork organized to stay prepared.
Today's Christian WomanStitched TogetherHow Hand & Cloth helps women find dignified work in Bangladesh
Books & CultureBuilding Church LeadersChristian Bible StudiesChristian College GuideChristian HistoryChristianity Today magazineChristianity Today eBooksChristianity Today LibraryChurch Law & Tax ReportChurch Finance TodayIgnite Your FaithLeadership JournalMen of IntegrityPARSEPreaching TodaySeminary/Grad School GuideSmall GroupsToday's Christian Woman
=======================================================
Clive Staples Lewis, known as Jack to his friends, was born in 1898. Lewis and his good friend J. R. R. Tolkien, the author of the Lord of the Rings, were part of the Inklings, an informal writers' club that met at a local pub to discuss story ideas. Lewis's fascination with fairy tales, myths, and ancient legends, coupled with inspiration drawn from his childhood, led him to write The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, one of the best-loved books of all times. Six further books followed to become the immensely popular Chronicles of Narnia. The final title in the series, The Last Battle, won the Carnegie Medal, one of the highest marks of excellence in children's literature.
Each book stands alone as a work of genius, but together they tell the entire history if a fantastic world that becomes as real as your own. A world of a magic and adventure—a place in which children's imaginations know no bounds.
The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe was first published in 1950, but C. S. Lewis began piecing together the story long before that. The tales of ancient myths his Irish nurse told him always fascinated him; and when he was sixteen, a picture of a faun carrying parcels and an umbrella in snowy woods popped into his head. Years later, during World War II, four children stayed with Lewis at his country house and stirred his imagination again. Not long afterward, he began writing the story that would become The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe. 
While writing, Lewis incorporated creatures from myths along with his own memories—such as that of the old wardrobe from his childhood. As the children found their way into Narnia, he was still unsure of what his story would be about. Then the image of Aslan came to him. Lewis once said, "I don't know where the Lion came from or why he came. But once he was there, he pulled the whole story together."
After being illustrated by Pauline Baynes, The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe was published to great success. With so many stories to tell about Narnia and its unforgettable characters, Lewis wrote six more books. Published in 1956, The Last Battle was awarded the Carnegie Medal—England's highest honor for children's literature.
During the Second World War, when children from London were being evacuated to the country, four youngsters were billeted at Jack's home, the Kilns. Surprised to find how few imaginative stories his young guests seemed to know, he decided to write one for them and scribbled down the opening sentences of a story about four children—then named Ann, Martin, Rose and Peter—who were sent away from London because of the air raids, and went to stay with a very old professor who lived by himself in the country.
      That's all he wrote at the time, but, several years later, he returned to the story. The children (now named Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy) found their way into another world—a land he would eventually call Narnia.
The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe was published in 1950 with illustrations by Pauline Baynes, a young artist who perfectly captured, in line, the pictures that Jack Lewis had seen in his head.
 Jack experimented with the differences in time between our world and Narnia—a device that meant that there was always something unusual and unexpected about each new story. 
"When I had done The Voyage," Jack later recalled, "I felt quite sure it would be the last. But I found I was wrong." 
In 1953, he wrote The Silver Chair, and the following year, The Horse and His Boy, which was set during the time period of The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe.
    Each book introduced memorable new Narnian characters—such as Reepicheep the Mouse, Trumpkin the Dwarf and Puddleglum the Marsh-wiggle—and, from this world, the plucky Jill Pole and the unpleasant Eustace Scrubb, who gets turned into a dragon.
As for the "magnificent lion," he plays an important role in every story: in The Magician's Nephew, he gives life to Narnia; in The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, he defeats the evil of the White Witch; and in the final volume of what is now known as "The Chronicles of Narnia" (The Last Battle) Aslan concludes the story of Narnia and leads its faithful friends to a new world. 
	    to The Chronicles of Narnia are trademarks of C.S. Lewis Pte. Ltd. Use without permission is strictly prohibited.
Site Map  |  HarperTeen  |  HarperCollins Children's Imprints  |  About Us  |  Contact Us  |  Terms of Use  |  HarperCollins Publishers
