=======================================================
This article is about the musician.  For the actor, see Ian Curtis (actor).  For the cricket player, see Ian Curtis (cricketer).
Ian Kevin Curtis (15 July 1956 – 18 May 1980) was an English musician, and singer-songwriter. He is best known as the lead singer and lyricist of the post-punk band Joy Division. Joy Division released their debut album, Unknown Pleasures, in 1979 and recorded their follow-up, Closer, in 1980. Curtis, who suffered from epilepsy and depression, committed suicide on 18 May 1980, on the eve of Joy Division's first North American tour, resulting in the band's dissolution and the subsequent formation of New Order.
Curtis was known for his baritone voice, dance style, and songwriting filled with imagery of desolation, emptiness and alienation.
In 1995, Curtis' widow Deborah published Touching from a Distance: Ian Curtis and Joy Division, a biography of the singer. His life and death have been dramatised in the films 24 Hour Party People (2002) and Control (2007).
Curtis was born at the Memorial Hospital in Stretford, Lancashire. He grew up in Macclesfield, a town in Cheshire,[1] and from an early age he exhibited talent as a poet. He was awarded a scholarship at the age of 11 by The King's School, Macclesfield. Despite this, he was not a dedicated student and did not further his education beyond O-level.[2]
After leaving school, he focused on the pursuit of art, literature and music. Curtis was employed in a variety of jobs, including civil servant in Manchester and later Macclesfield.
On 23 August 1975, Curtis married a school friend, Deborah Woodruff. He was 19 and she was 18. Their daughter Natalie was born on 16 April 1979. She is a photographer and revealed that Ian was a Manchester City fan.[3]
In 1976 at a Sex Pistols gig, Curtis met Bernard Sumner and Peter Hook. They were trying to form a band, and Curtis immediately proposed himself as vocalist and lyricist. The trio then unsuccessfully recruited a number of drummers before selecting Stephen Morris as their final member.
Initially, the band was called Warsaw, but as their name conflicted with that of another group, Warsaw Pakt, the name was changed to Joy Division. The moniker was derived from a 1955 novel The House of Dolls, which featured a Nazi concentration camp with a sexual slavery wing called the "Joy Division". The cover of the band's first EP depicted a drawing of a Hitler Youth beating a drum and the A-side contained a song "Warsaw" which was a musical retelling of the life of Nazi leader Rudolf Hess. Although Joy Division admitted to a fascination with Nazism, they denied any actual support for its ideologies.[citation needed]
After starting Factory Records with Alan Erasmus, Tony Wilson signed the band to his label[citation needed] following the band's appearance on Wilson's Something Else television programme, itself prompted by an abusive letter sent to Wilson by Curtis.[4]
While performing for Joy Division, Curtis became known for his quiet and awkward demeanor, as well as a unique dancing style reminiscent of the epileptic seizures he experienced, sometimes even on stage.[5] There were several incidents when he collapsed and had to be helped off stage.[6] In an interview for Northern Lights cassette magazine in November 1979, Ian Curtis made his only public comment on his dancing and performance. He explained the dance as a type of sign language with which to further express a song's emotional and lyrical content: "Instead of just singing about something you could show it as well, put it over in the way that it is, if you were totally involved in what you were doing".[citation needed]
Curtis' writing was filled with imagery of emotional isolation, death, alienation, and urban decay.[original research?] He sang in a baritone voice, in contrast to his speaking voice, which fell in the tenor range. Earlier in their career, Curtis would sing in a loud snarling voice similar to shouting; it is best displayed on the band's debut EP, An Ideal for Living (1978). Producer Martin Hannett developed Joy Division's sparse recording style, and some of their most innovative work was created in Strawberry Studios in Stockport (owned by Manchester act 10cc) and Cargo Recording Studios Rochdale in 1979, which was developed from John Peel's investing money into the music business in Rochdale.[citation needed]
Although predominantly a vocalist, Curtis also played guitar on a handful of tracks (usually when Sumner was playing synthesizer; "Incubation" and a Peel session version of "Transmission" were rare instances when both played guitar). At first Curtis played Sumner's Shergold Masquerader, but in September 1979 he acquired his own guitar, a Vox Phantom Special VI (often described incorrectly as a Teardrop or ordinary Phantom model) which had many built-in effects used both live and in studio. After Curtis' death, Sumner inherited the guitar and used it in several early New Order songs, such as "Everything's Gone Green". Curtis also played keyboard on some live versions of "She's Lost Control". He also played the melodica on "Decades" and "In a Lonely Place"; the latter was written and rehearsed for the cancelled American tour and later salvaged as a New Order B-side.[citation needed]
Curtis' last live performance was on 2 May 1980, at High Hall of Birmingham University, a show that included Joy Division's first and only performance of "Ceremony", later recorded by New Order and released as their first single. The last song Curtis performed on stage was "Digital". The recording of this performance is on the Still album.[7]
Detailed in Debbie Curtis' Touching from a Distance, Curtis was staying at his parents' house at this time and attempted to talk his wife into staying with him on 17 May 1980, to no avail. He told her to leave him alone in the house until he caught his train to Manchester the next morning.[8] In the early hours of 18 May 1980, Curtis hanged himself in the kitchen of his house at 77 Barton Street, Macclesfield. He had just viewed Werner Herzog's film Stroszek and listened to Iggy Pop's The Idiot. At the time of his death, his health was failing as a result of the epilepsy and, attempting to balance his musical ambitions with his marriage, which was foundering in the aftermath of his close relationship with journalist Annik Honoré (who in 2010 would claim it was not an "affair" and merely a close and platonic relationship).[9] His wife found Ian's body the next morning; he had used the kitchen's washing line to hang himself. Deborah claimed later that he had confided to her on several occasions that he had no desire to live past his 20s.[10][11]
Curtis was cremated at Macclesfield Crematorium and his ashes were buried. His memorial stone, inscribed with "Ian Curtis 18 – 5 – 80" and "Love Will Tear Us Apart", was stolen in July 2008 from the grounds of Macclesfield Cemetery.[12] The missing memorial stone was later replaced by a new stone.[13]
In a 1987 interview with Option, Stephen Morris commented on how he would describe Curtis to those who asked what he was like: "An ordinary bloke just like you or me, liked a bit of a laugh, a bit of a joke."[14]
Label mate band The Durutti Column released in 1981 their album LC, including the Ian Curtis tribute song "The Missing Boy".
Deborah Curtis wrote Touching from a Distance, published in 1995, a biographical account of their marriage, detailing in part his supposed infidelity with Annik Honoré, which the latter still denies.
In 1999, the post-hardcore band Thursday released a song titled "Ian Curtis" on their debut album, Waiting.
The 2002 New Order song "Here to Stay" was dedicated to Ian Curtis, Rob Gretton and Martin Hannett.[16]
Authors Mick Middles and Lindsay Reade released the book Torn Apart: The Life of Ian Curtis in 2006. This biography takes a more intimate look at Curtis and includes photographs from personal family albums and excerpts from his letters to Honoré during their alleged affair.
Paul Morley wrote Joy Division, Piece by Piece, writing about Joy Division 1977–2007; it was published in late 2007. The book documents all of his writings and reviews about Joy Division, from their formation until Tony Wilson's death.
The words "Ian Curtis Lives" are written on a wall in Wallace Street, Wellington, New Zealand. The message, which appeared shortly after the singer's death in 1980, is repainted whenever it is painted over. A nearby wall on the same street on 4 January 2005 was originally emblazoned "Ian Curtis RIP", later modified to read "Ian Curtis RIP Walk In Silence" along with the incorrect dates "1960–1980".[17] Both are referred to as "The Ian Curtis Wall".[18] Steve McKinlay recalls after having watched 24 Hour Party People and drinking several pints with his brother, a well known New Zealand beer brewer, in the early hours of the morning he drove with a bucket of paint and a small roller to Wallace Street and repainted the wall after it had long since faded. On 10 September 2009, the wall was painted over by Wellington City Council's anti-graffiti team.[19] The wall was chalked back up on 16 September 2009. Following this, council spokesman Richard MacLean said, "They [the anti-graffiti team] may turn a blind eye to it".[20] The wall was repainted on 17 September 2009, and has been removed and repainted on and off. A new and improved design, with correct dates and the original "Walk In Silence", was painted on the wall on 27 February 2013.[21]
Curtis was portrayed by Sean Harris in the 2002 film 24 Hour Party People, which dramatised the rise and fall of Factory Records from the 1970s to the 1990s.
In 2007 a British Ian Curtis biographical film called Control was released, based on material from Deborah Curtis' book Touching from a Distance. It was directed by the Dutch rock photographer and music video director Anton Corbijn, who had previously photographed the band and directed the video for "Atmosphere". Deborah Curtis and Tony Wilson were executive producers and Todd Eckert of Clara Flora was the producer. Sam Riley, the lead singer of the band 10,000 Things, portrays Curtis, while Samantha Morton plays his wife, Deborah. The film had its debut at the Cannes Film Festival on 17 May 2007 to great acclaim, taking three awards at the Directors' Fortnight. It portrays Curtis' secondary school romance with Deborah, their marriage, his problems balancing his domestic life with his rise to fame, his alleged affair with Annik Honoré, his struggle with poorly medicated epilepsy and depression,[22] and his suicide.
Curtis, Deborah (1995) Touching from a Distance — Ian Curtis and Joy Division, Faber and Faber Limited; ISBN 0-571-17445-0
Middles, Mick and Reade, Lindsay (2006) Torn Apart: The Life of Ian Curtis, Omnibus Press; ISBN 1-84449-826-3
Heylin, Clinton and Wood, Craig (1988) Joy Division: Form (and Substance), Sound Pub; ISBN 1-871407-00-1
Categories: 1956 births1980 deaths20th-century English singersBurials in CheshireEnglish baritonesEnglish rock singersEnglish singer-songwritersEnglish songwritersJoy Division membersMale suicidesMusicians from ManchesterMusicians who committed suicidePeople educated at The King's School, MacclesfieldPeople from MacclesfieldPeople from StretfordPeople with epilepsyPost-punk musiciansRock singer-songwritersSuicides by hanging in EnglandHidden categories: Use dmy dates from August 2011Use British English from August 2011Articles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from June 2012All articles that may contain original researchArticles that may contain original research from June 2012Commons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with MusicBrainz identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Ian Kevin Curtis was born in Manchester on the 15th July 1956, the son of Kevin and Doreen Curtis. The
Curtis family then lived at Hurdsfield, just outside Macclesfield, where Ian attended the local primary school.
Later the family moved to a flat at Victoria Park, near Macclesfield town centre, which was Ian's home until 1973.
At the age of 11 Ian won a scholarship to the King's School in Macclesfield. Although he was reasonably successful
at school, Ian had little interest in academic advancement, and his ambition was to get a job in the music industry.
His love of music had developed from an early age, his teenage heroes including David Bowie, Iggy Pop and the Velvet
Underground. The first step on his musical career was a job at Rare Records, a shop in Manchester city centre.
Ian Curtis had met Deborah Woodruffe while they were both still at school in Macclesfield. They were married
on 23rd August 1975, at St Thomas's church in Henbury, a few miles west of Macclesfield. Ian and Deborah lived
first in Hulme and then in Chadderton, and in May 1977 moved into 77 Barton Street in Macclesfield. Their life
together is described in detail in Deborah's book Touching From A Distance. Their only child, daughter Natalie,
Seeing the Sex Pistols perform in Manchester in 1976 had convinced Ian that he too could make it on stage. Ian
had made abortive attempts to form a band with his friends in Macclesfield. His break came when he got to know
Bernard Sumner and Peter Hook, who were trying to do the same in Salford but lacked a singer. When Ian contacted
As well as being Joy Division's vocalist, Ian Curtis also wrote the song lyrics. Lyrically he was inspired by,
written in the house in Barton Street, and Ian had a stock of notebooks into which he jotted ideas as they came
to him. Many people assume that his lyrics must reflect his own feelings and problems, but perhaps they just reflect
Ian's first (and last) "proper" job was as a civil servant for the Manpower Services Commission, initially
in Manchester and later in Macclesfield. His job required him to work closely with disabled people (see
below for more details). He tried to juggle a full-time job with his life in the band until his musical commitments
While working in Manchester, Ian was a frequent visitor to the nearby office of the RCA record company. It was
mainly Ian's persistency which led to Joy Division being given a contract to record their first album, although
this was never officially released. Ian is also famous for haranguing Granada TV's Tony Wilson in order to get
Ian had a volatile personality, and could show different sides at different times and with different people.
He could sometimes be angry and spiteful, but more often was easy-going and generous. Although his health, his
career and his personal life all brought many pressures, Ian is usually recalled by those who knew him as a fun-loving
In January 1979 Ian was diagnosed as epileptic. Although his fits varied in frequency and intensity, epilepsy
was an ever-present concern from then on. Not only did Ian have to take regular medication, which seemed to make
his mood swings more extreme, but fits could be brought on by strobe lighting in some of the clubs. His frenetic
stage style mirrored the epileptic fits he suffered. Ian's experience of epilepsy in himself and others inspired
him to write She's Lost Control. Ian was also a heavy smoker, possibly another sign of the stress he was under.
The pressures of working in a touring band played havoc with Ian's health and his marriage. A number of Joy
Division concerts were curtailed or cancelled when Ian was taken ill. Once he was hopitalised for a few days following
an epileptic fit. His involvement with a Belgian girl named Annik Honoré further undermined his already
fragile relationship with his wife Deborah. After Ian gave up his full-time job, he and Deborah had little money,
details). His suicide came as a great shock to those who knew him. With the benefit of hindsight, many apparent
clues to his frame of mind can be found, but no-one really knows what drove Ian to take his own life.
his suicide and by some of his songs is not recognised by most of the people who knew him. Although some people
now remember only his suicide, we remember Ian's key contribution to a talented band and to a musical era.
Ian Curtis worked as a civil servant for the government department which was responsible for the payment of
unemployment benefits and for helping unemployed people to find work. We are not sure exactly when this job started
and finished, but Ian was certainly a full-time civil servant when Joy Division's early successes gave him hopes
of become a full-time musician. We don't know of any other leading light in the music business who successfully
Ian worked first for the Manpower Services Commission, as it was then called, at the Sunley Building in Manchester
city centre and then at Washington House on the border of Manchester and Salford. He was a Clerical Officer working
in one of the accounts sections of the Training Services Division, which at the time administered Training Opportunities
Schemes (TOPS) on behalf of the government. Unemployed people were paid a training fee to re-train on a wide range
of skills such as bricklaying, plastering or engineering. The accounts sections paid both the trainees and the
His work colleagues in Manchester found him a very quiet, lovely person. They kept in touch on work-related
matters even after Ian transferred to Macclesfield. Ian would talk about his band but did not boast about it. A
colleague recalls a conversation in a corridor by the lifts about the name change from Warsaw to Joy Division.
Ian did on occasions bring in his latest release and a number of people who worked closely with Ian got him to
Ian probably worked here until well into 1978 before moving to a new job as an Assistant Disablement Resettlement
Officer based at the JobCentre in Macclesfield. The aim of his new job was to help people with special needs, due
to some type of physical or mental disability, to find and retain employment. One of the factors that motivated
him to apply for the job in Macclesfield was that it would take him about five minutes to walk from home to work
In Macclesfield Ian sought job vacancies and training opportunities that matched the abilities of those JobCentre
clients he dealt with professionally. He also sought to influence employers to overcome any prejudices they might
have towards considering people with disabilities. One can only imagine how Ian coped with the responsibility he
must have felt towards these people, who in the main would be unemployed and coming to terms with their own problems,
A senior training team member with the Employment Service based in Aytoun Street in Manchester tutored Ian (in
a group of ten) to develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes to carry out these interviewing and marketing activities
successfully. He remembers Ian as a serious-minded member of the group who only spoke when he had something worth
saying. Ian had something about him that made him stand out. It would be pretentious to say it was an "aura"
Ian's line manager was the Disablement Resettlement Officer (DRO) at Macclesfield Employment Exchange/JobCentre
and he was a good friend to Ian. At that time there were layers of different generations of staff within the Department.
To cope with the introduction of the national JobCentre programme, a fresh group of bright young things were recruited
to breathe enthusiasm into the new age of helping people find jobs and employers find people. These included Ian.
have confided in him, much as young men do in their favourite uncle. He would have known that Ian suspected he
suffered from epilepsy long before he started work with him and before he did his Assistant DRO training. DRO and
ADRO teams were a two-person bonded force. There was a closeness that other staff did not experience - there were
no other teams like these. The DRO would have helped Ian with his decision to formally register as a disabled person
Ian's boss was concerned about Ian's medical condition and the difficulties of him trying to juggle an "in
your face" public service job with the growing demands of his music career and his developing domestic difficulties.
At that time, at his age, and with his intelligence, it would have been expected that Ian would have the opportunity
Part of Ian's training concentrated on specific types of physical and mental disabilities and certainly covered
epilepsy in some depth, looking at symptoms, possible causes, grand mal and petit mal, the stigma (born out of
ignorance) attached to it, activity limitations, and treatments. The effects of his own epilepsy and depression
Generally speaking, a person who is susceptible to epileptic attacks, suffers more the greater their tiredness
- especially their mental fatigue. Ian will have been completely aware that as his commitments to the band lifestyle
grew and his work load did not decrease the chance of him having more frequent and violent attacks was a likely
And so it proved. From the end of 1978 until he left his job about nine months later his attendance became erratic
and his behaviour less predictable. With all of his tensions something was going to give way. Although his fits
became less frequent and Ian became more alert to when they were going to happen, he also recognised he was losing
control of his social skills and was alienating those who were close to him. His line manager may well have seen
the development of this trait and, because of their relationship, would have been distressed himself. Within another
In the early hours of May 18th 1980, two months before his 24th birthday, Ian Curtis committed suicide at his
Shortly before the end of Ian's life, his wife Deborah had started divorce proceedings and Ian was no longer
living at the family home. In April 1980 Ian was admitted to hospital after taking an overdose of his epilepsy
medication. As in many such cases, it is not clear whether this was a genuine suicide attempt or simply a plea
for help. What is clear is that by the last month of his life Ian found that the pressures on him were greater
On Saturday May 17th, Ian cancelled arrangements to meet friends and returned to his home in Barton Street.
Deborah was working behind the bar at a local disco, and had left Natalie with her parents while she was at work.
While she was out Ian watched Stroszek, a film by Werner Herzog. When Deborah returned, she and Ian talked for
Alone again in the house, Ian listened to Iggy Pop and wrote a long letter to his estranged wife. In the early
hours of Sunday morning he hanged himself in the kitchen using the rope from a clothes airer. His body was found
Many theories have been advanced to explain Ian's suicide, but none of these can be proved. It has been claimed
that Ian had a morbid desire to emulate those of his heroes who had died young. The most likely reason was depression,
but no-one can agree about whether he was depressed by his epilepsy, by the effects of the drugs he was taking
People who were with him shortly before his death give conflicting accounts of his state of mind. Some were
left with the impression that he was dreading the American tour and the travelling involved. Others say that he
was looking forward to the tour with excitement. A third view, advanced by Deborah Curtis, is that the prospect
of touring did not worry him because he knew that he would not be going! Although no-one can agree on whether Ian's
suicide was long planned or an impulsive decision, most people do agree that his illness and drug regime affected
A few days after his death, Ian's body was cremated at Macclesfield Crematorium. Deborah Curtis had the words
With the benefit of hindsight, some warnings of the eventual outcome can be found in Ian's behaviour and in
some of his writing. Unfortunately Ian had a secretive nature, and was good at concealing his feelings from others.
He even managed to conceal his epilepsy until he actually had a fit. He certainly managed to conceal any suicidal
tendencies from those around him, so the true reason for his death will remain obscure. Perhaps it is better not
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Ian Curtis was born in Old Trafford, Manchester, at the Memorial Hospital. He grew up listening to The Who and The Rolling Stones, and other heroes of his teenage years included David Bowie, Jim Morrison, Janis Joplin, Iggy Pop, Lou Reed, and James Dean. He especially liked musicians whose lyrics spoke of death, or those who had died at their peak. He attended the King's School in Macclesfield, where he took his first overdose with a friend. During their customary "social services" hours on Wednesdays, they would visit the homes of elderly pensioners, and would usually take drugs out of their medicine cabinets. With friend Oliver Cleaver, Ian took an accidental overdose of chlorpromazine hydrochloride, brand name Largactil, which was used to treat schizophrenia. Both had their stomachs pumped, and were kept from being expelled when Oliver said he had been trying to kill himself.Ian met his future wife Deborah in 1972. After he quit school and his family moved to New Moston, Manchester, Ian stopped experimenting with drugs. He and Deborah were married on August 23, 1975. During several moves from different houses, Ian and Deborah spent short periods of time living in his grandparents' basement. On 20 July 1976, Ian saw the Sex Pistols play at the Manchester Lesser Free Trade Hall. He had missed their first show, but was inspired just as much by the second. Always having been a music fan, Ian felt driven to join a band. After moving back to Macclesfield, Ian found his place in the band Joy Division, then called Warsaw. The band consisted of Bernard Sumner on guitar, Peter Hook on bass, and Stephen Morris on drums. During the years of 1977-1980, the band took off and became a part of Tony Wilson's label, Factory records. They released one EP, "An Ideal for Living," in January 1977, and two official albums: "Unknown Pleasures" in June 1979, and "Closer," released posthumously in July 1980. Ian first discovered that he suffered from epilepsy in December 1978, while his wife was pregnant with their daughter Natalie. The pills he took to help his epilepsy are believed by many to be the cause of Ian's intense depression from that point up until his death. Another major contributing factor was Ian's ongoing affair with a woman named Annik Honore, who he first met in late 1979. With a wife and daughter at home, Ian usually saw Annik at Joy Division gigs and on their tours, where wives were not allowed. On April 7, 1980, Ian took an overdose of Phenobarbitone, which he announced to his wife. She rushed him to the hospital. He had his stomach pumped, and was pronounced not suicidal. The day following his suicide attempt, he performed with Joy Division at Derby Hall, Bury. Ian had only sung two songs when a riot broke out. Tony Wilson found Ian crying upstairs, and to comfort him, reminded him about the Lou Reed gig at the Free Trade Hall where there had also been a bottle-throwing riot. The last Joy Division performance was May 2, at Birmingham University. Ian spent the last few months of his life moving back and forth between other people's houses, rarely staying at home. When he did return home, it was to watch the film Stroszek (1977), by one of his heroes, Werner Herzog. He had been living with his parents at the time, and wouldn't want to upset them by watching such a dark film. He wrote a letter to his wife Deborah, which spoke of the troubles in his life, and the love he felt for her and Natalie. He did write that he wished he was dead, but did not speak of any intentions to kill himself. After this, he is believed to have taken photographs of his daughter and wife down to look at, and to have listened to Iggy Pop's "The Idiot." He was discovered in the morning by his wife, Deborah, having committed suicide by hanging. The date of his death was May 18, 1980.
      Suffered from epilepsy and depression. Several times in his life he had to be carried offstage due to epileptic seizures he suffered during concerts.
      Attempted suicide on April 8, 1980, but was released from a psychiatric hospital the following day so he could perform at a Joy Division gig. The show was cancelled due to his fragile state, and riots broke out. His distress over the rioting and guilt over an affair he had with a woman named Annick Honore contributed to his deteriorating mental state.
      His second (and final) album with Joy Division - 'Closer' - is considered one of the darkest and most haunting albums in music history. The lyrics largely document Curtis's emotional turmoil leading up to his suicide.
      Ian's widow, Deborah, penned a biography of her late husband in 1995 titled 'Touching from a Distance.' The movie rights were bought by Double A Films in 2001, and Michael Stock was brought on to write to direct the film.
      On 7 January, 2005, it was announced that the film based on Deborah Curtis's memoir, "Touching from a Distance", will commence production this year in Manchester; backed by US-based Claraflora, the film, with a working title of "Control", will be written by Matt Greenhalgh and directed by renowned photographer Anton Corbijn, and co-produced by Deborah Curtis and Factory Records founder Tony Wilson.
      A list of Joy Division fans reads like a who's who of alternative rock: Thom Yorke, Trent Reznor, Perry Farrell, Kurt Cobain, Maynard James Keenan, Billy Corgan, Moby, Martin Gore, Bono, and Robert Smith, just to name a few die-hards.
      All my lyrics are open to interpretation by the individual and imply many different meanings, therefore their relevance is purely subjective.
=======================================================
Ian Curtis ended his life before he could feel the range of his influence. As the singer/songwriter for Joy Division, Curtis wallowed in his own deep despair until he saw no purpose in living. Beginning…
Ian Curtis ended his life before he could feel the range of his influence. As the singer/songwriter for Joy Division, Curtis wallowed in his own deep despair until he saw no purpose in living. Beginning with Warsaw in 1977, Curtis peered into the dark underbelly of human existence; bellowing his grim lyrics with Iggy Pop's punk rage, Curtis directed the Sex Pistols' explosive anger inward. Warsaw quickly became Joy Division, and Curtis' deep, despondent voice and morose, personal songwriting achieved massive critical acclaim with the release of Joy Division's first LP, Unknown Pleasures, in 1979. Onstage, Curtis' unbridled intensity and odd, violent body movements -- a reflection of his epileptic seizures -- captivated audiences. In 1980, Joy Division recorded Closer, a haunting masterpiece that symbolized the genesis of gothic rock. In Closer, Curtis wrote lyrics of unrelenting sadness and hopelessness. "This is a crisis I knew had to come/Destroying the balance I'd kept," Curtis sang on "Passover," hinting at his eventual suicide. On May 18, 1980, Curtis hanged himself in his wife's kitchen. In the mid-'90s, Curtis' widow Deborah Curtis wrote "Touching From a Distance," a biographical account of her marriage to him, detailing how he had a relationship with another woman that ended before he killed himself. From artists as diverse as the Cure and Nirvana, Curtis has inspired countless musicians to bravely explore and express their inner pain.                 
