=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2013)
James Douglas "Jim" Morrison (December 8, 1943 – July 3, 1971) was an American singer-songwriter and poet, best remembered as the lead singer of Los Angeles rock band The Doors.[1] From a young age, Morrison became infatuated with the works of Friedrich Nietzsche, Arthur Rimbaud and Jack Kerouac, often incorporating their work into his lyrics. In his later life, Morrison developed an alcohol dependency which led to his death at the age of 27 in Paris. He is alleged to have died of a heroin overdose, but as no autopsy was performed, the exact cause of his death is still disputed.[2]
Due to his songwriting, voice, wild personality and performances, he is regarded by critics and fans as one of the most iconic and influential frontmen in rock music history.[3] He was also well known for improvising spoken word poetry passages while the band played live. Morrison was ranked number 47 on Rolling Stone's list of the "100 Greatest Singers of All Time",[4] and number 22 on Classic Rock Magazine's "50 Greatest Singers In Rock".[5] Ray Manzarek said that Morrison "embodied hippie counterculture rebellion..."[6] Morrison was also known as the self-proclaimed "King of Orgasmic Rock".[7]
James Douglas Morrison was born in Melbourne, Florida, the son of Clara Virginia (née Clarke) and future Rear Admiral George Stephen Morrison.[8] Morrison had a sister, Anne Robin, who was born in 1947 in Albuquerque, New Mexico; and a brother, Andrew Lee Morrison, who was born in 1948 in Los Altos, California. His ancestors were Scottish, Irish, and English.[9][10] In 1947, Morrison, then four years old, allegedly witnessed a car accident in the desert, in which a family of Native Americans were injured and possibly killed. He referred to this incident in a spoken word performance on the song "Dawn's Highway" from the album An American Prayer, and again in the songs "Peace Frog" and "Ghost Song". Morrison believed this incident to be the most formative event of his life,[11] and made repeated references to it in the imagery in his songs, poems, and interviews. His family does not recall this incident happening in the way he told it. According to the Morrison biography No One Here Gets Out Alive, Morrison's family did drive past a car accident on an Indian reservation when he was a child, and he was very upset by it. The book The Doors, written by the remaining members of The Doors, explains how different Morrison's account of the incident was from that of his father. This book quotes his father as saying, "We went by several Indians. It did make an impression on him [the young James]. He always thought about that crying Indian." This is contrasted sharply with Morrison's tale of "Indians scattered all over the highway, bleeding to death." In the same book, his sister is quoted as saying, "He enjoyed telling that story and exaggerating it. He said he saw a dead Indian by the side of the road, and I don't even know if that's true."[citation needed]
With his father in the United States Navy, Morrison's family moved often. He spent part of his childhood in San Diego. While his father was stationed at NAS Kingsville, he attended Flato Elementary in Kingsville, Texas.[citation needed] In 1958, Morrison attended Alameda High School in Alameda, California. He graduated from George Washington High School, now George Washington Middle School, in Alexandria, Virginia in June 1961.[citation needed] His father was also stationed at Mayport Naval Air Station in Jacksonville, Florida.[citation needed] Morrison read widely and voraciously—being particularly inspired by the writings of philosophers and poets. He was influenced by Friedrich Nietzsche, whose views on aesthetics, morality, and the Apollonian and Dionysian duality would appear in his conversation, poetry and songs.[citation needed] He read Plutarch’s "Lives of the Noble Greeks and Romans". He read the works of the French Symbolist poet Arthur Rimbaud, whose style would later influence the form of Morrison’s short prose poems.[citation needed] He was influenced by Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Charles Baudelaire, Molière, Franz Kafka, Honoré de Balzac and Jean Cocteau, along with most of the French existentialist philosophers[citation needed]. His senior-year English teacher said, "Jim read as much and probably more than any student in class, but everything he read was so offbeat I had another teacher (who was going to the Library of Congress) check to see if the books Jim was reporting on actually existed. I suspected he was making them up, as they were English books on sixteenth- and seventeenth-century demonology. I’d never heard of them, but they existed, and I’m convinced from the paper he wrote that he read them, and the Library of Congress would’ve been the only source."[12] Morrison went to live with his paternal grandparents in Clearwater, Florida, where he attended classes at St. Petersburg College (then known as a junior college). In 1962, he transferred to Florida State University (FSU) in Tallahassee, where he appeared in a school recruitment film.[13] While attending FSU, Morrison was arrested for a prank, following a home football game.[14]
In January 1964, Morrison moved to Los Angeles to attend the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). Shortly thereafter on August 2, 1964, Morrison's father, George Stephen Morrison, commanded the United States fleet during the Gulf of Tonkin Incident, which resulted in the United States' rapid escalation of the Vietnam War. At UCLA, Morrison enrolled in Jack Hirschman's class on Antonin Artaud in the Comparative Literature program within the UCLA English Department. Artaud's brand of surrealist theatre had a profound impact on Morrison's dark poetic sensibility of cinematic theatricality.[citation needed] Morrison completed his undergraduate degree at UCLA's film school within the Theater Arts department of the College of Fine Arts in 1965. He never went to the graduation ceremony, and had his diploma mailed to him.[citation needed] He made several short films while attending UCLA. First Love, the first of these films, made with Morrison's classmate and roommate Max Schwartz, was released to the public when it appeared in a documentary about the film Obscura. During these years, while living in Venice Beach, he became friends with writers at the Los Angeles Free Press. Morrison was an advocate of the underground newspaper until his death in 1971. He later conducted a lengthy and in-depth interview with Bob Chorush and Andy Kent, both working for the Free Press at the time (January 1971), and was planning on visiting the headquarters of the busy newspaper shortly before leaving for Paris.[15]
In the summer of 1965, after graduating with a degree from the UCLA film school, Morrison led a bohemian lifestyle in Venice Beach. Living on the rooftop of a building inhabited by his old UCLA cinematography friend, Dennis Jakobs, he wrote the lyrics of many of the early songs the Doors would later perform live and record on albums, the most notable being "Moonlight Drive" and "Hello, I Love You".[citation needed] According to Jakobs, he lived on canned beans and LSD for several months.[citation needed] Morrison and fellow UCLA student, Ray Manzarek, were the first two members of the Doors, forming the group during that summer. They had met months earlier as cinematography students. The now-legendary story claims that Manzarek was lying on the beach at Venice one day, where he accidentally encountered Morrison.[16][citation needed] He was impressed with Morrison's poetic lyrics, claiming that they were "rock group" material. Subsequently, drummer John Densmore and guitarist Robby Krieger joined. Krieger auditioned at Densmore's recommendation and was then added to the lineup. All three musicians shared a common interest in the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi's meditation practices at the time, attending scheduled classes, but Morrison was not involved in this series of classes, claiming later that he "did not meditate."[citation needed]
The Doors took their name from the title of Aldous Huxley's book The Doors of Perception (a reference to the unlocking of doors of perception through psychedelic drug use). Huxley's own title was a quotation from William Blake's The Marriage of Heaven and Hell, in which Blake wrote: "If the doors of perception were cleansed everything would appear to man as it is, infinite." Although Morrison was known as the lyricist of the group, Krieger also made significant lyrical contributions, writing or co-writing some of the group's biggest hits, including "Light My Fire", "Love Me Two Times", "Love Her Madly", and "Touch Me".[17] On the other hand, Morrison, who didn't write most songs using an instrument, would come up with vocal melodies for his own lyrics, with the other band members contributing chords and rhythm. Morrison did not play an instrument live (except for maracas and tambourine for most shows, and harmonica on a few occasions) or in the studio (excluding maracas, tambourine, handclaps, and whistling). However, he did play the grand piano on "Orange County Suite" and a Moog synthesizer on "Strange Days".
In June 1966, Morrison and the Doors were the opening act at the Whisky a Go Go on the last week of the residency of Van Morrison's band Them.[18] Van's influence on Jim's developing stage performance was later noted by John Densmore in his book Riders On The Storm: "Jim Morrison learned quickly from his near-namesake's stagecraft, his apparent recklessness, his air of subdued menace, the way he would improvise poetry to a rock beat, even his habit of crouching down by the bass drum during instrumental breaks."[19] On the final night, the two Morrisons and their two bands jammed together on "Gloria".[20][21][22] In November 1966, Morrison and the Doors produced a promotional film for "Break on Through (To the Other Side)", which was their first single release. The film featured the four members of the group playing the song on a darkened set with alternating views and close-ups of the performers while Morrison lip-synched the lyrics. Morrison and the Doors continued to make short music films, including "The Unknown Soldier", "Moonlight Drive", and "People Are Strange".
The Doors achieved national recognition after signing with Elektra Records in 1967.[23] The single "Light My Fire" spent three weeks at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in July/August 1967.[24] Later, the Doors appeared on The Ed Sullivan Show, a popular Sunday night variety series that had introduced the Beatles and Elvis Presley to the United States. Ed Sullivan requested two songs from the Doors for the show, "People Are Strange" and "Light My Fire". Sullivan's censors insisted that the Doors change the lyrics of the song "Light My Fire" from "Girl we couldn't get much higher" to "Girl we couldn't get much better" for the television viewers; this was reportedly due to what was perceived as a reference to drugs in the original lyrics. After giving assurances of compliance to the producer in the dressing room, Morrison told the band "we're not changing a word" and proceeded to sing the song with the original lyrics. Sullivan was not happy and he refused to shake hands with Morrison or any other band member after their performance. He had a show producer tell the band that they would never appear on The Ed Sullivan Show again. Morrison reportedly said to the producer, in a defiant tone, "Hey man. We just 'did' the Sullivan Show!"[25]
By the release of their second album, Strange Days, the Doors had become one of the most popular rock bands in the United States. Their blend of blues and dark rock tinged with psychedelia included a number of original songs and distinctive cover versions, such as their rendition of "Alabama Song", from Bertolt Brecht and Kurt Weill's opera, Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny. The band also performed a number of extended concept works, including the songs "The End", "When the Music's Over", and "Celebration of the Lizard". In 1966, photographer Joel Brodsky took a series of black-and-white photos of Morrison, in a photo shoot known as "The Young Lion" photo session. These photographs are considered among the most iconic images of Jim Morrison and are frequently used as covers for compilation albums, books, and other memorabilia of the Doors and Morrison.[26][27] In late 1967 at an infamous concert in New Haven, Connecticut, he became the first rock singer ever to get arrested on stage, an incident that further added to his mystique and emphasized his rebellious image.
In 1968, the Doors released their third studio album, Waiting for the Sun. The band performed on July 5 at the Hollywood Bowl, this performance became famous with the DVD: Live at the Hollywood Bowl. It's also this year that the band played, for the first time, in Europe. Their fourth album, The Soft Parade, was released in 1969. It was the first album where the individual band members were given credit on the inner sleeve for the songs they had written. Previously, each song on their albums had been credited simply to "The Doors". On September 6 and 7, 1968, the Doors played four performances at The Roundhouse, London, England with Jefferson Airplane which were filmed by Granada for a television documentary "The Doors are Open" directed by John Sheppard. Around this time, Morrison—who had long been a heavy drinker—started showing up for recording sessions visibly inebriated.[citation needed] He was also frequently late for live performances. As a result, the band would play instrumental music or force Manzarek to take on the singing duties to subdue the impatient audience.
By March 1969, the formerly svelte singer had gained weight, grown a beard and mustache, and had begun dressing more casually—abandoning the leather pants and concho belts for slacks, jeans and T-shirts. During a March 1, 1969 concert at the Dinner Key Auditorium in Miami, Morrison attempted to spark a riot in the audience. He failed, but a warrant for his arrest was issued by the Dade County Police department three days later for indecent exposure. Consequently, many of The Doors' scheduled concerts were canceled.[28][29] In September 1970, Morrison was convicted of indecent exposure and profanity.[7] Morrison, who attended the sentencing "in a wool jacket adorned with Indian designs", silently listened as he was sentenced for six months in prison and had to pay a $500 fine.[7] Morrison remained free on a $50,000 bond.[7] At the sentencing, Judge Murray Goodman told Morrison that he was a "person graced with a talent" admired by many of his peers.[7]
In 2007 Florida Governor Charlie Crist suggested the possibility of a posthumous pardon for Morrison, which was announced as successful on December 9, 2010.[30][31] Drummer John Densmore denied Morrison ever exposed himself on stage that night.[32]
Following The Soft Parade, The Doors released Morrison Hotel. After a lengthy break the group reconvened in October 1970 to record what would become their final album with Morrison, titled L.A. Woman. Shortly after the recording sessions for the album began, producer Paul A. Rothchild—who had overseen all of their previous recordings—left the project. Engineer Bruce Botnick took over as producer.
Morrison began writing in earnest during his adolescence. At UCLA he studied the related fields of theater, film, and cinematography.[33] He self-published two separate volumes of his poetry in 1969, titled The Lords / Notes on Vision and The New Creatures. The Lords consists primarily of brief descriptions of places, people, events and Morrison's thoughts on cinema. The New Creatures verses are more poetic in structure, feel and appearance. These two books were later combined into a single volume titled The Lords and The New Creatures. These were the only writings published during Morrison's lifetime. Morrison befriended Beat poet Michael McClure, who wrote the afterword for Danny Sugerman's biography of Morrison, No One Here Gets Out Alive. McClure and Morrison reportedly collaborated on a number of unmade film projects, including a film version of McClure's infamous play The Beard, in which Morrison would have played Billy the Kid.[34] After his death, a further two volumes of Morrison's poetry were published. The contents of the books were selected and arranged by Morrison's friend, photographer Frank Lisciandro, and girlfriend Pamela Courson's parents, who owned the rights to his poetry.
The Lost Writings of Jim Morrison Volume I is titled Wilderness, and, upon its release in 1988, became an instant New York Times Bestseller. Volume II, The American Night, released in 1990, was also a success. Morrison recorded his own poetry in a professional sound studio on two separate occasions. The first was in March 1969 in Los Angeles and the second was on December 8, 1970. The latter recording session was attended by Morrison's personal friends and included a variety of sketch pieces. Some of the segments from the 1969 session were issued on the bootleg album The Lost Paris Tapes and were later used as part of the Doors' An American Prayer album,[35] released in 1978. The album reached No. 54 on the music charts. Some poetry recorded from the December 1970 session remains unreleased to this day and is in the possession of the Courson family. Morrison's best-known but seldom seen cinematic endeavor is HWY: An American Pastoral, a project he started in 1969. Morrison financed the venture and formed his own production company in order to maintain complete control of the project. Paul Ferrara, Frank Lisciandro and Babe Hill assisted with the project. Morrison played the main character, a hitchhiker turned killer/car thief. Morrison asked his friend, composer/pianist Fred Myrow, to select the soundtrack for the film.[36]
Morrison's early life was a nomadic existence typical of military families.[37] Jerry Hopkins recorded Morrison's brother, Andy, explaining that his parents had determined never to use physical corporal punishment such as spanking on their children. They instead instilled discipline and levied punishment by the military tradition known as dressing down. This consisted of yelling at and berating the children until they were reduced to tears and acknowledged their failings. Once Morrison graduated from UCLA, he broke off most contact with his family. By the time Morrison's music ascended to the top of the charts (in 1967) he had not been in communication with his family for more than a year and falsely claimed that his parents and siblings were dead (or claiming, as it has been widely misreported, that he was an only child).
This misinformation was published as part of the materials distributed with The Doors' self-titled debut album. George Morrison was not supportive of his son's career choice in music. One day, an acquaintance brought over a record thought to have Jim on the cover. The record was the Doors self-titled debut. The young man played the record for Morrison's father and family. Upon hearing the record, Morrison's father wrote him a letter telling him "to give up any idea of singing or any connection with a music group because of what I consider to be a complete lack of talent in this direction."[38] In a letter to the Florida Probation and Parole Commission District Office dated October 2, 1970, Morrison's father acknowledged the breakdown in family communications as the result of an argument over his assessment of his son's musical talents. He said he could not blame his son for being reluctant to initiate contact and that he was proud of him nonetheless.[39]
Morrison met his long-term companion,[40] Pamela Courson, well before he gained any fame or fortune,[41] and she encouraged him to develop his poetry. At times, Courson used the surname "Morrison" with his apparent consent or at least lack of concern. After Courson's death on April 25, 1974, the probate court in California decided that she and Morrison had what qualified as a common-law marriage (see below, under "Estate Controversy"). Morrison and Courson's relationship was a stormy one, with frequent loud arguments and periods of separation. Biographer Danny Sugerman surmised that part of their difficulties may have stemmed from a conflict between their respective commitments to an open relationship and the consequences of living in such a relationship.
In 1970, Morrison participated in a Celtic Pagan handfasting ceremony with rock critic and science fiction/fantasy author Patricia Kennealy. Before witnesses, one of them a Presbyterian minister,[42] the couple signed a document declaring themselves wed,[43] but none of the necessary paperwork for a legal marriage was filed with the state. Kennealy discussed her experiences with Morrison in her autobiography Strange Days: My Life With and Without Jim Morrison and in an interview reported in the book Rock Wives.
Morrison also reportedly regularly had sex with fans ("groupies") such as Josépha Karcz who wrote a novel about their night together, and had numerous short flings with females connected with the music business or the print media. They included Nico, the singer associated with The Velvet Underground, a one night stand with singer Grace Slick of Jefferson Airplane, an on-again, off-again relationship with 16 Magazine's Gloria Stavers as well as an alleged alcohol-fueled encounter with Janis Joplin. David Crosby said many years later Morrison treated Joplin poorly at a party at the home of John Davidson while Davidson was out of town.[44][45] She allegedly attacked him with a bottle of booze in front of witnesses, and that ended their only encounter.[44][45] At the time of his death there were at least three paternity actions pending against him,[46] although no claims were made against his estate by any of the putative paternity claimants.
Morrison joined Courson in Paris in March 1971. They took up residence in the city in a rented apartment on the rue Beautreillis (in the 4th arrondissement of Paris on the Right Bank), and went for long walks throughout the city,[47] admiring the city's architecture. During this time, Morrison shaved his beard and lost some of the weight he had gained in the previous months.[48] Morrison died on July 3, 1971 at age 27.[49] In the official account of his death, he was found in a Paris apartment bathtub (at 17–19 rue Beautreillis, 4th arrondissement) by Courson.[50] Pursuant to French law, no autopsy was performed because the medical examiner stated that there was no evidence of foul play.[50] The absence of an official autopsy has left many questions regarding Morrison's cause of death.[2] In Wonderland Avenue, Danny Sugerman discussed his encounter with Courson after she returned to the United States. According to Sugerman's account, Courson stated that Morrison had died of a heroin overdose, having inhaled what he believed to be cocaine. Sugerman added that Courson had given him numerous contradictory versions of Morrison's death, saying at times that she had killed Morrison, or that his death was her fault. Courson's story of Morrison's unintentional ingestion of heroin, followed by his accidental overdose, is supported by the confession of Alain Ronay, who has written that Morrison died of a hemorrhage after snorting Courson's heroin, and that Courson nodded off instead of phoning for medical help, leaving Morrison bleeding to death.[51]
Ronay confessed in an article in Paris that he then helped cover up the circumstances of Morrison's death.[52] In the epilogue of No One Here Gets Out Alive, Hopkins and Sugerman write that Ronay and Agnès Varda say Courson lied to the police who responded to the death scene, and later in her deposition, telling them Morrison never took drugs. In the epilogue to No One Here Gets Out Alive, Hopkins says that 20 years after Morrison's death, Ronay and Varda broke their silence and gave this account: They arrived at the house shortly after Morrison's death and Courson said that she and Morrison had taken heroin after a night of drinking. Morrison had been coughing badly, had gone to take a bath, and vomited blood. Courson said that he appeared to recover and that she then went to sleep. When she awoke sometime later Morrison was unresponsive, so she called for medical assistance. Hopkins and Sugerman also claim that Morrison had asthma and was suffering from a respiratory condition involving a chronic cough and vomiting blood on the night of his death. This theory is partially supported in The Doors (written by the remaining members of the band) in which they claim Morrison had been coughing up blood for nearly two months in Paris, but none of the members of The Doors were in Paris with Morrison in the months prior to his death. According to a Madame Colinette, who was at the cemetery that day mourning the recent loss of her husband, she witnessed Morrison's funeral at Père Lachaise Cemetery.[53] The ceremony was "pitiful," with several of the attendants muttering a few words, throwing flowers over the casket, then leaving quickly and hastily within minutes as if their lives depended upon it.[53] Those who attended included Alain Ronay, Agnès Varda, Bill Siddons (manager), Courson, and Robin Wertle (Morrison's Canadian private secretary at the time for a few months).[53] In the first version of No One Here Gets Out Alive, published in 1980, Sugerman and Hopkins gave some credence to the rumor that Morrison may not have died at all, calling the fake death theory “not as far-fetched as it might seem”.[54] This theory led to considerable distress for Morrison's loved ones over the years, notably when fans would stalk them, searching for evidence of Morrison's whereabouts.[55][56]
In 1995, a new epilogue was added to Sugerman's and Hopkins's book, giving new facts about Morrison's death and discounting the fake death theory saying, “As time passed, some of Jim and Pamela [Courson]'s friends began to talk about what they knew, and although everything they said pointed irrefutably to Jim's demise, there remained and probably always will be those who refuse to believe that Jim is dead and those who will not allow him to rest in peace.”[57] In July 2007, Sam Bernett, a former manager of the Rock 'n' Roll Circus nightclub, released a (French) book titled "The End: Jim Morrison".[50][58][59] In it Bernett alleges that instead of dying of a heart attack in a bathtub (the official police version of his death), Morrison overdosed on heroin on a toilet seat in the nightclub. He claims that Morrison came to the club to buy heroin for Courson then used some himself and died in the bathroom.[59] Morrison's body was then moved back to his rue Beautreillis apartment and dumped into the bathtub by the two drug dealers from whom Morrison had purchased the heroin.[59] Bernett says those who saw Morrison that night were sworn to secrecy in order to prevent a scandal for the famous club,[60] and that some of the witnesses immediately left the country. There have been many other conspiracy theories surrounding Morrison's death[61][62] but are less supported by witnesses than are the accounts of Ronay and Courson.[63]
Morrison's grave at Père Lachaise with the Greek inscription on it: ΚΑΤΑ ΤΟΝ ΔΑΙΜΟΝΑ ΕΑΥΤΟΥ (August 2008)
Morrison is buried in Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris, one of the city's most visited tourist attractions. The grave had no official marker until French officials placed a shield over it, which was stolen in 1973. Initially, the grave was unmarked, and listed in the cemetery directory with Morrison's name incorrectly rearranged as "Douglas James Morrison." In 1981, Croatian sculptor Mladen Mikulin[64] voluntarily placed a bust of his own design and a new gravestone with Morrison's name at the grave to commemorate the 10th anniversary of his death; the bust was defaced through the years by cemetery vandals and later stolen in 1988.[65] Mikulin made another bust of Morrison in 1989,[66] and a bronze portrait of him in 2001;[67] neither piece is at the gravesite. In the early 1990s Morrison's father George Stephen Morrison, after consulting with E. Nicholas Genovese, Professor of Classics and Humanities, San Diego State University, placed a flat stone on the grave. The bronze plaque thereon bears the Greek inscription: ΚΑΤΑ ΤΟΝ ΔΑΙΜΟΝΑ ΕΑΥΤΟΥ, literally meaning "according to own self-daemon, i.e., guiding spirit," to convey the sentiment "True to Himself."[68][69][70][71]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2012)
In his last will, notarized in Los Angeles on February 12, 1969, Morrison (who described himself as "an unmarried person") bequeathed his entire estate to Pamela Courson, naming her co-executor with his attorney, Max Fink.[citation needed] Subsequently, she inherited everything upon Morrison’s death.[citation needed] Courson died of a heroin overdose in 1974, leaving her parents as her sole heirs.[citation needed] Like Morrison, she was also 27 years old at the time of her death.[72] Morrison's parents then contested Morrison's will.[citation needed] Courson's parents then produced an unsigned document which they claimed Pam Courson had acquired in Colorado, an application for a marriage license.[citation needed] This was an effort to get Courson declared Morrison's common-law spouse, thereby solidifying their claim on Morrison's estate (as had Courson been Morrison's legal spouse, she would inherit even if the will was declared invalid).[citation needed] However, there is no evidence that Jim Morrison or Pam Courson even knew of the existence of this unsigned document, nor had either party ever resided in Colorado. The ability to contract a common-law marriage was abolished in California in 1896.[citation needed] However, California's conflict of laws rule provided for recognition of common-law marriages when lawfully contracted in foreign jurisdictions,[citation needed] and Colorado recognizes common-law marriage.[73]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2012)
As a naval family the Morrisons relocated frequently. Consequently Morrison's early education was routinely disrupted as he moved from school to school. Nonetheless he was drawn to the study of literature, poetry, religion, philosophy and psychology, among other fields.[citation needed] Biographers have consistently pointed to a number of writers and philosophers who influenced Morrison's thinking and, perhaps, his behavior.[citation needed] While still in his teens Morrison discovered the work of philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche.[citation needed] He was also drawn to the poetry of William Blake, Charles Baudelaire and Arthur Rimbaud.[citation needed] Beat Generation writers such as Jack Kerouac also had a strong influence on Morrison's outlook and manner of expression; Morrison was eager to experience the life described in Kerouac's On the Road.[citation needed] He was similarly drawn to the work of French writer Louis-Ferdinand Céline.[citation needed] Céline's book, Voyage au Bout de la Nuit (Journey to the End of the Night) and Blake's Auguries of Innocence both echo through one of Morrison's early songs, "End of the Night".[citation needed] Morrison later met and befriended Michael McClure, a well known beat poet. McClure had enjoyed Morrison's lyrics but was even more impressed by his poetry and encouraged him to further develop his craft.[citation needed] Morrison's vision of performance was colored by the works of 20th-century French playwright Antonin Artaud (author of Theater and its Double) and by Julian Beck's Living Theater.[citation needed]
Other works relating to religion, mysticism, ancient myth and symbolism were of lasting interest, particularly Joseph Campbell's The Hero with a Thousand Faces. James Frazer's The Golden Bough also became a source of inspiration and is reflected in the title and lyrics of the song "Not to Touch the Earth".[citation needed] Morrison was particularly attracted to the myths and religions of Native American cultures.[74] While he was still in school, his family moved to New Mexico where he got to see some of the places and artifacts important to the American Southwest indigenous cultures. These interests appear to be the source of many references to creatures and places such as lizards, snakes, deserts and "ancient lakes" that appear in his songs and poetry. His interpretation of the practices of a Native American "shaman" were worked into parts of Morrison's stage routine, notably in his interpretation of the Ghost Dance, and a song on his later poetry album, The Ghost Song. Jim Morrison's vocal influences included Elvis Presley and Frank Sinatra, which is evident in his own baritone crooning style used in several of The Doors songs and in the 1981 documentary The Doors: A Tribute to Jim Morrison, Producer Paul Rothchild refers his first impression of Morrison as being a "Rock and Roll Bing Crosby". It is mentioned within the pages of No One Here Gets Out Alive by Danny Sugerman, that Morrison as a teenager was such a fan of Presley's music that he demanded people be quiet when Elvis was on the radio. The Frank Sinatra influence is mentioned in the pages of The Doors, The Illustrated History also by Sugerman, where Frank Sinatra is listed on Morrison's Band Bio as being his favorite singer. Reference to this can also be found in a Rolling Stone article about Jim Morrison, regarding the Top 100 rock singers of all time.[75]
Morrison was, and continues to be, one of the most popular and influential singer-songwriters in rock history. To this day Morrison is widely regarded as the prototypical rock-star: surly, sexy, scandalous, and mysterious.[76] The leather pants he was fond of wearing both onstage and off have since become stereotyped as rock-star apparel.[77] In 2011, a Rolling Stone readers' pick placed Jim Morrison in fifth place of the magazine's "Best Lead Singers of All Time".[78] Iggy and the Stooges are said to have formed after lead singer Iggy Pop was inspired by Morrison while attending a Doors concert in Ann Arbor, Michigan.[79] One of Pop's most popular songs, "The Passenger", is said to be based on one of Morrison's poems.[80] After Morrison's death, Pop was considered as a replacement lead singer for The Doors; the surviving Doors gave him some of Morrison's belongings and hired him as a vocalist for a series of shows.
Wallace Fowlie, professor emeritus of French literature at Duke University, wrote Rimbaud and Jim Morrison, subtitled "The Rebel as Poet – A Memoir". In this he recounts his surprise at receiving a fan letter from Morrison who, in 1968, thanked him for his latest translation of Arthur Rimbaud's verse into English. "I don't read French easily", he wrote, "...your book travels around with me." Fowlie went on to give lectures on numerous campuses comparing the lives, philosophies and poetry of Morrison and Rimbaud. The book The Doors by the remaining Doors quotes Morrison's close friend Frank Lisciandro as saying that too many people took a remark of Morrison's that he was interested in revolt, disorder, and chaos “to mean that he was an anarchist, a revolutionary, or, worse yet, a nihilist. Hardly anyone noticed that Jim was paraphrasing Rimbaud and the Surrealist poets.”[81]
Layne Staley, the late vocalist of Alice in Chains, Scott Weiland, the vocalist of Stone Temple Pilots and Velvet Revolver, Julian Casablancas of The Strokes, James LaBrie of Dream Theater, as well as Scott Stapp of Creed and Ville Valo of H.I.M.,[82] have all claimed Morrison to be their biggest influence and inspiration. Stone Temple Pilots and Velvet Revolver have both covered "Roadhouse Blues" by The Doors. Weiland also filled in for Morrison to perform "Break On Through (To The Other Side)" with the rest of The Doors. Stapp filled in for Morrison for "Light My Fire", "Riders on the Storm" and "Roadhouse Blues" on VH1 Storytellers. Creed performed their version of "Roadhouse Blues" with Robby Krieger for the 1999 Woodstock Festival.
The song Wasting the Dawn by The 69 Eyes is a tribute to Jim Morrison. The music video shows Jim Morrison or "his ghost", which is portrayed by Ville Valo.[83]
Rock band Bon Jovi featured Morrison's grave in their "I'll Sleep When I'm Dead" video clip. The band Radiohead mentions Jim Morrison in their song "Anyone Can Play Guitar", stating "I wanna be wanna be wanna be Jim Morrison". Singer-songwriter Lana Del Rey mentions Jim Morrison in the song "Gods & Monsters" from the album "Born To Die: Paradise Edition". Alice Cooper in the liner notes of the album Killer stated that the song "Desperado" is about Jim Morrison. The leather pants of U2's Bono's "The Fly" persona for the Achtung Baby era and subsequent Zoo TV Tour is attributed to Jim Morrison. On their 2008 album The Hawk Is Howling Scottish post-rock band Mogwai entitled the opening track "I'm Jim Morrison, I'm Dead".[84] The song "The Irony of Dying on Your Birthday" by the band Senses Fail features the lyrics: "I wanna die like Jim Morrison / A f*****g rock star / I wanna die like God on the cover of Time. / Just a blink and it's gone / So baby pour some fame in my glass." Professional wrestler John Hennigan's persona John Morrison was inspired by Jim Morrison, and the name of his finishing move was taken from The Doors' Moonlight Drive.
In June 2013, a new fossil analysis revealed a lizard, one of the largest ever known that lived on Myanmar, was given the moniker Barbaturex morrisoni in honor of Morrison. "This is a king lizard, and he was the lizard king, so it just fit," said Jason Head, a paleontologist at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.[85]
In Stephen King's post-apocalypse novel The Stand, Stu Redman tells a story about one night in 1982 when he was working the overnight shift at a gas station and a man stopped for a fill-up; he is sure that the man was Jim Morrison. "He was a goodlookin' man, but in a way that was a little scary –- I mean, he looked like he might do scary things without thinkin' very hard about em...he had the eyes of a man who has been trying to look into the dark for a long time and has maybe begun to see what is there."[86]
In the movie The Lost Boys, there is a poster of Morrison on the wall of the cave where the vampires live.
In Death Becomes Her Bruce Willis's character encounters an unnamed character who dresses, speaks and appears like Morrison and who is one of the undying clique in the movie.
The animated television show The Simpsons has made numerous references to Morrison, including Krusty the Klown singing Break On Through ("I Love Lisa", Season 4); Otto Mann telling Homer that "me and the admiral do not get along" (a reference to Morrison and his estranged father, Rear Admiral George Stephen Morrison ("The Otto Show", Season 3); and mention of Morrison's grave ("The Devil Wears Nada", Season 21). Another reference, "I am the lizard queen!" Is bellowed by Lisa Simpson at the end of her encounter with psychedelic theme-ride river water at Duff Gardens ("Selma's Choice", Season 4).
In the movie The Banger Sisters, a reference to Goldie Hawn's character's lizard tattoo is made referring to Jim Morrison as the Lizard King.
An American Prayer (1970) privately printed by Western Lithographers. (Unauthorized edition also published in 1983, Zeppelin Publishing Company, ISBN 0-915628-46-5. The authenticity of the unauthorized edition has been disputed.)
Arden lointain, edition bilingue (1988), trad. de l'américain et présenté par Sabine Prudent et Werner Reimann. [Paris]: C. Bourgois. 157 p. N.B.: Original texts in English, with French translations, on facing pages. ISBN 2-267-00560-3
Lester Bangs, "Jim Morrison: Bozo Dionysus a Decade Later" in Main Lines, Blood Feasts, and Bad Taste: A Lester Bangs Reader, John Morthland, ed. Anchor Press (2003) ISBN 0-375-71367-0
John Densmore, Riders on the Storm: My Life With Jim Morrison and the Doors (1991) ISBN 0-385-30447-1
Steven Erkel, "The Poet Behind the Doors: Jim Morrison's Poetry and the 1960s Countercultural Movement" (2011)
Gerry Kirstein, "Some Are Born to Endless Night: Jim Morrison, Visions of Apocalypse and Transcendence" (2012) ISBN 1451558066
Frank Lisciandro, Morrison: A Feast of Friends (1991) ISBN 0-446-39276-6, Morrison — Un festin entre amis (1996) (French)
Frank Lisciandro, Jim Morrison: An Hour For Magic (A Photojournal) (1982) ISBN 0-85965-246-7, James Douglas Morrison (2005) (French)
Ray Manzarek, Light My Fire (1998) ISBN 0-446-60228-0L. First by Jerry Hopkins and Danny Sugerman (1981)
Peter Jan Margry, The Pilgrimage to Jim Morrison's Grave at Père Lachaise Cemetery: The Social Construction of Sacred Space. In idem (ed.), Shrines and Pilgrimage in the Modern World. New Itineraries into the Sacred. Amsterdam University Press, 2008, p. 145–173.
Daveth Milton, We Want The World: Jim Morrison, The Living Theatre, and the FBI, (2012) ISBN 978-0957051188
Mark Opsasnick, The Lizard King Was Here: The Life and Times of Jim Morrison in Alexandria, Virginia (2006) ISBN 1-4257-1330-0
James Riordan & Jerry Prochnicky, Break on through: The Life and Death of Jim Morrison (1991) ISBN 0-688-11915-8
Howard Sounes. 27: A History of the 27 Club Through the Lives of Brian Jones, Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, Jim Morrison, Kurt Cobain, and Amy Winehouse, Boston: Da Capo Press, 2013. ISBN 0-306-82168-0.
The Doors (remaining members Ray Manzarek, Robby Krieger, John Densmore) with Ben Fong-Torres, The Doors (2006) ISBN 1-4013-0303-X
The Doors (1991), A film by director Oliver Stone, starring Val Kilmer as Morrison and with cameos by Krieger and Densmore. Kilmer's performance was praised by some critics. Ray Manzarek, The Doors' keyboardist, harshly criticized Stone's portrayal of Morrison, and noted that numerous events depicted in the movie were pure fiction. David Crosby on an album by CPR wrote and recorded a song about the movie with the lyric: "And I have seen that movie – and it wasn’t like that – he was mad and lonely – and blind as a bat.".[89]
Categories: 1943 births1971 deaths20th-century American singers20th-century American poetsAmerican baritonesAmerican expatriates in FranceAmerican male film actorsAmerican male singer-songwritersAmerican people of English descentAmerican people of Irish descentAmerican people of Scottish descentAmerican rock singer-songwritersBurials at Père Lachaise CemeteryCounterculture of the 1960sFlorida State University alumniMilitary bratsObscenity controversiesPeople from Melbourne, FloridaPsychedelic drug advocatesRecipients of American gubernatorial pardonsSingers from FloridaSongwriters from FloridaThe Doors membersUCLA Film School alumniUniversity of California, Los Angeles alumniWriters from Florida20th-century American male actorsHidden categories: CS1 errors: datesArticles with inconsistent citation formatsAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from September 2010Articles with dead external links from April 2014Articles needing additional references from May 2013All articles needing additional referencesUse mdy dates from December 2011Wikipedia move-protected pagesWikipedia protected pages without expiryArticles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2012Articles needing additional references from November 2012Articles with unsourced statements from October 2012Articles needing additional references from August 2012Commons category template with no category setCommons category with page title same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with MusicBrainz identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
He was the lizard king who wanted to break through Aldous Huxley's doors of perception. His quest ended in an overdose after alcholism had wrecked his bloated body. Oliver Stone allowed another generation to discover the music behind the myth.
Jim Morrison, born James Douglas Morrison, had both Scottish and Irish ancestors, and was the son of Admiral Sir George Stephen Morrison and Clara Clarke Morrison.
His parents had met and fallen in love in Hawaii, where the future Admiral Morrison, who was at that time, a naval ensign, was stationed. Six months after Jim was born, his mother moved back to the mainland to live with her husband’s parents, Paul and Caroline Morrison, in Clearwater, Florida, whilst her husband shipped out to serve on the Pacific front throughout the remaining years of World War II.
Morrison’s father rose to the rank of Admiral in the U.S. Navy, and commanded the local fleet from his flagship, USS Bon Homme Richard, during the Tonkin Gulf incident. Jim’s mother remained in Florida with her baby son, and Jim did not actually meet his father until 1946, when was two years old. Jim later acquired a sister, Anne Robin, born in 1947, and a brother, Andrew “Andy” Lee, born in 1948.
According to Jim Morrison himself, one of the most important and formative events of his life occurred when he was just five years old. The family was taking a road trip in New Mexico, when Jim and his parents and grandmother came across the scene of a road accident whilst travelling through the desert.
Jim wrote about the incident in the words of his song, 'Peace Frog', and also in the song, 'The Ghost Song': “Indians scattered on dawn’s highway bleeding, Ghost’s crowd the young child’s fragile egg-shell mind.” Jim has said that he realised the Indians were bleeding to death, as there was no medical assistance available, and that he, as a small child, felt deeply afraid as he witnessed this event.
He believed that the souls of the newly-dead Indians were running around, “freaked-out”, and that one of the souls had entered his body. Curiously, Morrison’s parents have denied that the incident in the desert ever took place. Commenting about the incident, Morrison has said that he was so upset, his parents told him he was “just having a bad dream”, in order to calm him down. But regardless of his parents’ denial, Morrison referred to the incident repeatedly in song, poems and lyrics throughout his life.
Morrison’s early life was the kind of nomadic existence that’s typical of many children who grow up in military families. Being raised in such a strict and disciplinarian environment, Morrison was a dutiful and respectful child who did extremely well at school, and excelled at swimming and other outdoor pursuits. For a while, his parents hoped that he would follow his father into the Navy, and enter the United States Naval Academy at Anapolis, in Maryland.
As he embarked on adolescence, however, Morrison discovered alcohol, and settled into a lifelong routine of excessive drinking and drug abuse which soon put paid to his parents’ dreams of naval glory. He became a disruptive student - although he did succeed in graduating from George Washington High School in Alexandria Virginia in June 1961.
His father was transferred to serve in California, and Morrison returned to Clearwater, Florida, to live with his grandparents once more. He attended school at St Petersburg Junior College, but carried on drinking and carousing until late every night. He would frequently go out late and return home drunk, in order to annoy his grandparents. Neither of his grandparents drank alcohol, so he would purposely leave empty bottles and beer cans in the garbage where they would see them.
Morrison began his university career at Florida State University, but he had already developed a passion for film, so with the encouragement of one of his FSU Tutors, he transferred to UCLA’s film school in Los Angeles, the Theatre Arts Department of the College, where he completed his Bachelor’s Degree. Jim made two films whilst studying at UCLA, one called 'First Love', the other was a longer film called 'Obscura'.
After graduating from UCLA in 1965, Morrison headed for the artsy, bohemian communities of artists and musicians who hung out in and around Venice Beach, a suburb of L.A. Money was tight, so Jim soon lost weight, and his face acquired the lean, chiselled features that would later became world-famous in the black-and-white photos by Joel Brodsky which would appear on the cover of his future music album, 'Best Of The Doors'.
Jim was a keen poet, and whilst reading his work live at a poetry reading in Venice, he hooked up with fellow ex-UCLA student Ray Manzarek, who was immediately intrigued by Morrison’s writing and lyrics. The two budding bandmates were joined by drummer John Densmore shortly afterwards. The guitarist Robby Krieger auditioned for the group at Densmore’s recommendation - and so The Doors were born. Since experimenting with drugs was such a major part of Morrison’s lifestyle, it’s believed that the band’s title came from the title of the book written by Aldous Huxley on the effects of drugs on human perception, 'The Doors of Heaven and Hell'.
The Doors soon created a sound that was highly innovative, and a fitting accompaniment to Morrison’s distinctive, haunting baritone voice. Ray Manzarek played keyboards, whilst Krieger’s guitar style featured elements drawn from both his classical training, and Spanish flamenco guitar. Interestingly, there was no bass guitar in the lineup, and this is one of the factors that made The Doors musically unique at that time. The bass element of the music was actually provided by Manzarek on his keyboard Fender bass, which was a small bass-scale version of the famous Fender Rhodes electric piano, which had in fact only just been released.
Making use of the latest technology of the late 1960s, The Doors produced a sound that was totally unique and musically ground-breaking. This was due in no small part to Jim Morrison’s lyrics, which were drawn largely from his poetry and writings. Morrison’s songs tackled dark and powerful subjects, such as death, murder and madness, along with the traditional themes of sex and drugs and rock and roll. The Doors’ guitarist, Robb Krieger, also contributed on the song writing side, and wrote or co-wrote many of the band’s most famous numbers, including 'Touch Me', 'Love Me Two Times' and most importantly, 'Light My Fire'.
The Doors were signed to the Elektra record label early in 1967, and began to be noticed shortly afterwards. Their first single release was 'Break On Through', but it was 'Light My Fire' that really put them on the map, when it went to number one in June 1967. Three months later, The Doors were invited to appear on the Ed Sullivan show, a popular Saturday night chat show that had featured celebrities such as The Beatles and Elvis Presley. Morrison caused a furore when he agreed to change the lyrics of 'Light My Fire' so as not to implicate drug taking on the show, but then went ahead and sang the original lyrics anyway! The show’s host, Ed Sullivan, was allegedly so incensed that he refused to shake hands with the band after they had performed. In addition, they were never invited back. Jim’s response to this was: "So what? We already did The Ed Sullivan Show!”
By the time their second album, 'Strange Days', was released, The Doors had become a national musical phenomenon, and were one of the most popular rock bands that the world had ever seen. The band’s mixture of styles, which embraced blues and rock with psychedelic was totally novel, and made them irresistible to young rock fans. Their choice of lyrics was as far-reaching as Morrison’s literary tastes, and included 'Alabama Song' from the Brecht and Weill operetta, and 'Rise and Fall of The City of Mahogonny', which had first been written and performed during the 1930s. The band also created a new genre of song by producing extended concept works, including the famous epic songs, 'The End' and 'When The Music’s Over', along with their famous concert piece, 'Celebration of The Lizard'.
Another factor which made The Doors hugely popular and innovative was the way Morrison and Manzarek drew upon their background in film (they had both studied film at UCLA) to produce some of the earliest music videos to accompany their music. Morrison and Manzarek produced a film for 'Break On Through', their first single release, which featured the four members of the band playing the song on dimly-lit set, with alternate views and cutaway shots of the performers, and Morrison singing the lyrics. Morrison and Manzarek also made videos to accompany other singles, including 'The Unknown Soldier', 'People Are Strange' and 'Moonlight Drive'.
The Doors’ third album, 'Waiting For The Sun', came out in 1968. Morrison originally planned that this album would include several extended concept songs, including 'Celebration of The Lizard' taking up the whole length of Side Two. But Elektra Records vetoed this proposal, much to Morrison’s annoyance. From this point on, Jim became increasingly resistant to the demands of both his record label and the concert-going public, frequently ignoring their requests to sing the most famous numbers from The Doors’ repertoire, including 'Light My Fire' and 'Love Me Two Times'.
The Doors’ fourth album was called 'The Soft Parade', and featured a far more heavily orchestrated, pop-oriented sound than earlier records. The change in musical style was not well received, and this fourth album was widely slated by both the press and the listening popular. After a long break in recording, the band got back together in late 1970 to record what was to be their last LP with Jim Morrison, called 'L.A. Woman'.
Like the fourth album, this record had a highly commercial sound, with smooth instrumentation and Bubblegum-style songs, such as 'L.A Woman' and 'Been Down So Long'. But the album was redeemed by the inclusion of the classic number, 'Riders On The Storm'. Despite the album’s success, the producer Paul A. Rothschild, who’d worked on all their previous records, walked out, loudly voicing his disapproval of the band’s new material, which he called “lounge music”. The album broke with the earlier Doors sound, with its intensely personal and poetic lyrics, exchanging it for a highly commercialised sound, like many other rock bands of the time.
Throughout his musical career, Morrison was as notorious for his rampant sexuality and promiscuity as he was for his drug-taking and rock’n’roll lifestyle. Although he met his life partner and long-term companion, Pamela Courson, long before he became famous, and stayed with her until his death, the couple frequently quarrelled, allegedly on account of Morrison’s infidelity. According to rock legend, the Doors’ singer frequently slept with his female fans and also had many short-lived liaisons with celebrity women, including Nico from The Velvet Underground, Grace Slick from Jefferson Airplane and the singer Janis Joplin.
From the late 1960s onwards, Morrison became more and more dependent on drugs, and experimented with a wide range of hallucinogenic substances, including LSD (acid). From being the slender Adonis of early album covers, he became pasty-faced and bloated. He grew a beard and gained over 20 lbs., abandoning his former stage persona of the Lizard King, swapping his tight leather trousers for a more conventional uniform of blue jeans and T-shirts.
In the spring of 1971, Jim Morrison moved to Paris, saying that he wanted to have a break from performing in order to focus on his writing. He lost weight and shaved off his beard, but published sources relate that he became very depressed during this period. Jim Morrison died on 3 July 1971, and was found death in his bath, by Pamela Courson. One biography of Morrison reports that he had dried blood around his mouth and nose, and large bruises on his chest, which suggested that he may have had a haemorrhage. The French police ruled out foul play, therefore no autopsy was ever performed. But this has led to endless speculation about the real reasons for Jim Morrison’s death.
Jim Morrison is buried in the famous Pere Lachaise cemetery, in the eastern suburbs of Paris. His grave is one of the most popular graves in the cemetery, and has also become one of the most famous tourist destinations in Paris. So in death, as in life, Jim Morrison’s fame lives on…
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Jim Morrison was born on December 8, 1943 in Melbourne, Florida. His father was a U.S. Naval Officer who fought in World War II. Jim eventually became so estranged from his parents that he would later claim that they were dead. Not much is known about his early years, although he claimed in interviews that he began writing poetry in sixth grade and filled his notebooks with writings throughout high school. Jim moved to Los Angeles in the early 1960s, where he enrolled himself in the film program at UCLA. He read books constantly and told friends that he planned to model his life based on the hedonistic French poet Rimbaud. In 1965, after Jim graduated from UCLA, he drifted into the hippie scene at Venice Beach, taking drugs (LSD was his favorite), sleeping under the boardwalk, and writing poems. One day at the beach, Jim ran into Ray Manzarek, a former classmate from UCLA who was a keyboardist in a struggling rock band. When Jim showed Ray some of his poems, he insisted to Jim that they should put together a band for him to sing his poems. Ray and Jim recruited Robbie Krieger as a guitarist and John Densomore at the drummer and began calling themselves the Doors. By 1966 the group was playing in Sunset Strip nightclubs. After moving to more respectable clubs, the group became known for its charismatic stage personality and its hypnotic music, which was highlighted by Ray's eerie keyboard sounds and Robbie's jazzy guitar music. With some misgivings, Elektra Records president Jac Holzman signed them for a recording contract. In January 1967 the first album "The Doors" was released and immediately received universal acclaim. With Jim being the chief lyricist and his songs for the album ranging from "The Crystal Ship" to "Break on Through" to the 11-minute "The End." The song "Light My Fire" became the group's first hit single and projected them to number one on the top music charts. Jim gained a reputation for erratic public behavior. On December 9, 1967, Jim was arrested onstage during a concert in New Haven, Connecticut for attempting to incite a riot by telling the crowd that a policeman had sprayed him and journalist Patricia Kennealy with mace backstage before the concert. In 1968, the group made the top charts again with their album "Waiting for the Sun" in June which contained the number-one hit "Hello, I Love You." But things came to a head on March 1, 1969 during a concert in Miami, Florida where Jim was arrested afterwards for exposing himself to the audience and using profanity. As as result of Jim's legal troubles the group lost their bookings for the next several months. Recorded before the Miami incident, their 1969 album "The Soft Parade" kept them in the top charts. The group followed up with their next album in 1970 called "Morrison Hotel" and "Absolutely Live," neither of which sold well. In August 1970, Jim was brought to trial for the Miami incident where he was acquitted of charges of lewd and lascivious behavior, but found guilty of indecent exposure and profanity, and was sentenced to eight months in prison. But he remained free on bail while the verdict was being appealed. The group made a comeback with their 1971 album "L.A. Woman" which featured Jim's top hits "Riders of the Storm" and "Love Her Madly." When the last of his appeals was denied and the possibility of jail hanging over him, as well as his fast, stressful lifestyle, Jim decided that he was through being a rock and roll star and in March 1971 he and Pamela moved to Paris, France where he intended to continue his literary ambitions. On July 3, 1971, Jim Morrison was found dead in his bathtub in his apartment in Paris at the age of 27. The local police listed the cause of death as heart failure, although most assume that his heart failure was alcohol, even drug related. News of his death was withheld for nearly a week, which fueled rumors that he faked his death. Three years later, in August 1974, Pamela died in Paris from a heroin overdose. Coincidentally she too was 27 years old when she died.
      Lived most of his infamous career in a cheap hotel on La Cienega Boulevard in Los Angeles, California.
      Once wed to Patricia Kennely by a Pagan ritual called handfasting. The marriage was never legally recognized, but Patricia did change her last name to "Morrison"
      In 1970, shortly after the deaths of Janis Joplin and Jimi Hendrix, he reportedly told friends at a bar "You're drinking with number three."
      Morrison's grave in Paris, France, is reportedly the city's 4th most popular attraction after the Eiffel Tower, Notre Dame and the Louvre.
      Refused to appear at Woodstock because he was paranoid that someone would take a shot at him as he performed onstage.
      Needed special permission to appear at the Isle of Wight festival in England due to the fact that he was still on trial for his indecent exposure arrest the previous year.
      After defying Ed Sullivan and using the lyric "Girl, we couldn't get much higher" while performing "Light My Fire" he and The Doors were never invited back to perform on Ed Sullivan' iconic Sunday night variety show.
      Was inspired by writings of Friedrich Nietzsche, Norman Mailer and Arthur Rimbaud, among others.
      Girlfriend, Pamela Courson opened a boutique financed by Jim called Themis (Goddess of light and beauty).
      In 1971, while living in Paris, he quit drinking, shaved his thick beard and lost a great deal of weight, beginning a clean and sober new life. However, reports at the time of death continue to depict him as bloated. Some attribute this to congestive heart failure.
      In 1966, before signing a record contract with Elektra, he told the band that he would fake his death to increase their notoriety. After Morrison's death in 1971, album sales skyrocketed.
      Is the only performer in rock history to have been arrested on stage during a performance (in New Haven, Connecticut, Dec. 10, 1967).
      During 1965-1966, before The Doors were established, Morrison, camping out on Venice rooftops, would peep on girls changing in neighboring apartments, recording everything he witnessed in notebooks (one of which survives).
      Is portrayed by Val Kilmer in Oliver Stone's biopic The Doors (1991). Not only did Kilmer look a lot like Morrison, he did his own singing in the film, and The Doors surviving band members reportedly were so impressed by Kilmer's vocal similarities to Morrison's that they could not distinguish Kilmer's singing voice from Morrison's singing voice (close-up shots use Kilmer's voice, while long-distance shots use Morrison's).
      While on stage he had an outlandish and charismatic persona, offstage he was a very quiet and shy person. In fact, according to Ray Manzarek, Morrison once told him he never really felt comfortable at a party unless Ray or another member of the band were with him.
      Before The Doors made their first album, Jim wanted to use a stage name: "James Phoenix." Keyboardist Ray Manzarek told him, "No way.".
      Early in the Doors' career, he proposed a group policy in which all band decisions would be either unanimously agreed upon or discarded, and that each member of the band would have veto power. The others approved his suggestion, and the policy remains in effect to this day, as all Doors-related releases, projects and decisions must have the okay of all three surviving Doors.
      Contrary to popular belief, the Doors did not disband when Morrison died. The surviving members released two additional studio albums, "Other Voices" and "Full Circle".
      Recorded six studio albums with the Doors, though there have been countless posthumous releases.
      His Georgia-born father, George Morrison (January 7, 1919 - November 17, 2008) was a Navy rear admiral who once earned distinction as becoming the youngest admiral in the Navy. He also served as operations officer aboard the aircraft carrier Midway and commanded the fleet during the 1964 Gulf of Tonkin incident which contributed to the escalation of American involvement in Vietnam. A graduate of the United States Naval Academy, George was aboard the mine-layer Pruitt in Pearl Harbor when it was bombed by the Japanese on December 7, 1941. Though he and Jim were largely estranged, he admitted that he viewed Jim's success with pride a year before his son's death in 1971.
      He and the Doors were awarded a Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for Recording at 6901 Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, California.
      Died at 27 years old, making him a member of the "27 Club"; The 27 Club is a group of prominent musicians that died at the age of 27. Other members include Rolling Stones co-founder Brian Jones, guitarist Jimi Hendrix, singer Janis Joplin, Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain and singer Amy Winehouse.
      [Los Angeles, 1969] Let's just say I was testing the bounds of reality. I was curious to see what would happen. That's all it was: just curiosity.
      [Dinner Key Auditorium, 3/1/69, the infamous concert where he allegedly exposed himself] We are not talking about no revolution! I'm not talking about no demonstration! I'm talking about having some fun! I'm talking about dancing! I'm talking about love your neighbor 'til it hurts! I'm talking about love! [...] This is your show, anything you want goes!
      I've always been attracted to ideas that were about revolt against authority. When you make peace with authority, you become an authority.
      I think of myself as an intelligent, sensitive human being with the soul of a clown which always forces me to blow it at the most crucial moments.
      Erotic politicians, that's what we are. We're interested in everything about revolt, disorder, and all activity that appears to have no meaning.
=======================================================
body.custom-background { background-image: url('http://jimmorrisonbiography.files.wordpress.com/2011/09/jim-ket-beer.jpg'); background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position: top center; background-attachment: fixed; }
       A short biography on Jim Morrison, who was the lead singer of The Doors and a legend in his own time. 
       Jim Morrison was born on December 8, 1943 in Melbourne, Florida to Rear Admiral George Morrison and Clara Morrison.  Jim had two siblings,  Anne Robin Morrison, born in 1947 and Andrew Lee Morrison, born in 1948.   Because Mr. Morrison was an Admiral in the Navy, the family moved around a lot durning Jim’s childhood.
       In 1947, when Jim Morrison was 4 years old, he witnessed a car accident involving American Indians.  Morrison claimed that there were bodies scattered around, and a spirit of one jumped in to his soul.  Jim talks about it on Dawn’s Highway on the American Prayer CD, which was taken from an interview…..He also sang of it in the song Peace Frog from the Morrison Hotel CD.
      Jim Morrison was said to have an IQ of  149 and had a voracious appetite for reading.   He studied Friedrich Nietzsche and Arthur Rimbaud as well as Jack Keruac and Allen Ginsberg.  He seemed very interested in testing people and had a fascination with crowd manipulation.  Morrison also had a fascination with Elvis Presley and would demand people be quiet when Elvis came on the radio.  Morrison had a very strange sense of humor, for example, Jim would start telling jokes, to no one, while riding the bus, making people feel very uncomfortable.
        Jim Morrison graduated from George Washington High School in Alexandria Virginia, and then moved in with his grandparents in Clearwater Florida.  Jim attended classes at St. Petersburg Junior College and in 1962 transferred to Florida State University.  He did quite a bit of hitchhiking during this time. Morrison was arrested drunk while attending FSU on September 28, 1963.   Jim did quite a bit of drinking while living with his grandparents, against their wishes, again just testing people.
     In 1964, Morrison transferred to UCLA’s film school, and graduated in 1965.  Ray Manzarek was in his class as well and they knew each other.   Possibly influenced by the beat poets and writers, Jim adopted that lifestyle in Venice, actually living on a rooftop at some point.  Jim had no car and other than his books, notebooks and a few clothes, essentially no personal belongings.  Jim had told his friends at UCLA that he was moving to New York after graduating, so Ray was surprised to see Jim walking on the Venice beach in the summer of ’65.    Although Jim seemed to be interested in poetry and film, he surprised Ray by telling him he had been writing lyrics and heard songs in his head.   After singing the lyrics to Moonlight Drive, Ray was hooked, blown away by Morrison’s lyrics, and The Doors were born.
      At the time, Ray was in a band with his brothers, called Rick and the Ravens.  Manzarek had met John Densmore in a meditation class and soon asked him to jam as their drummer.  A demo was made of Summer’s almost gone, End of the night, Moonlight drive, Go Insane, My eyes have seen you, and Hello, I love you, all recorded at World Pacific Studios in 1965.  It is very hard to recognize Morrison as the singer on these demo songs.  The style is nothing like The Doors would become, Jim’s voice is not the surreal tenor/baritone it would become.
     Shortly after, Ray’s brothers decide to leave the band, not seeing the Morrison genius that Ray is seeing.  John Densmore suggests they give his friend Robby Krieger a try as their new guitarist.  As soon as Robby plugs in and does bottleneck slide, Morrison is hooked “We’ll use that on every song!”  Thus, the final formation of  The Doors is complete.
      Now, The Doors need a rehearsal place, and Manzarek comes up with a great idea.  They can rent this really cool, long, one room beach house to rehearse in, and Ray and Dorothy can live there as well.  At first, the idea didn’t go over too well with the other Doors, but eventually they accepted and actually enjoyed it.  There, they could work on their songs as long as they wanted with no body to bother them.
      Sometime in 1966, when The Doors were playing at the London Fog, Jim met Pamela Courson.   There is an early picture of Jim with Pam and Jim’s sister Anne.    Pam was there by Jim’s side even before The Doors became famous.  While Morrison may have had other relationships, Pam may have been his soul mate.  Pam had said the reason she lasted so long with Jim was because she was the only one that would stand up to him. 
  It’s amazing how many times The Doors “almost” didn’t make it.  After shopping around their demo and Columbia signing them, John Densmore stopped by Billy James’ office one day to see why nothing was happening.  When he had the chance, he sneaked a peak at some papers on the desk to realize The Doors were on the “drop acts” list.     Next, after several months of playing to an empty house at the London Fog, right as they were getting fired, Ronnie Haran stopped in to see them.  She convinced the owners of The Whisky A Go-Go to hire them.    So that gig goes really great for a while, The Doors are actually making some real money, but Jim Morrison never seems to be happy when things are too easy.   One evening, after expanding his mind a bit too far, he decides to drop in the Oedipus Rex section of The End.   The Doors are fired once again.   But, not right before Jac Holzman, owner of Elektra Records, sees them and gives them a record deal.    Fate must have been intervening to finally get The Doors signed and in the recording studio.
       During the recording of their first album, The Doors, Jim must have thought the sessions were really hot.  Late one night, after everyone had left the studio, he broke in and hosed the studio down with a fire extinguisher.   He might have gotten away with it, had he not left his stuck shoe in the fence outside to be discovered the next morning.  Over breakfast, he feigned innocence and the other Doors were never sure if he really didn’t remember or were just putting them on.
     Before being signed to a record deal, Jim asked the rest of The Doors to try to come up with some songs, focusing on universal images; fire, water, earth, etc.   It seems Robby Krieger was the only one to do his “homework”   The first song Robby ever wrote was “Light My Fire”.    After The Doors first album is released on January 4, 1967, they decide to release “Break on Through” as the first single.  It only reached #126 on the charts.  Not exactly what they were hoping for.  After “Break on Through” fizzles out, they decide to give Robby’s song a try.  The only problem is, the song is 7 minutes long with the guitar and keyboard solos, which is, at that time, much too long to be released for a single.  After some surgery in the studio, they cut out most of the solos and get the song down to about 3 minutes.  The song is released in April of 1967, and it goes to #1 in the U.S.    One year later, José Feliciano covers the song and it goes to #3 in the U.S. 
       “Light My Fire” puts The Doors on the national scene and it leads to a performance on the Ed Sullivan show.   They perform “Light My Fire” and “People are Strange” on September 17, 1967.  They had been asked to change the lyric in “Light My Fire” …”Girl, we couldn’t get much higher”, because at that time, you couldn’t say “higher” on television.  The Doors agree to change the lyric, but of course, this is Jim Morrison.  What else can he do, other than sing the original lyric?  After the performance, they are told they will never play Sullivan again, to which Jim shrugs “We just did Sullivan”.   While in New York, right after the Sullivan appearance, some very historical photos are taken of Jim.    First he goes to Gloria Staver’s apartment for a photo session.   She is in charge of 16 magazine and apparently fancies Jim.  It seems they may have done more than just take pictures that night!  The next day, Morrison takes perhaps his most famous pictures, which are the Joel Brodsky shots,  called “The Young Lion” photos.  Jim is still wearing a bead necklace he borrowed from Gloria the night before.
    The Doors 2nd album, “Strange Days” is released on September 25, 1967.   The album consists mainly of songs written before the band is signed, songs that didn’t make it onto the first album.  The Doors get to experiment more in the studio and enjoy using the studio as an instrument, getting some really interesting effects.  The song “Strange Days” is the best example of this, with some great effects added to Morrison’s vocals.   The album hit #3 on the album charts, while “People are Strange” reaches #12 on the singles chart.   At the same time, their debut album is still in the top 10.  The second single released from “Strange Days” is “Love Me Two Times” and it reaches #25.
     December 9, 1967, The Doors perform in New Haven Arena in Connecticut and Jim Morrison is in rare form after being maced by a police officer.   Apparently, Jim and a female friend were hanging out backstage and the officer didn’t realize this is Jim Morrison, lead singer of the group he is here to protect.   Jim hits the stage and during “Back Door Man” he decides to share the story with the audience.  As Morrison relates the story  “….a little blue man in a little blue cap” the police begin to turn around and face the singer instead of the fans.  Jim is taunting the cops at this point and the audience is really getting on edge.  Finally, the lights come on, and here come the cops.   “Say your thing, man!” Morrison shoving the mic in front of the cop’s face.  Well, Jim is arrested and that’s the end of that show!
     Shortly after Morrison’s arrest (the charges were eventually dropped), The Doors go back into the studio to start recording their 3rd album, titled “Waiting for the Sun”.   It was released on July 11, 1968 and it becomes the group’s second #1 album.    Two singles are released, “Unknown Soldier” which peaked at 39 on the charts, followed by “Hello, I Love You”, which finds The Doors once again at the top of the singles chart.   Some critics didn’t enjoy the sound of “Hello, I Love You” too much, as it didn’t sound like “The Doors”.   While the music was different, the lyrics were pure Morrison, and had been written some time before the group was even signed.  Some claimed it sounded like The Kinks.
       “Waiting for the Sun” was not the easiest album to record.  Jim had wanted “Celebration of the Lizard” to take up most of the second side and valuable studio time was spent on it.  While the lyrics were printed on the inner sleeve, very little of it made it to the album.  “Celebration of the Lizard” is where the very famous Jim Morrison quote “I am the lizard king, I can do anything” comes from.   The Doors did create a very interesting music video (before they were called that) for “Unknown Soldier”   It was banned, for once again, Morrison had went too far.  At the end of the video, he is “shot” and blood drools from his mouth onto some flowers.   The scene then shifts to the rest of The Doors walking along the beach without Jim.  Even though the networks were showing the bloody battles of Vietnam on tv, I guess the sight of Jim Morrison bleeding was too much for them.
       The Doors fourth album, The Soft Parade, so a big change in The Doors sound.   Some fans and critics were not happy with the brass and strings on the album.  The Soft Parade also has the distinction of the most singles of any Doors album;  Touch Me, which peaked at #3,  Wishful Sinful peaking at #44,  Tell All The People at #57, and finally Runnin’ Blue reaching #64.  Also, all four singles were written by Robby Krieger.  This album also saw the first time the song writing credits were split.  Previously, The Doors wrote all the songs.  Apparently, Jim didn’t want fans to think he had written “Tell All The People”, telling people to follow him, so he insisted that Robby was known as the writer.  Even with the album’s criticism, it still reached #6.   The Soft Parade took over 9 months to record.    It was released on July 18, 1969, however the single “Touch Me” was released much earlier in December of 1968.
     Between the time “Touch Me” was released and the album “The Soft Parade” was released, there was this little incident in Miami Florida.  Morrison had been going to performances of The Living Theatre, which was very antagonistic, challenging the social mores of the day.  Morrison went to several shows, sitting right up front.  He really got into what they were saying, total freedom.  With this fresh in his mind, and after several drinks, he boards a plane headed for Miami for a concert at the Dinner Key Auditorium.  Getting more and more drunk and missing flights, Jim finally arrives about an hour late.   It’s hot, the  venue was oversold by about 5 thousand and the fans are not happy.   The band is not happy with the situation, or with Jim’s drunken tardiness.   A drunk Morrison begins to berate the audience, telling them they are all idiots and slaves.  Everytime The Doors try to begin a song, Morrison interrupts to scream at the audience more. Then Jim begins his own version of The Living Theatre, telling people to take their clothes off.   Jim pretends to take his off, although out of all the photos taken that night, not one shows Jim showing anything.   Fans rush the stage, which collapses, cops are throwing fans off the stage, including Morrison at one point.   And just like that, the concert is over.   No police officers arrest or even hint towards arresting Jim. The Doors had already planned a vacation, which they go to.  Four days later, Dade county sheriffs office issue a warrant for Morrison’s arrest, saying he exposed himself, simulated oral copulation on Krieger,  shouted obscenities, and was publicly drunk.
       February 1970 saw the release of The Doors fifth album, “Morrison Hotel”.   The album peaked at #4 on  the charts.  The cover photo was of  the band inside a real hotel in LA called Morrison Hotel.  The owners told The Doors that they could not take pictures, but as soon as they had the chance, the band ran inside and the cover picture was taken from across the street.  “Morrison Hotel” saw the band returning to their roots, blues based rock and roll.  Gone were the horns and strings of “The Soft Parade”.  The song “Waiting for the Sun” was originally recorded for the third album of the same name, recorded back in 1968 was included as was “Indian Summer” which was recorded in August of 1966.  Critics saw “Morrison Hotel” as The Doors comeback album, and they started getting more concert dates after the Miami fiasco.
     On August 29th, The Doors performed as the Isle of Wight festival.  Unfortunately, Morrison had been up for 2 days by the time The Doors hit the stage and he was spent.   He didn’t move much and the energy just wasn’t there.  The Doors played 7 songs that night.   On December 8, Jim’s 27th birthday, he recorded hours worth of poetry in the studio, some of which wound up on the 1978 album “An American Prayer”.  3 days later, The Doors played a concert in Dallas Texas in which The Doors first played some songs from the upcoming album, “L.A.Woman”.  The show went well and The Doors thought maybe things were getting better with Jim.  However, the next night, The Doors performance in New Orleans ended with Morrison slamming the mic stand into the stage until it started to splinter.  He then sat on John’s drum riser, not moving for over 10 minutes.  After the concert, without Jim’s knowledge, the remaining Doors called it quits, as far as public performance went.
   The last Doors album, “L.A.Woman” was recorded between December 1970 and January 1971.   Paul Rothchild had been the producer for all of The Doors albums up to this point.  However, when he found himself falling asleep during the L.A.Woman sessions, he walked out, calling The Doors new music cocktail music.  The Doors, along with long time engineer, Bruce Botnick decided to co-produce the album themselves.  The set up the recording equipment in their office and recorded the whole album within 2 weeks.   Quite amazing considering the last two albums had taken several months each.  There are very little overdubs, it essentially was recorded live.  Some fans regard it as their best album.  “L.A.Woman” was release in April of 1971 and peaked at #9 on the album charts.   Two singles were released; “Lover Her Madly” which reached #11, and “Riders on the Storm” that reached #14. 
        After “L.A.Woman” was recorded, Morrison went to Paris to escape his LA lifestyle.  He had hoped to slow down his drinking, start writing poetry again, and travel around Europe with Pam.  Pam had said that Jim had, in fact, slowed down the alcohol consumption and lost weight.   He also shaved his beard and looked better than he had in a while, but it was not to last.  He started to drink again and was becoming depressed.  What happened on July 2nd of 1971 is up to much debate.  Where Morrison went, what he did, who he saw, what he took in, have all added to the mystery.   What we know for sure is that Pam called The Doors manager, Bill Siddons to say that something was wrong with Jim, he needed to come to Paris immediately.  Jim was gone and a small ceremony was held at Père Lachaise in Paris, before the public even knew what had happened.  6 days after Jim was gone, Siddons released a statement.
     Jim Morrison may have broke on through to the other side on July 3rd, but he is still on this side for those of us who continue to read his words and listen to his music.   As long as there are Jim Morrison fans,  the music will never be over.
=======================================================
place of death: Paris, France epitaphs: Truth to your own spirit  father: George Stephen Morrison mother: Clara Clarke Morrison siblings: Anne Robin, Andrew Lee Morrison  Spouses: Pamela Susan Courson, Patricia Kennealy education:  Alameda High School in Alameda, California, George Washington Middle School in Alexandria
Jim Morrison gave birth to Rock music, one of the most popular genres of music. Jim is known both as a lead singer for his band 'Doors' and also for his personal singles and albums. Even with the sudden changes in the music genres, Morrison will always be remembered for his path breaking rock music. Morrison was both a much loved and much hated man for his indulgences in heightened creativity clubbed with overdose of drugs and other addictions. Though Morrison is mainly known for being a great song writer but he also wrote several books. Morrison lived a controversial life full of wine, women and drugs. Jim Morrison, along with his band The Doors, became the most popular and high profile band of America. Morrison wrote poems which were brought out as an album (as 'An American Prayer') by his band after he died. Morrison wrote some of the greatest hits like "Light My Fire", "Love Me Two Times", "Love Her Madly" and "Touch Me".
Jim Morrison was born on 8 December 1943 in Melbourne, Brevard County, Florida, United States to father, future Admiral George Stephen Morrison and mother, Clara Morrison. Jim was the eldest of three kids having a sister, Anne Robin (born in 1947) and a brother Andrew Lee Morrison (born in 1948). In 1947 Morrison met with a car accident at the age of 4 where he witnessed an American Indian family being injured and killed. Morrison was deeply scared by this incident and he later narrated it in the song "Dawn's Highway" from the album An American Prayer. References of the road accident also came in the songs "Peace Frog", "Ghost Song", sung by Morrison in the later years. The incident not only left a deep impact on the singer but changed his formative days. Morrison gave away repeated accounts and references of this incident in many of his future songs, poems, and interviews.
Morrison’s father worked in the United States Navy due to which Morrison had to travel most of the time and shift from one home to another. Much of his childhood was spent in San Diego, California. In 1958 Morrison went to Alameda High School in Alameda, California. In June 1961 he completed his Graduation from George Washington High School (presently George Washington Middle School) in Alexandria, Virginia. Morrison started living with his paternal grandparents in Clearwater, Florida, where he attended classes at St. Petersburg Junior College. In 1962 he shifted to Florida State University (FSU) in Tallahassee where he took part in a school recruitment film by appearing in the film.  During his stay in FSU Morrison got entangled in a football game prank which got him arrested. In January 1964 Morrison arrived in Los Angeles, California, to attend the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). Morrison took up Comparative Literature program within the UCLA English Department and attended Jack Hirschman's class on Antonin Artaud. Morrison was greatly influenced by Artaud's brand of surrealist theatre and much of Morrison’s later growth in dark poetic sensibility of cinematic nature is because of Artaud. In 1965 Morrison received his undergraduate degree at UCLA's film school and the Theatre Arts department of the College of Fine Arts. While pursuing his film studies in UCLA Morrison made two films – ‘First Love’ which Morrison made along with his roommate Max Schwartz, ‘Obscura’ which was a made into a documentary. Morrison lived in Venice Beach in Los Angeles during this time when he befriended few writer friends who worked at the ‘Los Angeles Free Press’.
After graduating from UCLA in 1965, Morrison started leading an unconventional life at Venice Beach. Jim and his fellow UCLA mate student Ray Manzarek initially formed the band The Doors which was soon joined by drummer John Densmore and guitarist Robby Krieger. The band got their name from the title of Aldous Huxley's book, ‘The Doors of Perception’ (a reference to the "unlocking" of "doors of perception" through psychedelic drug use). The Doors was formally formed as a Rock Band in 1965.
Jim Morrison was known for being the lead member of his band writing most of the songs for the band but guitarist Robby Krieger had made several lyrical contributions writing and co-writing many of the band’s songs which include The Doors’ hit songs, “Light My Fire”, “Love Me Two Times”, “Love Her Madly” and “Touch Me”. In 1966 The Doors performed in the opening act of Van Morrison's band Them’s participation in the ‘Whisky a Go Go’ event. Jim was greatly inspired and influenced by Van Morrison’s stage performance and public acts. The Doors and Van Morrison along with his band jammed together on the last night of the event on ‘Gloria’, a song written by Van Morrison.
Soon Doors started gaining popularity and acclaim as a powerful rock band. The Doors got the first taste of national recognition after signing with Elektra Records in 1967. Doors reached the top spot with their hit single “Light My Fire” which reached number one on the Billboard Pop Singles chart.
The Doors appeared on the popular TV show “The Ed Sullivan Show” which had introduced The Beatles and Elvis Presley to global audiences. In 1967, Morrison and his band The Doors produced a promotional film for "Break on Through (To the Other Side)", which was the first single release of their first album. All the band members appeared in the video which had a dark set and close-up shots of the band members were seen and Morrison lip-synched the lyrics. The Doors made many other music videos which include “The Unknown Soldier”, “Moonlight Drive” and “People Are Strange”.
With time The Doors became a hugely popular rock band in the United States. After releasing their second album, ‘Strange Days’ Morrison and his band were recognised as a band which belted a fine mix of blues, rock tinged with psychedelia. Morrison introduced his band’s psychedelic form of music through their version of "Alabama Song", from Bertolt Brecht and Kurt Weill's operetta, ‘Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny’. In 1967 Jim Morrison’s black and white photos were taken in a photo session organised by photographer Joel Brodsky which was named as “The Young Lion”. Even today several photographs taken during this shoot are used on magazines, covers, compilations and various memorabilia items of The Doors. The photo shoot is arguably the best and upholds Morrison’s iconic status. In 1968 The Doors released their third studio album, ‘Waiting for the Sun’ and their fourth album, ‘The Soft Parade’ in 1969.
Morrison started taking drugs regularly in the late 1960s. Besides this, Morrison reportedly started coming to studio recordings in completely drunken state. Morrison also arrived late at live shows and performances. This resulted in the band playing instrumental music and later forcing Manzarek to perform vocals. In 1969 Jim was reportedly seen wearing a beard and turning out fat and in casual dresses. Jim was also seen wearing slacks, jeans and T-shirts instead of his earlier stylish leather pants and concho belts.
In 1969, while in a stage performance at the concert taking place in Dinner Key Auditorium, Miami, Jim allegedly vexed the audience and tried to spark off a riot among the crowd but he failed. Jim was arrested and a warrant was issued by the Dade County Police department after three days of the performance. Charges of ‘indecent exposure’ were labelled on Morrison. From then on all The Doors’ concerts were called off.
Jim was a great poet much before he had turned into a successful song writer/lyricist. He published two volumes of his poetry in 1969, ‘The Lords / Notes on Vision’ and ‘The New Creatures’. In 1970, Jim privately published his book ‘An American Prayer’. Many of Jim’s writings had later been made into several books and compilations.  
The Doors (1991) - A fiction film directed by Oliver Stone starred Val Kilmer as Morrison and had cameos by Krieger and Densmore
Jim Morrison had lived most of his early life with his long time partner Pamela Susan Courson. Jim had even written off most of his estates and properties to Courson but both died at a very young age. Courson had encouraged Morrison to write poetry and develop depth in it. Morrison was also known to have lived (lived and spent time) with various other women in his life. In 1970, Morrison took part in a Celtic Pagan handfasting ceremony with rock critic and science fiction/fantasy author Patricia Kennealy and the couple were known to have signed a document claming themselves to be wedded. Morrison allegedly had sex with his fans, celebrities and several other women regularly throughout his flashy musical career.
Jim died on 3 July 1971. According to an official record, Jim was found in a Paris apartment bathtub by Courson. There was no autopsy carried out on the body as the medical examiner had allegedly found no foul play in his death. The cause of Morrison’s death could not be determined. Two decades later accounts of two witnesses claimed that Morrison had taken drugs after drinking for an entire day and he had coughed blood and gone unconscious. Courson was beside him who also died at the age of 27 due to drug overdose.
 1947:  Morrison met with a car accident at the age of 4 where he saw an American Indian family being injured and killed
 1961:  In June he completed his Graduation from George Washington High School (presently George Washington Middle School
 1962:  He shifted to Florida State University (FSU) in Tallahassee where he took part in a school recruitment film by appearing in the film
 1964:  – In January Morrison arrived in Los Angeles, California, to attend the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)
 1965:  Morrison received his undergraduate degree at UCLA's film school and the Theatre Arts department of the College of Fine Arts
 1965:  After graduating from UCLA Morrison started leading an unconventional life set in Venice Beach
 1966:  The Doors performed in the opening act of Van Morrison's band Them’s participation in the ‘Whisky a Go Go’ event. Jim was greatly inspired and influenced by Van Morrison’s stage performance and public acts. The Doors and Van Morrison along with his band jammed together on the last night of the event on ‘Gloria’, a song written by Van Morrison
 1967:  Jim Morrison’s black and white photos were taken in a photo session organised by photographer Joel Brodsky which was named as “The Young Lion”. Even today several photographs taken during this shoot are used on magazines, covers, compilations and various memorabilia items of The Doors
 1967:  Morrison and his band The Doors produced a promotional film for "Break on Through (To the Other Side)", which was their first single release of their first album. All the band members appeared in the video which had a dark set and close-up shots of the band members were seen and Morrison lip-synched the lyrics
 1969:  He published two volumes of his poetry, ‘The Lords / Notes on Vision’ and ‘The New Creatures’
 1970:  Morrison took part in a Celtic Pagan handfasting ceremony with rock critic and science fiction/fantasy author Patricia Kennealy
Jim Morrison´s Grave In ParisViews: 108788 | Likes: 126 | Dislikes: 9The Doors ~ People are Strange (Jim Morrison)Views: 31023 | Likes: 100Jim Morrison Grave Site Père-Lachaise In HD On Our HoneymoonViews: 33757 | Likes: 41 | Dislikes: 8 
=======================================================
'I look at that beach and I can tell you where each one was lying...   I can still see their faces': Tears of D-Day veterans as they make emotional return to Normandy to honour their fallen comrades
        Former soldiers from Britain and the US stood alongside other heroes as they recalled the harrowing day in 1944. Many were seen saluting at the gravestones of their friends while others wiped tears from their eyes as they listened to speeches made during the commemoration services. Harold Baumgarten, 89, described how he could look out at the beaches of northern France and point to where the bodies lay. The former US soldier was just 19 years old when he jumped off the landing craft and, 70 years on, has paid tribute to the 9,387 Americans who fell during the invasion, suggesting they are the reason he arrived safely back home.
'This tiny sliver of land... changed the course of human history': The Queen and Obama leads tributes to D-Day heroes
Still sulking, Mr Putin? Just weeks after Charles accused him of acting like Hitler, the Russian president stands by as Obama plays the gentleman for the Queen
'Everything is proceeding according to plan. And what a plan!' How Churchill told MPs of the most ambitious operation ever launched as the D-Day landings were still underway
       Surrounded by thousands of war graves Her Majesty bowed as she laid a wreath during a poignant service of remembrance in Bayeux, the first town in Normandy to be freed from Hitler's grip after the invasion on June 6 1944. Ten miles away U.S. President Barack Obama spoke at the American War Cemetery in Colleville-sur-Mer where almost 10,000 U.S troops who died in the Second World War are buried. Flanked by veterans, President Obama said they and their comrades 'turned the tide in that common struggle for freedom' on D-Day.
Samantha Cameron wears 1940s-inspired suit as she joins Prime Minister at D-Day service of remembrance in France
      The Prime Minister's wife looked chic and smart in a grey suit and cream blouse as she arrived hand-in-hand with David at the Bayeux Cathedral.
A royal salute for the fallen heroes of D-Day: Charles and Camilla join the Queen to pay their respects
      The Queen laid a wreath during a ceremony at the Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery in Bayeux where 4.144 soldiers are buried.
Flood warnings issued as Britain faces a weekend soaking with a fortnight's rain forecast to fall in just an hour (so enjoy today's sunshine while you can)
      The Met Office said thundery rain is expected to start falling across Britain early tomorrow morning, with showers unlikely to ease off until the evening. Some places could see between 20mm and 30mm of rain fall in an hour - almost half of the UK monthly average for the whole of June. It comes as people across the country enjoy temperatures of up to 25C today. Families and teenagers celebrating the end of their exams took to South Shields beach today (right) to soak up the sunshine, while horses enjoyed grazing in buttercup fields in the warm weather in Biggin Hill, Kent (left).
Eight drug dealers to be questioned by British police in hunt for Madeleine McCann as officers are given green light to quiz them
      Portuguese officials are reported to have finally given the go-ahead for British officers to quiz eight local men who they believe could be crucial to solving the mystery
Mother left in tears after two customers called her a 'slut' for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
      Rhea Holley, of Faversham in Kent, was at Costa Coffee in Purley, south London, when two customers in their 60s started verbally abusing her for breast-feeding.
Mother in tears after being called a 'slut' by two customers for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
      Studies show the optimum amount is 3-4mg of caffeine per kilogram of bodyweight one hour prior to exercise.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
      Julie Matthias, 49, of Chatham, Kent, has been diagnosed with Foreign Accent Syndrome - which affects just 60 people worldwide.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
'The job isn't finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite triumph over Farage in Newark by-election
      The Prime Minister warned the Conservatives had to keep hammering home key messages on the economy, tax cuts and jobs, after Robert Jenrick beat UKIP's Roger Helmer by 7,000 votes.
Parents held after son, 11, reaches 15 STONE: Couple arrested on suspicion of child cruelty after 'doctors became concerned about boy's wellbeing
      The parents, from King’s Lynn, Norfolk, claim their son's weight gain is genetic and they have tried to keep his size under control.
Mexican Kim Kardashian lookalike 'takes over as boss of drug cartel hit squad' and uses a personalised pink AK47
       Claudia Ochoa Felix, 27, is thought to be the new head of an elite kill squad used by one of Mexico's most powerful drug cartel, the Sinaloas, to carry out executions. She regularly posts pictures on social media posing like her idol Kim Kardashian while holding her signature pink AK (right). She has also uploaded images of her bodyguards (inset) and her three children surrounded by piles of cash.
'Fraudsters hijacked our phone line and then stole £41,000 when we called the bank': Customers scammed and then left stranded by their banks
      In two separate cases investigated customers with Lloyds Bank and Nationwide Building Society lost a total of almost £60,000 to the scam.
Most rapists don't lurk down dark alleys wearing balaclavas, say prosecutors in move to boost conviction rates
      The country’s top prosecutor warned that ‘out-of-date myths’ had to be tackled to persuade victims to have confidence in the criminal justice system.
Forget the helmets - you'll only need a flat cap: Hilarious video warns Tour de France riders what to expect in Yorkshire (and says avoid bright clothing... it scares the sheep)
      Ditch helmets for flat caps and switch bright jackets for grey cardigans so you don't scare the sheep - a Yorkshire man's advice ahead of the Tour de France.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
      Researchers from London's University of Westminster asked 124 men - half of whom were hungry and half well-fed - to rate different women by attractiveness.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
'I wasn't even hungry': Russian cannibal is FREED from court despite admitting he ate his fisherman friend - as victim's distraught wife says all she is left with is his foot
       Her husband, Andrei Kurochkin was eaten by his close friends who were fishermen after they were lost for months during an expedition in frozen Siberia. Olga Korochkin, 38, spoke out after hearing confirmation that cannibalised human remains found were those of her husband.
Fears government agencies can listen in to private mobile phone calls at the ‘flick of a switch’ after Vodafone reveals authorities use secret wires across its entire network which stretches to 29 countries
      Vodafone said direct-access wires were connected to its network, allowing authorities in 29 countries - including Italy, Malta and Spain - to monitor conversations.
‘Rape? Sometimes it's RIGHT': Indian state minister says offence is only a crime if the woman reports it to police - days after murderous gang-rape of two sisters
      'This is a social crime which depends on men and women. Sometimes it's right, sometimes it's wrong,' said Babulal Gaur, minister for Madhya Pradesh.
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left three Canadian Mounties dead and put city on day-long lock-down
      Justin Bourque, 24, was taken into custody early Friday morning after a deadly shootout in Moncton, New Brunswick, that left three police officers dead.
Suffocated baby's twin returned to parents after judge clears father of accidentally killing her as they slept on sofa, saying the couple 'deserve to be believed'
      The middle class father came under suspicion from Lancashire County Council following the death of his daughter, but judge Mr Justice Peter Jackson (pictured) cleared him of blame.
Still sulking, Mr Putin? Just weeks after Charles accused him of acting like Hitler, the Russian president stands by as Obama plays the gentleman for the Queen
       World leaders gathered in Normandy to mark the 70th anniversary of D-Day amid growing tensions over Russian aggression towards Ukraine. Mr Putin is due to come face-to-face with the Prince of Wales later. As heads of state gathered for a group photo to mark  D-Day at Benouville Castle, Mr Putin cut a solitary figure while Barack Obama and New Zealand's Governor-General Jerry Mateparae fussed around the Queen.
Use leftover Melba toast... and other money-saving tips by aristocratic politician who lives in a 13-bed manor
      Tory peer Baroness Rawlings, who is married to a multi-millionaire, suggested people reuse their linen and use a bath to warm the room.
New obesity jab could be available within two years after scientists discover hormone that helps the body burn fat
      Researchers at Havard Medical School and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in the U.S. have found a new hormone, they believe could provide the key to treating obesity and diabetes.
      As 94-year old grandmother Bertha Guymer, pictured, lay dying on a hospital bed in Essex, a thief stole her wedding rings, her family has claimed.
'Can't catch me': Fugitive, 20, who taunted police on Facebook weeps in the dock as he is jailed for stealing thousands from his grandparents and assaulting his mother
      Joe Barlow, from Laindon, Essex, was jailed for five separate offences at Basildon Crown Court, including stealing £8,500 from his grandparents’ savings to pay for drugs.
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she'd been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida - ending a 20-year scam in which she stole £144,000
       Janet Curtis, 64, top right, from Clacton, Essex, said her rheumatoid arthritis meant she could barely walk more than a few yards, and left her needing 24-hour live-in care. But fraud investigators found video footage showing her water-skiing on holiday in Florida, left, walking round theme parks and swimming. Curtis, pictured outside Ipswich Crown Court yesterday, bottom right, admitted nine benefits fraud charges and was ordered to repay the money, and given a curfew and 18-month suspended prison sentence.
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she'd been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida ending 20 year scam in which she stole £144,000
'Everything is proceeding according to plan. And what a plan!' How Churchill told MPs of the most ambitious operation ever launched as the D-Day landings were still underway
      MPs applauded after the wartime Prime Minister described the start of the 'most complicated and difficult' operation ever launched.
The British people's greatest day: Today, raise a glass to the ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
      If I had to single out one moment of the struggle which represented the zenith of our national achievement, then it must be D-Day, writes MAX HASTINGS.
The British people's greatest day: Cynics will say it's time to move on. But today raise a glass to the sheer ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
The average woman wants to meet ‘the one’ aged 24, have a child at 27 and reach the top of their career by 34
      Nearly two-thirds of those studied had a detailed life plan they try to follow – with targets such as passing their driving test by 19, living healthily by 24 and getting engaged at 26.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
      Vincent Walsh, professor of human brain research at University College London, also proposed they should be allowed to set their own work times, arriving whenever they want.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richman poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
       Former Man V. Food host Adam Richman is celebrating is 70lb weight loss with a naked spread in Cosmopolitan UK's July issue. Mr Richman, 40, poses lying down with a soccer ball precariously covering his genitals. He wears soccer cleats and knee socks and is surrounded by a smattering of soccer balls that read 'USA', in reference to this summer's World Cup.
One Direction's Louis Tomlinson to become co-chairman of Doncaster Rovers Football Club after 'finalising multi-million pound takeover deal'
      The One Direction singer is believed to have finalised a deal to takeover the football club, who he has supported his whole life.
Why Tetris is so addictive: Playing the game is like 'scratching an itch' and appeals to our brain's desire to tidy up
      A psychologist from the University of Sheffield has revealed that Tetris appeals to our brain's desire to solve mini tasks, while being tantalised by more problems.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
      Scientists secretly gave 2,051 babies and children in homes thought to include Sean Ross Abbey, Co. Tipperary, pictured, a diphtheria vaccine without their consent.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his ferry in a storm
      Steve Kingston, who runs a river ferry company in King's Lynn, Norfolk, refused to take the council's advice to leave his ship. In response the authorities sent in police to carry out the heavy-handed arrest.
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his ferry in a storm
       The 'barbaric' act of cruelty in Pendle, Lancashire was filmed by one of the men, while the other two tried to clamber up towards the terrified animal. Joshua Varey, 24, filmed the act while Shaun Mullens, 22, and Paul Ashworth, 49, shook branches trying to dislodge the animal. All three defendants, from Colne, have pleaded guilty to what Burnley magistrates described as 'deliberate and serious' acts of cruelty that the defendants 'appear to derive pleasure from'.
      Researchers at the University of Rochester, in the U.S., say male brains are affected more significantly than female brains.
Give me my pocket money or I'll jump: Chinese boy, 10, holds parents to ransom over late payment of his 50p
      When ten-year-old Xiao Wei's father was late in paying him his weekly 50p stipend in Shangsi, China, the stubborn youngster took matters into his own hands.
Father jailed for stabbing his partner six times during vicious attack in front of their children after she called police to report him
      Nicholas Robinson, pictured, broke down in tears at Leeds Crown Court after he received the 11-year sentence for the attempted murder of Claire Chambers.
      Dr Viren Swami from the University of Westminster said those in love also tend to think their partner is better looking than themselves.
Four generations of depravity: Court orders 'incest family' who lived in remote Australian bush to provide DNA samples to help police unravel decades of sexual abuse
       Two members of a NSW family accused of mass incest have been DNA swabbed following a court order. 'Raylene Colt' and 'Betty Colt' (the legal pseudonyms given to them) were ordered to report to a Sydney police station on Friday to provide samples. The family was discovered in regional NSW in 2012 living in squalid conditions and have been the subject of a child abuse investigation since.
School at centre of alleged Islamist 'Trojan Horse' takeover plot rejects Ofsted report saying it is failing to protect pupils from extremism
      The report - made public yesterday but leaked to the Mail on Monday - said Golden Hillock school in Birmingham (pictured), was doing too little to keep students safe from extremist views.
Is this the street in which Jack the Ripper lived? Geographic profiling pinpoints exact address of Victorian serial killer
      A former Canadian police officer combined geographical profiling and computer models to pinpoint Ripper's address in Whitechapel, East London (pictured in 1902).
Still clutching their rosaries after hundreds of years, eerie photographs show mummies buried in a Czech underground crypt
       A monastery in the Czech Republic has a ghoulish secret for those willing to venture underground - two dozen corpses clutching rosaries are on display. The bodies in the Capuchin Crypt of the Holy Cross Church, in Brno, date back hundreds of years, but they were only recently rediscovered and opened to public viewing.
Google reveals 3D scanning sensors for tablets that will map your home and give you directions INSIDE a building
      California-based Google has revealed the next step in their 'Project Tango'. The ambitious 3D mapping technology is being brought to tablets (pictured).
Terrifying moment motorist gets mobbed by dozens of drunk Frenchmen who jump up and down on her car after spilling out of BMX festival
      Dozens of drunk and overexcited extreme sports fans brought an area of central Montpellier, France, to a standstill last night after spilling out of the city's famous FISE festival and attacking cars that stood in their way.
      People who match with each other on the app can now send pictures visible for 24 hours to each other.
      The mums in Krasnoyarsk Krai, a city in central Russia, were among thousands who offered up their children in the races which have taken place across the country.
It's one in a mill-ion! Stunning riverside home with its own working water mill and vintage car museum could be yours (for £700,000)
       The secluded estate is set in 67 acres of woodland near South Molton, between the picturesque Dartmoor and Exmoor national parks in Devon, and features a water mill with exposed mechanics and a huge millstone. The magnificent building also features a spectacular 13,000 sq ft vintage car museum, riverside terrace and floodlit weir.
'Chaos and mass delays' as power failure grounds flights at Bristol Airport and passengers are told to wait outside terminal
      Passengers have taken to Twitter to voice their frustration as flights are delayed and the terminal fills with grounded passengers.
Air passengers delayed and 'forced to fly without luggage' from Heathrow due to Europe-wide computer problem
      The luggage system that manages baggage across Europe has experienced an IT failure which is affecting flight out of the UK.
Does the amount of make-up you wear affect how people treat you? Student tries three different looks to find out
       Brinton Parker, a 21-year-old student at the University of California, was inspired to conduct her experiment after noticing how her peers critiqued people's looks. So during a single week, she went to school wearing three very different make-up looks - bare-faced, moderate and heavy - in a bid to measure the ways it altered how people treated her.
          Pregnant Claire Sweeney displays growing bump in two tone mini dress as she treats herself to restaurant meal
          Katherine Jenkins ditches her usual glamorous make-up for a more natural look as she showcases her slim frame in navy mini dress
          Cara Delevingne shows off her supermodel style in plunging printed silk jumpsuit as she attends Stella McCartney party with pal Jourdan Dunn
          Handle with care! Nigella Lawson steps out looking pale and fragile... the morning after her dazed appearance at charity fundraiser
          A look that will take you places! Michelle Keegan wears bright short jumpsuit at photocall for holiday company
          It's over: Jennifer Lopez and dancer boyfriend Casper Smart 'call it quits'... amid transsexual sexting scandal
          One Direction's Louis Tomlinson to become co-chairman of Doncaster Rovers Football Club after 'finalising multi-million pound takeover deal'
          BGT 2014's final will be a huge TV event... and a mindless, cynical circus: JIM SHELLEY's 12 reasons for hating Britain's Got Talent
          Prison food went down well then! Chris Brown shows off a fuller physique as he arrives at 'get out of jail free' party thrown by lover Karrueche Tran
          Earning her fashion stripes: Pregnant Holly Willoughby wears comfortable T-shirt and jeans as she leaves Soho restaurant
          Samantha Cameron walks hand-in-hand with veteran's family member at service to mark the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings
          Now where did I put those Daisy Dukes? Jessica Simpson parades her slimmer figure in semi-sheer dress as she prepares for summer wedding
          Only the best for his wife-to-be! George Clooney 'on the hunt for French love nest' with fiancee Amal Alamuddin... as he 'plans move into politics'
          Lara Stone shows off her cleavage and slim pins as she is joined by husband David Walliams at Terrence Higgins Trust event
          Jake Gyllenhaal and Rachel McAdams spotted sharing intimate meal in Pittsburgh as they prepare to start shooting new film Southpaw
          Simply bellissimo! Chloe Green opts for effortless Italian glamour in pale pink tie- up shirt and leather skirt as she kicks off charity road trip in Venice
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney enters the Big Brother house... and claims she has been celibate for a year
          Sienna Miller and fiancé Tom Sturridge lead the way during ANOTHER celebrity-packed night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Lo(han) and behold... she's out again! Flame-haired Lindsay rocks a grungy leather jacket and skirt combo as she enjoys another night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Moss be having fun! Kate looks worse for wear in clashing prints as she hits Prince gig and Chiltern Firehouse with Nick Grimshaw
          Don't mind us! Michael Sheen and Sarah Silverman make a discreet exit after late night out at celebrity haunt Chiltern Firehouse
          Millie Mackintosh highlights her slender frame in snakeskin jumpsuit at Smirnoff Mix It campaign launch
          Another celebrity convert: Amber Le Bon models the world's first in-flight onesie (but don't expect to look as good as her at 30,000ft)
          'Fake boobs, sex and spirituality need to be addressed in opera!' The rugby WAG and Gary Barlow protégée who wants to shake up the classical music world
          Fit for Hollywood royalty! Sandra Bullock looks regal in side-split blue gown as she speaks at Jane Fonda Tribute
          Lovely in lace! Kate Beckinsale steals the show in strapless white dress at Macbeth opening night bash
          She must've Heard it was a fashion event! Amber steals the limelight as she displays her pins in fetching red minidress at Stella McCartney presentation
          Now that's Fancy! Shipshape Iggy Azalea slips into green bikini for luxury yacht holiday to celebrate 24th birthday
          Team green! Brooke Vincent's 22nd birthday celebrations continue as she hits Manchester in sexy jumpsuit flanked by pals
          Fancy meeting you here! Kim Kardashian and Hilary Duff bring their children to same parenting class in Beverly Hills
          'He's struggling!' Kris Jenner opens up about Rob Kardashian's issues, but does not deny daughter Kourtney is pregnant with third child
          Maggie Gyllenhaal wows in colourful boho chic as she holds her own at Stella McCartney's Spring 2015 presentation
          Crazy Stupid Stomach! Cheryl Cole reveals her washboard abs in low- cut crop top in stills from video for new single
          Meet first 10 Big Brother 2014 contestants: A former prostitute, a strict catholic and a one-hit wonder amongst those first in house
          Here come the girls! Daisy Lowe sports cropped blouse and flared dress trousers for night out at Scott's with fellow fashionista Alexa Chung
          Nigella Lawson lets her hair down at charity dinner... as her production company makes £2.5 million profit in a year
          Emma Roberts cuts a striking figure in a fetching red dress as she receives Maui Film Festival Shining Star Award alongside fiance Evan Peters
          When in Ibiza! TOWIE's Mario Falcone puts his washboard abs on display as he greets topless fans during stag do holiday
          They love the nightlife! Aussie star Guy Pearce plays tour guide as he takes actor  Robert Pattinson and his blonde lady friend on a trip to Sydney's top hotspots
          Doesn't she get a day off? Alesha Dixon shows off her super flat stomach as she dresses up again for UK premiere of Belle
          Kourtney Kardashian covers up 'baby bump' in baggy black sweater as she and Scott Disick grab lunch in The Hamptons
          That's better! Bradley Cooper trades questionably tight shorts for baggy cargo pants as he takes a break from the set of American Sniper
          TOWIE's Gemma Collins wears white skinny jeans with confidence after losing nearly two stone ahead of Marbella special
          'He's lost... but he's no racist': Rapper 50 Cent defends Justin Bieber following N-word storm... as singer 'takes responsibility for his actions'
          Still selfie obsessed! Kendall and Kylie Jenner pucker up for picture... despite being mobbed by fans at book signing
          'She has the perfect body!' Kris Jenner says daughter Kendall's topless modelling shots 'comes with the territory'
          Jumping into action! Emma Willis wins the viewers votes as she kicks off Big Brother 2014 in flattering white all-in-one
          Big Brother 2014 Launch: Pauline Bennet goes on a 'power trip' as a playboy bunny and devout Catholic are amongst first stars to enter the house
          Big Brother reveals first twist of the series as Pauline Bennet is told to pick who wins £5,000 and which housemate is excluded on first night
          He's scored! Phil Neville can't resist kissing bikini-clad wife Julie as family holiday in Barbados continues
          You gotta fight for your copyright! Beastie Boys awarded $1.7million after suing drink firm which used their music in commercials
          George RR Martin makes fundraising appeal to Game Of Thrones fans to name a character he will kill in upcoming novel
          Time to update the wardrobe! Chantelle Houghton wears her favourite white blazer as she goes shopping with Dolly
          Together again! Eva Longoria reunites with Desperate Housewives co-star Felicity Huffman at Jane Fonda Tribute
          Orange is the new black: Ashley Tisdale shows off her tanned and toned legs in tiny bright shorts as she enjoys shopping trip
          The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
          Rolling Stones stars Mick Jagger, Ronnie Wood and Charlie Watts visit Jerusalem's Western Wall before first ever Israel concert
          Look, I can do streetwise too! J-Lo is just Jenny From The Block as she steps out in denim after being branded a 'sell out' at Bronx homecoming 
          Diary of BGT's ditziest finalist: Lettice on auditioning hungover, her outrageous stage costumes and being loaned a £1.5million violin to perform
          The Queen lights up the Champs-Élysées: Her Majesty - in her FOURTH chic outfit of the day - has red carpet rolled out for her in Paris ahead of D-Day
          Pastel perfection: Lindsay Lohan reveals very slim pins in pale blue skinny jeans and jumper as she steps out to lunch
          Catherine Zeta-Jones and Morgan Freeman share a friendly kiss gone wrong... as she and Michael Douglas arrive at Hollywood event together
          Pins on parade! Jessica Seinfeld and Liv Tyler wear revealing short summer dresses at Stella McCartney presentation
          'She's celestial... I was born into her': Keith Urban on his divine connection with Nicole Kidman... and how her drug intervention saved him
          She's still got it! Jane Fonda, 76, wows as she accepts lifetime achievement award... days after giving sex tips on Conan O'Brien
          Return Of The Jedi! Mark Hamill, 62, shows he can still handle a Lightsaber during visit to Disney World 37 years after first playing Luke Skywalker
          'You don't always have to be naked!' TLC slam Rihanna for using sex to sell records saying it's the easy way to get to the top in the music industry
          Justin Bieber has been 'non-stop crying' after two videos surface showing him singing vile racial slurs at the age of 14
          Escorted by her Goodfella! Robert De Niro's wife Grace Hightower shines in blue dress at documentary premiere in New York
          A cause close to her heart: Demi Lovato speaks about her own personal struggles during mental health event
          Pregnant Jessica-Jane Clement shows off her growing baby bump as she takes her dogs for a leisurely walk
          'People don't want them here': Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian continue to annoy Hamptons locals with 'outrageous filming demands'
          Lupita Nyong'o to star in and produce big screen adaptation of award-winning novel Americanah
          I'll be back... after my cigar break: Arnold Schwarzenegger takes things slowly as he has a sly puff on set of Terminator: Genesis
          Jaime King parades her pins in sporty cardigan and matching mini-skirt at the McDonald's World Cup party in NYC
          'I am not an opportunist!' Fan who bought Whitney Houston's mansion for $1.5m insists he will NOT open it to the public
          Christie Brinkley, 60, proves you're never too old for leather trousers as she stuns on lunch date with her son Jack
          Showing off her street style! Emmy Rossum awaits Stella McCartney presentation on the sidewalk in chic fringe dress
          Orange Is The New White! Taylor Schilling shows off toned pins in pearl-coloured dress at TheWrap's Emmy Celebration
          'Ready to rumble!' Pretty Little Liars star Tammin Sursok puckers up for the camera as she celebrates returning to work after giving birth seven months ago
          Did she use those scissors on her skirt? LeAnn Rimes sizzles in slinky white dress with thigh-high slit as she cuts ribbon to kick off CMA Music Festival
          Over already? Jennifer Lopez parties in NY with handsome rapper T.I.... as 'cheating' toy boy Casper Smart is nowhere to be seen
          Carey Mulligan and Helena Bonham Carter chant at a Votes for Women rally in first still from upcoming film Suffragette
          Are those clothes from the Thrift Shop? Macklemore and Ryan Lewis make a cool arrival in dapper attire to Sin City nightclub
          Happy to get his kit off! Robbie Williams gets help to change into his football top during preparations for SoccerAid
          One big happy family! Hilary Swank shows her maternal side as she gives her boyfriend's little girl a kiss at French Open
          'I've had a lot of therapy': Katy Perry talks about getting over exes John Mayer and Russell Brand... and how long she's gone without sex in new interview
          Ricky Gervais and longtime partner Jane Fallon attend Derek event after visiting their Muppet pals on Sesame Street
          Date night! Twilight star Ashley Greene stuns in tiny black playsuit at she takes boyfriend Paul Khoury to glitzy event in West Hollywood
          While they were teaching! Sandra Bullock makes a surprise visit to her son Louis' school as she donates goodies to the faculty
          What will Rita think? Calvin Harris parties with ANOTHER mystery woman on a night out as girlfriend Ora enjoys Mexican getaway
          Evan Rachel Wood sued for $30M after bailing on film 10 Things I Hate About Life... as rep slams lawsuit as 'preposterous' and a 'bullying tactic'
          'With you I will go': Kanye West beams as Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli serenades Kim Kardashian at their lavish Florence wedding
          Newlywed Kim Kardashian to spend up to a month shooting KUWTK spin-off in The Hamptons... but Kanye West isn't sure if he wants to join her
          Deja blue: Rosario Dawson is back in her favorite colour after wowing in that revealing gown at the Cannes Film Festival
          'I'm Sporty Spice!' Gisele Bundchen shows off washboard stomach in a bikini for cover shoot as she admits she loves to exercise
          That's her secret! Jordana Brewster shows off svelte arms pushing her son Julian along in his stroller
          The fight for $50m: Bowling For Columbine filmmaker Michael Moore claims wife of 22 years spent recklessly as they prepare for divorce trial
Sword-wielding Sikhs clash at India's Golden Temple during prayers to mark the deadly 1984 military assault at Amritsar
       At least six people were injured as dozens of Sikh radicals clashed with supporters of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC) at the Golden Temple, in Amritsar. It is understood the scuffle erupted over who would speak first at the service, held to remember victims of government offensive Operation Blue Star that left hundreds dead on June 6, 1984.
Germans complain British tourists are too loud and all too often drunk (but at least we're not as bad as the Russians)
      British tourists are second only to Russians when it comes to nationalities Germans dislike most when on holiday.
Sales of widescreen TVs boom ahead of World Cup as Tesco gears up for the big event by getting extra nuts in
      Tesco said TV sales have almost doubled ahead of the event, while John Lewis reported a 47 per cent jump in sales in its vision department.
Newborn who died from contaminated hospital drip was just nine days old it emerges as total number of babies seriously ill from the rogue batch has risen to 18
      The baby boy who died from a suspected contaminated drip in London's St Thomas' hospital was today named as nine-day-old Yousef Al-Kharboush
Father who has been hiccupping for three years is devastated to be told he could have condition for LIFE
      Daniel Clavin (pictured with his wife, Susan), 38, from County Roscommon, has been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and believes the condition is responsible for his hiccups.
Father who has been hiccupping for three years is devastated to be told he could have condition for LIFE
      Labour MP Stella Creasy says women will have to ‘breed for Britain’ if immigration is restricted - and she has a point, writes RICHARD LITTLEJOHN.
That'll definitely help: U.S. Secret Service buys special software that can detect SARCASM on Twitter
      The tender calls for a social media analytics software tool that can analyse Twitter data in real-time, identify statistical patterns and present complex data in a clear, concise way.
Shot twice, stuffed in a sack and dumped in a canal... but Pakistani girl, 18, SURVIVES botched 'honour killing' carried out by her own family for marrying the man she loved
       Saba Maqsood (pictured) was attacked by her father, uncle, brother and aunt before she was tossed into the canal, said Ali Akbar, a spokesman for police in Hafizabad, Punjab province. It comes just a week-and-a-half after the broad daylight 'honour killing' of another woman in a city centre drew worldwide condemnation. Mr Akbar told Reuters that the most recent case was also 'an honour-related incident'. 'The victim, Saba ... married her neighbour Muhammad Qaiser for love five days ago against the wishes of her family,' he said.
Outrage as actors dressed as Nazis takeover West Sussex airport 24 hours before 70th anniversary of D-Day to film scenes for Ryan Reynolds film
      Stars of new Second World War film Woman in Gold, starring Helen Mirren and Ryan Reynolds, arrived at Shoreham Airport today dressed in full Nazi uniform.
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
      The Jet 2 flight LS516 started to rapidly descend just an hour after departing from Paphos, Cyprus, to Newcastle last night.
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
From Londoners praying to New Yorkers using smartphones on the loo: Ikea survey reveals morning habits of major cities
      The Swedish furniture giant has published a new study called Life At Home which looks at the morning habits of residents in Berlin, London, Moscow, Mumbai, New York, Shanghai and Stockholm.
'It's time for the people to speak': Aunt of Spain’s new Queen Letizia tweets her followers calling for a Republic
      Henar Ortiz Alvarez, the aunt of future queen Letizia Ortiz, made her feelings known on Twitter tweeting: It's time for the people to speak...'
Don't look down! World's tallest tower will feature an elevator that travels at 32 feet a SECOND when it opens in 2018
The Kingdom Tower in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia will feature the world's fastest double-decker elevator which will let visitors travel over 2,165ft (660metres) in one go. It will ascend the mighty skyscraper at 32ft (10 metres) a second. The lift will use high-tech carbon fibre cables, and this UltraRope technology is lighter than conventional steel cable.
      But researchers at the University of Pittsburgh found a man's consumption of alcohol had no influence on their daughter's drinking habits.
Former Crimewatch presenter Sue Cook tells Rolf Harris trial she too forgot a game show appearance in Cambridge in 1970s and the star 'shouldn't be accused of lying'
      Sue Cook, 65, told the jury at Southwark Crown Court in London that she had forgotten 'loads' of events she had been to over the years.
Restaurant rage: Living in an area with lots of fast food stores can make you impatient and unable to savour things, researchers warn
      Toronto researchers say just the presence of the chains was enough to cause people to struggle to slow down and savour things.
The transforming desk that moves up and down to keep you fit - and can even track how much exercise you get at the office
      The $3,900 Stir Kinect desk has a motor to raise and lower itself, converting it into a standing desk or a traditional desk.
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: How unconventional 25-year marriage to first wife inspired world's greatest living scientist... and a movie
      Eddie Redmayne had books on Albert Einstein in his dressing room when he took on the part of Professor Stephen Hawking for a film about the physicist's 25-year love affair with his first wife, writes BAZ BAMIGBOYE.
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die': New book reveals Roman Polanski's private memories of wife Sharon Tate, slaughtered by Charles Manson's 'Family' when she was pregnant
      Sharon Tate's sister Debra has compiled a book of exclusive photographs and memories dedicated to the actress from her husband Roman Polanski.
Girlfriend of Camilla's tragic brother Mark Shand leads tributes to him at fundraiser for endangered elephants held in his memory
       Mark Shand's former girlfriend Ruth Powys (left) led tributes to the Duchess of Cornwall's younger brother last night. Money raised was donated to the charity Elephant Family which Mr Shand founded. Ms Powys was joined by her twin sister Mary (both pictured centre) and Mr Shand's niece Laura Lopes (right), who is Camilla's daughter. Mr Shand (inset), 62, suffered a head injury when he slipped and fell on the pavement on a night out in Manhattan, New York, in April.
'Stabby, stab, stab': Two US girls, 12, who knifed schoolmate 19 times used code words to plan horrific 'Slender Man' attack
      A police document compiled soon after the stabbing in Waukesha, Wisconsin, revealed that when Morgan Geyser and Anissa Weier discussed the attack, they would use the word 'cracker' to describe a knife or killing.
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at US university, killing one and wounding three
      Students at Seattle Pacific University say Jon Meis saved countless lives when he sprang into action as the shooter stopped to reload his weapon.
Extravagant hen dos now cost guests so much they rival the amount spent on attending the actual wedding!
      Gone are the days of a knees-up down the pub as the average cost of attending a hen do has rocketed and often involves a trip abroad.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
      Mr Justice Saunders told the jury a private detective working for the tabloid had accessed the 13-year-old’s phone - but had not deliberately deleted the voicemails.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
This is how you catfight, son! Father teaches his kittens the best way to pack a punch when he sees how terrible they are at brawling
       A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video shot in an unknown location that proves boys will be boys no matter the species. The YouTube clip from user kamzer opens with two very young kitten siblings wrestling on a kitchen counter. Suddenly their papa cat peeps up from the floor below and before they can purr 'TKO,' their dad is in the mix teaching them a proper left hook.
Jurassic Park actor arrested and charged with kidnap and rape of 13-year-old girl he met for acting classes
      Cameron Thor, 54, is accused of sexually assaulting the girl over the course of a year by police in Los Angeles, California, who say he took her to a secluded area.
Now that's a randy rodent! Male guinea pig at animal sanctuary breaks free from his cage and makes 100 females pregnant
      The two-year-old rodent - nicknamed Randy - managed to get all of the female guinea pigs at Hatton Country World, Warwickshire, pregnant before staff cottoned on to his antics.
Weak pound and high cost of living: Why retiring abroad is now branded 'a luxury' with some popular destinations even pricier than UK
      Experts warned moving abroad is 'no longer an option for the average British person' according to experts, due to rising prices in Europe.
Britons' favourite drive is the A470 through Snowdonia National Park and the Brecon Beacons (and everyone hates the M25)
      Wales and Scotland topped the poll for the best UK roads, followed by the north of England, but the south has most of the worst roads in Britain.
Submarines on Titan and giant nets to capture asteroids: Nasa unveils futuristic designs that could help explore new worlds
       Nasa has unveiled 12 proposals for next-gen exploration technologies in Washington, including a mission to bag an asteroid (illustration left), a submarine in Titan's largest sea (top right) and a spacecraft that could travel from the sun to Neptune in a year (bottom right). These will each receive $100,000 of funding for study over 18 months.
      A new report by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau has confirmed that the original search area along the 'seventh arc' of the southern Indian Ocean for MH370 is the right place to be looking for the missing jet.
Masked rapist, 67, who attacked 100 women over 30 years is finally caught after woman fights him off in Moscow park
      Valery Makarenkov prowled the streets and parks of capital Moscow preying on women in a reign of terror that spanned more than 30 years.
Diabetic put her life at risk to lose weight: Mother stopped taking her insulin injections after ballooning to 19 stone
      Hayleigh Juggins, 20, from Bedfordshire, ignored doctors' advice to take insulin after the birth of her daughter, Angel.
Would YOU eat it? Seaside parlour creates battered fish and chip flavoured ice cream - complete with mushy peas
      Teare Wood's Ice Cream Parlour, in Whitby, North Yorkshire, has combined the traditional holiday tastes to tempt tourists.
Thalidomide survivors launch a fresh legal bid against manufacturers of controversial morning sickness pill
      Papers have been filed at the High Court on behalf of eight people whose mothers took the anti-morning sickness drug when pregnant in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
      Research published in the journal The Obstetrician and Gynaecologist shows a small percentage of headaches were caused by potentially life-threatening neurological conditions.
       Wheeling in on horses and carts, thousands of travellers have pitched up on a privately owned golf course in the small market town of Appleby, Cumbria, for the largest event of its kind in Europe. The week-long Appleby Horse Fair attracts members of the gypsy community from around the world, and has previously been featured in popular Channel 4 show My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding.
Flight of a lifetime! 130 tickets go on sale to fly alongside Lancaster bomber that's in UK for last time - but it will set you back £2,150
      The Lancaster will be in the UK, flying from Canada to England, for four days, arriving on August 8, making the 18-hour trip for the first and final time.
House price bubble threatens to derail economy, warns IMF - and Chancellor says Bank of England 'should not hesitate' to rein in market if necessary
      The International Monetary Fund called for 'targeted and timely' measures to clamp down on risky mortgage lending.
Two people rescued by police after barricading themselves in a bedroom because they were scared of their dog Fluffy
      The dog owners blocked themselves in their home in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, after becoming frightened of their Staffordshire bull terrier, Fluffy (pictured).
Motorcyclist rushed to hospital and bystanders injured by flying debris after crash with a police car
      The motorcyclist suffered left head and leg injuries in the crash at around 1.20pm on the Cotton Street junction with Poplar High Street, in Poplar, east London.
Daughter 'had elderly parents shot dead and buried in their garden after mother admitted sleeping with son-in-law... and then she tricked relatives for 15 years into believing they were still alive'
       Susan and Christopher Edwards (right) 'lied to everybody' for 15 years to cover up the killings of Patricia and William Wycherley, (left) from Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, and diverted a total of £245,000 into their own accounts, Nottingham Crown Court was told. Mr Wycherley, 85, and his 63-year-old wife were both shot twice with a revolver over bank holiday weekend in May 1998 and were buried in the garden (centre) prosecutor Peter Joyce QC said.
World's biggest tumour weighing 30lbs and the size of a watermelon is removed from the uterus of Indian woman
      WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT: Surgeons in the city of Chennai spent three-and-a-half hours removing the giant uterine tumour, which could have been growing for two years.
      When hungry, people were found to find a wider range of body shapes attractive and were more likely to be attracted to bigger people.
      Researchers from the National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA) in the U.S. say the damaging effects remain even if a person stops smoking cannabis in adulthood.
      The footage, captured on the cyclist's GoPro helmet camera shows the confrontation in a Dublin street, which sees the driver threaten to 'run over' the cyclist.
Dying for a tan: Man, 32, diagnosed with terminal skin cancer after spending £7,000 on sunbed sessions over eight years
       Damien Platt, from Greater Manchester, was diagnosed with melanoma after using a sunbed up to four times a week for nine minutes at a time 'to make hi self feel good'. He said: 'To find out I had melanoma was the worst feeling in the world. I felt completely numb and found it very hard to function properly for days, people would try talking to me but nothing would register. Now I'm just trying to be as happy as possible with the time I've got left.' Image ( bottom right) shows the scar on his leg where the mole was removed and (top right) shows him with a tan.
So you think you can dance? Two kittens wow with their perfectly synchronized groove to hip hop track
      The cats were filmed at the home of Hayley Markham and Andrew Kerr in Virginia, as they danced to DJ Snake and Lil Jon's 2013 club sensation Turn Down For What.
Killed by a single punch: Thug admits killing pensioner with a single blow after 'scuffle' outside pub
      Sean Sillet, 20, pictured, pleaded guilty the manslaughter of Kenneth Brough, 65, outside the Beehive in Newcastle's Bigg Market on January 28.
Man and women die from ‘overpowering fumes’ after jumping into cesspit to retrieve ‘expensive phone’
      The woman had dropped her device – worth 2,000 yuan (£190) – in the open-pit toilet, reported Dahe, a website run by the Henan provincial government.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
      The MEP strolled to his hotel with tourism executive Ande Soteri at 3.42am after a gala dinner, with conference delegates reportedly 'gossiping' that they left the party together in capital Valletta.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
Filthy fish and chip shop shut down after dead mice were found rotting while staff cooked meals and droppings were found in spice mix
       Health inspectors investigating an Oldham takeaway discovered rotting mice decaying on a glue trap, left, with a deep fat frying covered in grease and fat, top right, and work surfaces used for preparing food covered in mouse droppings, a court has heard. Owner Sarfaz Rouf told magistrates that he did not have a 'vast knowledge' of food hygiene. Him and Iram Bibi were fined just £250 each and the business has now closed.
      Brand Fatyo from Japan has ditched the traditional size labels in its garments in favour of more literal descriptions such as - titch, skinny, fat and jumbo.
Zoo worker in gorilla suit shot with tranquiliser dart during 'escape drill' because no-one told the vet it wasn't real
      The 35-year-old zoo employee was shot on Monday at Tenerife's Loro Parque Zoo. Staff were taking part in a drill designed to ensure they had an emergency plan in place in case one of the gorillas escaped.
Builder hired to renovate Oxford Street store stole £30,000 of designer goods including sunglasses and perfume during his first shift
      A builder helped himself to £30,000 of designer goods on his first shift when he was hired to renovate Boots on Oxford Street, London.
Don't REIN on my parade! Moment horse bolted from Whitehall procession throwing off its rider (who still got up and saluted the Queen as she came past seconds later)
      As the Queen made her way from Buckingham Palace, Musaqaleh had other plans, bolting off towards Horse Guards Parade.
Versace, Gucci... il Duce? Wardrobe where Mussolini's corpse was kept for 11 years up for auction on eBay
      The wardrobe itself is worthless but, having been the hiding place for the dictator’s corpse between 1946 and 1957, it has ghoulish value for collectors of fascist memorabilia.
How the moon was made: Researchers reveal new evidence Earth was hit by giant object as big as Mars 4.5 billion years ago
      German researchers say their analysis of Apollo moon rocks rocks show Earth was hit by a huge object called 'Theta' which led to the moon's formation.
Did HUMANS wipe out the woolly mammoth? Study finds a direct link between hunting and the extinction of large Ice Age animals
      Researchers at Aarhus University in Denmark came to the conclusion after looking at the pattern of extinctions for 177 species between 132,000 years and 1,000 years ago.
Sky-high WiFi will soon be available across Europe: Passengers on British Airways flights to get internet within three years
      Internet will be soon be available on British Airways flights (pictured) across Europe. The service will be provided by London-based satellite operator Inmarsat.
'I was a product of rape': Miss USA 2014 hopeful reveals she was conceived when her mother was attacked at knifepoint
       Valerie Gatto's mother was attacked when she was 19. Rather than let the tragic story define her, Valerie uses it to help educate young women about sexual assault. 'I believe God put me here for a reason,' she said.'To give [people] hope that everything is possible and you can't let your circumstances define your life.'
William Hague condemns Assad's election victory as 'an insult to Syrians' that bore 'no relation to genuine democracy'
      Tens of thousands took to the streets in government-held areas even before the results were announced on Wednesday evening, waving portraits of Assad and the official Syrian flag.
Tasty Terracotta Army! Food artist makes China's iconic warriors with PIZZA dough (but they won't last thousands of years)
      Annabel de Vetten created the scaled-down warriors to celebrate the opening of Pizza Express' 500th restaurant... in Beijing.
Trans-cending preconceptions: Thought-provoking new photo series celebrates the lives of trans-identified and gender nonconformist individuals
      Rhys Harper, who is based in Syracuse, New York, is hoping his project will help to shift people's perspective on the subject.
      Revellers at the rented student house in Fallowfield, Manchester, were plunged into the basement after the floor fell through. Nobody was hurt.
      Ben Baldwin, 22, from Barnsley, has cerebral palsy, severe epilepsy and learning difficulties and is often too ill to go outside, so Tiger visits him in his bed.
An eggs-traordinary find! Ancient reptile fossils shed light on how mysterious Pterosaurs nested like modern-day birds
      The five intact eggs were found in the Xinjiang province, China and all belonged to a previously unknown pterosaur species, Hamipterus tianshanensis.
You appear to have an ad-blocker running which will prevent this page from functioning as intended. Please disable your ad-blocker or set an exception for this page.Today's hottestfashion findsSee moreRihannaWow like Rihanna in an embellished sheer dressRead more ›KarruecheWork a simple white dress into your summer wardrobeRead more ›KourtneyGo back to black in monochrome Nike trainersRead more ›AlexaRamp up your wardrobe and invest in a leather pencil skirtRead more ›
          She's no shrinking violet! Lorde wears purple lipstick from her new Mac collection during bewitching performance in London
          Looking scarily good! Camilla Belle wears a skull print T-shirt as she arrives at LAX after South America trip
          You'll never take King's Landing with THAT! Game Of Thrones star Kit Harington poses with plastic dragon at Universal Studios
          'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honour': Man V. Food host Adam Richmand poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
          Shane Warne caught kissing and sharing intimate embrace with Playboy cover girl Emily Scott... but he STILL insists he's single
          Boho babe: Alessandra Ambrosio forgoes make-up as she runs errands in LA clad in a pretty lilac tie-dye maxi-dress
          King Kevin rules supreme: Spacey is magnificent in one-man show Clarence Darrow, writes QUENTIN LETTS
          BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Let's hear it for the Scottsboro Boys! Brandon Victor Dixon to star in West End production of extraordinary show
          Poetic, haunting... these D-Day letters moved me to tears: CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV
          A hit and miss comedy: There are funny moments, but Jump Street's daft cops fail to reach the hilarious heights of their first film
          This won't do Grace any favours: BRIAN VINER reviews Nicole Kidman's latest film Grace of Monaco
          'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die:' Roman Polanski shares private memories of wife Sharon Tate in new book on pregnant beauty's tragic life
          Hollywood's $800 facial: The secret to Angelina Jolie's glowing skin combines microdermabrasion, laser and a peel
          It's DJ Delta! The Voice Kids coach Goodrem jets home from Hollywood with an edgy new look complete with ripped jeans and shiny headphones
          She's certainly a good advertisement! US TV presenter Maria Menounos promotes her diet and fitness book in shiny black shorts in New York City
          'I gave him every bit of advice but now it's up to him': Usher opens up about his friend Justin Bieber's spiral out of control
          It's ON Again! Spring Breakers star Ashley Benson steps out with her beau Ryan Good wearing a bright playsuit
          Put away the bowl! Cindy Crawford reveals her stunning mane of hair was not always her crowning glory in cute flashback photo
          'I almost killed Tom Cruise!' Emily Blunt recalls terrifying moment she nearly crashed a car while shooting scenes for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Still a sex symbol! Raquel Welch, 73, looks decades younger in white jeans and yellow jacket while out to dinner
          Her own best ad! Kate Hudson displays her washboard abs as she models for fitness line... and shares her workout motivation
          Angela Simmons displays toned physique in sexy summery outfit as she hints at new venture following power lunch with her 'fitness gurus'
          The Devil Wears...white! Meryl Streep goes sinister as the Chief Elder of a dystopian society in The Giver
          Nature girl! Vanessa Hudgens shows off her toned tummy in black crop top and shorts during a vigorous hillside hike
          'I'd be open to doing more True Detective': Matthew McConaughey expresses interest in reprising Rust Cohle TV role
          Pretty as a picture! Jessica Alba shows her passion for prints while leaving the studio with takeout lunch
          That's where she gets it from! Leggy Gigi Hadid is chic in short metallic frock while out with her stylish mother Yolanda Foster
          Natalie Portman is fresh-faced and flawless as she touches down at LAX with husband Benjamin Millepied and their adorable son Aleph
          Good news for Miley Cyrus as police 'arrest two people in their 20s' in connection with star's stolen $100k Maserati
          Hot mama! Country singer Jessie James shows off her trim post-baby body at CMT Awards... just three months after giving birth
          Don't mention the outfit! Even Lena Dunham has 'no comment' over her unflattering ensemble as she enjoys a stroll in New York
          'Superhero workout!' Arrow's Stephen Amell shows off his impressive 'parkour' skills on military inspired obstacle course
          Strong sensitive types! Insurgent's Theo James brings Fault In Their Stars book to the gym while Miles Teller pumps some iron
          Farrah Abraham reveals she's writing a Christian parenting book... despite admitting she needs 'space' from her four-year-old and waxes child's eyebrows
          She's glowing: Holly Willoughby shows off growing bump in navy skater dress as she films This Morning segment
          She's anything but PLANE! Carol Vorderman shows off her pins in hot pink and black dress at photocall after jetting herself back from awards show
          'We've got a Christmas bun in the oven! Coronation Street's Paula Lane announces first pregnancy with childhood sweetheart Tom Shaw on Twitter
          'I'm going to get stick for this': Amy Willerton posts bikini selfie... but worries about how her fans will react
          'Squats are the key! Even 10 make me feel better': Victoria's Secret Angel Candice Swanepoel reveals secrets behind that body
          The lady is a vamp! Rihanna unleashes her rock chick side in a skimpy leather two-piece and fierce lace-up heels for Paris charity event
          Explicit content! Lindsay Lohan can't even manage a supporting role in sheer logo top... but at least gives parental advisory warning
          A leggy Lily Allen makes rare appearance with husband Sam Cooper for date night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Think pink! Alex Gerrard shows off her toned figure and glowing tan in bubblegum-hued workout gear
          She's well-heeled: BGT star Lettice Rowbotham whips off her shoes as she heads to BBC studios
          Russell Brand DEFENDS Justin Bieber for making vile racial slurs at the age of 14... claiming he should be 'let off' because it was 'ages ago'
          Whatever the leather: New mum Caprice shows off her post-pregnancy figure in skin-tight leather skirt and top
          Welcome to the strip: Danielle Lloyd and husband Jamie O'Hara jet into Vegas for a holiday with friends
          Not a bad consolation prize! Michael Carrick puts World Cup woes behind him as he and wife Lisa strip to their swimwear to top up their tans in Ibiza
          Graham Norton saves Amanda Holden from revealing more than she intended while doing a handstand in LBD
          It's a very Vogue birthday: Model Bambi Norwood-Blyth celebrates by shooting for fashion magazine with designer husband Dan Single
          J-Wow! Jennifer Lopez doesn't leave much to the imagination as she strips down to sexy latex stockings and suspenders to play first-ever hometown gig
          J.Lo revisits the Bronx and THAT Versace dress for homecoming show... after transsexual bikini model linked to Casper Smart speaks out
          Feeling like a million dollars! Matchmaker Patti Stanger, 53, wears plunging swimsuit as she celebrates her birthday with toyboy fiancé
          Do Ya Thang! Rihanna is sexy in a silky black miniskirt and matching tuxedo jacket as she goes for dinner in Paris
          Here comes the bride! Adam Levine to marry model Behati Prinsloo in 'intimate Mexican ceremony' on July 19
          Politics is the new black: AnnaLynne McCord votes for her spiritual guru as congressional candidate... but she comes in fourth
          She can't resist her man in uniform! Suki Waterhouse gets to grips with Bradley Cooper on set of American Sniper
          Million dollar smile! Victoria Justice beams in an unusual wrap dress at the Spent: Looking For Change premiere
          Strong after 22 years! Woody Allen strolls through Central Park with Soon-Yi Previn... as he prepares to shoot Emma Stone movie in Rhode Island
          Mama June doesn't let her 'forklift foot' get in the way of a family pool day as she goes swimming in socks
          Ramona Singer holds hands with husband Mario on romantic movie date... after firing off legal warning to his mistress over 'lewd messages'
          'Millie Mackintosh and Abbey Clancy already have their eyes on a few pieces': Julien Macdonald unveils glamorous beachwear range for Matalan
          She's stopping traffic: Elsa Pataky wears striking lime green reptilian dress to take over the streets of Madrid for fashion shoot
          Ivana Trump sells her Palm Beach mansion for $18 million - more than FOUR TIMES what she paid for it in 1994
          Table for three! Pregnant Julia Carey displays subtle baby bump as she steps out for dinner with James Corden at Chiltern Firehouse
          Beyonce shows off her amazing legs in pink mini dress as she has a date night with Jay Z in New York
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney set to reveal sex secrets in Big Brother house
          Watch your tan-line! Abbey Clancy wows in a daring cut-out panel swimsuit as she holidays in Hawaii with Peter Crouch
          Now that's a game plan! Gisele Bundchen and Tom Brady's sprawling new Boston mansion takes shape
          Your slip is showing! Leggy Chrissy Teigen heats up New York in black lace lingerie and white knit sweater while heading to dinner
          Looking slinky! Casey Batchelor struts in shiny snakeskin leggings and low-cut top as she models her new fashion collection
          She's got it! Eliza Doolittle is a triumph in plunging leather crop-top and sporty silk trousers at The Other Ball
          'There's quite a bit of blood': The 911 call made after The Brady Bunch housekeeper Ann B Davis has fatal fall is released
          Does she EVER stay in? As Princess Beatrice dines at Roka, we bring you the hotspot-hopping royal's guide to London's smartest restaurants
          From Iceland to ice cool: Sexiest Woman of All Time Rachel Stevens swaps supermarket chic for a semi-sheer top and smart tailoring
          Hawaii-five-WHOAH!! Emma Roberts bares her toned tum in daring crop top... while Lupita Nyong'o is a vision in green at the Maui Film Festival opening 
          Is this Jen 2.0? Meet the 2014 Miss Universe Australia finalist who works as Jennifer Hawkins' body double - and she's from her home town!
          'No more marriages': Pregnant Katie Price vows to never wed again after third husband Kieran Hayler cheated on her
          He's leaving Home! Summer Bay's resident  hottie Lincoln Younes swaps surfing for the 1960s as he takes a new role in Love Child
          Supporting her man! Khloe Kardashian opts for cleavage-baring top as she watches French Montana at J-Lo Bronx show
          Kanye West to take 'drastic measures' to beef up daughter North's security as he 'fears for her safety'
          True Blood star Jim Parrack to divorce wife of six years Ciera... as he 'moves on' with Hunger Games actress Leven Rambin
          Hats you win! Racing fan Jodie Kidd smoulders as she strikes a pose in glamorous headgear ahead of the Derby
          He's clearly nutritious! TOWIE's Gemma Collins can barely keep her lips off mystery new boyfriend as she debuts him on health shop trip
          Belle-y of the ball: Miley stands out in crop top and ripped jeans as she leaves hotel after Copenhagen concert
          He still has the big house! OJ Simpson's Florida home sold for $655,000 in foreclosure auction
          'It's given me a chance to give something back': Cambridge medical student wins swimsuit round of the Miss England
          I got fired for being pregnant: Lara Stone says she was axed for modelling job because she was too fat
          Are they dating? Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Meryl Davis reunite for cosy night on the town two weeks after DWTS win
          Mother of three Elsa Pataky, 37, dazzles in black mini skirt as she unveils her new fitness book and her rock hard abs
          Alessandra Ambrosio shows off her toned tum in black crop top and displays perfect pins in thigh-split skirt as she attends event with fiance Jamie Mazur
          Cashmere from Tesco. Undies from Asda. Posh frocks from Sainsbury's: The ultimate guide to summer style at the supermarket!
          Her faiery tale life! Sam Faiers puts her cleavage on display in plunging dress for Alice In Wonderland themed magazine photo shoot
          Cara Santana puts on a brave face as she hits the gym in midriff baring vest after boyfriend Jesse Metcalfe's ex slammed his bedroom prowess
          'She's being tormented and harassed': Kardashians rent store in The Hamptons and landlord gets 'slammed on internet' and 'snide comments' for doing it
          Kendall Jenner continues to take the plunge as she dons low-cut black number while promoting new sci-fi book with Kylie
          Sheer daring! Pregnant Rebecca Ferguson looks radiant in black gown as she shows off her baby bump ahead of performance at Parkinson's event
          Something to get off your chest? Lily Allen's deep pink hair is overshadowed by keyhole black dress featuring centre split at The Other Ball
          It's there in black and white: Jessica Wright wears chic backless jumpsuit... while Diana Vickers thrills in mini at Parkinson's event
          Former Beverly Hills, 90210 star Rebecca Gayheart goes dotty in see- through shirt as she takes adorable daughter Billie Dane out for the day
          That's why the Sexiest Woman Of All Time goes to Iceland! Rachel Stevens is far cry from title as she goes make-up free in frozen food store
          'Some guys prefer blondes, some brunettes - I like old ladies': 'Extreme toyboy', 31, takes 91-year-old girlfriend home to meet his mother
          'I need to step up and own what I did': Bieber apologises after fresh clip of singer 'changing song lyrics to joke about killing a n****** and joining Ku Klux Klan'
          Getting to grips with the wildlife! Ellie Goulding posts cute Instagram snap cuddling a koala while on tour in Australia
          Let the pageant begin! Miss USA 2014 contestants strut their stuff at the preliminary competition in Louisiana
          Demi Lovato steals the spotlight in a statement black and yellow frock as she picks up Fun Fearless Latina Of The Year Award
          Robin Wright and Mel B prove simplicity is best in elegant black ensembles at magazine bash
          Let's bounce! Hugh Jackman is jumping for joy in a mysterious new video that says shows him hopping around the world
          'I invented the international press tour': Tom Cruise makes claim after whirlwind three-country première feat for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Ooh la la! Kirsten Dunst goes topless for Madame Figaro magazine as she reveals she feels more appreciated in France
Thor, god of the lie-in! 'Talking' puppy growls 'no' at his owner as he's told to get out of bed at 3:30am
       Thor the dog from Birmingham, Michigan, is seen in a video peacefully lying in bed before being woken up at 3.30am. But showing that it's not just humans who struggle in the morning, the little pup repeatedly growls what sounds like 'no' as he refuses to get up.
Is that an Old Master painting - or Beyonce’s Master Cleanse? Photographer recreates celebrity diets as still lifes
      Italian Dan Bannino reproduced the diets of Gwyneth Paltrow, Kate Moss, Beyonce Knowles, Simon Cowell, and even King Henry VIII.
Fizzy drinks 'loaded with harmful sugars could increase the risk of developing diabetes, cardiovascular and liver disease'
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say the drinks contain more fructose, which is converted to fat in the liver, than people realise.
       The rhino was part of a relocation programme in the Zululand region of South Africa, which aims to keep the animals safe. The images of its dramatic airlift, which was carried out by KZN Wildlife Game Capture, were taken by photographer Em Gatland, who described witnessing the transfer as surreal and a mixture of emotion.
China may have banned Tiananmen Square memorial but the rest of Asia remembers: From Hong Kong to Taiwan thousands hold vigil on 25th anniversary of Beijing massacre
Dont come back, next time you wont get out alive: Talibans taunt as they released deserter POW Bowe revealed in propaganda video
Pictured: Grinning father of famous model moments after he executed his neighbour and minutes before he 'swallowed the gun' in dramatic standoff with Chinese SAS
Suicidal Chinese mother leaps from third floor balcony after her daughter refused to break up with 'lazy' boyfriend (but miraculously survives)
Hundreds of pro-Russian rebels killed in fierce attack by Ukrainian forces as Obama tells Nato allies 'you'll never be alone'
Thousands of anti-monarchist protesters take to streets of Spain calling for a republic after King Juan Carlos abdicates after 39 years
Woolly jumpers, wide collared jackets and unflattering skirts ... the medal for worst Commonwealth Games uniforms goes to Australia
King Juan Carlos of Spain in shock abdication after 40 years as his son and glamourous ex-newsreader wife take on challenge of leading Spain out of the doldrums
Spain harbours highest number of expat benefit cheats with more than 700 believed to be scamming the system while soaking up the sun
Mother of British backpacker missing in Malaysian jungle for six days arrives in country 'to be here when they find him'
Come here you big BULLy! Chinese wrestlers get to grips with giant calves in man over beast competition
China disgust at woman who beheads cat and posts image online - and then blames 'alcohol and domestic misfortune'
Bodies of five French soldiers from WWI found alongside their wallets, rifles and a figurine of the Virgin Mary in French wood 100 years after they were killed
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of...
Mother in tears after being called a 'slut' by two customers for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
Obama pleads with Scotland to vote 'No' to independence AND for Britain to stay in the European Union
Brother of Sudanese woman facing death penalty for ‘abandoning her Islamic faith’ by marrying a Christian says...
Home of the free! Father paints his house with stars and stripes in protest at local officials who tried to...
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at Seattle Pacific...
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left...
A step too far? New Lifetime reality show to film women giving BIRTH in the wild with no help from doctors
A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video, that proves boys will be boys no...
Emotional moment US marine is reunited with bomb-sniffing dog who kept him safe in Afghanistan after they were separated four years ago without saying goodbye
       U.S. Marine Corps veteran Corporal Jeff DeYoung of Muskegon, Michigan worked with bomb-sniffing black Lab Cena until April 2010. That's when DeYoung went home to Michigan and he's since started a family but never forgot about his best canine friend. Their emotional reunion took place Thursday at the Detroit airport thanks to a non-profit group called Mission K9 Rescue.
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say fasting could be particularly beneficial for people whose immune systems have been damaged by chemotherapy.
Couples that sleep together, stay together: Spouses are more likely to slumber in sync if the wife is satisfied with their marriage
      New study showS that overall synchrony in sleep-wake schedules among couples was higher when the woman was happier in the relationship.
Who left the hand-brake off? Investigation under way after Ryanair plane rolls backwards and crashes into airport building, destroying tail wing
      The force of the impact tore apart the rear stabiliser of the £72m Boeing 737 at Rome Ciampino Airport yesterday.
Malaysian police refuse to rule out foul play in case of missing backpacker Gareth Huntley as his family await autopsy to determine whether shirtless body found in Malaysian jungle pond is him
      Mr Huntley's mother Janet Southwell, who arrived in Malaysia on Monday was pictured this morning outside Tengku Ampuan Afzan Hospital in Kuantan with his girlfriend Kit Natariga.
Shocking moment one-armed Russian motorist starts furious road rage punch-up with car behind... but then ends up getting badly beaten
       A one-armed Russian man (circled, top left) has been filmed starting a road rage fight in Moscow, but quickly has the tables turned on him as he is kicked in the head and has his false arm pulled off (bottom right). Nikita Korolev, 43, and Kiril Stepanov, 45, started punching and kicking the occupants of a car behind them through the open windows after the driver refused to back up, but ended up being beaten themselves.
          Follow Sportsmail's coverage of the French Open, as Andy Murray takes on Rafael Nadal in the semi-finals
          Stuart Pearce insists Everton midfielder Ross Barkley should not be in Brazil this summer at all
          Robin van Persie has declared himself 100 per cent fit for the World Cup as the Dutch squad arrived in Rio
          The Azzurri hit a hiccup ahead of the World Cup when they realised their plane was too small
          Aston Villa have sounded out Rio Ferdinand over a possible move to Villa Park - but the defender is thought to favour Spurs
          Jose Mourinho has admitted Chelsea are interested in signing the former Arsenal captain from Barcelona 
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/loading-indicator._V192185253_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif');
        background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/buttons._V243643239_.gif')
    background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/traffic/s9m/alert-small._V195630253_.gif");
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/donsbeak-sm-up._V197474569_.png) no-repeat 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite-mini.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
The American Night:  The Writings of Jim Morrison, Volume 2 (Lost Writings of Jim Morrison) by Jim Morrison
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/tile-blue-bg._V46870869_.gif)
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tl._V192184760_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tm._V192184721_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tr._V192184429_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bl._V192184824_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bm._V192184603_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-br._V192545463_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tl2._V192545542_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tr2._V192545537_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-bl._V192545543_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-br._V192545543_.gif);
Help us improve our Author Pages by updating your bibliography and submitting a new or current image and biography.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
As the lead singer and lyricist for the Doors, Jim Morrison is one of the most legendary and influential figures in rock & roll history. The disturbing, image-rich poeticism of Morrison's lyrics, perfectly…
