=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Born John Christopher Depp in Owensboro, Kentucky, on June 9, 1963, Johnny Depp was raised in Florida. He dropped out of school at age 15 in the hopes of becoming a rock musician. He fronted a series of garage bands including The Kids, which once opened for Iggy Pop. Depp got into acting after a visit to Los Angeles, California, with his former wife, Lori Anne Allison (Lori A. Depp), who introduced him to actor Nicolas Cage. He made his film debut in A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984). In 1987 he shot to stardom when he replaced Jeff Yagher in the role of undercover cop Tommy Hanson in the popular TV series 21 Jump Street (1987).In 1990, after numerous roles in teen-oriented films, his first of a handful of great collaborations with director Tim Burton came about when Depp played the title role in Edward Scissorhands (1990). Following the film's success, Depp carved a niche for himself as a serious, somewhat dark, idiosyncratic performer, consistently selecting roles that surprised critics and audiences alike. He continued to gain critical acclaim and increasing popularity by appearing in many features before re-joining with Burton in the lead role of Ed Wood (1994). In 1997 he played an undercover FBI agent in the fact-based film Donnie Brasco (1997), opposite Al Pacino; in 1998 he appeared in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998), directed by Terry Gilliam; and then, in 1999, he appeared in the sci-fi/horror film The Astronaut's Wife (1999). The same year he teamed up again with Burton in Sleepy Hollow (1999), brilliantly portraying Ichabod Crane.Depp has played many characters in his career, including another fact-based one, Insp. Fred Abberline in From Hell (2001). He stole the show from screen greats such as Antonio Banderas in the finale to Robert Rodriguez's "mariachi" trilogy, Once Upon a Time in Mexico (2003). In that same year he starred in the marvelous family blockbuster Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003), playing a character that only the likes of Depp could pull off: the charming, conniving and roguish Capt. Jack Sparrow. Now Depp is collaborating again with Burton in a screen adaptation of Roald Dahl's novel, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005).Off-screen, Depp has dated several female celebrities, and has been engaged to Sherilyn Fenn, Jennifer Grey, Winona Ryder and Kate Moss. He was married to Lori Anne Allison in 1983 but they divorced her in 1985. Depp has two children with French singer-actress Vanessa Paradis: Lily-Rose Melody, born in 1999 and Jack, born in 2002.
          Johnny Depp is perhaps one of the most versatile actors of his day and age in Hollywood, who has recuperated his image greatly since his portrayal of Captain Jack Sparrow in the acclaimed Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003), with a supporting cast of Orlando Bloom, Keira Knightley, and Geoffrey Rush.Though highly successful now, Depp's early life, strangely, was as a rebel, and he took to vandalism and narcotics. He dropped out of school when he was 15, and he fronted a series of music-garage bands, including one named The Kids. However, it was when he married Lori Anne Allison (Lori A. Depp) that he took up the job of being a ballpoint-pen salesman to support himself and his wife. A visit to Los Angeles, California, with his wife, however, happened to be a blessing in disguise, when he met up with actor Nicolas Cage, who advised him to turn to acting, which culminated in Depp's film debut in the low-budget horror film, A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984), where he played a teenager who falls prey to dream-stalking demon Freddy Krueger. Three years later, Depp achieved fame as police cop Tom Hanson in the series 21 Jump Street (1987) (1987-90), and in 1990, he was firmly established as a leading Hollywood actor with the Tim Burton movie Edward Scissorhands (1990), where he played a sad-faced, tragic hero who has scissors for hands.From then on, Depp was selective of his choice of roles in movies, and he more often than not played dark, sinister characters on-screen. He played an undercover FBI agent in Donnie Brasco (1997), in which he co-starred with Al Pacino; a druggie in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998); and in two more Tim Burton ventures, Ed Wood (1994) and Sleepy Hollow (1999), with Christina Ricci and Casper Van Dien. He filmed a fifth Tim Burton film, Corpse Bride (2005), as well as being committed for another Tim Burton production, where he plays Willy Wonka in the upcoming Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005), based on the classic children's novel by Roald Dahl.During his career, Depp has, unfortunately, gotten himself under bad public scrutiny. He was accused of selling drugs at his own club, The Viper Room, in regard to the legendary celebrity, River Phoenix, who died outside the club due to drug overdose in 1993. The following year, Depp was arrested for smashing and trashing a New York suite. And, in 1999, he was arrested in London for being in a fight with paparazzi outside a restaurant.Although he gained popularity since the success of Edward Scissorhands (1990), Depp wasn't hugely famous for many years until his portrayal of the suave, charming Captain Jack Sparrow in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003) in 2003. With the film's enormous success, it has opened several doors for his career and even included an Oscar nomination. He appeared as the central character in the Stephen King-based movie, Secret Window (2004); as the kind-hearted novelist James Barrie in the factually-based Finding Neverland (2004), where he co-starred with Kate Winslet; and most recently as Rochester in the British film, The Libertine (2004).
        Frequently plays freakishly eccentric outcasts whose oddities are misunderstood by society, and usually have a flamboyant appearance and mannerism. Examples: Edward Scissorhands (1990), Ed Wood (1994), Don Juan DeMarco (1994), Dead Man (1995), Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998), Sleepy Hollow (1999), Before Night Falls (2000), the "Pirates of the Caribbean" films and Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007).
        Frequently plays British characters: Sleepy Hollow (1999), From Hell (2001), the "Pirates of the Caribbean" films, Dark Shadows (2012), etc.
      Arrested for being in a fight with paparazzis in front of a restaurant in London. [January 1999]
      Has twice recorded with British band Oasis. Most notably, he plays lead slide guitar on the track "Fade In-Out", from the 1997 album Be Here Now. Noel Gallagher, Oasis's lead guitarist, was allegedly too drunk to perform it himself, so celebrity pal Depp stepped in and nailed the lead on one take.
      Arrested for trashing a New York hotel room. Depp claimed that an armadillo was responsible, saying that he had found the animal hidden in a closet and it had gone crazy, wrecking the hotel room before leaping out the window.
      When engaged to Winona Ryder, he had "Winona forever" tattooed on his arm. After the broke up, he had the n and a surgically removed to simply say "Wino forever!"
      Adopted Goldeneye, the one-eyed Andalusian horse who played Gunpowder, Ichabod Crane's steed in Sleepy Hollow (1999), thereby saving him from the glue factory.
      With Chuck E. Weiss, Depp reportedly paid US $350,000 for the Central Nightclub in Los Angeles, California, and turned it into the Viper Room at 8852 Sunset Blvd. Other stars in contention to buy the club in 1993 included Arnold Schwarzenegger and, separately, Frank Stallone.
      Lists British comedy The Fast Show (1994) -- renamed "Brilliant" for American television -- as his favorite television program of all time. He used to take tapes of the series on tour with him to keep him amused. Made a guest appearance in the last-ever sketch in its last-ever episode.
      Wrote the foreword to Mark Salisbury's biography of Tim Burton, "Burton on Burton." He credits Burton's belief in him for rescuing him from being "a loser, an outcast, just another piece of expendable Hollywood meat."
      Johnny's two children with Vanessa Paradis have the same names of the two main characters in Legend (1985): Lily (b. 1999) and Jack (b.2002).
      Gave Noel Gallagher a white guitar with the letter "P" on it, which he regularly plays during Oasis' gigs. "P" is the name of a band that Depp was in.
      Parents: John Christopher Depp and Elizabeth "Betty" Sue Wells. His parents divorced when he was 15.
      He wanted some of his teeth to be gold-capped for Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003) but thought the producers would never agree. He found a dentist and had lots more capped than he wanted. Disney boss Michael Eisner like them but thought there were way too many and told Depp to remove all but a few.
      Resides in France, Los Angeles, and an island he owns in the Bahamas. Divides his time in France between Meudon, a suburb of Paris and a villa in Plan-de-la-Tour, an hour outside of St Tropez in Southern France.
      The building in which Depp's Viper Room is housed was once owned by infamous gangster Bugsy Siegel.
      According to the liner notes for the soundtrack CD of Once Upon a Time in Mexico (2003), he wrote his own theme music, the music for Sands (Track 9 on the CD).
      Shot all of his scenes in nine days for Once Upon a Time in Mexico (2003), but after his filming was done he didn't want to leave. So he suggested to Robert Rodriguez that he play a small part, the priest that Antonio Banderas talks to in the church, and use his Marlon Brando impression.
      Reportedly based his portrayal of "Ichabod Crane" in Sleepy Hollow (1999) on "Withnail" from Withnail & I (1987), as played by Richard E. Grant.
      Has been in seven films in which the title contains the name of the character he plays: Edward Scissorhands (1990), Cry-Baby (1990), What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993), Ed Wood (1994), Don Juan DeMarco (1994), Donnie Brasco (1997) and Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007).
      Received a Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 7018 Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, California on November 19, 1999. Tim Burton and Martin Landau were guest speakers.
      Based the character of Captain Jack Sparrow on rock legend Keith Richards and the Looney Tunes character, Pepe Le Pew.
      Sports his son's nickname, Jack, tattooed on his arm and a beaded bracelet made by his daughter Lily Rose.
      Has something in common with actor Robert Englund, famed for portraying dream-stalking Freddy Krueger in the "Nightmare on Elm Street" movies. Both of them appeared in the first A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984), and both had played characters with blades for hands: Englund as Freddy Krueger, and Depp as the title character in Edward Scissorhands (1990). And, strangely, both of them were born in June, with their birthdays three days apart, and they share the same height, which is 5' 10".
      A movie buff with a somewhat encyclopedic knowledge of older films, he admits he watches few movies anymore, other than the children's films that his "kiddies" prefer. He also enjoys most of them.
      Co-owns a restaurant/club in Paris called Man Ray (named after avant-garde artist Man Ray) with Sean Penn and John Malkovich. The restaurant is located in a renovated theater and serves Tibetan cuisine.
      Premiere Magazine ranked him as #47 on a list of the Greatest Movie Stars of All Time in their Stars in Our Constellation feature (2005).
      When he was cast as "Willy Wonka" in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005), many newspapers published headings about "Depp's Willy" and "Deppy's Willy is a Bit Wonkier".
      Apparently conceived his portrayal of Edward D. Wood Jr. as a cross between Ronald Reagan (the wobbly-headed thing), the Tin Man from The Wizard of Oz (1939), and the voice of Casey Kasem.
      As a teen, he and his punk rock/New Wave band "The Kids" opened for Iggy Pop, Duran Duran, and The B-52's, among others.
      In 2004, Renée Zellweger accepted the Screen Actors Guild Award for "Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role" on his behalf, because he wasn't present at the awards ceremony
      He also played slide for an acoustic recording of Fade Away, recorded in 1995 for the War Child: Help album.
      Had come into professional contact with the great screen villains Vincent Price and Christopher Lee. Price co-starred with Depp in Edward Scissorhands (1990), and Lee co-starred with him in Sleepy Hollow (1999), Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005) and Corpse Bride (2005). Oddly, all of them were Tim Burton films.
      Great admirer of Marlon Brando. He was also good friends with the legendary actor, who described Depp as one of the greatest actors of his generation.
      Although unable to attend, he was awarded the Gary Cooper Spirit of Montana Award at the 2005 HatcH audiovisual festival in Bozeman, Montana. HatcH honored Depp for his outstanding career and his role as a mentor and inspiration to young and aspiring artists.
      Has portrayed a real-life character in ten films: Edward D. Wood Jr. in Ed Wood (1994), Lt. Victor/Bon Bon in Before Night Falls (2000), Hunter S. Thompson in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998), Insp. Fred Abberline in From Hell (2001), Joseph Pistone/Donnie Brasco in Donnie Brasco (1997), George Jung in Blow (2001), J.M. Barrie in Finding Neverland (2004), 'John Wilmot, The Second Earl of Rochester' in The Libertine (2005), Jack Kerouac in American Masters: The Source: The Story of the Beats and the Beat Generation (1999), and John Dillinger in Public Enemies (2009).
      Johnny's family has lived in Kentucky for many generations, and many of his antecedents have lived in the United States, in general, since the 1600s. His ancestry includes English, as well as Irish, Scots-Irish, Scottish, Welsh, French, Dutch, Belgian (Flemish), and German. Also, in 2013, researchers for Ancestry.com established that Johnny has remote African ancestry; they traced his lineage back to Elizabeth Key, a biracial woman, born c. 1630, who was the first woman of African ancestry to successfully sue to emancipate herself from slavery in the North American colonies (she emancipated her son, as well). Johnny has frequently stated that he believes that he has Cherokee, or other recent Native American, ancestry, although this ancestry has never been verified by genealogists. Asked the origin of his last name by James Lipton on Inside the Actors Studio, Depp stated, perhaps jokingly, that his name means "idiot" in German.
      Was listed as a potential nominee on the 2006 Razzie Award nominating ballot. He was suggested in the Worst Actor category for his performance in the film Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005), however, he failed to receive a nomination.
      His ownership of the Viper room ended in 2004 when he signed it over to Amanda Fox, the daughter of his missing partner in the club, Anthony Fox.
      Was voted the Second Greatest Actor (behind Marlon Brando) in British Channel Channel 4's Greatest Actor Poll.
      His performance as Edward Scissorhands in Edward Scissorhands (1990)  is ranked #22 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time (2006).
      His performance as Captain Jack Sparrow in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003) is ranked #79 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time (2006).
      Reportedly based his portrayal of "Ichabod Crane" in Sleepy Hollow (1999) on "Withnail" from Withnail & I (1987), as played by Richard E. Grant.
      Ranked #1 in the "Best Hollywood Signers 2006" list by "Autograph Collector" magazine (May 2006).
      His performance as Captain Jack Sparrow in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003) is ranked #87 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time (2006).
      His performance as Edward Scissorhands in Edward Scissorhands (1990) is ranked #65 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time.
      A rule he has towards fans requesting his autograph and picture is that no photography is allowed of his children.
      Is the second actor to be nominated for the Oscar in the Lead Actor category in a Disney film (Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003)). The first was Richard Farnsworth for The Straight Story (1999).
      Frequently cites Captain Jack Sparrow (Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003)) and Edward Scissorhands (1990) as the favorite characters that he has played.
Oliver Stone seriously considered casting him in Charlie Sheen's role in Platoon (1986), but the studio thought Depp was "too young." Sheen is actually two years younger than Depp!
      Was Andy Wachowski and Lana Wachowski's very first choice for the role of "Neo" in The Matrix (1999). Since Depp wasn't considered a box-office friendly name, Warner Bros. decided on casting Keanu Reeves instead.
      Has been described as the "jester of cinema, the Method clown." His incredibly bizarre on-screen persona brings to mind the off-screen behavior of the late Marlon Brando, who was famously eccentric and quirky once he retired from acting.
      Once painted on a billboard featuring his 21 Jump Street (1987) character because he didn't like his picture or the message the billboard gave. He was stopped by a security guard who actually let him finish what he was doing when he realized it was Johnny's own face.
      As of 2014, has appeared in six films directed by Tim Burton: _Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007)_ (qv,)Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005), Corpse Bride (2005), Sleepy Hollow (1999), Ed Wood (1994), and Edward Scissorhands (1990).
      He was good friends with Hunter S. Thompson until his death. Depp helped to fulfill Thompson's last wish after the writer died. Thompson wanted his remains to be shot out of a 150 foot long canon.
      Has admitted in interviews that one of his favorite pastimes is watching cartoons (especially Dave the Barbarian, of whom he is a big fan) with his children.
      Was considered for the role of Florentino Ariza in Love in the Time of Cholera (2007), but director Mike Newell refused to work with big name Hollywood stars. Javier Bardem got the role instead.
      Originally cast as John Smith in Mr. & Mrs. Smith (2005), but turned it down after being overworked with other movies he was shooting.
      His children have the same names as "Mad" Jack and Lilly the Mermaid from the movie Magic Island (1995).
      Was engaged to Sherilyn Fenn, whom he met on the set of the 1985 short student film "Dummies" directed by Laurie Frank. Their engagement was broken off after three years and a half.
      In 2007, it was reported by Forbes Magazine that his earnings for the year 2006 were estimated to be $92 million.
      Was named Top Money Making Star for the second year in a row in the 76th annual Quigley Publishing Co. poll for year 2007.
      Donated $2 million to the Great Ormond Street Hospital in London. He gave the gift as thanks for the treatment his daughter Lily-Rose received at the facility in March 2007 after contracting an E. Coli infection that caused kidney failure.
      Guest with Jim Jarmusch of Belgrade Film Festival FEST in 1992. With Jarmusch, Emir Kusturica and Serbian rock 'n' roll band Partybreakers (Partibrejkersi) he held a concert.
      Had a nightclub named after him in Tartu, Estonia. The nightclub was called "Who wouldn't like Johnny Depp?".
      Was originally set to play the lead character Jean-Dominique Bauby in Julian Schnabel's movie Le scaphandre et le papillon (2007). However, he dropped from the project due to scheduling conflicts.
      Made a voice message for seventeen-year-old British girl who has been in a coma for five months. Parents of the girl asked him to tape a voice message because he's the favorite actor of their daughter and they will play that message to her every day hoping she'll wake up. Depp was touched by the letter and he said that he'll do whatever he can to help. [March 2008]
      Was originally supposed to play the on screen version of Billy Loomis in the original version of Scream 2 (1997), but was replaced by Luke Wilson.
      He and Vanessa Paradis grow grapes and have wine making facilities in their vineyard in Plan-de-la-Tour north of Saint-Tropez.
      Closed down the "Viper Room" for two weeks after River Phoenix died there and he also closed it on every 31 October until 2004 (when he sold his share of the club), which was the date of Phoenix's death.
      Is a fan of the popular British series Midsomer Murders (1997). He also stated that he would like to make a guest appearance in this long-running show.
      Was originally going to play opposite the English comedian Sally Phillips in The Man Who Killed Don Quixote, which Terry Gilliam was going to direct, but the movie got scrapped.
      Has expressed interest in getting French, British or Australian citizenship when he retires from an active movie career.
      Donated his fee earned for The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus (2009) to the daughter of late Heath Ledger. Jude Law and Colin Farrell did the same thing after Depp gave that idea.
      Was considered for the role of Cal McCaffery in State of Play (2009) after Brad Pitt dropped out. The role went to Russell Crowe instead.
      Was considered one of the top three actors of his generation by Dustin Hoffman, his co-star in Finding Neverland (2004).
      Based his characterization of Edward D. Wood Jr. on a mixture of "the blind optimism of Ronald Reagan, the enthusiasm of "The Tin Man" from The Wizard of Oz (1939) and Casey Kasem".
      Named beaches on his own island in Bahamas after his once-girlfriend Vanessa Paradis, his children and public figures like Hunter S. Thompson and Marlon Brando. There is also a patch of water named "Heath's Place" after Heath Ledger.
      Was considered for the role of Pumpkin/Ringo in Pulp Fiction (1994), but Tim Roth was cast instead.
      Received the prestigious Career Achievement Award at 2009. Bahamas International Film Festival (BIFF). Festival Patron Sean Connery presented Depp with his award.
      Nominated for Grammy award along with Douglas Brinkley in the category of Best Album Notes for Gonzo: The Life and Work of Dr. Hunter S. Thompson Music from the Film.
      At the 2010 People's Choice Awards, he won the award for Favorite Movie Actor of the Decade. Depp was honored by Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007) co-star Sacha Baron Cohen.
      Was present during the filming of then-girlfriend Sherilyn Fenn's movie The Wraith (1986) and was living in the film crew's hotel with Fenn.
      While dining at Chicago's famous Gibsons Bar and Steakhouse with a group of friends, including Public Enemies (2009) co-star Marion Cotillard and director Michael Mann, Depp dropped a mammoth tip in the amount of $4,000 on a bill for $4,400, in effect, leaving an incredible 90% gratuity. The party of 15 were celebrating a red carpet screening of Depp's then latest release Public Enemies (2009). [June 2009]
      Is the only actor to appear in 3 of the 10 films to gross $1 billion with Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest (2006), Alice in Wonderland (2010) and Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides (2011).
      Johnny Depp was interested in playing "Arturo Bandini" in the movie, Ask the Dust (2006), back in 1993 but they couldn't get financing on it. It was later made and released in 2006 with Colin Farrell playing "Arturo".
      Depp was honored with a life-size statue in Serbia (2010). The statue was unveiled to him by his friend, Serbian director Emir Kusturica.
      His performance as Captain Jack Sparrow in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003) was ranked at #79 by Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time.
      Hasn't yet met his fan, actress Tippi Hedren, even though she named one of her house cats after him. He did act with her son-in-law, Antonio Banderas, in Once Upon a Time in Mexico (2003) and had a cameo in the feature film version of 21 Jump Street (2012), which featured her granddaughter, Dakota Johnson, in a supporting role.
      Became a father for the 1st time at age 35 when his [now ex] partner Vanessa Paradis gave birth to their daughter Lily-Rose Melody Depp on May 27, 1999.
      Became a father for the 2nd time at age 38 when his [now ex] partner Vanessa Paradis gave birth to their son John Christopher "Jack" Depp II on April 9, 2002.
      He and his production company, 'Infinitum Nihil Production', are in the process of getting two in-development projects made, The Rum Diary (2011) and Shantaram. Looking to reprise his role as Hunter S. Thompson as his first post-'Pirates' role. [July 2006]
      Currently preparing for the role of Sweeney Todd/Benjamin Barker in the Tim Burton film version of Stephen Sondheim's thrilling masterpiece Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007). Filming begins in early Feb 2007 for a late 2007 release. [January 2007]
      Filming Public Enemies (2009) on location in Columbus, Wisconsin and Crown Point, Indiana. [March 2008]
      Along with Penélope Cruz, he visited Moscow, Russia to promote Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides (2011). [May 2011]
      Los Angeles, CA, USA: Disney pulls the plug on the planned The Lone Ranger (2013) film because of fears it may cost as much as $250 million. [August 2011]
      Beckenham Place Park in Kent, England: Filming Dark Shadows (2012) with Tim Burton. [July 2011]
      Filming Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides (2011) in Greenwich, England. [October 2010]
      Working with the Entertainment Industry Foundation, the Montblanc and the National Arts Initiative to give children more access to the Arts. [November 2004]
      Suffers from near-sightedness since birth, and is nearly blind in his left eye. He claims that the condition cannot be corrected by surgery.
      Depp has said that he wears two silver skull rings to remind him that life is short and every moment needs to be lived to the fullest.
      Is good friends with Marilyn Manson, owns the prosthetic breasts Manson wore on the cover of his 1998 album Mechanical Animals, and also played guitar on Marilyn Manson's 2012 cover of Carly Simon's "You're so vain".
      As of 2014, has appeared in three films that were nominated for the Best Picture Oscar: Platoon (1986), Chocolate (2000) and Finding Neverland (2004). Of those, Platoon won in the category.
      Anything I've done up till 27 May, 1999 was kind of an illusion, existing without living. My daughter, the birth of my daughter, gave me life.
      [on the money he makes] You use your money to buy privacy because during most of your life you aren't allowed to be normal.
      [on Vincent Price] One of the most incredible moments I've ever had was sitting in Vincent's trailer . . . I was showing him this first-edition book I have of the complete works of [Edgar Allan Poe], with really amazing illustrations. Vincent was going nuts over the drawings, and he started talking about The Tomb of Ligeia (1964). Then he closed the book and began to recite it to me in this beautiful voice, filling the room with huge sounds. Such passion! I looked in the book later, and it was verbatim. Word perfect. It was a great moment. I'll never forget that.
      One of the greatest things I've ever seen happen was the morning I opened the newspaper and it said that some very powerful government officials had decided to change the name of "french fries" to "freedoom fries" and "french toast" to "freedom toast". It was impressive. I wanted to write a letter to them just to thank them, just for proving globally that they were absolute imbeciles.
      America is dumb. It's like a dumb puppy that has big teeth that can bite and hurt you, aggressive. My daughter is four, my boy is one. I'd like them to see America as a toy, a broken toy. Investigate it a little, check it out, get this feeling and then get out.
      Taken in context, what I was saying was that, compared to Europe, America is a very young country and we are still growing as a nation. It is a shame that the metaphor I used was taken so radically out of context and slung about irresponsibly by the news media. There was no anti-American sentiment. In fact, it was just the opposite. I am an American. I love my country and have great hopes for it. It is for this reason that I speak candidly and sometimes critically about it. I have benefited greatly from the freedom that exists in my country and for this I am eternally grateful.
      France and the whole of Europe have a great culture and an amazing history. Most important thing, though, is that people there know how to live! In America they've forgotten all about it. I'm afraid that the American culture is a disaster.
      [on his character in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003)] Captain Jack Sparrow is like a cross between Keith Richards and Pepe Le Pew.
      I can remember when I finished Edward Scissorhands (1990), looking in the mirror as the girl was doing my make-up for the last time and thinking -- it was like the 90th or 89th day of shooting -- and I remember looking and going, "Wow, this is it. I'm saying goodbye to this guy, I'm saying goodbye to Edward Scissorhands". You know, it was kind of sad. But in fact, I think they're all still somehow in there.
      With any part you play, there is a certain amount of yourself in it. There has to be, otherwise it's just not acting. It's lying.
      The only gossip I'm interested in is things from the Weekly World News 'Woman's bra bursts, 11 injured.' That kind of thing.
      I'm an old-fashioned guy . . . I want to be an old man with a beer belly sitting on a porch, looking at a lake or something.
      [when asked by James Lipton on Inside the Actors Studio (1994) what attracts him to funny hats] I don't know, maybe I just read too much Dr. Seuss as a kid.
      [asked if he is a romantic] Am I a romantic? I've seen Wuthering Heights (1939) ten times. I'm a romantic.
      [about being dragged behind a carriage in the woods on Sleepy Hollow (1999)] I wasn't afraid of getting hurt. I was just afraid that the horses may relieve themselves on the journey.
      I'm shy, paranoid, whatever word you want to use. I hate fame. I've done everything I can to avoid it.
      When kids hit one year old, it's like hanging out with a miniature drunk. You have to hold onto them. They bump into things. They laugh and cry. They urinate. They vomit.
      This is a rumor-filled society and if people want to sit around and talk about whom I've dated, then I'd say they have a lot of spare time and should consider other topics... or masturbation.
      Sure, I find it touching, honestly, but awards are not as important to me as when I meet a ten-year-old kid who says, "I love Captain Jack Sparrow" . . . that's real magic for me.
      The term "serious actor" is kind of an oxymoron, isn't it? [Like] "Republican party"  "airplane food".
      On a film you start to get closer and closer with the people you're working with, and it becomes like this circus act or this travelling family.
      If you turn on the television and see the horrors that are happening to people in the world right now, I think there's no better time to strive to have some kind of hope through imagination. I think it's a time to close your eyes and try to make a change, or at least hope to make a change, or we're going to explode.
      I suppose nowadays it's all a question of surgery, isn't it? Of course the notion is beautiful, the idea of staying a boy and a child forever, and I think you can. I have known plenty of people who, in their later years, had the energy of children and the kind of curiosity and fascination with things like little children. I think we can keep that, and I think it's important to keep that part of staying young. But I also think it's great fun growing old.
      All the little films I've done that were perceived by Hollywood as these obscure, weird things, I always thought could appeal to a larger audience. I mean, box office is such a mystery to me that I can't . . . you know . . . I have enough trouble doing my own gig.
      [asked why he hides his looks behind strange wigs, fake teeth and girly squeals] I think it's an actor's responsibility to change every time. Not only for himself and the people he's working with, but for the audience. If you just go out and deliver the same dish every time . . . it's meat loaf again . . . you'd get bored. I'd get bored.
      We had been shooting [Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005)] for about a month, and I was beginning to get nervous because there weren't any phone calls. I called my agent and asked, "Has no one called from the studio to complain or say, 'Hey, what's he doing?' or 'Hey, he's freaking us out?' " And when she said, "No", I thought, "Christ, I'm not doing enough! Something's wrong!" Then some of the studio brass came over to the set, and they were sitting in my trailer and I was all decked out as Wonka with the little bangs. And I just had to know. So I said, "Okay, who was the first one, when you started seeing the dailies, that got a little worried?" And there was this beautiful 30-second silence. And [Warner Bros. president] Alan Horn finally said, "Yeah, that was me". I felt better instantly.
      [on Gene Wilder's comment on the remake of Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory (1971)] Hearing about that was disappointing, but I can understand where he's coming from, I guess. The one thing I didn't understand was that apparently he was quoted as saying, "Well, they just did this for money". Well, hey, man, where have you been? When didn't they ever do anything for money? Nobody's ever made a film in the history of cinema where they weren't expecting some return on their dough.
      [on his daughter, Lily-Rose] I see this amazing, beautiful, pure angel-thing wake up in the morning, and nothing can touch that. She is the only reason to wake up in the morning, the only reason to take a breath. Everything else is checkers.
      [on director Tim Burton] He can ask me everything. If he wants me to have sex with an aardvark in one of his next movies, then I will do that.
      [on reactions to his directorial debut] You know what was traumatizing, what was very, very strange in terms of this film I directed a few years back called The Brave (1997). Well, I guess I wouldn't say traumatizing, but I would say weird: at the premiere of the film the reception of it was beyond any expectation that I had. I had no idea I'd be looking at [Bernardo Bertolucci] or [Michelangelo Antonioni] sitting there watching my film. And then to receive the applause that my film got, it was so incredible. And then the next day the majority of the American press just turn it into this horrible thing. Once again, everybody is entitled to their opinion, man. Maybe it's a bad film? Maybe it's a good film? To me it's just a film. It's something I needed to make.
      I started out as a guitarist in the early '80s. I hooked up with a guy who idolized James Dean and he gave me a copy of the Dean biography, "The Mutant King", which I thought was really interesting. While reading the book I watched Rebel Without a Cause (1955), and I thought, "Wow, this guy really has something", and I was hooked. I wasn't really into acting at the time - but James Dean was the catalyst.
      [on being an uncle] My sister Christi had a baby when I was 17, and I had just heard about crib death. The horrible thing was that it wasn't understood. For some unknown reason the baby would stop breathing. So I would sneak into where the baby was sleeping and put my hand in her crib, hold her little finger, and I'd sleep on the floor like that. It was stupid, I'm sure. But I thought the warmth of my hand might help, that maybe if she felt my pulse it would remind her to breathe.
Marlon Brando is maybe the greatest actor of the last two centuries. But his mind is much more important than the acting thing. The way that he looks at things, doesn't judge things, the way that he assesses things. He's as important as, uh... who's important today? Jesus, not many people... Stephen Hawking!
      There's nothing - you know - nothing else like music. Nothing that touches us on that, uh, that deep level. Music can open up so many emotions that we didn't know we had. It's the magical thing about musicals, you know, on the stage or on film or whatever. Love songs. They work so well because music touches us, emotionally, where words alone can't.
      As a teenager I was so insecure. I was the type of guy that never fitted in because he never dared to choose. I was convinced I had absolutely no talent at all. For nothing. And that thought took away all my ambition, too.
      [asked by Rolling Stone if there was a "gay undercurrent" in his character Capt. Jack Sparrow in the "Pirates of the Caribbean' films] Well, there was a great book I read . . . What was it called? "Sodomy and the Pirate Tradition". A very interesting book. I wasn't exactly going for that with the character. And Keith is not flamboyant in his actions. Keith is pretty stealth. But with Jack, it was more that I liked the idea of being ambiguous, of taking this character and making everything a little bit . . . questionable. Because women were thought to be bad luck on ships. And these pirates would go out for years at a time. So, you know, there is a possibility that one thing might lead to another.
      [Marlon Brando] wanted me to escape movies for a while - "Take a year off. Go on. Study Shakespeare". So it's one of the things that keep ricocheting around in my head. He told me that by the time he had got to the point where he felt he could do "Hamlet", it was too late. So he said, "Do it now, do it while you can". And I would like to do it - although it's one of the more frightening ideas I've had. I think as an actor it is good to feel the fear of failing miserably. I think you should take that risk. Fear is a necessary ingredient in everything I do. But if I do "Hamlet" it will probably be in a small theater on a small stage and it will have to be very, very soon because I'm getting a little long in the tooth for it.
      Having kids was a huge change for me. Becoming a father. But I think more than changing, I feel like I've been revealed to myself, I kind of found out who I was. When you meet your child for the first time and you're looking at this angel, you start realizing what an idiot you've been for so many years and how much time you've wasted. As far as being feet-on-the-ground, once again my kids and ['girlfriend Vanessa Paradis] have given me a proper foundation. A sense of home that I never had in my life, a real sense of a place to be.
      I loved playing Edward Scissorhands (1990) because there's nothing cynical, jaded or impure about him. It's almost a letdown to look in the mirror and realize I'm not Edward.
      What I said was, the United States of America is a young country compared to Europe, compared to, you know, other countries. We're young. We're 200 and something years old.
      [on director Tim Burton] What more can I say about him? He is a brother, a friend, my godson's father. He is a unique and brave soul, someone that I would go to the ends of the earth for, and I know, full and well, he would do the same for me.
      (on preparing to sing as Sweeney Todd] It's a bit like jumping into cold water. There's no preparing, you just do it.
      [about Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003)] It was mentioned that they were considering a movie based on the Pirates of the Caribbean ride, and I said I was in. There was no screenplay, no director, nothing. For some unknown reason, I just said I was in.
      [about girlfriend Vanessa Paradis] I pretty much fell in love with Vanessa the moment I set eyes on her. As a person, I was pretty much a lost cause at that time in my life. She turned all that around for me with her incredible tenderness and understanding.
      I love our house in the country. I can walk to the nearby village and have a coffee and no one pays any notice. I'm just another dad with my daughter on my knee. The time I've spent in France with [girlfriend Vanessa Paradis] has solidified my belief that I can keep a major distance from Hollywood and still keep in the game. Acting is my living, but I don't want to live it. Living in France is the first time I can honestly say I feel at home.
      There's a drive in me that won't allow me to do certain things that are easy. I can weigh all the options, but there's always one thing that goes: "Johnny, this is the one." And it's always the most difficult - it's always the one that will cause the most trouble.
      All the amazing people that I've worked with - Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, Dustin Hoffman - have told me consistently: don't compromise. Do your work, and if what you're giving is not what they want, you have to be prepared to walk away.
      [about Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003)] I only wanted to be in a movie that my kids could see.
      I had never experienced that before. And it's been fun to visit Hollywood and talk to studios as a bankable actor for a change.
      I've been around long enough to know that one week, you're on the exclusive list of guys who can open a movie, and then the next week, you're off the list. It's been a fun ride, and I'm enjoying it for all it's worth.
      [about Edward D. Wood Jr.] Like him I also grew up feeling like an obtuse piece of machinery. It was the same feeling I had about Edward Scissorhands."
      (about his mother, Betty Sue) Years and years I watched her wait tables. I'd count her change at the end of the night. She cursed like a sailor, played cards and smoked cigarettes.
      I was a weird kid. I wanted to be Bruce Lee. I wanted to be on a SWAT team. When I was five, I think I wanted to be Daniel Boone.
      My cousins had a gospel group and they came down and played gospel songs, and that was the first time I ever saw an electric guitar. I got obsessed with the electric guitar, so my Mom bought me one from them for $25. I was about twelve years old. Then I locked myself in a room for a year and taught myself how to play, learned off records, and then I started playing in little garage bands. The first group I was ever in was called Flame. Then I was in The Kids. They were the ones who moved to Hollywood.
      [about living in the small town of Miramar as a kid] Miramar was like Endora, the town in What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993). It had two identical grocery stores opposite each other and nothing much ever happened there.
      At first we'd wear T-shirts that said "Flame" on them. At 13 I was wearing plain T-shirts. Then I used to steal my mom's clothing. She had all these crushed velvet shirts with French-cut sleeves. And, like, seersucker bell bottoms. I dreamed of having platforms, but couldn't find any.
      I'd been in high school three years, and I may have just walked in yesterday. I had, like, eight credits. I was in my third year of high school and I didn't want to be there. I was bored out of my mind and I hated it.
      I hung around with bad crowds. We used to break and enter places. We'd break into the school and destroy a room or something. I used to steal things from stores.
      [about one of his old teachers asking for an autograph] I mean, what was I supposed to say? He'd failed me. I remember one time this teacher yelled at me so heavily in front of the entire class. He didn't have any time for me then, and now, all of a sudden, he wants my autograph? They all thought I was going to end up a drug addict, in jail.
      I started smoking at 12, lost my virginity at 13 and did every kind of drug there was by 14. Pretty much any drug you can name, I've done it. I wouldn't say I was bad or malicious, I was just curious. I certainly had my little experiences with drugs. Eventually, you see where that's headed and you get out.
      I played rock'n'roll clubs in Florida. I was underage, but they would let me come in the back door to play, and then I'd have to leave after the first set. That's how I made a living, at about $25 a night. At times we could make $2,100 - we used to make that for the entire group and the road crew, which is a lot.
      My father left and my mother was deeply hurt and sick physically and emotionally. That's a very traumatic thing for a family to go through, so we all pulled together and did the best we could.
      These are the most important people in my life. You know, I would die for these people. If someone were to harm my family or a friend or somebody I love - I would eat them. I might end up in jail for 500 years - but I would eat them.
      I remember carving my initials on my arm and I've scarred myself from time to time since then. In a way your body is a journal and the scars are sort of entries in it.
      I can remember my parents fighting and us kids wondering who was going to go with whom if they got divorced.
      [about his first marriage] I guess I have very traditional kinds of sensibilities about that kind of stuff - you know, a man and a woman sharing their life together and having a baby, whatever - and I think for a while I was trying to right the wrongs of my parents because they split up when I was a kid, so I thought I could do it differently - make things work. I had the right intentions, but the wrong timing - and the wrong person. But I don't regret it; I had fun and I learned a lot.
      You know, I was married, when I was 20. It was a strong bond with someone, but I can't necessarily say I was in love. That's something that comes around once, man, maybe twice if you're lucky. And I don't know that I experienced that, let's say, before I turned 30.
      [about a scene in A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984)] I love this stuff. The kid falls asleep and it's all over, he's sucked right into the bed and spit out as blood. His bloody body rises straight out and then topples over, too. I heard somebody talk about having a dummy shot out of the bed, but I said, "Hey, I want to do this! It'll be fun! Lemme do it!"
      [about A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984)] I was just not what [director Wes Craven] had written for the story. He had written the part of a big, blond, beach jock, football player guy. And I was sort of emaciated, with old hairspray and spiky hair, earrings, a little catacomb dweller. Then five hours later that agent called me and said, "You're an actor".
      [about his career as a salesman] The last couple of times I did it, I just said, "Listen, you don't want this stuff, man".
      [about his job of selling pens over the phone] I was working a day job selling ink pens over the phone and getting maybe $100 a week, but I thought, "What have I got to lose?"
      [about The Kids in Hollywood] It was horrible. There were so many bands it was impossible to make any money. So we all got side jobs. We used to sell ads over the telephone. Telemarketing. We got $100 a week. We had to rip people off. We'd tell them they'd been chosen by so-and-so in their area to receive a grandfather clock. They would order $500 worth of these fucking things and we would send them a cheap grandfather clock. It was horrible.
      I like to think that I'm very considerate of other people's feelings, and I was trained as a small child to always try my best at everything. I think I'm a mixture of romantic and realist. I'm a realist about some stuff, but I also wholeheartedly believe that in a society where people get divorced every five minutes you can still stay married for 50 or 75 years. It's been done and it's beautiful. When I see a couple celebrating their 75th wedding anniversary, I just think that it's totally incredible.
      (About his early relationship) I don't regret any of them. I had a good time. Most of what's been written about me has been completely false. People have created an image that has absolutely nothing to do with me, and they have the power to sell it, to shove it down the throats of people. I'm an old-fashioned guy who wants marriage and kids.
      (About Platoon) I went to read for Oliver Stone, and Oliver scared the shit out of me! I read for him and he said, "OK, I need you for ten weeks in the jungle." It was a great experience.
      I made some shitty movies when I was first starting out, but I'm not embarrassed by them, especially as I didn't think I was going to be an actor - I was just trying to make some money. I was still a musician. When I first started out I was just given the opportunity, and there was no other way to make that kind of money. Apart from crime. I couldn't believe how much they were paying me.
      [on the difficulties of his singing in Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007)] The one [song] that was probably the most challenging was "Johanna [Act II]"... And as far as I was concerned, when Stephen Sondheim writes the note and it has to be held for this many beats, you do it. I don't care if you're from Miramar or Kentucky or you're an ass and you don't sing. It doesn't matter. Don't be a pussy, you fucking hold that note. You can't cheat. You can't whisper. You can't do the William Shatner thing. You just gotta belt it out. So I really beat myself up, making sure I could hold those notes. In "Johanna," some are, like, twelve beats. That was a bugger. At one point, I was very close to passing out-- I got dizzy and saw black. But that's what Sondheim wrote, so that's what you do.
      (About teen magazines) They had come to me in the beginning and said, "We want you to do these interviews and stuff for these magazines," and I said, "What magazines?" And they said, "Sixteen! Teen Beat! Teen Dream! Teen Poop! Teen Piss! Teen Shit!"
      (About Peter DeLuise, friend from 21 Jump Street) If Peter wasn't on the show I would have gone insane or jumped into the river. He's my savior.
      (About his character in 21 Jump Street) Hanson is not someone I'd want to have pizza with. I don't believe in having undercover cops in high school - it's spying. The only thing I have in common with Tom Hanson is that we look alike.
      (About 21 Jump Street) I got a call from my agents, who said, "These people want you to come and read for this TV thing." And I said, "No, no, no, no, no". I didn't want to sign some big contract that would bind me for years. So they hired somebody else to do it, and they fired him after about a month, and then they called me again and said, "Would you please come in and do it?" My agent said, "The average span of a TV series is thirteen episodes, if that. One season." So I said OK.
      When I see someone who just follows their dream and succeeds, and just does basically what they want to do and doesn't have to answer to anyone, obviously not harming anyone, that's great.
      Now it's starting to get to profound [things]. She sat me down the other day, sort of like, "Dad, I need to have a talk with you." You know, she's four. I said, "Alright sweetheart, what do you got?" She said, "I just want to ask you three questions." I said, "Ok, what do you got?" She said, "Is God afraid of dogs?" I thought about it. I said, "No honey, I don't think he is. Probably not." She said, "Ok. Has He seen the dinosaurs?" I said, "Yes, I think he has." And then she said, "Does God have a maid?" And I didn't know how to answer it!
      (About 21 Jump Street) I'm afraid I started navel-gazing. I started thinking like, There are 365 days in a year, but for 275 of those days, I'm saying someone else's words. And they're bad words. And I only get to say my own for 90 days.
      Kids write to me and say they are having these problems or they want to commit suicide or something. It's scary. I have to say, Listen, I'm just an actor, not a professional psychologist. If you need help, you should go and get it.
      I've gotten weird letters, suicide letters, girls threatening to jump if I don't get in touch with them. So you think, This is bullshit, but then you think, What if it's not? Who wants to take that chance? I write them back, tell them to hang in there - if things are that bad they have to get better. But I'm not altogether stable myself, so who am I to give advice?
      It's scary. It's terrifying. People come up to you and start crying. Everybody compares everyone to James Dean these days. If you're lucky they mention Brando or DeNiro. They invite you to put on an instant image.
      (About teen magazines) Those are things that are out of my control. It's very nice to be appreciated, but I'm not really comfortable with it. I've never liked being the centre of attention. It comes with the territory.
      (about his high school) I was around 15 when I left. I went back 2 weeks later, thinking "You know what, this is crazy, I should go back." So I went back, and I talked to the dean of the school, and he said, "Johnny... we don't *want* you to come back." He said, it was really sweet actually, "You have this music thing, I think you should run with it. That's your passion, you should go with it." So I did.
      [on buying a private island] Money doesn't buy you happiness, but it buys you a big enough yacht to sail right up to it.
      I'm not sure I could give up pork. Steak, OK. Maybe hamburgers. But nothing in the world can make me stop eating swine. I mean, I had a great-grandmother, Mimmy, who ate the greasiest food you ever saw and chewed tobacco till the day she died, and she lived to be 102.
      I pray on airplanes. I get instant religion during takeoff, then when we're safely in the air I sit there thinking about the fact that any little thing that goes wrong could send us crashing to the ground.
      (On growing up) We moved like gypsies. From the time I was five until my teens we lived in 30 or 40 different houses. That probably has a lot to do with my transient life now. But it's how I was raised so I thought there was nothing abnormal about it. Wherever the family is, that's home. We lived in apartments, on a farm, in a motel. Then we rented a house, and one night we moved from there to the house next door. I remember carrying my clothes across the yard and thinking, This is weird, but it's an easy move.
      (1996 - On fame) If there's anything I really want, it's privacy. You do get to where your money can help your family, and that's a great thing. You can buy that wristwatch you want, too. But mostly you now have to pay for simplicity. You use your money to buy privacy because during most of your life you aren't allowed to be normal. You're on display, always looked at, which puts you at a disadvantage for the people looking at you know that it's you. They say, "It's you!" But you don't know them. That's bad for an actor because the most important thing you can do is observe people. And now you can't because you're the one being observed.
      (On first seeing himself on-screen) I got sick. I went to see dailies on Nightmare on Elm Street. I was 21, and didn't know what was going on. It was like looking in a huge mirror. It wasn't how I looked that bothered me, though I did look like a geek in that movie. It was seeing myself up there pretending.
      (Joking about Ryan Reynolds taking over the title "Sexiest Man Alive 2010") I feel emasculated.I feel like I've been beaten down like some horrible ... you know, like some pathetic harp seal. But, I mean, that's how it goes, isn't it?I think I can work my way forward, but will I try for it again? No. ... I worked so hard to gain that title.
      [1995] You can never, ever understand fully what a woman's life might be like until you step into her shoes. The same thing goes for transvestites. [Talking about his role in 'Ed Wood (1994)']
      [1995] I think the stuff I do could be accepted by the wide movie going audience if the audience weren't programmed to think in certain ways...but maybe we'd be better off if there were more films around that made you think, made you have to use your own brain to figure things out. That's why people don't read any more. They don't chew their own food. They just want to swallow it, get it fucking down then move on. [When asked if it bugs him that the Studios' sell films as 'What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993)' as "small and "special"]
      [on what he hopes for in his future career] Smooth sailing with no big ups, no big downs. Just full steam ahead. {Maybe a geriatric Jack?] Yeah, I think they could wheel me in. Interestingly enough, with a character like Captain Jack, you just feel you could continue. The possibilities are endless, limitless. There's any possibility of madness and absurdity that could commence. With this character you feel that you're never really done.
      [on a scene involving a flight through the streets of London] It was horrible. It was gruelling. I've done many things in my life under the influence of - life - but I'd never actually thought of straddling two carriages while they're moving and then of jumping on people's heads and then onto another sort of cart. And then the thing catches fire. And this is how daddy brings home the bacon.
      [on performing with Penelope Cruz] Having done the film 'Blow' together 10 or 11 years ago, something like that - the weird thing when we saw each other again was that we felt like we'd wrapped 'Blow' like the week before. It just clicked instantly, so whatever exists in terms of chemistry was just firing instantly on all cylinders. It felt completely right.
      [on Hunter S. Thompson] The beauty with Hunter was that there was a very profound element of trust between us. The one side that sticks out to me about [him] is the side that not a lot of people recognized or had the opportunity to see, which was that he was a southern gentleman.
      [on playing Barnabas in Dark Shadows (1966)] We decided a vampire should look like a vampire. It was our rebellion against vampires who look like underwear models. So, yeah, there was a bit of Nosferatu.
      If you love two people at the same time, choose the second. Because if you really loved the first one, you wouldn't have fallen for the second
      I've always admired actors who can try their hand at anything and, more often than not, succeed at it... people like Daniel Day-Lewis and Gary Oldman are just inspiring to watch.
      [ on playing Tonto in 'The Lone Ranger'] In the history of cinema, the Native Americans have been portrayed as the savage and something less than that. We thought at least we should take a shot at erasing that. We all approached it that way.
      When you add up the amount of dialogue that you say per year and you realize that you've said written words more than you've had a chance to say your own words, you start thinking about that as an insane option for a human being.
      I like that, each time, before I even go in front of the cameras, the studio's reaction will be fear.
      I've always enjoyed hiding behind these characters. I could stand up in front of, it doesn't matter how many people, as a character. But if I had to do it as myself and give a speech, I would be liquid.
      There are those who meet their heroes and go, "Aw, fuck." And I've never had that, luckily. I was never disappointed by the people I've admired.
      I still approach a scene as one would approach a guitar solo. You don't exactly know how you're going to phrase this or that. Which I think is beautiful. That idea of chance.
      I love the idea of changing my look. I think one owes it to the audience, to go out there and give them something different each time, so as not to bore them to death.
      The choices I made when I was in a position where it was do-or-die were made with my heroes in mind. I didn't want to disappoint the people who had busted down doors before.
      [on considering the role of fatherhood] Let's face it: practising for it is fun and it's all wonderful. Man, I'd make a hundred!
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
John Christopher "Johnny" Depp II (born June 9, 1963) is an American actor, film producer, and musician. He has won the Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild award for Best Actor. He rose to prominence on the 1980s television series 21 Jump Street, becoming a teen idol.
Since then, Depp took on challenging roles and "larger-than-life" characters starting with a supporting role in Oliver Stone's Platoon in 1986, then playing the title character in Edward Scissorhands (1990), and later found box office success in Sleepy Hollow (1999), Pirates of the Caribbean (2003–present), Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005), Alice in Wonderland (2010), and Rango (2011). He has collaborated with director and friend Tim Burton in eight films.
Depp has gained worldwide acclaim for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood, Joseph D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco, Hunter S. Thompson in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, George Jung in Blow, Jack Sparrow in Pirates of the Caribbean, J.M. Barrie in Finding Neverland and the Depression Era outlaw John Dillinger in Michael Mann's Public Enemies. Films featuring Depp have grossed over $3.1 billion at the United States box office and over $7.6 billion worldwide.[1] His commercially most successful films have been the Pirates of the Caribbean films which grossed $3 billion, Alice in Wonderland which grossed $1 billion, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory which grossed $474 million and The Tourist which grossed $278 million worldwide.[2][3][4]
Depp has been nominated for major acting awards, including three nominations for Academy Award for Best Actor.[5] Depp won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street and the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role for Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl. He also has garnered a sex symbol status in American cinema, being twice named as the "Sexiest Man Alive" by People magazine in 2003 and 2009.[6] He has been listed in the 2012 Guinness World Records as the highest paid actor, with $75 million.[7]
Depp was born in Owensboro, Kentucky in 1963,[8][9] as the youngest of four children of Betty Sue Palmer (née Wells), a waitress, and John Christopher Depp, a civil engineer.[10][11] Depp moved frequently during his childhood, and he and his siblings lived in more than 20 different locations, settling in Miramar[12] Florida, in 1970. In 1978, when he was 15, Depp's parents divorced.[12][13] His mother married, as her second husband, Robert Palmer (died 2000), whom Depp has called "an inspiration to me".[14]
With the gift of a guitar from his mother when he was 12, Depp began playing in various garage bands.[12] A year after his parents' divorce, Depp dropped out of high school to become a rock musician.[12] He attempted to go back to school two weeks later, but the principal told him to follow his dream of being a musician.[12] He played with The Kids, a band that enjoyed modest local success. The Kids set out together for Los Angeles in pursuit of a record deal, changing their name to Six Gun Method, but the group split up before signing a record deal. Depp subsequently collaborated with the band Rock City Angels[15] and co-wrote their song "Mary", which appeared on Rock City Angels' debut for Geffen Records titled Young Man's Blues.[16]
On December 24, 1983, Depp married Lori Anne Allison, the sister of his band's bass player and singer. During Depp's marriage, his wife worked as a makeup artist, while he worked a variety of odd jobs, including a telemarketer for pens. His wife introduced him to actor Nicolas Cage, who advised Depp to pursue an acting career.[12] Depp and his wife divorced in 1985. Both Depp and his subsequent fiancé Sherilyn Fenn auditioned for the 1986 film Thrashin' and they were both cast, with Depp being chosen by the film's director to star as the lead, which would have been Depp's second major role. Depp was later turned down by the film's producer, who rejected the director's decision.[17][18]
Depp starred in a lead role on the Fox television series, 21 Jump Street, which premiered in 1987.[12] Depp accepted this role to work with actor Frederic Forrest, who inspired him. Depp's long-time friend Sal Jenco joined the cast as a semi-co-star as the janitor named Blowfish. The series' success turned Depp into a popular teen idol during the late 1980s.[12] Despite this success, Depp felt "forced into the role of product."[19] Depp subsequently decided to appear only in films that he felt were right for him.[19] Depp and his co-stars, Peter DeLuise and Holly Robinson, briefly reprised their roles in cameo appearances in the series' 2012 feature film adaptation, which featured a much more comedic tone than the series.[20]
Depp's first major role was in the 1984 classic horror film A Nightmare on Elm Street, playing the boyfriend of the heroine, Nancy Thompson (played by Heather Langenkamp) and one of Freddy Krueger's victims.[12] Depp was the first choice and was cast to star in the 1986 American skater drama film Thrashin', chosen and cast by the director but ultimately rejected by the film's producer.[17][18] In 1986, he appeared in a secondary role as a Vietnamese-speaking private in Oliver Stone's Platoon. Depp's first release in 1990 was Cry-Baby. Although the film did not achieve high audience numbers upon its initial release, over the years it has gained a cult classic status. Depp's next release that year saw him undertake the quirky title role of the Tim Burton film Edward Scissorhands, which turned out to be critically and commercially successful, thus establishing Depp as leading Hollywood actor.[21] The film's success began his long association with Burton. In 1993, Depp continued getting critical and commercial acclaim, his first release that year was Benny & Joon, the film was a sleeper hit. That same he year starred in What's Eating Gilbert Grape, a film about a dysfunctional family alongside Leonardo DiCaprio. Depp's performance in the film was well received, Todd McCarthy of Variety stated "Depp manages to command center screen with a greatly affable, appealing characterization."[22] Depp final release that year was Arizona Dream, a surrealist comedy-drama, the film opened to positive reviews.[21]
In 1994, Depp collaborated with Tim Burton with the comedy-drama biopic Ed Wood, which saw Depp portray Edward D. Wood Jr. who is often regarded as the World's Worst Film Director. The film gained immense critical acclaim, Janet Maslin from The New York Times stated Johnny Depp "proved himself as an established "certified great actor". Depp captures all the can-do optimism that kept Ed Wood going, thanks to an extremely funny ability to look at the silver lining of any cloud."[23] Depp was nominated for Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for his performance. In 1995 Depp starred in three films, his first release was Don Juan DeMarco opposite Marlon Brando. Depp plays a man who believes himself to be Don Juan, the greatest lover in the world. The film was a box-office hit. Next he appeared in the Western Dead Man, the film was shot entirely in black-and-white. The film did poor business and gained mixed critical reviews. Depp then appeared in the financially and critically failure Nick of Time where plays an accountant who is forced into a situation where he is told to kill a politician to save his kidnapped daughter.[21] In 1997, Depp starred alongside with Al Pacino in the crime drama Donnie Brasco directed by Mike Newell. Depp portrayed Joseph D. Pistone, an undercover FBI Agent and takes up the pseudo name 'Donnie Brasco' in order to infiltrate the Mob. In order to research his role more thoroughly Depp spent time hanging out with the real-life Joe Pistone. The film opened to immense financial and critical success, and is considered one of Depp's finest performance.[21]
Depp, a fan and long-time friend of writer Hunter S. Thompson, played a version of Thompson (named Raoul Duke) in 1998's Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, based on the writer's pseudobiographical novel of the same name. Depp accompanied Thompson as his road manager on one of the author's last book tours.[24] In 2006, Depp contributed a foreword to Gonzo: Photographs by Hunter S. Thompson, a posthumous biography published by ammobooks.com. In 2008, he narrated the documentary film Gonzo: The Life and Work of Dr. Hunter S. Thompson. Depp paid for most of Thompson's memorial event, complete with fireworks and the shooting of Thompson's ashes by a cannon, in Aspen, Colorado, where Thompson lived.[25] He returned to Thompson's work with a film adaptation of the novel The Rum Diary, released in 2011.[26]
Critics have described Depp's roles as characters who are "iconic loners."[27] Depp has noted this period of his career was full of "studio defined failures" and films that were "box office poison,"[28] but he thought the studios never understood the films and did not do a good job of marketing.[27] Depp has chosen roles which he found interesting, rather than those he thought would succeed at the box office.[27]
Depp wearing a mustache and goatee similar to the style used in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl
The 2003 Walt Disney Pictures film Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl was a major success,[27] in which Depp's performance as the suave but shambling pirate Captain Jack Sparrow was highly praised. Studio bosses were more ambivalent at first,[29] but the character became popular with the movie-going public.[27] According to a survey taken by Fandango, Depp was a major draw for audiences.[30] The film's director, Gore Verbinski, has said that Depp's character closely resembles the actor's personality, but Depp said he modeled the character after The Rolling Stones guitarist Keith Richards.[31] Depp was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor for the role.[32]
In 2004, he was again nominated for the Best Actor Academy Award for his performance as Scottish author J. M. Barrie in the film Finding Neverland. Depp next starred as Willy Wonka in the 2005 film Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, a major success at the box office and earning him a nomination for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Musical or Comedy.[31][33]
Depp reprised the role of Jack Sparrow in the Pirates of the Caribbean sequels Dead Man's Chest (2006), At World's End (2007), and On Stranger Tides (2011), which were each also major box office successes.[34] Depp has said that Sparrow is "definitely a big part of me,"[35] and he even voiced the character in the video game Pirates of the Caribbean: The Legend of Jack Sparrow.[36] His swashbuckling sword talents, as developed for the character of Sparrow, were highlighted in the documentary film Reclaiming the Blade. Within the film, swordmaster Bob Anderson shared his experiences working with Depp on the choreography for The Curse of the Black Pearl. Anderson described Depp's ability as an actor to pick up the sword to be "about as good as you can get."[37]
Depp and Gore Verbinski were executive producers of the album Rogues Gallery, Pirate Ballads, Sea Songs and Chanteys. Depp played the title role of Sweeney Todd in Tim Burton's film adaptation of the musical, for which he won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy. Depp thanked the Hollywood Foreign Press Association and praised Tim Burton for his "unwavering trust and support."[38]
Depp played the former Heath Ledger character in the 2009 film The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus along with Jude Law and Colin Farrell. All three actors gave their salaries from the film to Ledger's daughter, Matilda.[39] He portrayed the Mad Hatter in Burton's Alice in Wonderland,[40] and the protagonist of Rango.[41]
In 2007, Depp accepted Warner Bros.' proposal to make a film of the gothic soap opera Dark Shadows, a series that aired on ABC from 1966 to 1971. He had been a fan as a child. Depp and Graham King produced the movie with David Kennedy, who ran Dan Curtis Productions inc. until Curtis died in 2006.[42] Depp starred as Tonto in 2013's The Lone Ranger, opposite Armie Hammer as the title character.[43]
Depp will film a documentary about Keith Richards. Depp will star in and produce an adaptation of the comic book Rex Mundi.[44][dead link][45] Depp will collaborate with Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides director Rob Marshall again to create a remake of The Thin Man.[46] Depp plans to star as Carl Kolchak in the project Night Stalker,[47] and has bought rights to the comic book The Vault.[48] Depp will star in the film adaptation of the musical, Into the Woods.[49][50][51] His role in the film was originally uncertain because Variety reported that he would play the Baker while The Hollywood Reporter said he would portray the Wolf.[49][50] On May 10, 2013, a casting notice released by Disney confirmed that Depp will play the Wolf.[52] The film began shooting in September 2013[53] and will be released on Christmas Day 2014.[54] He will also make a cameo appearance in London Fields.[55] Depp will reprise the role of the Mad Hatter in the sequel to Alice in Wonderland, which is scheduled for a May 2016 release.[56][57]
Depp stated in a BBC radio interview on July 29, 2013 that he hopes to be involved with "quieter things" at some point in the near future, implying that he will retire from acting. Depp explained in further detail during the interview: "I wouldn't say I'm dropping out any second, but I would say it's probably not too far away. When you add up the amount of dialogue that you say per year and you realise that you've said written words more than you've had a chance to say your own words, you start thinking about that as an insane option for a human being."[58]
Depp has signed on to play convicted Boston crime boss Whitey Bulger in director Scott Cooper's Black Mass.[59]
Depp has collaborated with director and close friend Tim Burton in films, beginning with Edward Scissorhands (1990), opposite Winona Ryder and Vincent Price. His next role with Burton was in the 1994 film Ed Wood.[12] Depp later said that "within 10 minutes of hearing about the project, I was committed."[60] At the time, the actor was depressed about films and filmmaking. This part gave him a "chance to stretch out and have some fun"; he said working with Martin Landau "rejuvenated my love for acting".[60] Producer Scott Rudin once said "Basically Johnny Depp is playing Tim Burton in all his movies,"[61] although Burton personally disapproved of the comment. Depp, however, agrees with Rudin's statement. According to Depp, Edward Scissorhands represented Burton's inability to communicate as a teenager. Ed Wood reflected Burton's relationship with Vincent Price (very similar to Edward D. Wood, Jr. and Bela Lugosi).[62]
Depp's next venture with Burton was the role of Ichabod Crane in Sleepy Hollow (1999), opposite Christina Ricci. Sleepy Hollow reflected Burton's battle with the Hollywood studio system.[63] For his performance, Depp took inspiration from Angela Lansbury, Roddy McDowall and Basil Rathbone.[61] Depp stated, "I always thought of Ichabod as a very delicate, fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side, like a frightened little girl."[64]
Depp did not work with Burton again until 2005 in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, in which he played Willy Wonka. The film was a box office success and received positive critical reception.[65][66] Gene Wilder, who played Willy Wonka in the 1971 film, initially criticized this version.[67] Charlie and the Chocolate Factory was released in July, followed by Corpse Bride, for which Depp voiced the character Victor Van Dort, in September.[68]
Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007) followed, bringing Depp his second major award win, the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy as well as his third nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actor. Burton first gave him an original cast recording of the 1979 stage musical in 2000. Although not a fan of the musical genre, Depp grew to like the tale's treatment. He cited Peter Lorre in Mad Love (1935) as his main influence for the role, and practiced the songs his character would perform while filming Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End.[69] Although he had performed in musical groups, Depp was initially unsure that he would be able to sustain Stephen Sondheim's lyrics. Depp recorded demos and worked with Bruce Witkin to shape his vocals without a qualified voice coach. In the DVD Reviews section, Entertainment Weekly's Chris Nashawaty gave the film an A minus, stating, "Depp's soaring voice makes you wonder what other tricks he's been hiding... Watching Depp's barber wield his razors... it's hard not to be reminded of Edward Scissorhands frantically shaping hedges into animal topiaries 18 years ago... and all of the twisted beauty we would've missed out on had [Burton and Depp] never met."[70] In his introduction to Burton on Burton, a book of interviews with the director, Depp called Burton "...a brother, a friend,...and [a] brave soul".[71] The next Depp-Burton collaboration was Alice in Wonderland (2010). Depp played the Mad Hatter alongside Helena Bonham Carter, Anne Hathaway and Alan Rickman. In 2012, he starred in the Burton-directed Dark Shadows, a film based on the 1966–1971 gothic soap opera of the same name, alongside fellow Tim Burton regular Helena Bonham Carter, as well as Michelle Pfeiffer and Eva Green.[72]
In 2004, Depp formed his production company Infinitum Nihil to develop projects where he will serve as actor and/or producer. Depp is the founder and CEO, while his sister, Christi Dembrowski, serves as president.[73] The company's first production came in 2011 with The Rum Diary, adapted from the novel of the same name by Hunter S. Thompson. The film is written and directed by Bruce Robinson. Also in 2011, Hugo, directed by Martin Scorsese, was released.[74] Dark Shadows, directed by Tim Burton, was released in 2012.[75]
As a guitar player, Depp has played slide guitar on the Oasis song "Fade In-Out" (from Be Here Now, 1997), as well as on "Fade Away (Warchild Version)" (b-side of the "Don't Go Away" single). He also played acoustic guitar in the movie Chocolat and on the soundtrack to Once Upon a Time in Mexico. He is a friend of The Pogues' Shane MacGowan, and performed on MacGowan's first solo album. He was also a member of P, a group featuring Butthole Surfers singer Gibby Haynes, Red Hot Chili Peppers bassist Flea and Sex Pistols guitarist Steve Jones. He has appeared in Tom Petty & The Heartbreakers' music video "Into the Great Wide Open" and The Lemonheads "It's a Shame About Ray" music video. He made a cameo as the Mad Hatter in the music video for Avril Lavigne's "Alice" in 2010. He performed lead guitar and drums for a cover of Carly Simon's "You're So Vain", which appeared as a bonus track on some editions of Marilyn Manson's 2012 album Born Villain.,[76][77] also performing live with Marilyn Manson in the Revolver Golden Gods Awards 2012, performing various songs of Marilyn Manson.[78] He also appeared in the music video of "My Valentine" from the album Kisses on the Bottom by Paul McCartney released in February 2012, along with Natalie Portman.[79]
Depp traded licks with Joe Perry on "The Brooklyn Shuffle," a song from Steve Hunter and "The Manhattan Blues Project," which was scheduled for release on April 30, 2013.[80]
Depp and Paradis grew grapes and had wine making facilities in their vineyard in Plan-de-la-Tour north of Saint-Tropez.[81] Along with Sean Penn, John Malkovich and Mick Hucknall, Depp co-owned the French restaurant-bar Man Ray, located near the Champs-Élysées.[82]
In July 2012, Depp announced he would be co-editor, alongside Douglas Brinkley, of folk singer Woody Guthrie's unpublished novel House of Earth.[83] The book was published in 2013.[84]
Depp was married to Lori Anne Allison from 1983 to 1985. He was later successively engaged to actresses Jennifer Grey and Sherilyn Fenn in the late 1980s before proposing in 1990 to his Edward Scissorhands co-star Winona Ryder, for whom he tattooed "WINONA FOREVER" on his right arm.[85] In 1998, following a four-year relationship with British supermodel Kate Moss, Depp began a relationship with Vanessa Paradis, a French actress and singer whom he met while filming The Ninth Gate.[86] After months of media speculation, Depp and Paradis announced their separation in June 2012.[87] Depp has been dating actress and model Amber Heard since 2012 after the pair met on the set of the film The Rum Diary.[88][89][90][91] The couple became engaged on Christmas Eve in 2013.[92][93]
Depp has two children with Paradis: daughter Lily-Rose Melody Depp (born 1999), and son John "Jack" Christopher Depp III (born 2002).[94] In 2007, Depp's daughter recovered from a serious illness, an E. coli infection that began to cause her kidneys to shut down and resulted in an extended hospital stay.[95] To thank Great Ormond Street Hospital, Depp visited the hospital in November 2007, dressed in his Captain Jack Sparrow outfit, and spent four hours reading stories to the children. In 2008 he donated £1 million (about $2 million) to the hospital.[96]
Although Depp has not remarried, he has stated that having children has given him "real foundation, a real strong place to stand in life, in work, in everything."[35] "You can't plan the kind of deep love that results in children. Fatherhood was not a conscious decision. It was part of the wonderful ride I was on. It was destiny. All the math finally worked." Depp acquired a vineyard estate in the Plan-de-la-Tour area in 2007.[97] Several reports indicated Depp bought Burnham Westgate Hall in Norfolk, England, a 13-bedroom Georgian country house, in June 2011.[98][99]
Depp was arrested in 1999 for brawling with paparazzi outside a restaurant while dining in London with Paradis.[100]
In 2012, Depp was sued alongside three security firms by disabled UC Irvine medical professor Robin Eckert, who claimed to have been attacked by his bodyguards at a concert in Los Angeles in 2011. Eckert suffered injuries including a dislocated elbow in the attack, during which she was allegedly hand-cuffed and dragged 40 feet across the floor.[101] She argued in court that as the security guards' direct manager, Depp failed to intervene, even though he did not actively take part in the battery.[102] In October 2012, it was decided that Eckert could seek compensation and punitive damages from Depp, with a trial date set for August 12, 2013.[101]
On October 16, 2011 episode of Larry King Live, when asked by Larry King if he had faith, Depp replied, "Yes. I have faith in my kids. And I have—I have faith, you know, that as long as you keep moving forward, just keep walking forward, things will be all right, I suppose, you know. Faith in terms of religion, I don't—religion is not my specialty, you know."[103]
Depp has around 13 tattoos, many of them signifying important persons or events in his life. They include a Native American in profile and a ribbon reading "Wino Forever" (originally "Winona Forever", altered after his breakup with Winona Ryder) on his right biceps, "Lily-Rose" (his daughter's name) over his heart, "Betty Sue" (his mother's name) on his left biceps, and a sparrow flying over water with the word "Jack" (his son's name; the sparrow is flying towards him rather than away from him as it is in Pirates of the Caribbean) on his right forearm.[104]
Depp at a ceremony for Jerry Bruckheimer to receive a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in June 2013
In 2003, Depp told Germany's Stern magazine, "America is dumb, is something like a dumb puppy that has big teeth—that can bite and hurt you, aggressive."[105] Although he later asserted that the magazine misquoted him and the quotation was taken out of context, Stern stood by its story, as did CNN.com in its coverage of the interview. CNN added his remark that he would like his children "to see America as a toy, a broken toy. Investigate it a little, check it out, get this feeling and then get out."[106] The July 17, 2006 edition of Newsweek reprinted the "dumb puppy" quotation, verbatim, in the context of a Letter to the Magazine. Depp has also disagreed with subsequent media reports that perceived him as a "European wannabe", saying that he likes the anonymity of living in France and his simpler life there.[105]
In 2011, Depp became a U.S. resident again, because France wanted him to become a permanent resident, which he said would require him to pay income tax in both countries.[107]
In a 2002 interview, Depp stated that he believed he has Native American ancestry;[108][dead link] in 2011, he specified, "I guess I have some Native American [in me] somewhere down the line. My great-grandmother was quite a bit of Native American, she grew up Cherokee or maybe Creek Indian. Makes sense in terms of coming from Kentucky, which is rife with Cherokee and Creek."[109] He has also stated that he "apparently" has Native American ancestry, and that "There are so many different things you're told [growing up] in Kentucky" [about his heritage].[110] His Native ancestry came under question when Indian Country Today Media Network stated that Depp has never inquired about his heritage nor does the Cherokee Nation recognize him as a member.[111]
Depp was adopted as an honorary son by LaDonna Harris, a member of the Comanche Nation, on May 22, 2012, making him an honorary member of Harris' family, but not an enrolled member of the Nation.[112] Harris, president of Americans for Indian Opportunity, invited him to join her family after hearing he would be portraying the role of Tonto as a Comanche in the 2013 feature film The Lone Ranger. The ceremony took place at Harris’ home; Comanche Nation Tribal Administrator Johnny Wauqua was in attendance. Depp was presented with gifts by the family, which he then presented to the attendees, as per tradition.[112] In 2013, Indian Country Today Media Network questioned whether "Tonto's Giant Nuts" (credited in the 2003 movie Once Upon a Time in Mexico), the name of Johnny Depp's band, was a wise choice given the actor's role as Tonto.[113] Critical response from the Native community also included satirical portrayals of Depp by leading Native comedians.[114][115][116]
Controversy arose over both the adoption and Depp's portrayal of a Native American character,[112] as Depp was not raised in, nor has confirmable ancestry from, a Native American community, though he has said he 'guesses' he may have some distant Cherokee or Creek ancestry.[109]
Blitz, Michael; Krasniewicz, Louise (2007). Johnny Depp: A Biography. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press. ISBN 978-0-313-34300-1. 
Burton, Tim; Salisbury, Mark (2006). Burton on Burton (Second Revised ed.). London: Faber and Faber. ISBN 978-0-571-22926-0. 
Screen Actors Guild Award – Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role (2001–2020)
Categories: 1963 birthsAmerican people of English descentAmerican people of French descentAmerican people of Huguenot descent20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsMale actors from FloridaMale actors from KentuckyAmerican expatriates in FranceAmerican film directorsAmerican film producersAmerican male film actorsAmerican male television actorsAmerican male voice actorsBest Actor Empire Award winnersBest Musical or Comedy Actor Golden Globe (film) winnersFilm directors from FloridaOutstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role Screen Actors Guild Award winnersPeople from Owensboro, KentuckyLiving peopleHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from January 2013Pages using citations with accessdate and no URLArticles with dead external links from January 2010Articles with dead external links from August 2011Articles with dead external links from March 2014Use mdy dates from March 2014Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesArticles with hCardsArticles with missing filesArticles with dead external links from July 2013Articles with dead external links from May 2014Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
The epitome of cool. A look at 'Edward Scissorhands', 'Chocolat', 'Sleepy Hollow', and those 'Pirates of the Caribbean' films.
Johnny Depp’s full name is John Christopher Depp II, and he was born into a typical American “blue-collar” family in Owensboro, Kentucky, a town that’s sometimes called “the barbecue capital of the world.” His father, John senior, was a city engineer and his mother, Betty Sue, was a waitress. His siblings are Danny, (aka DP, who now works as a scriptwriter), and sisters Debbie, who is now Depp’s personal manager, and Christine.
Depp was always closer to his mother than his father, and perhaps closest of all to his grandfather, whom he nicknamed Pawpaw. He visited his grandfather often and recalls happy times picking tobacco together. As a sensitive seven-year old boy, Depp was utterly devastated when his beloved grandfather died. Further upheaval came when the family relocated to Florida shortly afterwards and he moved away from the only secure home he had ever known. It took John senior quite some time to find work, and the Depp family were forced to live in a succession motel rooms, moving no less than twelve times until their fortunes improved.
Perhaps on account of his troubled family history, Depp was a poor high school student. He took up smoking at the age of 12, and reputedly lost his virginity at 13. He was later suspended for mooning at a gym teacher and then turned to petty theft and vandalism. His salvation arrived, however, in the unlikely shape of his fundamentalist Christian minister uncle. In the course of family get-togethers, Depp got to attend his uncle’s evangelical Sunday services and it was here that he discovered his love of music. His mother promptly gave him a guitar as a present, and Depp locked himself in his bedroom and taught himself how to play. His lifelong love of rock and roll was born, and he was soon well on the road to becoming a skillful garage rocker.
At the age of 16, Depp dropped out of high school so that he could focus on his music full-time. It was the late 1970s and punk rock was at the height of its popularity. He joined a punk band called The Flame, who soon succeeded in securing gigs at a string of Florida nightclubs. The band’s fortunes prospered, and after changing their name to The Kids, they were soon playing support to such big names as Iggy Pop, Talking Heads and The B52s. The band then relocated to Los Angeles in search of a recording contract, where Depp’s future destiny awaited him.
Whilst living on the West Coast, Depp met and married make-up artist Lori Anne Allison. The marriage was short-lived, but proved to be a major turning-point in his career. Depp’s new wife had a hunch that he might have a future in acting, and so she introduced him to her friend Nicholas Cage. Cage was very taken with Depp’s wild young “rocker” image and persuaded him to meet his agent Ilene Feldman - who in turn secured Depp an audition for a movie by Wes Craven that was about to go into production. Rumour has it that Craven cast Depp because his young daughter took a shine to him - and before long, the viewing public had their first glimpse of the future screen idol, in the role of a young hunk being devoured by a killer bed in ‘Nightmare on Elm Street’.
The film was a critical success, but Depp still felt that his future lay in music, rather than the cinema. But he was forced to reconsider when The Kids suddenly split up, and he found himself without a band to play with. After acting in a teen sex comedy, ‘Private Resort’, Johnny decided to take his “second string” of acting more seriously, and enrolled for drama classes with Peggy Feury at The Loft, a Los Angeles acting academy. The classes paid off, and he soon secured his next movie role as Private Lerner in Oliver Stone’s Vietnam movie ‘Platoon’. But his fortunes then ebbed again, as the good parts he’d hoped for failed to materialise. And when an offer finally appeared - that of playing a young police officer in a new TV series, ‘21 Jump Street’, Depp turned it down, as he considered it beneath him. But the producers persisted, so he finally accepted the part, whilst secretly hoping that the series would only run for one season! But the show took off, and Depp - who played Officer Tom Hanson - soon became its favourite character and an overnight teen idol and pin-up. During the show’s run he reputedly received 10,000 fan letters a month. Depp felt trapped and feared his image would be ruined - but then controversial director John Waters offered him a part in his new film, ‘Cry Baby’, along with porn queen Traci Lords, which he accepted with alacrity.
With his image as a screen rebel now restored, Depp was a natural choice for the lead role when maverick director Tim Burton was looking around for a twentysomething actor to play the curious role of Edward Scissorhands, a boy who was both creative and destructive at the same time. Depp instinctively warmed to the challenging role, perhaps because the script resonated with the deep feelings of isolation and unhappiness he had experienced as a teenager growing up in Florida. The film was a massive critical success and established Depp once and for all as a leading Hollywood player. On the personal front, he also enjoyed an off-screen romance with leading lady Winona Ryder, to whom he was engaged for three years. They’d met at the movie premiere of ‘Great Balls of Fire’, and Depp announced that Ryder was “the one”. He even had “Winona Forever” tattooed on his arm (alongside the Betty Sue tattoo he proudly wore in honour of his mother) - later having it surgically modified to “Wino Forever” when he and Winona finally split up in 1993.
Depp’s career went from strength to strength during the 1990s, as he starred in an impressive line-up of successful movies. In ‘What’s Eating Gilbert Grape’ he acted alongside Leonardo DiCaprio, who played his disabled brother. He then starred in ‘Benny and Joon’, where he portrayed the life and work of Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton. But whilst Depp’s reputation as a brilliant actor was growing year by year, his private life was becoming increasingly rocky. He became involved in a volatile on-off relationship with supermodel Kate Moss and rumours of his heavy drinking and drug-taking abounded. Depp’s private reputation hit rock bottom when actor River Phoenix died of a drug overdose outside his night-club, The Viper Room, in Los Angeles. Depp finally split with Kate Moss in 1998, and soon afterwards met French singer and actor Vanessa Paradis: the couple married soon afterwards, and have lived happily together ever since.
Despite the ups and downs of his personal life, Depp’s professional fortunes have gone from strength to strength since the early 1990s, although he has consistently spurned the more predictable Hollywood lead roles in favour of the more quirky, off-beat parts at which he excels. He was widely acclaimed for his portrayal of an undercover cop in ‘Donnie Brasco’, where he played opposite Al Pacino’s mobster character. Interestingly, Depp spent time hanging out with the real-life “Brasco”, Joe Pistone, in order to research his movie role more thoroughly. After the success of Donnie Brasco, Depp got the chance to direct for the first time in ‘The Brave’, a film in which he also starred as a Native American Indian alongside Marlon Brando. Interestingly, Depp also wrote the screenplay, in conjunction with his brother DP, a budding scriptwriter. Since his directorial debut, Depp went on to also direct several music videos for his wife Vanessa.
Depp then played a series of controversial, challenging roles in which he explored the darker side of human nature through the lens of a succession of troubled screen heroes. He played Hunter S. Thompson in Terry Gilliam’s wacky ‘Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas’, a role he also researched by actually living with Thompson himself and going hunting with him! He then played Jack Kerouac in a film called ‘The Source’, followed by the role of a rare book dealer in Roman Polanski’s chiller-thriller, ‘The 9th Gate’. After the sci-fi movie, ‘The Astronaut’s Wife’, Depp was invited to star in a new Tim Burton film, ‘Sleepy Hollow’, where he played the role of Ichabod Crane, a Victorian sleuth on the trail of a headless horseman who is terrorising a small New England town and murdering its inhabitants one by one. Although Depp was criticised by some reviewers for bringing humour to the role, his portrayal of the shy detective was widely recognised as masterful.
Sleepy Hollow was a huge Hollywood success, but Depp then shunned the limelight for a while, and took a role in the art house director Sally Potter’s film, ‘The Man Who Cried’. Before long, however, he was back in the limelight and playing the guitar on screen in the role of Roux in ‘Chocolat’ (2000), which led to his being nominated for an Oscar. Depp apparently modelled the Irish brogue he used for this character on his friend Shane McGowan of The Pogues, with whom he also appeared on Top of The Pops.
After Chocolat, Depp opted for two “outsider”-type roles: first, he played George Jung, an American cocaine baron in ‘Blow’, and then Inspector Frederick Abberline, a policeman with a drug problem on the trail of Jack the Ripper alongside Robbie Coltrane and Heather Graham in ‘From Hell’. From Hell wasn’t a big hit, but when Depp returned to the big screen, it was with ‘Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl’ - which was one of the box office smash hits of 2004. Depp camped it up in the role of Captain Jack Sparrow, and totally stole the show from pirate Captain Barbarossa (Geoffrey Rush) and the two star-crossed lovers, Keira Knightley and Orlando Bloom. Depp is said to have based his portrayal of Captain Jack on the Rolling Stones guitarist Keith Richards, and once again injected an element of unexpected humour into his character acting that helped make the film into an overnight blockbuster.
Following the stupendous success of Pirates of the Caribbean, Depp chose two leading roles in films that appealed widely to younger audiences, perhaps reflecting his own newfound real-life role as a father - his daughter Lily-Rose Melody was born in 1999, followed by the birth of his son Jack in 2002. He played J M Barrie, the author of Peter Pan, in ‘Finding Neverland’, in which the writer befriends a group of children and their dying mother, played by Kate Winslet. Depp’s brilliant acting in Neverland led to a second Oscar nomination. The following year, Depp went on to star in another Tim Burton film, ‘Charlie and the Chocolate Factory’, where he played chocolate factory owner Willy Wonka.
Depp is on record as saying that Captain Jack Sparrow is his favourite part out of all the screen characters he has ever played, and he returned to the screen in the sequel to ‘Pirates of The Caribbean, Dead Man’s Chest’, which was released in 2006. Unusually, the sequel proved to be even more popular than the original movie and became only the 3rd film in history ever to break the $1 billion international box office barrier - the other two being James Cameron’s ‘Titanic’ and Peter Jackson’s ‘Lord of the Rings’.
Following his 1998 role in ‘Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas’, Depp’s love of Hunter S. Thompson led him to accepting the role of narrator in the award-wining documentary ‘Gonzo; the Life and Work of Hunter S. Thompson’, released December 2008. The documentary by Academy Award-winning director Alex Gibney (‘Enron: The Smartest Guys In The Room’ and ‘Taxi To The Dark Side’) had unprecedented access to hundreds of photographs and over 200 hours of audiotapes, home movies and documentary footage which were made available by Hunter S. Thompson’s estate.
Not only did Depp give life to Hunter’s words, the actor also bankrolled Thompson’s spectacular funeral (photographed for this film) in which the good doctor’s ashes were fired from a rocket launcher mounted with a towering two-thumbed fist whose palm held a giant peyote button.
After appearing for a third time as Captain Jack Sparrow in ‘Pirates of the Caribbean: At World’s End’, Depp teamed up once more with his favourite director in ‘Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street’. The 2007 Tim Burton film led to a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor and a National Movie Award for Performance, as well as another Academy Award nomination. A Satellite Award for Best Actor nomination also came his way following 2009’s ‘Public Enemies’, in which he portrayed American gangster and bank robber John Dillinger.
Depp gained further recognition after collaborating once more with Burton in ‘Alice in Wonderland’ (2010), receiving Golden Globe and MTV Movie Award nominations for his adaptation of author Lewis Carroll’s fictional character the Mad Hatter. The computer animated fantasy adventure was a commercial success and grossed over $1 billion worldwide, pushing Depp’s bankability to new heights. The same year also saw Depp star alongside Angelina Jolie in ‘The Tourist’, which received hugely negative reviews, but performed well at the box office.
Depp’s versatility landed him a lead role in the animation ‘Rango’ (2011), while he is due to return to his old seafaring lifestyle in ‘Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides’, for which it is claimed he will earn the highest salary in Hollywood history - $55.5 million.
Despite all of his phenomenal box office success, Depp has yet to be rewarded for his prodigious acting talent by receiving an Oscar. He has, however, won Golden Globe awards for roles in Edward Scissorhands, Ed Wood, Benny and Joon and Finding Neverland among others. Depp himself appears to be totally unconcerned with this lack of tangible acknowledgement from the motion picture industry and simply says: “I never really wanted to be an actor or a director. I was a musician and still am. The other stuff just happened.”Three discs of swashbuckling action - Pirates of the Caribbean TrilogyAye, aye, captain! The ultimate Pirates of the Caribbean DVD box set that delivers three discs of superb family entertainment, with laughs, awe-inspiring set pieces and good, old-fashioned swashbuckling action. The story of a schoolboy misfit turned Hollywood star - Johnny Depp: The Illustrated BiographyThe story of one of Hollywood's biggest stars, whose extraordinary journey has taken him from schoolboy misfit and hedonistic rock-star to a compelling Oscar-nominated actor and devoted family man. Lavishly illustrated, the book includes an up to date look at the triumphs and successes of Johnny Depp, as well as his upbringing and private life.
=======================================================
1970-1979Not Exactly NeverlandDepp's family settles in Miramar, Fla., when Depp is 7, living in a hotel until his father finds work. Prone to self-inflicted knife wounds – his arms still bear the visible scars – Depp starts smoking at 12, loses his virginity at 13, starts doing drugs at 14 and eventually drops out of high school at 16 to join the garage band, The Kids.  1983December 20The Marrying ManMonths after moving to L.A. with his bandmates, Depp, 20, marries makeup artist Lori Allison, 25, in Miami. The relationship lasts two years and leads to one important connection. Through her friend Nicolas Cage, Depp is introduced to the agent who lands him his first film role, as a teen swallowed by his bed in 1984's Nightmare on Elm Street.1986December 19Reporting for DutyDepp gets his first taste of Oscar-quality work with a small role as a Vietnamese-speaking GI in Oliver Stone's Platoon. The film will receive eight Oscar nominations the following year, taking home statues for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Sound and Best Film Editing. 1987April 12Undercover BotherWith the successful premiere of high school cop drama 21 Jump Street, one of the first shows on the new FOX network, Depp becomes a teen heartthrob, receiving 10,000 fan letters a month. Although he signed a six-year contract with the show, not believing it would last a season, Depp begins to rebel against his heartthrob status and by 1990 negotiates his way out in order to pursue movie work. "He didn't make any secret of the fact that he didn't particularly care about being on that show," recalls castmate Holly Robinson to PEOPLE.1989JuneDepp Dates WinonaDepp meets actress Winona Ryder at a film premiere and is immediately smitten. "There's been nothing in my 27 years that's comparable to the feeling I have with Winona," he tells PEOPLE at the time. Five months after their first date, the couple is engaged; three years later they split. Depp, who alters the "Winona Forever" tattoo on his right biceps to read "Wino Forever," seems to have a fiancée fetish: before Ryder, he was also briefly engaged to actresses Sherilyn Fenn and Jennifer Grey.1990December 06Total CutupIn an extreme contrast from his 21 Jump Street persona, Depp takes on the eccentric title role in Edward Scissorhands. It is his first collaboration with director Tim Burton, whom he works with on many other films, including Ed Wood (1994) and Sleepy Hollow (1999).  1993April 16Art Film ConfidentialDepp passes on big-budget roles for films like Benny & Joon, where he plays an eccentric who models himself after silent-movie star Buster Keaton. He'll continue the trend with What's Eating Gilbert Grape (opposite Leonardo DiCaprio) and Ed Wood. "I was so uncomfortable being a product, I swore to myself that I would choose my own path," Depp says on Inside the Actors Studio. "I figured I could always go back to playing guitar or pumping gas or something." October 31Death of a FriendFellow actor and pal River Phoenix collapses outside the Viper Room, the Sunset Strip club Depp co-owns until 2003. An autopsy shows that Phoenix's body had toxic levels of cocaine and heroin, as well as marijuana and Valium. Depp faces accusations that his nightspot is one of the centers of Hollywood's drug trade. "To pinpoint one club or one street is really ridiculous," he tells USA Today. "There's a tragic loss of a very gifted, very sweet, nice young man."  1994FebruaryUp-and-Down RelationshipDepp meets model Kate Moss at the Manhattan bistro Café Tabac, and from the beginning their union is one of tremendous highs and lows. "They can't keep their hands, lips, mouths, legs off each other," a friend says to PEOPLE. The passion often turns the other way as the pair are frequently seen shouting at each other in public. "Instead of hitting women, he just gets angry and lets off steam in other ways," a longtime friend says to PEOPLE.  September 13Charge It to the RoomSuspected of being drunk and fighting with Moss, Depp is arrested on suspicion of criminal mischief after trashing his $1,200-a-night room at New York City's Mark Hotel. Charges are dismissed after Depp pays nearly $10,000 in damages and fees. Ironically, legendary hotel trasher Roger Daltrey of The Who was trying to sleep next door. "On a scale of 1 to 10," Daltrey says to PEOPLE, "I give him a 1. It took him so bloody long. The Who could've done the job in one minute flat."   
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): Classmates Yearbook Archives; Everett Collection; MPTV; Tammie Arroyo/Celebrity Photo; IPOL INC/GLOBE; EVERETT; TONY BARSON/WIREIMAGE; REX USA 
									Amber Heard, fiancée (2013 to present) Vanessa Paradis, ex-girlfriend (1998 to 2012) Kate Moss, ex-girlfriend (1994 to 1998, engaged) Winona Ryder, ex-girlfriend (1989 to 1992, engaged) Lori Anne Allison, ex-wife (1983 to 1985)  
   Jul 22, 2013 TRUE COLORS  The Lone Ranger costars Johnny Depp and Armie Hammer make quite a pair on screen and at the U.K. premiere… See Photo   Jul 17, 2013 SPEAK UP  Costar Johnny Depp and director Gore Verbinski give Armie Hammer a hand (and a mic!) on Wednesday while… See Photo
=======================================================
detailed info about Johnny Depp himself and his movies, the latest news, an article archive, over 75,000 pics including high quality ones, downloads, movie scripts, and of course goodies like avatars, quotes, a link collective, a fanlisting and a Johnny Depp forum. We have everything, a Johnny Depp fan, or admirer, needs. What you'll not find here is false rumours, slanderous material and Paparazzi pics of Johnny and his family.
Johnny Depp came into this world on June 9th, 1963 as John Christopher Depp II. He was born in Owensboro, Kentucky in the United States. Owensboro is a small town in the mid-western U.S. on the southern banks of Ohio. His parents are John Christopher Depp Senior and Betty Sue. His father was a city engineer and his mother was a waitress in small coffee shops. Johnny says that he can remember sitting with his mother after her shifts and helping her count out all her tip change and money from that days work. He has always been very close to his mother and talks with great admiration about her and all her hardwork and persistence in striving to provide for the children as they grew up. He is the youngest of four children, two by an earlier marriage, to whom he has always been very close. His three siblings are 10 year older Danny (also known as DP and a screenwriter today), Debbie and Christie (today Christie Dembrowsky is Johnny’s personal assistant).
Johnny’s earliest childhood memory is catching lighting bugs, “creatures that are both fascinating and beautiful.” Early on, his family began to call him Johnny to differentiate him from his father in the home. He also took on lots of other nicknames from his siblings such as “Johnny Dip” and “Dippity dog.” Johnny and all his siblings have great ethnic features which Johnny says comes from his Irish and German and “god knows what” ancestry, but he is sure of his Indian origins. His great-grandmother (who lived to be 102 years old) was 100 percent Cherookee. Johnny was closest to his grandfather, whom he loving reffered to as “Paw Paw”. While he was still very young, Johnny “remembers picking tobacco in the fields with him and listening to him tell stories.” He has spoken of being nearly inseparable from him and when his grandfather passed away, Johnny was heart broken. Not able to deal totally with the loss, Johnny has said that he dealt with it from a supernatural point of view, as he began to feel his grandfathers presence close to him. He said that this has “continued throughout life especially when he has been in times of crises.”
Soon after his grandfathers passing, at the age of seven, his family moved to Miramar Florida where they spent a long time living in motels until his father found secure work as director of public works . Miramar was a small town and Johnny says that “there were two grocery stores that faced each other and nothing really happened there.” Johnny remembers that they lived in probably twenty houses by the time he was fifteen. He says that whenever he packs a suitcase to go on his many trips “it can trigger old memories of moving.” The move was very hard on Johnny and for a time he felt an era of instability and uncertainity, which brought out his wild side. Johnny admits that he feels he was a “weird kid who wanted to be Daniel Boone to Bruce Lee”. As Johnny began to get older his interests changed to music. His Uncle was a preacher and had a gospel group that preformed in the church. Johnny loved the music and saw a type of preforming as his Uncle stood at the podium and called out to the audience to “come and be saved”. He learned how to capture a crowds attention and was more interested in the effect and role that the mucic played on the people, than the preaching itself. Another influence of music came from his brother Danny, who he shared a room with. His brother was into rock music and opened Johnny up to Van Morrison, Kiss and Bob Dylan. Johnny continued to grow more wild and to escape into his own fantasy world. He was fascinated with recklessness and danger. He played Evil Knievel and the second World War. He dug tunnels in the yard with his friend and had a secret plan to dig an escape tunnel from his room in the house to the backyard.
Because of his outsider treatment at school and his own feelings of not belonging, Johnny began to totally come about as a dreamer and was constantly in trouble during school. He had problems with one particular teacher who decided to single him out and embarress him in front of the class. Johnny finally had enough and before he left the room, dropped his pants and mooned her! Johnny was suspended and from then on labeled a troublemaker. He lived up to the label well as he began to pull stunts with his friends, like soaking a shirt in gasoline and catching it on fire to try and imitate Gene Simmons fire eating stunt. For a split second it backfired and Johnny’s face was caught up in the flames. That night when his mom came home Johnny told her that he was burned by fireworks, so he wouldn”t get into trouble. He started to pull typical pranks like egging cars and school fell away to the back burner.
 Johnny’s cousins played in his Uncles gospel group and Johnny says that he was obsessed with the electric guitar, so his mother bought him one from them for twenty-five dollars and he proceeded to lock himself away in his room for almost a year until he had taught himself to play. His love for music became his new passion and he finally had found a release for his inner aspirations. He started to play with little garage bands and formed his first band which he called Flame. Johnny wasn”t just good at the music, but also all the visual mystic that went along with the rock-n-roll lifestyle. He began to steal clothes from his moms closet and started to “wear her crushed velvet shirts and searsucker bellbottoms.” He as said in an interview that he wished he had platform shoes but “just couldn”t find any.” Johnny’s love for music grew as he says he would listen to anything he could get his hands on, including Peter Frampton to Brahms and Mozart. He used to listen to all the different groups coming through the walls from his brothers bedroom and would soak in anything he could mimic.
Other than music, Johnny’s school life was not going well. He was in the third year of high school but said that he “had about eight credits” and was bored out of his mind. He hated school and hung out with the “bad” crowd. He would even take his guitar to school with him but would constantly skip class and go to the music practice rooms to sit and play his instrument. Johnny admits that his teen-age years were not filled with positive actions. At twelve he was smoking and drinking and breaking into school and destroying “just about anything I could.” All Johnny’s friends were fellow musicians and he began to find his “place in life” with his dreams on rock-n-roll stardom. While he was still only thirteen, his group began to go and play at the local clubs, Johnny would carry a fake ID to try and fool the clubowners and found himself in his first “acting” gig trying to fit into an adult world. He lost his virginity to a girl who hung out with the band. She was a “little older” and according to Johnny was also a virgin. They first slept together in the back of the blue Ford van that belonged to the Flame bassiest. Johnny says that they dated a short time but lost touch afterward. Johnny continued to run wild and says by the age of fourteen he had “tried just about any kind of drug there was”. He began to see himself on a downward spiral that he knew would certainly lead to disaster and he started to see that the other kids who were on this road were heading nowhere fast. He decided that he needed to slow down and showed remarkable maturity in an ability to forsee the future that his behavior would hold for him. Just at the brink of this epifiny, his parents announced their divorce.
Although the divorce was not a total surprise to anyone, Johnny took it hard and straight to the heart. He has stated, “I could remember my parents fighting with us kids in the next room listening.” Johnny took on the responsibility of consoling his mother and making sure that she was in good spirits. He has said that his own hurt and pain were only second to his concern for her well-being. “My mother took it pretty hard and I felt it was my job to take care of her emotionally” Johnny has said.
The biography up to and including “Serious acting” is now under copywrite and trademark by Johnny-Depp.org and Laura Elizabeth Cline, (lizzy4depp). It may not be used without credit on any other work or website.
Thanks to Martina for allowing me to write and her help and support and to Beth for helping with research. Also to Just_Me for writing parts of the old biography here.
“Johnny Depp an illustrated Biography by Nick Johnstone”, “The secret world of Johnny Depp by Nigel Goodall” and “Depp” by Christopher Heard, as well as different interviews seen and read through the years.
Alan Rickman FanBella Heathcote OnlineChloë Moretz FanDepploversHugh Laurie FanInspirationallyInto DeppItalian Fans of DeppJamie Campbell BowerJohnny Depp Web COMLovely Rosamund PikeMia WasikowskaRachel Weisz ParadiseSimply Brad.comTim-Burton.org
	I decided, that different themes will NOT come back, but will offer them all as a Desktop Wallpaper soon and put up one brand new theme.
You want to discuss Johnny and his work? Visit us at Deppheads.com! You speak German? Join the German Johnny Depp Forums!
If you like this site and would like to see it grow, please do so by donating fanart, adding quotes and links, send news in, writing movie reviews, adding articles or movie info pages and spreading the link to JDorg and Deppheads.com in the whole wide world.  
=======================================================
BiographyJohnny Depp (born 9.6.1963)Johnny Depp is an American actor who has played a large number of high profile roles in films such as Pirates of the Caribbean and Edward Scissorhands.Johnny Depp: ChildhoodJohnny Depp was born to Betty Sue Palmer and John Christopher Depp in Owensboro, Kentucky. He has one brother and two sisters, one of whom (Christie) now works as his personal manager. Depp's family moved often throughout his childhood, though they eventually settled in Florida.Johnny Depp started to learn the guitar when he was 12 years old and played in a number of garage bands. He dropped out of school to play in a band named The Kids, who moved to Los Angeles and changed their name to Six Gun Method. Johnny Depp also worked with the band Rock City Angels and co-wrote 'Mary', which appeared on their album Young Man's Blues, released on Geffen Records.Johnny Depp: Acting CareerIn the early 1980s, Depp's wife at the time, Lori Anne Allison, introduced him to Nicolas Cage, who encouraged him to pursue an acting career.In 1987, Johnny Depp landed his first lead TV role in 21 Jump Street. He reportedly took the role because it meant that he would get to work with Frederic Forrest. Depp's friend Sal Jenco was also cast in the series.Johnny Depp first appeared in a feature film in 1984, when he appeared in A Nightmare on Elm Street, playing one of Freddy Kruger's victims. In '86, he appeared in Oliver Stone's Platoon, which also starred Charlie Sheen and Willem Dafoe.In 1990, Depp took the lead role in Edward Scissorhands. The film was directed by Tim Burton, with whom Depp would have a long-standing working relationship. The highly successful film also stars Winona Ryder and features music by Danny Elfman.In 1994, Burton cast him to play the title role in Ed Wood.Johnny Depp is a huge fan and a personal friend of the writer Hunter S Thompson. In 1998, he played the role of Thompson in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, adapted from the writer's autobiographical novel of the same name. When Thompson died, Johnny Depp paid for a large proportion of the funeral proceedings, in which Thompson's ashes were fired from a cannon in Aspen, Colorado.In 1999, Depp starred opposite Christina Ricci in another Burton movie, Sleepy Hollow.In 2003, Johnny Depp starred in the first of the Pirates of the Caribbean trilogy, The Curse of the Black Pearl. He plays the pirate Captain Jack Sparrow, whom he loosely based on Keith Richards (who makes a cameo appearance in the last film of the trilogy). The films also star Bill Nighy, Keira Knightley. He was nominated for the Best Actor Oscar for his role, which became hugely popular among the cinema-going public. The second film, Dead Man's Chest was released in 2006 and the third installment, At World's End was released in 2007.Depp was nominated for another Best Actor Oscar in 2004 for his portrayal of the author JM Barrie in Finding Neverland, which also starred Kate Winslet, Julie Christie and Dustin Hoffman.His next major project was playing Willie Wonka in the 2005 adaptation of the Roald Dahl children's novel Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.Depp returned to working with Tim Burton in 2008, with the release of the musical version of Sweeney Todd: The Demon barber of Fleet Street. The music was scored by Steven Sondheim and the film also starred Helena Bonham-Carter. Depp won the Golden Globe Best Actor award (Musical or Comedy) for his performance in the film.In 2007, Johnny Depp secured a deal with Warner Brothers to make a film version of Dark Shadows, the gothic soap opera that was shown on the ABC network from 1966-71.Along with Colin Farrell and Jude Law, Johnny Depp was chosen to play a transformation of Heath Ledger's character in the Terry Gilliam-directed The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus. Ledger's untimely death half-way through the film led to the re-casting of the character and all three of the actors chosen to take on the role have donated their salaries from the film to Heath Ledger and Michelle Williams' daughter Matilda.Johnny Depp: Personal LifeJohnny Depp was married to Lori Anne Allison for a couple of years in the 1980s. After they divorced, Depp was briefly engaged to Sherilyn Fenn, though they never married. He has also dated Winona Ryder and Kate Moss.Johnny Depp met his long-term partner, Vanessa Paradis whilst working on the film The Ninth Gate. They have two children together, Lily Rose Melody Depp (b.1999) and John Jack Christopher Depp III (b.2002).
Drug kingpin George Jung, whose life inspired Johnny Depp's film Blow, has written a book called Heavy detailing his exploits. The work is touted as a sequel to Blow, which was based on a book...
Christian Slater is set to join James Franco in the 'Adderall Diaries'.The 44-year-old hunk will play a computer programmer, Hans Reiser, who is suspected of killing his ex-wife while Franco, 36, has been cast as...
Joseph Altuzarra won the Womenswear Designer of the Year award at the CFDA Fashion Awards last night (02.06.14).The 30-year-old designer was presented with the prize for his eponymous, self-named brand Altuzarra at the Council of...
Johnny Depp had an extreme makeover for 'Black Mass'.The 50-year-old actor is set to play convicted murderer and organised crime figure Whitey Bulger - who is currently serving two life sentences in an Arizona prison...
The cocaine smuggler Johnny Depp portrayed in the film Blow has been released from jail after serving almost two decades behind bars.George Jung, who was one of the most notorious drug bosses of the 1970s...
Richard Buckley will present Tom Ford with the Geoffrey Beene Lifetime Achievement Award at the CFDA Fashion Awards tonight (02.06.14).The 66-year-old fashion journalist is scheduled to attend the event at the Lincoln Centre in Manhattan,...
Johnny Depp and Amber Heard are obsessed with erotic literature.The 50-year-old actor and his 28-year-old fiancee reportedly have a ''steamy'' relationship and have added spice to their intimate life with vintage sex tomes and photographic...
In-demand moviemaker Edgar Wright hasn't wasted any time finding a new job after departing the Ant-Man film last week (ends23May14) - he is in talks to take charge of Johnny Depp's new Kolchak: The Night...
Amber Heard expects to be typecast.The 28-year-old star - who is dating Johnny Depp - believes women are either treated as sex objects or they play an ugly best friend in movies. She told W...
Amber Heard feels ''normal'' riding her horse.The 'Rum Diary' actress - who is engaged to Johnny Depp loves hanging out with her beloved pet Arrow when things in her life are getting ''crazy'' and says...
Could we soon see Johnny Depp attempt a great escape on screen as legendary illusionist Harry Houdini? Apparently yes, as according to The Hollywood Reporter, Depp is in negotiations with Lionsgate to play the magician...
Johnny Depp is in talks to star as Houdini in a new movie. The 50-year-old actor could be set to take on the role of the famous magician, Harry Houdini, in Lionsgate and Summit's film...
Johnny Depp is in talks to take on another real-life role after showing interest in a new Harry Houdini biopic.Dean Parisot's The Secret Life of Houdini: The Making of America's First Superhero reimagines the master...
Johnny Depp has been warned about Amber Heard's temper.The 28-year-old actress - who is engaged to the heartthrob movie star - has revealed her closest pals often alert her paramours about her fiery side, claiming...
Benedict Cumberbatch will star alongside Johnny Depp in an upcoming film biopic of notorious US gangster and murderer, Whitey Bulger. Guy Pearce had initially landed the role of Billy Bulger, the brother of crime lord...
Benedict Cumberbatch has replaced Guy Pearce in the upcoming Whitey Bulger biopic.The 'Star Trek Into Darkness' actor has been signed up to replace the 'Prometheus' star in the untitled project starring Johnny Depp as convicted...
Sherlock star Benedict Cumberbatch has replaced Australian actor Guy Pearce in Johnny Depp's Whitey Bulger biopic.Pearce was billed to play the Massachusetts gangster's brother Bill in the film, Black Mass, but unexpectedly quit the project...
Jon Favreau’s new film Chef was released last weekend to nearly unanimously positive reviews. Gary Goldstein of the Los Angeles Times raved, “Favreau is flat-out terrific. Warm, dimensional and intuitive, his Carl proves an ideal...
Fashion’s biggest annual event took place last night. The Met Gala 2014 is probably the glitziest event of the year, Oscars included, and gives the celebs the chance to really go to town with their...
"I have two amazing kids, I have a very privileged life, and so if the time came, well, toodle-loo." Johnny Depp feels he has accomplished everything in life.
"I felt it was probably my best performance. I fell asleep on the set - I was supposed to - so they filmed me lying there, snoring and drooling and talking in my sleep." Johnny...
Johnny, Johnny, Johnny. What’s been going on? Don’t get us wrong, we’re big fans and always will be, but something’s gone a little awry of late. Well, for quite a while actually. Depp’s latest film...
Johnny Depp will no longer have to testify in the murder case of Nancy Lekon. Lekon, a limo driver, ran over a woman with her vehicle after claiming that she was in a relationship with...
Even though he's only listed as an executive producer, filmmaker Christopher Nolan's fingerprints are all over the new sci-fi thriller Transcendence, the directing debut of Oscar-winning cinematographer Wally Pfister, who has shot all of Nolan's...
Hollywood actor Johnny Depp will no longer be required to testify at a murder trial after lawyers agreed he was not in a relationship with the accused.The Pirates of the Caribbean star was served with...
Johnny Depp splashed out £125,000 on a limited-edition book for Amber Heard's birthday.The 50-year-old actor forked out on the massive sum on a rare Ernest Hemingway short story collection called 'In Our Time' to mark...
Far too slow-paced to work as a thriller and too shallow to properly challenge us as science fiction, this film is unlikely to please many audience members. That isn't to say that it's unwatchable: it...
Johnny Depp took his fiancee Amber Heard to a low-key destination for her birthday celebration - they visited a book shop.The Pirates of the Caribbean star has been dating Heard since they met on the...
Johnny Depp’s new movie Transcendence has bombed, taking just $11.5 million on opening weekend. The movie, which cost an apparent $150 million to make, is Depp’s second box office bomb in a row. His 2013...
It seems there really is no defeating Captain America, as The Winter Solider has topped the US box office again for the third straight week, what's more the movie has now passed the $200million box...
Johnny Depp discusses 'The Lone Ranger' in which he collaborates again with director Gore Verbinski...
(Some questions in this interview came from other journalists present for the Q&A.)Contractual obligation is...
All you really need to do for the next 10 minutes is relax, grab a coffee, and flick through the gallery.
A documentary focussing on the brotherly relationship between renowned rock star Matt Berninger and his metal head brother Tom.
Johnny, Hi my name is Sue and I wanted to tell you to leave, those women alone and I will show you what Love is. I am looking for the same thing you are. That Love and to be Loved. So before you do this, Lets see if we have a spark,then you can quit looking. I'm just a call away if your interested. Love Sue
Johnny Depp should be named the greatest actor of our time. Is there actually anything he can't do! Although, POTC 1 was great. An absolute breakthrough for him and Orlando Bloom. But POTC 2 was a snooze fest. I cannot beleive it got more stars than POTC 1. I think he is fantastic in all his films. No matter how lame the film is, he always makes me love it. He is the best. He's so good that he is redeemed for smoking!!!
hey everyoneI can't understand you people, went in love with Johnny Depp. I think he is really cute and handsom and everything, but in love?? No, I can't. He lives miles ago, somewhere in France and propable I will never meet him! It feels like I'm in love but it can't be! He's an actor he plays the perfect characters! But maybe he is just a freak in reality (But I don't think that way).I understand that you, all the fans of Johnny Depp, not want to here that you propable never see him en he is surrently not intersted in you (I don't want to hear that eader), but it's the truth! However I can't stop thinkin about him and he's my biggest idol, but I want to see him so badly!!! I'm Nilbal (Not in love but a little) on him!! And If I know him I just wanted to be a close friend of him! Not a girlfriend or something! Because that's sad for his wife ;)All the luck and I hope for all of you that you gonna  see him sometime :)byebye a dutchgirl!!
God bless Johnny and his fellow actors for helping Heath's little girl.  Its wonderful how people come to help others in their time of need.  How Johnny along with others, don't have what we call "a big head" when it comes to their success, and still remember there are others in the world that are less fortunate. This is why I respect alot of you, keep up the wonderful efforts, and God keep you in his heart and keep you all safe.  Hugs to you!
I would like to know if Johnny likes the Somerset Countryside, England as I believe he has a home in the area. I am a Somerset person and think its great that Johnny has chosen a home in this area. We have real pirates in our family both from Cornwall and the Ilfracombe part of Devon so his films were great fun to watch and enjoy--I also loved his recent film  ' Sweeney Todd' it shows his versatality and adaptability--you need to watch this film more than once to get all the benefit as I see a different perspective each time--bye for now  an admirer--sheila
I watch Johnny when he on 21 Jump Street. I started to watch him again when he play on Sleepy Hollow. I have never watch Charlie Chocolate and the Factory of Willy Wonka but when Johnny be on that show I will go see it. I enjoyed watching Johnny I think he is so cute.
I can't believe that I read a recent article on this site that stated that Johnny Depp has said that he will retire at 50, all I can say is Johnny please reconsider, without you cinema will be dull,dull dull. Who have we got? Brad Pitt, pretty face pretty bland, George Clooney, nice looking but boring, Keanu, nice face shame about the acting and lastly Tom Cruise. This guy does nothing for me he is Mr charisma by-pass. I read one article that said he would not take a role because it was not macho enough, a situation that would not happen with Johnny if the role appeals, he does it. In the Libertine he is a 40 year old playing a 30 year old and he looks like a 20 year old, he will be gorgeous when he is 80. Don't do it Johnny, your fans are legion and you are the best thing about Hollywood today.
Johnny Depp is the actor that should be in everything because he can. I can't think of a role in history where he would'nt have succeeded. He's in the same league as all the real greats! He could have possibly played alot of the female leads too. He's truly a beautiful man. And it would be truly sad if that beauty did'nt go right to his soul and spirit. Keep up the great work JD and I can't wait for him to grace Australia with his awesome talent and presence and do a movie down under.
Late Night Renaissance - How This Winter's Changes Are Paying Off For Fallon, Kimmel, Leno And The Networks
 Jonah Hill Awkwardly Watched Wolf Of Wall Street With MotherJennifer Lopez And Casper Smart SplitKelly Osbourne Thanks Date For 'Unforgettable' Lgbt PromGot A Spare $20,000? Then You Could Die In 'Game Of Thrones'Kim Kardashian West Uses Married Name For Autograph Almost 20 Years On, Dave Coulier Is Still Hung Up On Alanis Morissette's "You Oughta Know ""Why Is Hugh Bouncing?": Hugh Jackman Jumps For Joy Ahead Of Tony AwardsJohn Lennon's Doodles Sell For $27k And Other Crazy Music Auction Prices [Pictures]Game Of Thrones Vs. The Sopranos: Is Popularity Indicative Of Quality? "Game Of Thrones" Topples "The Sopranos" As Hbo's Most Watched Show
Evan Rachel Wood's Representative Slams 'Preposterous' LawsuitJennifer Lopez Splits From Boyfriend - ReportFight For Your Right: Beastie Boys Collect $1.7M In Monster Copyright BattleLa Toya Jackson wants 'huge' weddingChris Brown's Celebrity Pals Gather For Post-prison PartyLupita Nyong'o To Reteam With Brad Pitt For New Movie 
Pharrell Williams - Full Show - #AmexUNSTAGED VideoJack White - Lazaretto VideoSharlto Copley - Maleficent Video Interview Sam Riley - Maleficent Video Interview Elle Fanning - Maleficent Video Interview  
Sharlto Copley - Maleficent Video InterviewSam Riley - Maleficent Video InterviewElle Fanning - Maleficent Video InterviewAngelina Jolie - Maleficent Video InterviewBlair Jollands - Interview 
Christopher Hall - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, United Kingdom -Jerry Lewis and Larry King - Jerry Lewis attends the Friars Club celebration ofWanda Sykes and Alex Sykes - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life AchievementSyd Wilder - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life Achievement Award honoring JaneMatthew Davies and Emma Willis - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, 
