=======================================================
Administration AboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor Information Arts, Health & Society AboutProgramsProspective StudentsSummer ResidenciesResearch Database Media & Communication AboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & Scholarships Admission Online ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer Students Students OverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest Documents Faculty Faculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and Positions 
Admission» Application & Deadlines» Tuition & Scholarships» Questions & Answers» Financial Aid» AccreditationStudents» Overview» Student Email» Student News» Event Calendar» Student Directory» Students Gateway» Request DocumentsAlumni» Overview» Alumni Association» Alumni Directory» Alumni News» Event Calendar» Request Transcripts» Giving to EGSFaculty» Faculty Overview» Faculty News» Event Calendar» Video Lectures» Jobs and PositionsMedia» EGS Publications» EGS on Facebook» EGS on YouTube» EGS on Google+» EGS on Flickr» EGS on Twitter» Conferences & Festivals» Library / Encyclopedia» Research DatabaseResources» News» Event Calendar» Information Technology» Health Services» A-Z Index» Sitemap» Contacts
Søren Kierkegaard was born on May 5, 1813 in Copenhagen. He was the youngest child of seven, born to parents of Jutlandish descent. He sometimes called himself a child of old age because his mother was 45 and his father 56 when he was born. Kierkegaard was influenced early in life by the devoutly religious teachings of his father which concentrated on Christ's suffering. In 1830 Kierkegaard went to study theology, philosophy and literature at the University of Copenhagen. In 1834 his mother died, and he began the famous journal that he would keep for 20 years. He had decided that he must know himself before he could know what he would do with his life. In 1837 he moved away from home to work teaching Latin at Borgerdydskolen. In 1838 his father died. In the same year, Kierkegaard published a critique of H.C. Andersen's novel Kun en Spillemand entitled Af en Endnu Levender Papierer. In 1840 he became engaged to Regine Olsen, a woman he had known since he had first moved away from home. He broke the engagement soon thereafter, however, believing that domestic responsibility would hinder him in his philosophical calling. He entered into a life of seclusion, writing and publishing constantly for the next ten years.
In 1840 Kierkegaard completed his doctoral dissertation entitled Om Begrebet Ironi (The Concept of Irony). Kierkegaard's first major book was this dissertation, published in 1841. This, along with many of his other books, was in conflict with Hegelianism, the dominant German philosophy of the time. Contrary to Hegel, Kierkegaard believed in personal immortality, and that human life cannot be rationalized in the way that Hegel's system would understand it. Kierkegaard argued that belief in God is a free act of faith, not a solution to a theoretical problem. Much of Kierkegaard's work expresses a deep interest in religious issues, including Frygt og BÊven: Dialectisk Lyrik (Fear and Trembling) (1843), Kierkegaard Begrebet Angest (The Concept of Dread) (1844), Purity of Heart is to Will One Thing (1847), and Sygdomen Til Døden (The Sickness unto Death) (1849). Most of Kierkegaard's early writings were published under pseudonyms, and the "authors" didn't necessarily always agree with one another. At the beginning of his career he wanted to avoid committing to a single definitive religious or philosophical position.
In 1843 Kierkegaard published Either/Or. In this text he writes of the "aesthetic" and the "ethical" ways of life. The aesthetic life is based in temporally situated sensory pleasures, both intellectual and physical. The ethical life is based on moral codes, the infinite, and the eternal. One may only enter into an ethical way of life once one understands that an aesthetic life leads to angst and eventually despair.
1843 also marked the publication of Fear and Trembling and Repetition. Fear and Trembling is a study of the story of Abraham and Isaac, in which Abraham decides to sacrifice his son in obedience to God's command. Kierkegaard uses the story to work through the conflict between ethics and religion, looking particularly at the religious paradox that ethics may be disregarded if it is God's command. Kierkegaard claims that God may accomplish what we may see as absurd, and that we may recover what is lost to us by having faith in the absurd. Repetition works with a similar theme, working through his relationship with Regine by using the name Constantin Constantius for his own character. Kierkegaard had decided that he was free now that Regine was married to another man, and the book ends with Constantin devoting himself to the his work, the "idea."
In 1846 Kierkegaard published Afsluttende Uvidenskabelig Efterskrift (Concluding Unscientific Postscript), a critique of philosophical system building. The thesis of this work is that subjectivity is truth. He felt that the nature of Christianity was obscured by the Hegelian idea of an objective science of the human spirit. He argues against the way Hegel's system fuses logic with existence, claiming that existence cannot be explained objectively. He formulates that subjectivity is truth by showing that a person's relationship to the objective uncertainty of Christianity is a relationship to the highest truth available to an individual. He sees the condition of faith as an "impassioned interestedness," and does not see faith being possible as a result of objective scholarly deliberation. In 1847 Kierkegaard wrote Works of Love, a piece on love in its various forms, the perfection of Christian love, and the "offense" of Christianity.
In 1848 Kierkegaard had a spiritual crisis. His works after this point began to bluntly attack the church and Christendom's complacency. He hoped to anger his contemporary Christians enough to inspire in them a stronger relationship to their faith. In 1850 he published Indøvelse In Christendom (Practice in Christianity), under the pseudonym Anti-Climacus. He felt this to be his most important book, and saw it as a reintroduction of Christianity. He felt that the removal of the offense of Christianity by the state church of Denmark made light of the message of Christianity. In a similar tone, he published Guds Foranderlighet in 1855 under his own name. He also wrote articles for a journal called The Fatherland criticizing the state Lutheran church for claiming that all people born in Denmark are automatically Christian. These articles are compiled under the title Hvad Christus Dømmer Om Officiel Christendom (Attack Upon "Christendom,"). While he was writing the articles that make up Attack Upon Christendom, Kierkegaard was stricken with a spinal disease. He died within a month of his diagnosis on November 11, 1855.
Kierkegaard's resistance to creating an all-embracing system of thought has resulted in a rich variety of influence on twentieth century philosophy and literature. Jaspers, Heidegger and Sartre were all heavily influenced by his work, and Existentialism owes much to Kierkegaard's thought, drawing on his analysis of freedom and angst. Although he didn't write much overtly political work, Marxists like Marcuse and Lukacs have shown interest in Kierkegaard's writings. He has also influenced theological studies, especially the work of Karl Barth, and he is admired for his literary innovations.
» Giorgio Agamben» Pierre Alferi» Hubertus von Amelunxen» Alisa Andrasek» Alain Badiou» Judith Balso» Jason Barker» Jean Baudrillard» Philippe Beck» Geoffrey Bennington» Robert Bramkamp» Benjamin Bratton» Catherine Breillat» Judith Butler» Eduardo Cadava» Hélène Cixous» Simon Critchley» Diane Davis» Claire Denis» Manthia Diawara» Suzanne Doppelt» Anne Dufourmantelle» Elie During» Atom Egoyan» Bracha Ettinger» Mike Figgis» Alessandro De Francesco» John Frazer» Christopher Fynsk» Heiner Goebbels» Antony Gormley» Peter Greenaway» Boris Groys» Werner Hamacher» Barbara Hammer» Graham Harman» Michael Hardt» Martin Hielscher» Brian Holmes» Mitchell Joachim» Tom Kalin» Friedrich Kittler» Chris Kraus» Manuel De Landa» Katarzyna Lazari-Radek» Neil Leach» Sylvère Lotringer» Geert Lovink» Catherine Malabou» Lev Manovich» Elissa Marder» Clem Marshall » Colum McCann» Achim Menges» Jean-Luc Nancy» François Noudelmann» Mathieu Potte-Bonneville» Peter Price» Stephen & Timothy Quay» Jacques Rancière» Laurence Arthur Rickels» Denise Riley» Avital Ronell» Wolfgang Schirmacher» Volker Schlöndorff» Michael Schmidt» Patrik Schumacher» Peter Singer» DJ Spooky - Paul Miller» Bruce Sterling» Caspar Stracke» Elia Suleiman» Leslie Thornton» Ilija Trojanow» Margarethe von Trotta» Agnès Varda» Paul Virilio» Victor Vitanza» Samuel Weber» Klaus Wyborny» Caveh Zahedi» Siegfried Zielinski» Slavoj Zizek» Thomas Zummer» Alenka Zupancic
AdministrationAboutPresident's OfficeDivisionsCourse CatalogAcademic CalendarAbout Saas-FeeVisitor InformationMedia & CommunicationAboutM.A. in CommunicationM.A. CurriculumPh.D. in CommunicationPh.D. CurriculumSummer ResidenciesTuition & ScholarshipsAdmissionOnline ApplicationQuestions & AnswersAccreditationScholarship/Financial AidAdmission CounselorsTransfer StudentsStudentsOverviewStudent EmailStudent NewsEvent CalendarStudent DirectoryStudents GatewayRequest DocumentsAlumniOverviewAlumni AssociationAlumni DirectoryAlumni NewsEvent CalendarRequest TranscriptsGiving to EGSFacultyFaculty OverviewFaculty NewsEvent CalendarVideo LecturesJobs and PositionsResourcesNewsEvent CalendarInformation TechnologyHealth ServicesA-Z IndexSitemapContactsMediaEGS PublicationsEGS on FacebookEGS on YouTubeEGS on Google+EGS on FlickrEGS on TwitterConferences & FestivalsLibrary / EncyclopediaResearch Database
=======================================================
Søren Aabye Kierkegaard was born in Copenhagen on May 5, 1813. Both of his parents were of Jutlandish descent. His father, Michael Pedersen Kierkegaard, was raised a shepherd boy. He experienced what is now considered to have been an event seminal for both father and son, considering the influence of the former on the latter. Michael experienced great suffering and loneliness while alone on the heath. One day, while still a child, he cursed God for his hardships. Notwithstanding this, his situation much improved when he turned twelve years of age, at which time he was sent to live with his uncle in Copenhagen. Michael succeeded as a businessman, a hosier. He did so well that he was able to retire when he was only forty years old. He lived quite comfortably until the age of eighty-two, and died in 1838.
Kierkegaard's mother, Anne, was Michael Kierkegaard's second wife and gave birth to all of his seven children. Her entrance into the household had been as a servant girl. While Kierkegaard wrote much in his journals about his father, he rarely wrote of his mother. She died in 1834 when Kierkegaard was twenty-one.
An important fragment that Kierkegaard wrote when he was twenty-five is on the so-called "Great Earthquake", when he came to an understanding about his father and the entire family. His father had cursed God due to his hardship and poverty as a shepherd child. Even though shortly later he was rescued from this life and became very prosperous, he felt that the blessings upon his family were an irony, and in fact God's revenge. This despair was inherited by his children, five of whom died prematurely, including his wife. Significantly, this entry is preceded by a quote from King Lear, Act 5 Scene 3.
It was then the great earthquake occurred, the terrible upheaval which suddenly pressed on me a new infallible law for the interpretation of all phenomena. It was then I suspected my father's great age was not a divine blessing but rather a curse; that our family's excellent mental abilities existed only for tearing us apart from one another; I felt the stillness of death spreading over me when I saw in my father an unhappy person who would survive us all, a monumental cross on the grave of all his expectations. A guilt must weigh on the entire family, God's punishment must be upon it; it was meant to disappear, expunged by God's mighty hand, deleted like an unsuccessful attempt, and I only occasionally found some little solace in the thought that upon my father had fallen the heavy duty of reassuring us with the consolation of religion, administering the last sacrament, so that a better world might still stand open for us even if we lost everything in this one, even if that punishment the Jews always called down upon their foes were to fall on us; that all memory of us would be wiped out and no trace found (II A 805).
The influence of Kierkegaard's father on his work has been frequently noted. Not only did Kierkegaard inherit his father's melancholy, his sense of guilt and anxiety, and his pietistic emphasis on the dour aspects of Christian faith, but he also inherited his talents for philosophical argument and creative imagination. In addition Kierkegaard inherited enough of his father's wealth to allow him to pursue his life as a freelance writer. The themes of sacrificial father/son relationships, of inherited sin, of the burden of history, and of the centrality of the "individual, human existence relationship, the old text, well known, handed down from the fathers" (Postscript) are repeated many times in Kierkegaard's oeuvre. The father's sense of guilt was so great (for having cursed God? for having impregnated Kierkegaard's mother out of wedlock?) that he thought God would punish him by taking the lives of all seven of his children before they reached the age of 34 (the age of Jesus Christ at his crucifixion). This was born out for all but two of the children, Søren and his older brother Peter, both of whom were astonished to survive beyond that age. This may explain the sense of urgency that drove Kierkegaard to write so prolifically in the years leading up to his 34th birthday (see The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy).
Søren Kierkegaard was the youngest of the family of seven. When he was born his father was 56 and his mother 45, and he often called himself a child of old age. The patriarchal, self-willed father dominated the home. He was a highly gifted man, self-taught, but well-read, and much occupied with spiritual matters. His religious denomination was the pietistic Herrnhuter 'fraternity'. He had a sombre view of life and brought up his children to a strict form of Christianity, which particularly emphasized the sufferings of Christ. He suffered from periodic attacks of depression, awareness of sin and scrupulosity. He especially doubted the salvation of his soul. There is no doubt that it was from his father that Søren Kierkegaard inherited the deepest layers of his personality, the periodic depressions that weighed him down, as well as the outstanding powers of thought, both the penetrating dialectic intelligence and the passionate imagination.... It was particularly the suffering Christ that the father presented to the child. His son says that from boyhood upwards he was brought up to the view that the truth must suffer and be derided and scorned. He mentions as well the indignation he had felt from childhood because, long before he had experienced it himself, he had learned that the world was ruled by lies, meanness and injustice. "Even as a small child I was told, as solemnly as possible: that everyone spat at Christ (who, indeed, was the truth), that the multitude (those who passed by) spat at him and said: 'Shame on you.' I have kept this deep in my heart. This thought is my life" (Søren Kierkegaard, p. 7f.).
The strain of melancholia over the belief that the family was cursed, and the pietistic influence on his life was in part responsible from the break in the relationship between father and son. The two, however, came to joyful a reconciliation shortly before the father's death in 1838.
In 1840 Kierkegaard became engaged to Regine Olsen (1822-1904), who was then eighteen years old. He had met her years earlier, but she was too young to pursue. She was from a well-to-do family in Copenhagen. It did not take long, however, for him to feel that he had made a grave error. He broke off the engagement the following year after returning her engagement ring. There were at least two reasons for this break. First, he felt that he was unsuitable for Regine due to his severe bouts with melancholia—and he was probably right. Secondly, he believed that he would not live much longer, since his health had always been poor—he had been rejected by the military as unfit—and he felt that a curse lay on his family due to his father having cursed God. This was reinforced by the deaths of his mother and siblings (except for his eldest brother) in rapid succession. Since a broken engagement might tarnish the reputation of a young woman, Kierkegaard tried to make Regine believe that he was a scoundrel, so that all blame would rest upon him alone. This plan failed due to her ability to see through his charade.
After the dissolution of their relationship, Kierkegaard began his writing career. Moreover, late in that year he traveled to Berlin for the first of four trips. These journeys, and a pilgrimage made to his father's birthplace, were his sole venturings outside of his beloved Copenhagen. On April 16, 1843, when Kierkegaard was leaving Vor Frue Church, he saw Regine, who was also leaving. She nodded to him. This was a momentous event for Kierkegaard. He understood this to mean that she had forgiven him, and perhaps had understood why he had left her. Kierkegaard made a journal entry of this event.
At Vespers on Easter Sunday in Frue Kirke (during Mynster's sermon), she nodded to me. I do not know if it was pleadingly or forgivingly, but in any case very affectionately. I had sat down in a place apart, but she discovered it. Would to God that she had not done so. Now a year and a half of suffering and all the enormous pains I took are wasted; she does not believe that I was a deceiver, she has faith in me. What ordeals now lie ahead of her. The next will be that I am a hypocrite. The higher we go, the more dreadful it is. That a man of my inwardness, of my religiousness, could act in such a way. And yet I can no longer live solely for her, cannot expose myself to the contempt of men in order to lose my honor—that I have done. Shall I in sheer madness go ahead and become a villain just to get her to believe it—ah, what help is that. She will still believe that I was not that before (Journals, IV A 97).
But not long after, Kierkegaard learned that she had become engaged to Johan Frederik Schlegel (1817-1896), who had been her instructor. In 1854, a year before Kierkegaard died, they moved to the Danish West Indies where Schlegel became governor.
Kierkegaard considered his authorship to have begun in 1843, though he had already published several articles and his dissertation. From 1843 through 1846 he published works under pseudonyms. These works were grounded in a philosophical schema that formed a unity, even though they were diverse in nature. Even while Kierkegaard published these works, he published overtly religious works under his own name. The two strains of publications formed a well-conceived whole. For information on the individual works of Kierkegaard, see the Commentary. For more on his writing see Kierkegaard's Authorial Method, containing a longer essay comparing his writing method to that of Plato.
On December 22, 1845 P. L. Møller published a harsh critique of Stages On Life's Way. Kierkegaard retaliated by publishing an article in The Fatherland which mentioned that Møller secretly published in The Corsair. This was a weekly satirical paper, which lampooned people of repute, and was itself considered disreputable, though it was read surreptitiously by many. Its editor was Meïr Aaron Goldschmidt (1819-1887), who was Kierkegaard's junior by several years and an admirer of his keen dialectical wit. Kierkegaard attempted to discredit Møller and to distance Goldschmidt from The Corsair, because he felt that Goldschmidt was capable of greater things. Kierkegaard's foray into lively critique launched a sally of abuse against him, with The Corsair lampooning his appearance and voice. This became perhaps the greatest literary debacle in nineteenth-century Denmark. For more on this see "The Activity of a Traveling Esthetician".
The church in Denmark was (and is) Lutheran. It was a State Church in which all Danes were born Lutheran and thus de facto "Christians". Citizenship and enrollment in the Church were the same thing. Kierkegaard alleged that this reduced to nothing radical conversion to Christ. The Church sought to transform the sacred economy of God into a profane state religion. Kierkegaard felt that "Official Christianity", or Christendom, had departed so far from the Christianity of the New Testament, that it needed to be torn down and rebuilt—not reformed. Kierkegaard did not, however, attack the Christianity of the New Testament, but "Official Christianity" or "Christendom". The attack consisted of a series of articles published during the final year of his life. His attack was unusual, since he attacked the Church from within, as a believer. He died in the midst of this heated battle. For more on the origin of this controversy, as well as samples of Kierkegaard's broadsides, see Articles from the Fatherland.
On October 2, 1855 Kierkegaard fell unconscious in the street, suffering paralysis of the legs. He was taken to Frederick's Hospital. It is not entirely clear what illness he had, but it may have been some ailment of the spine. During the forty days that he lingered in the hospital room, he had banned his brother Peter from entering. His friend Pastor Boesen visited him daily. Boesen tried to offer Holy Communion to Kierkegaard. Kierkegaard refused it. When asked if he wanted it, he said, "Yes, but not from a parson". He was willing to die without Communion rather than contradict himself, for he had said that the Lutheran Church had to be abandoned as long as God was being mocked in the churches. "The parsons are royal functionaries, and royal functionaries are not related to Christianity". This information comes from Pastor Boesen's own notes which he kept of Kierkegaard's final days (see W. Lowrie's A Short Life of Kierkegaard, p. 253ff.).
The question of his burial was a ticklish one, and it was very ineptly resolved by the decision to hold the funeral service in the Frue Kirke, the most important church in Copenhagen...and on November 18, which was a Sunday, when the greatest crowd would be free to come. Peter was to preach the sermon. The church was crowded long before the hour, and a multitude of shabby-looking people had pressed forward near the coffin. There were no priests in the church except Peter Kierkegaard and Dean Tryde, who was to conduct the service at the grave. It looked as though there might be a popular protest against the high-handed way in which the Established Church had taken possession of the body of the man who had so publicly defied it. But at the last moment a large body of students resolutely forced their way to the front and stood guard around the coffin. Peter's sermon was very tactfully calculated  to allay the animosity of the crowd, and all went quietly.
At the cemetery things did not go so smoothly. Henrik Lund claimed the right to speak, not merely as a nephew, but as one who was closely related to the deceased by sympathy with his thought. He hotly contested the right of the church to appropriate his uncle.... The Dean reminded him that the law allowed only ordained ministers to speak at a funeral. Whereupon Professor Rasmus Nielsen, who had intended to speak, shrugged his shoulders and went away. It was cold and the crowd gradually dispersed.
S. K. was buried in the family lot, but nobody knows precisely where. Peter did nothing to mark the spot... (p. 255f.).
May 5: Birth in Copenhagen at Nytorv 2, son of Michael Pedersen Kierkegaard and Anne Sørensdatter Lund Kierkegaard
April 25: Finishes first part of second examination (Latin, Greek, Hebrew, and history, magna cum laude; mathematics, summa cum laude)
October 27: Completes second part of second examination (philosophy, physics, and mathematics, summa cum laude)
The so-called "Great Earthquake". Kierkegaard believes that a curse lay over the family when he discovers that his father had cursed God as a young	man.
May 8 to May 12: On a visit to the Rørdams in Frederiksberg he meets Regine Olsen for the first time
May 19: Kierkegaard records that he has experienced "an indescribable joy" (see the Journals, II A 228).
December 27: Beginning of The Corsair Affair (through the summer of the following year). Kierkegaard publishes an article in The Corsair entitled "The Activity of a Traveling Esthetician and How He Still Happened to Pay for the Dinner"
June 12: Acquires Adler's books, Studier og Exempler, Forsøg til en kort systematisk Fremstilling af Christendommen i dens	Logik, and Theologiske Studier.
Apr. 19: Kierkegaard writes in his Journals, "My whole nature is changed. My concealment and reserve are broken—I am free to speak" (VIII A 640).
The so-called "Gathering Storm": Kierkegaard published nothing until December of 1854, when he began the attack on Official Christianity
December 18: S. K. begins polemic against Bishop Martensen in The Fatherland with an article entitled "Was Bishop Mynster a 'Witness to the Truth'.."..
January 29: An article in The Fatherland # 4: "The point at issue with Bishop Martensen..". and # 5: "Two new witnesses to the truth"
March 21: An article in The Fatherland # 7: "Is this Christian worship, or is it treating God as a fool?"
March 30: An article in The Fatherland # 11: "Salt; for Christendom is...the betrayal of Christianity; "a Christian World" is...apostasy from Christianity"
April 7: An article in The Fatherland # 13: "With reference to an anonymous proposal made to me in No. 47 of this newspaper"
April 11: An article in The Fatherland # 14: "Would it be best now to 'stop ringing the fire alarm'" and # 15: "Christianity with a government commission or Christianity without a government commission"
May 15: An article in The Fatherland # 19: "About a silly assumption of importance over against me and the view of Christianity I stand for"
May 16: An article in The Fatherland # 20: "With regard to the new edition of Practice in Christianity" and This Must Be Said; So Let It Now Be Said, published separately
May 26: The final article in The Fatherland # 21: "That Bishop Martensen's silence is, Christianly, (1) unjustifiable, (2) comical, (3) dumb-clever, (4) in more than one respect contemptible" and the first installment of The Moment (dated May 24, but held until the article in The Fatherland was published)
September 24: Ninth and last number of The Moment published; number 10 was ready on October 2, but published posthumously. Kierkegaard writes his last entry
Even as a small child I was told, as solemnly as possible: that everyone spat at Christ (who, indeed, was the truth), that the multitude (those who passed by) spat at him and said: 'Shame on you.' I have kept this deep in my heart. This thought is my life (from the Journals).  
=======================================================
 Søren Kierkegaard:A BiographyJoakim GarffTranslated by Bruce H. KirmmsePaperback | 2007 | $39.95 / £27.95 | ISBN: 9780691127880896 pp. | 6 x 9 | 32 halftones. 3 maps. | SHOPPING CARTeBook | ISBN: 9781400849604 | Our eBook editions are available from these online vendors Reviews | Table of ContentsChapter 1 [HTML] or [PDF]  "The day will come when not only my writings, but precisely my life--the intriguing secret of all the machinery--will be studied and studied." Søren Kierkegaard's remarkable combination of genius and peculiarity made this a fair if arrogant prediction. But Kierkegaard's life has been notoriously hard to study, so complex was the web of fact and fiction in his work. Joakim Garff's biography of Kierkegaard is thus a landmark achievement. A seamless blend of history, philosophy, and psychological insight, all conveyed with novelistic verve, this is the most comprehensive and penetrating account yet written of the life and works of the enigmatic Dane who changed the course of intellectual history.  Garff portrays Kierkegaard not as the all-controlling impresario behind some of the most important works of modern philosophy and religious thought--books credited with founding existentialism and prefiguring postmodernism--but rather as a man whose writings came to control him. Kierkegaard saw himself as a vessel for his writings, a tool in the hand of God, and eventually as a martyr singled out to call for the end of "Christendom." Garff explores the events and relationships that formed Kierkegaard, including his guilt-ridden relationship with his father, his rivalry with his brother, and his famously tortured relationship with his fiancée Regine Olsen. He recreates the squalor and splendor of Golden Age Copenhagen and the intellectual milieu in which Kierkegaard found himself increasingly embattled and mercilessly caricatured.  Acclaimed as a major cultural event on its publication in Denmark in 2000, this book, here presented in an exceptionally crisp and elegant translation, will be the definitive account of Kierkegaard's life for years to come.Review:"Monumental. . . . Garff's informal voice enlists us in the village of gossip of Kierkegaard's time. . . . [H]is tone helps create a sense of excitement, of caring, of importance, of--locally and cosmically--scandal."--John Updike, The New Yorker"For any reader of Kierkegaard, this book will have a theatrical effect. It is as though one has been listening to a long soliloquy: suddenly the curtain goes up and there is golden-age Denmark. The 'soliloquy' is now embedded in a vibrant and multi-faceted conversation. The book is written with confidence and verve; it has been beautifully translated into English by Bruce H. Kirmmse. If you are capable of being absorbed by the life of one who did little but think and suffer privately, this is an 816-page page-turner."--Jonathan Lear, Times Literary Supplement"A superb portrait of the philosopher that offers drama, psychological insight and social history as well as a guide to his profound, if perplexing, ideas. . . . An assiduous researcher, Mr. Garff has been studying his subject for decades. Happily, he seems to possess something of Kierkegaard's divine ability to express deep insights into human nature with a subtle and aristocratic touch. His masterly biography is a page-turning story and a guide wire into the mind of a philosopher whose ideas, properly understood, will never lose their force or fall out of fashion."--Gordon Marino, The Wall Street Journal"Although some will accuse Garff of revealing salacious details of the philosopher's life--as in the chapters on Kierkegaard's relationship with his fiancee Regine Olsen--this monumental and magisterial biography offers fresh glimpses into the sometimes-tortured life and work of this true philosophical genius."--Publishers WeeklyMore reviewsTable of ContentsAnother Princeton book authored or coauthored by Joakim Garff: Written Images: Søren Kierkegaard's Journals, Notebooks, Booklets, Sheets, Scraps, and Slips of Paper. [Hardcover]Other Princeton books authored or coauthored by Bruce Kirmmse: Encounters with Kierkegaard: A Life as Seen by His Contemporaries. [Paperback] Kierkegaard's Journals and Notebooks: Volume 1: Journals AA-DD. [Hardcover] Kierkegaard's Journals and Notebooks: Volume 2: Journals EE-KK. [Hardcover] Kierkegaard's Journals and Notebooks: Volume 3: Notebooks 1-15. [Hardcover] Kierkegaard's Journals and Notebooks: Volume 4: Journals NB-NB5. [Hardcover] Kierkegaard's Journals and Notebooks: Volume 5: Journals NB6-NB10. [Hardcover] Kierkegaard's Journals and Notebooks: Volume 6: Journals NB11 - NB14. [Hardcover]Subject Areas:PhilosophyReligionEuropean History Shopping Cart:For ebooks: Our eBook editions are available from these online vendors: Apple iBooks Barnes & Noble Nook Store Google Play eBook Store Kno eBook Store Kobo eBook StoreMany of our ebooks are available throughlibrary electronic resources including these platforms: Books at JSTOR Ebrary  Ebook Library EBSCO Ebooks MyiLibrary Dawsonera (UK)  Shopping Cart:For hardcover/paperback orders:For hardcover/paperback orders in the United States, Canada, Latin America, Asia, and AustraliaPaperback: $39.95 ISBN: 9780691127880For hardcover/paperback orders in Europe, Africa, the Middle East, and IndiaPaperback: £27.95 ISBN: 9780691127880Prices subject to change without noticeFile created: 4/17/2014Questions and comments to: webmaster@press.princeton.eduPrinceton University Press
   Send me emailsabout new books in:PhilosophyReligionEuropean HistoryMore ChoicesEmail:Country:Name: 
=======================================================
and father. The latter included viewing women in terms of their traditional social roles, particularly as mothers and wives, but also in their traditional spiritual roles as epitomes of devotion and self-sacrifice. Nevertheless, whatever one's life circumstances, social roles and gender, Kierkegaard regarded everyone as equal before God under the aspect of eternity.  
sake of building up faith. Kierkegaard published many of his Edifying Discourses in short collections to accompany particular pseudonymous texts, then later published them again in larger collections. He also published various “Discourses at the Communion on Fridays”, which closely resemble sermons (although they are delivered “without authority”). These are particularly intimate addresses to the sincere Christian, who strives to deepen the subjective passion of faith through confession and through acceptance of divine forgiveness.
Kierkegaard draws attention to Christianity's “inverted dialectic”, which demands that we exercise “double vision”, to see in worldly things their spiritual opposites, such as hope in hopelessness, strength in weakness and prosperity in adversity. The inverse dialectic also requires that we “reduplicate” our thoughts in our actions, but in so doing that we “work against ourselves”. This was aimed at subverting our focus on worldly goals in order to refocus on other-worldly goals.
Kierkegaard's rhetorical play with the inverse Christian dialectic was designed not to make the word of God easier to assimilate, but to establish more clearly the absolute distance that separates human beings from God. This was in order to emphasize that human beings are absolutely reliant on God's grace for salvation. While most commentators regard Kierkegaard's view to be that sin is what separates human beings absolutely from God, thereby lending weight to the view that Kierkegaard endorses a particularly dour version of Christianity, a more defensible interpretation is that it is the transcendent God's capacity to forgive the unforgivable that marks the absolute difference. Our struggle to accept divine forgiveness can become mired in despair, including the second-order despair over the impossibility of forgiveness of our sins and the demonic despair of defiance in which we refuse to accept forgiveness. On the other hand, faith in divine forgiveness can manifest in joy, at the realization that for God anything is possible, including our “rebirth” as spiritual selves with “eternal validity”.
Kierkegaard's ultimate advocacy of divine command metaethics is tempered somewhat by his detailed analyses of the nuanced ways individuals need to relate to God's commands. These analyses amount to a subtle moral psychology, which borders on virtue ethics. It is not enough simply for God to issue a command; we need to hear and obey. But obedience is not straightforward. We can obey willingly or begrudgingly. We can refuse altogether. We can be selectively deaf, or be so filled with our egotistical desires that we are altogether deaf to our duties. In order to obey we first need to cultivate faith, since obedience to a divine command is nonsense unless we at least believe the command has come from God. To cultivate faith in a transcendent, eternal, omnipresent God, who allegedly became incarnate in the form of a particular human being who was put to death, requires one to overcome the offense to one's reason and to adopt a tolerance for paradox. To imagine the enormity of the consequences of sin, yet to relish the possibilities of freedom, engenders anxiety. We need to learn to navigate the treacherous maelstroms of despair, to recognize the self-absorption of demonic states, to veer away from prudence and vanity, and to avoid mere conformity to social mores. We also need to cultivate hope, patience, devotion, and above all love. We also need to be vigilant about our capacity for self-deception and be prepared to suffer for love and for our ultimate spiritual identity.
ultimately be atoned with this being. The absurdity of atonement requires faith that we believe that for God even the impossible is possible, including the forgiveness of the unforgivable. If we can accept God's forgiveness, sincerely, inwardly, contritely, with gratitude and hope, then we open ourselves to the joyous prospect of beginning anew. The only obstacle to this joy is our refusal or resistance to accepting God's forgiveness properly. Although God can forgive the unforgivable, He cannot force anyone to accept it. Therefore, for Kierkegaard, “there is only one guilt that God cannot forgive, that of not willing to believe in his greatness!”. 
Carlisle, Clare, 2005, Kierkegaard's Philosophy of Becoming: Movements and Positions, Albany: State University of New York Press.
Furtak, Rick Anthony, 2005, Wisdom in Love: Kierkegaard and the Ancient Quest for Emotional Integrity, Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press.
Podmore, Simon D., 2011, Kierkegaard and the Self Before God: Anatomy of the Abyss, Bloomington & Indianapolis: Indian University Press.
Pyper, Hugh, 2011, The Joy of Kierkegaard: Essays on Kierkegaard as a Biblical Reader, Sheffield & Oakville: Equinox.
The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy is copyright © 2014 by The Metaphysics Research Lab, Center for the Study of Language and Information (CSLI), Stanford University
=======================================================
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Søren Kierkegaard, a Danish philosopher who imposed restrictions on his own love and emotions and declared the idea of subjectivity as truth, is now recognized as the founder of Existentialism, an influential author in psychology, and an important figure in Postmodernism.He was born Søren Aabye Kierkegaard on May 5, 1813, into a wealthy family in Copenhagen, Denmark. He was the youngest of seven children. His father, named Michael Pedersen Kierkegaard, was married to his 3rd cousin Ane Sorensdatter Lund, and was a rigid religious man who suffered from depression and guilt, which he imposed on his children. From the young age Kierkegaard was disabled and suffered from complications after his fall from a tree when he was a boy. He was also strongly influenced by his father's depression and stubborn belief in a curse that all his children were doomed to die by the age of 33.His philosophy and writing was also influenced by Regine Olsen, the love of his life and the muse for his writings. He and Regine met in 1837, while they were students at University, and they became engaged in 1840, but he harbored some undisclosed secret of dark and personal nature. A year later he chose to break off the engagement rather than to reveal his secret to Regine. She married another man and refused to see Kierkegaard ever again. He sank into psychoanalysis of the ethical and emotional aspects of breaking off in his book 'Repetition' (1843) which he published under the pseudonym Constantin Constantinus. At that time he was suffering from melancholy, probably a form of depression coming from his own trauma and disability. In his writings Kierkegaard used the word 'marriage' as a trope for the universal demands made by social mores.Kierkegaard's works deal with problems of choice in many aspects, ranging from emotions and feelings of an individual, to religious, philosophical, and political aspects of human society. Kierkegaard offered no solutions but rather a variety of views on individual, social and political conundrums and unresolvable complexities, ranging from an "Attack on" approach to an observationist position. His masterpiece and arguably the greatest work, 'Either/Or', was written during his stay in Berlin in 1842, then was revised and completed in Copenhagen in the fall of the same year. In it Kierkegaard plays with his three incarnations, philosopher named "A", Judge Williams, author of rebuttals to "A", and editor named Victor Eremita. It was published in 1843 and found little understanding among the contemporaries. His other important works are 'The Concept of Irony' (1841), 'Fear and Trembling' (1843), and 'Works of Love' (1847), among others. In his later works Kierkegaard analyzed the detrimental effect of organized religion on individuals in Denmark caused by rigidity of established state church. His analysis of 'fear', 'sin', 'guilt', and other tools of control over minds, as well as his thoughts on the decay of the Danish State Church and failures of applied religion lead to his statement that "the human race has outgrown Christianity" which ignited attacks on him from many angered critics.Kierkegaard published his works under various pseudonyms. He used several pseudonyms to create an imitation of a discussion between several pseudo-authors, all of those in fact being one man, Kierkegaard. For that reason and also because of his complex personality and intricate thought and reasoning, he made it difficult to distinguish between what he truly believed and what he was making up for a mere argument. He died in a hospital on November 11, 1855, of complications from his fall from a tree in his childhood, and was laid to rest in the Assistens Cemetery in Copenhagen, Denmark. His works were little known outside Denmark until professional translations were made in the 1920s. His works has been extremely influential ever since. His arguments against objectivity and emphasis on skepticism, especially concerning social morals and norms, laid groundwork for the 20th century Existentialism and Postmodernism.Along with Friedrich Nietzsche, he is regarded as the father of Existentialism and existential psychology. Kierkegaard's influence may be found in many art movements, such as Dada, Futurism, and other movements in modern art. He influenced Martin Heidegger, Jean-Paul Sartre, Martin Buber, Albert Camus, Simone de Beauvoir, Franz Kafka and John Updike among many other thinkers and writers.
