=======================================================
 .breadcrumbs {margin-top:-13px !important; position: relative; z-index:99;color: #FFFFFF !important;  bottom: 4px;} .breadcrumbs a {color: #FFF !important;}
p.pnc{font-family:"Myriad Pro",Helvetica,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;font-size:22px;line-height:33px;padding:15px 30px 0}
.pagination{height:45px;position:absolute;text-align:right;width:984px;z-index:99;padding:0 20px 0 0; display:;}
.pagination a:hover,.pagination a.selected{background:url(/images/news/swdot-grey1.png) no-repeat scroll 0px -40px transparent;height:45px;width:20px}
.pagination a{background:url(/images/news/swdot-grey1.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;display:inline-block;height:45px;text-decoration:none;width:20px}
.menu li{float:left;width:auto;text-transform:uppercase;font:Georgia;font-size:18px;font-weight:400;background-repeat:no-repeat;background-position:right center;height:40px}
.menu li ul li{border:1px solid #00204f;background:#001232;color:#FFF;font:12px/18px Arial;font-weight:700;text-align:left;text-transform:none;height:auto;border-width:0 1px 2px}
.menu li ul li a{font:bold 12px Arial;width:200px;line-height:20px!important;color:#FFF!important;padding:10px 0 0 10px}
.menu li:hover ul ul,.menu li:hover ul ul ul,.menu li:hover ul ul ul ul,.menu li.sfhover ul ul,.menu li.sfhover ul ul ul,.menu li.sfhover ul ul ul ul{left:-999em;}
.menu li:hover ul,.menu li li:hover ul,.menu li li li:hover ul,.menu li li li li:hover ul,.menu li.sfhover ul,.menu li li.sfhover ul,.menu li li li.sfhover ul,.menu li li li li.sfhover ul{left:auto}
.menu a:link,.menu a:visited{display:block;z-index:100;line-height:10px;font-family:Georgia;text-decoration:none;color:#fff;font-weight:400}
.sub-menu{position:absolute;left:0;border:1px solid #00204f;border-bottom-width:0;font:normal 12px Arial;text-align:left;line-height:18px;z-index:999;background:#001232;width:210px}
.sub-menu ul li a{border:1px solid #00204F;color:#FFF;display:block;font-weight:700;text-decoration:none;text-indent:5px;width:100%;padding:1px 0}
.mnProducts{height:40px;text-indent:-99999px;width:121px;background:url("http://old.tonyrobbins.com/images/nav.png") 0 0 no-repeat}
.mnEvents{height:40px;width:99px;background:url("http://old.tonyrobbins.com/images/nav.png") -121px 0 no-repeat;text-indent:-99999px}
.mnCoaching{height:40px;text-indent:-99999px;width:134px;background:url("http://old.tonyrobbins.com/images/nav.png") -220px 0 no-repeat}
.mnExperiences{height:40px;text-indent:-99999px;width:138px;background:url("http://old.tonyrobbins.com/images/nav.png") -354px 0 no-repeat}
.menu .current-menu-item a,.menu .current_page_item a,.menu .current-menu-parent a,.menu .current_page_parent a,.menu .current_page_ancestor a{color:blue}
For the past three decades, Anthony Robbins has served as an advisor to leaders around the world. A recognized authority on the psychology of leadership, negotiations, organizational turnaround, and peak performance, he has been honored consistently for his strategic intellect and humanitarian endeavors. His nonprofit Anthony Robbins Foundation provides assistance to inner-city youth, senior citizens, and the homeless, and feeds more than three million people in 56 countries every year through its international holiday "Basket Brigade." Robbins has directly impacted the lives of more than 50 million people from over 100 countries with his best-selling books, multimedia and health products, public speaking engagements, and live events. 
What began as a young person’s desire to help individuals transform the quality of their lives has grown into Robbins’ lifelong crusade as he is called on by leaders from every walk of life-presidents, political leaders, advocates for humanity, CEOs of multinational corporations, psychologists, peak performance athletes, world-class entertainers, teachers, and parents. Since fathering the life coaching industry, Robbins has produced the #1-selling audio coaching system of all time. He also is a corporate Vice Chairman, and Chairman overseeing five private companies. Robbins has been honored by Accenture as one of the "Top 50 Business Intellectuals in the World"; by Harvard Business Press as one of the "Top 200 Business Gurus"; by American Express as one of the "Top Six Business Leaders in the World" to coach its entrepreneurial clients; by Forbes as a Top 100 Celebrity; by Justice Byron White as one of the world’s "Outstanding Humanitarians"; and by the International Chamber of Commerce as one of the top 10 "Outstanding Young People of World."
Robbins was selected as Vice Chairman of Health, Education, and Science for the United Nations Research Center for the International Council for Caring Communities (ICCC) NGO. Working with the Organization of American States, the Carter Center, and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Robbins participated as one of the members of the team that helped negotiate an electoral solution for peace to the strife and conflict that have devastated the Venezuelan people and their economy. Robbins has collaborated with political and business leaders in diverse world communities such as South Africa, England, Cuba, Panama, Venezuela, and the United States. Robbins has also been a national spokesperson for the Wellness Community, a nonprofit organization that provides support, education and hope to people with cancer and their loved ones. Through participation in professionally led support groups and educational workshops, people affected by cancer learn vital skills that enable them to regain control, reduce isolation and restore hope, regardless of the stage of disease. Through his strategies for "Leadership in Times of Crisis" and his systems for "Indirect Negotiations," Robbins has participated in negotiations that have broken the patterns of violence and de-escalated the rhetoric that invites it. Robbins has worked on teams that not only help mitigate further devastation and facilitate peaceful decision-making among conflicting parties, but also inspire conflicting parties to create a mutually beneficial and compelling vision that is aligned with their respective values, raising the standard by which they live. He is also the recipient of the Timmie Award, given by the esteemed Touchdown Club of Washington, D.C for humanitarian efforts. 
Robbins has met with, consulted, or advised international leaders including Nelson Mandela, Mikhail Gorbachev, Margaret Thatcher, Francois Mitterrand, Princess Diana, and Mother Teresa. He has consulted members of two royal families, members of the U.S. Congress, the U.S. Army, the U.S. Marines and three U.S. Presidents, including Bill Clinton. Robbins has had the unique opportunity to identify patterns and model the underlying strategies generating consistent results for some of the most successful individuals in the world.
A successful entrepreneur, Robbins serves as Chairman of seven privately held — in industries as diverse as hospitality, education, media production, business services, and neutraceuticals, and he holds an interest in and strategically directs a series of others. While diverse in characterization, all the companies Robbins owns or is a partner in are geared toward Robbins’ creed of improving the quality of life for people around the world: from Namale Resort & Spa, the award-winning, 325-acre tropical paradise in the Fiji Islands, to Twinlab Corporation, the highest-rated neutraceutical company honored in 2003 with the Consumer Satisfaction Award as Top Rated Retail Brand by Consumerlab.com, an independent testing group. Robbins’ pursuit of creating and contributing to a higher standard of living is reflected by one of his subsidiary companies, Rebus Publishing, a leading consumer health and science publisher that has been communicating healthy ideas for more than 25 years through such avenues as the "UC Berkeley Wellness Letter" and "Johns Hopkins Health After 50" newsletter. Robbins was also the first individual in the personal improvement industry to surpass more than a billion dollars in gross sales.
Leaders and achievers already at the pinnacle of success in their respective fields call on Robbins to be their strategic advisor when they face critical decisions requiring creative options and a systematic evaluation of probabilities and consequences. American Express asked its entrepreneurial clients whom they would select if they could choose anyone in the world to personally coach them to take their businesses to the next level if price were no object. Robbins was chosen along with Bill Gates, Donald Trump, Warren Buffet, Lee Iacocca and Ross Perot.
A founding strategist of the Presidential Summit for America’s Promise, Robbins partnered in helping to design systems that generated over two million mentors for young people throughout the United States. Four Presidents and Secretary of State Colin Powell partnered with Robbins in the process. What began nearly 30 years ago as Robbins’ individual effort to feed two homeless families has now grown into the Tony Robbins Foundation’s international holiday "Basket Brigade," which feeds more than three million people in 56 countries every year. His foundation has provided support or initiated programs in more than 2,000 schools, 700 prisons and 100,000 service organizations and shelters. Almost 20 years ago, Robbins personally sponsored a class of disadvantaged fifth graders in Houston, Texas, by becoming their personal mentor and sponsor of their college education. In 2003, these student "Champions" graduated from college—an experience that Robbins made possible. Each year, Robbins oversees his foundation’s Discovery Camp, which helps more than 100 students from 18 countries design and initiate leadership programs to take home to their local schools.
In addition to his global efforts to facilitate leadership, peace and philanthropy, Robbins is an award-winning speaker who has addressed such distinguished audiences as the British Parliament, Harvard Business School, the Gorbachev Foundation’s Cold War Forum, the Presidents’ Summit for America’s Future, the State of the World Forum, Vice President Al Gore’s Putting Customers First Conference, and the World Economic Forum. In 2006, he was invited to speak at the prestigious Technology, Entertainment and Design (TED) Conference, attended by the world’s most influential thinkers and leaders, including the founders of Google and Vice President Al Gore. His speech is one of the top ten most viewed in the history of TED, with more than two million views. Toastmasters International recognized Robbins as one of the world’s greatest speakers, awarding him the Golden Gavel Award, its most prestigious honor. One of the most sought-after speakers in the world, more than four million people from over 100 countries have attended Tony Robbins’ live seminars, speaking engagements or training programs. 
Robbins is an internationally best-selling author with five books published in 14 languages, and he is the creator of the #1 personal and professional development system of all time, Personal Power; more than 40 million audiotapes have been sold worldwide. Robbins has created a system of total immersion that produces the education, strategies, and momentum for measurable and lasting change. Robbins is also the founder of Mastery University, which brings together the world’s leading experts from their respective fields. In the past, Robbins’ co-facilitators have included General Norman Schwarzkopf and Secretary of State Colin Powell on leadership, Dr. Deepak Chopra on psychoneuroimmunology, Peter Lynch and Sir John Templeton on finance, and Vice President Al Gore on creating peace in troubled times.
Robbins has developed and produced five award-winning television infomercials that have continuously aired on average every 30 minutes, 24 hours a day somewhere in North America since their initial introduction in April 1989. Recently, Robbins has created a series of six television shows that will air on primetime NBC in the summer of 2010. His work has been featured in major media including Time, Newsweek, Fortune, Forbes, Life, GQ, Vanity Fair, Business Week, Tycoon and Success magazines, the CBS Evening News, NBC News, ABC’s Prime Time Live, Fox News, CNN and A&E as well as newspapers, radio programs, and Internet media worldwide. Robbins has been mentioned or featured in 15 major motion pictures, including a cameo role in the hit movie "Shallow Hal." In 2007, he was named to Forbes magazine’s "Celebrity 100" list. 
Highly respected as the nation’s foremost authority on the psychology of peak performance and personal, professional, and organizational turnaround, Robbins has advised and counseled Fortune 500 CEOs, world-renowned medical doctors, legends in entertainment, and championship sports teams including America’s Cup winner, America 3; Stanley Cup finalist, Los Angeles Kings; NBA Champion San Antonio Spurs; and other teams from the National Hockey League, Major League Baseball and the National Basketball Association. He has worked with elite coaches and athletes, including UFC Champion Chuck Liddell, tennis greats André Agassi and Serena Williams, and golf legend Greg Norman, along with champions from the National Football League, the PGA Tour, the U.S. Tennis Association and NASCAR. He has also coached various celebrities and musicians including Leonardo DiCaprio and Billie Joe Armstrong of Green Day.
As a recognized catalyst for developing systems and strategies for accelerated and lasting transformations in individuals worldwide, Robbins has been sought after by psychologists and psychiatrists for training. Robbins, along with his partner Cloe Madanes, created almost ten years ago the Robbins-Madanes Center for Strategic Intervention, which produces training materials and programs for the therapeutic community. Together they have trained more than 100,000 therapists. For more than 20 years, Madanes has served as world-renowned teacher of therapists. Two of her books are considered classic texts—Strategic Family Therapy and The Violence of Men. Robbins appeared as a featured author in one of her books—Relationship Breakthrough: How to Create Outstanding Relationships in Every Area of Your Life. Robbins and Madanes are actively involved in the Council for Human Rights of Children at the University of San Francisco, a prestigious international think tank created to develop and codify methods to ensure the rights of children are maintained and championed. Robbins was among the speakers featured at the Council’s 2005 meeting at the University of Oxford, where he addressed "Alternatives to Institutionalization of Children and Youth in Crisis." He also has been a featured speaker at The Evolution of Psychotherapy Conference, the world’s largest psychotherapy conference that brings together more than 10,000 industry leaders from around the world every five years. 
Robbins’ commitment to creating an enduring legacy that will impact the world is surpassed only by his passion for family as a dedicated father of four children and a loving husband to his wife, Sage “Bonnie Pearl” Robbins. 
=======================================================
This article appears to be written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by rewriting promotional content from a neutral point of view and removing any inappropriate external links. (April 2014)
Anthony "Tony" Robbins (born February 29, 1960) is an American life coach, self-help author and motivational speaker. He became well known through his infomercials and self-help books, Unlimited Power and Awaken the Giant Within.
Robbins writes about subjects such as health and energy, overcoming fears, building wealth, persuasive communication, and enhancing relationships.
Robbins began his career learning from many different motivational speakers, and promoted seminars for his personal mentor, Jim Rohn. He is deeply influenced by neuro-linguistic programming.
Robbins' work has been featured in major media including Time, Newsweek, Fortune, Forbes, Life, GQ, Vanity Fair, Businessweek, Tycoon, the Oprah Winfrey show, SUCCESS magazines, CBS Evening News, NBC News, ABC's Prime Time Live, Fox News, CNN, A&E, as well as newspapers, radio programs, and Internet media worldwide.[3][4]
In 2007, he was named to Forbes magazine's "Celebrity 100" list.[7] Forbes estimated that Robbins earned approximately $30 million USD in that year.[8]
In 2002, Robbins was ranked as the 45th "Top Business Intellectual in the World” by Accenture’s Institute for Strategic Change.[9] Robbins has spoken at Harvard Business School[10] and was ranked by the school among the “Top 200 Business Gurus” (Harvard Business School Press, 2003).[11][12][13]
Robbins was born Anthony J. Mahavorick in North Hollywood, California, on February 29, 1960. His surname was originally spelled 'Mohorovic' and is of Croatian origin. He adopted the surname 'Robbins' from his stepfather.[3]
He later moved to Azusa, California, and attended Glendora High School. In 1984 as his career began to take off, he bought the Del Mar Castle, designed by Richard Requa, for $1.7M. He sold the property in 1988 for $3.25M.[15]
Robbins began his career promoting seminars for Jim Rohn. According to Robbins, Rohn taught him that "happiness and success in life are not the result of what we have, but rather of how we live. What we do with the things we have makes the biggest difference in the quality of life."[16]
Later Robbins began his own work as a self-help coach. He taught neuro-linguistic programming (NLP) and Ericksonian Hypnosis after training with NLP co-founder John Grinder. In 1983, Robbins learned to firewalk from Tolly Burkan[17] and began to incorporate it into his seminars.[18][19]
Robbins promoted his services as a "peak performance coach" through his books and TV infomercials, gaining strong public recognition and lucrative sales. He gained wide exposure through infomercials advertising his Personal Power series of self-help audiotapes.
In 1997, Robbins began the Leadership Academy seminar, in which participants learn to "[c]reate an identity for them self as someone who can help 'anyone', no matter what his/her challenge may be."[20] Robbins is a featured speaker on the seminar circuit sponsored by Learning Annex. Robbins appeared as a featured speaker at the 2007 Technology, Entertainment and Design (TED) conference. As of August 2012, his talk was the 6th most popular TED talk.[21]
Robbins is involved with the Robbins-Madanes Center for Strategic Intervention, which focuses on personal, family and organizational psychology, and claims to help people "find breakthrough strategies and solutions for overcoming the problems that confront us all."[22]
Robbins also conducts seminars, including his four-day Unleash the Power Within (UPW) seminar, Mastery University and Business Mastery.[23][24][25]
During Unleash The Power Within, participants walk barefoot over hot coals. The aim of the seminar, demonstrated in the firewalk, is to illustrate that the main quality shared by those who achieve greatness is the ability to take action - even if they experience fear ("Personal Power").[26]
Mastery University is promoted at the UPW seminar.[23][24] Mastery University is composed of three seminars:
Life Mastery, espouses Robbins' ideas about what makes for a healthy lifestyle, and has in the past featured guest lecturers including Deepak Chopra and John Gray.
Date With Destiny, the only Mastery event at which Robbins is present for the entire event, is said to be designed to help participants align their values so that they are not in conflict, but rather are aligned with the participant's individual goals.[27]
In 1997, Robbins initiated his Leadership Academy seminar,[28] in which he invites participants to learn the skills he uses, with the stated goal of the program to enable the participant to "[c]reate an identity for yourself as someone who can help 'anyone', no matter what his/her challenge may be".[20]
In 2009 Robbins created his Business Mastery program,[25] designed to provide business leaders with tools to manage and grow their businesses. The seminar is conducted live by Robbins and features entrepreneur guest speakers. Past speakers have included Steve Wynn, CEO of Wynn Resorts,[29] Peter Guber (Chairman & CEO of Mandalay Entertainment Group)[30] and Tony Hsieh (CEO and Founder of Zappos.com).[31][32]
Unlimited Power, published in 1987, discusses the topics of health and energy, overcoming fears, persuasive communication, and enhancing relationships.[33] One reviewer called the book "uplifting and idealistic" and referenced the "dynamic enthusiasm" of the book;"[34] and another describes Robbins as “a persuasive communicator who spends more linage on step-by-step details of his recommendations than in self-boosterism."[35] while another reviewer said it's "too wordy" and "reads like a transcript of a series of talks."[36]
Other reviewers dispute the book's originality, pointing to ideological similarities with Maxwell Maltz, Norman Vincent Peale, Napoleon Hill, and Dale Carnegie, all of whom Robbins acknowledges in his book.[37]
Awaken the Giant Within, published in 1991, was an expansion of his personal development techniques and strategies taught through a motivational self-help type approach. Robbins made the distinction between neuro-linguistic programming and his own technique, which he calls 'Neuro-Associative Conditioning'. The trademarked difference is defined by applying "conditioning" rather than "being programmed".[38]
Robbins teaches that one should constantly take control of one's emotional state by controlling one's body language, facial expressions, breathing, mental representations, language, metaphors and mental focus.
Robbins teaches that people are held back from making the changes they wish to make by the fact that they still associate pleasure to their old pattern of behavior, and pain to changing. For example, someone may be overweight, and may wish to lose weight, but still feel that exercise is painful and that fattening foods are pleasurable. Neuro-associative conditioning is intended to change these inclinations, so that the new, productive behavior is now felt to be pleasurable, and the old, sabotaging behavior is felt to be painful. According to neuro-associative conditioning, there are six steps to changing these inclinations:
Decide. Robbins teaches that personal change starts when the person makes a strong, irrevocable commitment to change.
Get leverage. To motivate them to change, the person must acutely feel that their old habits were destructive and painful, and the new ones are empowering and pleasurable.
Interrupt the old pattern. This is a neuro-linguistic programming technique. When someone gets caught up in a familiar pattern of thoughts, feelings and behaviors, Robbins teaches that they should do something unexpected to shock themselves out of it. He writes in Awaken The Giant Within, "Next time you start to feel depressed, jump up, look at the sky, and yell in your most idiotic tone of voice, 'Hallelujah! My feet don't stink today!' A stupid, silly move like that will definitely shift your attention." Robbins frequently compares interrupting patterns to scratching a record so that it will no longer play properly.
Condition the new pattern. This step involves repeating and reinforcing the new pattern until it is habitual.
Test it. Put yourself in the situation where you previously would have engaged in the destructive behavior. Make sure you follow the new pattern rather than the old one.
The science of achievement. This is "making the invisible visible." Robbins says that materially successful people already have this mastered. It is a learned process or pattern that can be repeated; a method of one's successfully operating within their environment.
The art of fulfillment. Robbins says that this is a part of life that is not attained very often, and when it is, it is often late in life or after a serious issue where a person has faced death.[39]
Robbins regards Western culture largely as a "therapy culture" that believes biography is destiny. He asserts an alternative opinion that the defining factor is our own resourcefulness. If we can connect with other people on their own emotional level, we can achieve. We must simply decide to be creative enough, playful enough, fun enough, and so on.
Robbins describes the cultural tendency to look at one's past as a definition of the future as a continuation of the impulse to look externally when considering the cause of failure. For example, if a person's business idea does not succeed, they might regard an external resources deficiency, such as a lack of time, money, technology, contacts, experience, or management as the critical reason for its failure, when they likely were also deficient in an aspect of resourcefulness (our internal resources), such as creativity, determination, love, caring, curiosity, passion or resolve. According to Robbins, "decision shapes destiny'; all of our external deficiencies can be overcome by our own resourcefulness, and this resourcefulness can be cultivated.[39]
Continuing with the notion that our true resources are defined by our own resourcefulness, Robbins says that our determination of our resourcefulness is shaped by three decisions that we make at every moment of our lives:
What am I going to focus on? What is your focus, or what are you feeling? Is it something in your past, present, or future? Is your focus on yourself, or on others? Robbins states that whatever you decide to focus on, this gives it meaning. "What your focus is will be what you feel."
What does it mean? Is it the end, or is it the beginning? Are you being rewarded or punished? This meaning produces an emotion, and the emotion creates an action. Robbins states that you should actively choose what your object of focus means, which determines which emotion you will experience.
What are you going to do? Are you going to give up, or go forward? Depending upon which focus you have chosen, and the active decision over what it means, you will either have a negative reaction, or a positive one.[39]
Robbins says an examination of what shapes us is also a window into understanding what shapes other people, and that understanding this is a requirement for being able to exercise our resourcefulness. He states that all people are shaped by two things:
Model of the world. This shapes people in the long-term, and is their "filter" for what they encounter. It determines meaning, emotion, and action.[39]
Robbins teaches that all people must fulfill six emotional needs, and that often they meet these needs in dysfunctional ways.[40] The needs are:
Robbins states that the first four are "needs of the personality," and are attained by all people, in one way or another. If necessary, people will resort to violence to achieve this attainment.
The last two, Growth and Contribution, are described by Robbins as "needs of the spirit," and these provide fulfillment. These often are not attained by many people.
Robbins states that whichever of these six needs are the most important or significant to a person will ultimately tilt a person in a specific direction and provide the trajectory that determines their life.
If you want to influence a person in your drive to be resourceful (or to understand what influences yourself), Robbins says that you must understand three things: their target, their map, and their fuel.
Target. This is what a person is after. These aren't desires, they are needs. Robbins also states that these are not formed by one's experiences, but are preexisting. They are based on decision-making patterns that are governed by the six basic needs.
Map. Once the person's target is uncovered, Robbins states that you must determine the map. The map is the person's belief system regarding how their needs will be fulfilled. Robbins says there are seven different beliefs that lead to a proper map trajectory, if they are applied consistently:
Everything happens for a reason and a purpose. Even if something doesn't turn out how you wanted, take that as a learning experience and imagine the possibilities of improvement. What did you learn? How do you think you can improve this situation?
There is no such thing as failure, only results. Never look at failure as a result that you did not want. You should instead look at it as a learning experience.
Whatever happens, take responsibility. Great leaders and successful people all believe that they create their own world. Remember the phrase, "I am responsible, I will take care of it."
It is not necessary to understand everything to use it. If other people have done something or you have tried it and it worked, then go out and do that. Do not spend tons of time analyzing everything.
People are our greatest resource. Take advantage of information that people are sharing. Learn from others who are successful.
There is no abiding success without commitment. Individuals who succeed have a belief in the power of commitment.[41]
Fuel. A person's fuel is their emotions, whether positive or negative. There are over 6,000 emotions in the English language, some of which are empowering, and others which are dis-empowering. Robbins states that research from RRI has found that there are only 12 basic emotions that drive people's daily lives.
Robbins concludes by stating that a proper understanding of what influences us allows us to fulfill all of our needs, including our "needs of the spirit," growth and contribution. Ultimately, a mastery of understanding human motivation is about contributing to others' well-being and fulfillment.[39]
Identify what you are really feeling. Seek clarity from the emotion. For example, you might ask yourself, "Am I feeling angry, or is it something else?" Robbins says that these are not the emotions we should emote, but Action Signals that inform us of our initial state.
Acknowledge and appreciate your emotions, knowing they support you. Be thankful they are sending you a message. Cultivate the feeling of appreciation for all your emotions. They are there to serve you, and not the other way around.
Get curious about the message this emotion is offering you. Getting curious helps you master your emotion, solve the challenge, and prevent the same problem from occurring in the future.
Get confident. The fastest way to deal with an emotion is to remember a time when you felt a similar emotion and realize that you've successfully handled it before. If you do the same things, you will have similar results.
One chapter of Unlimited Power, called "Energy: The Fuel of Excellence", is dedicated to a discussion of health and energy. It endorses the Fit For Life program of Harvey and Marilyn Diamond, food combining, and deep breathing. Robbins refers to Harvey and Marilyn Diamond as his "former partners".[43] The National Council Against Health Fraud wrote a highly critical review of the chapter.[44][45]
Later in his career, in his audio product Living Health, Robbins changed his teachings on health slightly. He attributes this change to the influence of Robert O. Young. In Living Health, he endorses natural hygiene, the alkaline diet, live blood analysis, and the works of Peter Duesberg and Antoine Béchamp.
In both Unlimited Power and later works like Living Health, he teaches that 70% or more of food should be fruits and vegetables, that people should avoid eating meat and dairy products, and that calorie restriction, deep breathing, gentle aerobic exercise and good emotions have an important influence on health.
Robbins has had cameo roles in the 2001 movie Shallow Hal, the 1994 movie Reality Bites, three episodes of The Roseanne Show, and an episode of The Sopranos.[46] He plays himself in the 2010 film The Singularity Is Near: A True Story about The Future.
He was lampooned in episode 22 of season 3 of Family Guy.[47] In Men In Black, there is an array of screens in the headquarters monitoring aliens masquerading as humans. One of these screens shows Robbins.
In July 2010 NBC debuted Breakthrough with Tony Robbins, a reality show that followed Robbins as he helped the show's participants face their personal challenges.[48][49] NBC canceled the show, after airing two of the planned six episodes, due to low viewership of 2.8 million.[50] In March 2012 the OWN Network picked the show up for another season beginning with the original first season set to re-run and thereafter leading directly into the new 2012 season.[51]
In 1991 Robbins launched a charity, the Anthony Robbins Foundation.[53] It is dedicated to empowering students and prisoners through food drives and learning programs based on his teachings.[54] According to the official website, the foundation has "products and programs in more than 2,000 schools, 700 prisons, and 100,000 health and human service organizations."[55] These programs have been written about and featured in many dozens of articles. They have appeared on various websites, like Cherish Our Children International[56] and Harmony With No Limits.[57] The independent charity watchdog, Charity Navigator, gives the foundation a rating of three out of four stars.[58] The official website states that "the Foundation is committed to make a difference in the quality of life for children, the homeless, the prison population, and the elderly through its various programs". The foundation has subsequently led to the forming of "Basket Brigades" across the world that occur each Thanksgiving. Individuals and groups have joined together to assemble and deliver dinner baskets to needy families.[53]
Federal Trade Commission: In May 1995, Robbins Research International (RRI) responded to Federal Trade Commission charges of misrepresentation of potential earnings to franchise investors. RRI and the FTC entered into a stipulated settlement agreement, in which RRI agreed to pay 221,260 USD in consumer redress. RRI did not admit guilt under the settlement.[59]
Wade Cook: Financial seminar guru Wade Cook also sued Robbins for copyright infringement and plagiarism, alleging that Robbins used proprietary terms in his seminars and in his book Wall Street Money Machine. In 1998 a Tacoma, Washington, jury ordered Robbins to pay Cook US$650,900 in damages. The order to pay damages was temporarily withdrawn[60] until 2000, when the 9th Circuit Court ruled that the trial judge had misinterpreted the statutes.
The verdict and damages were reinstated with a statement that "The Court found that U.S. District Court Judge, Jack Tanner, erred in "finding a conclusion contrary to the jury award" and sent instructions to reinstate the award. "This is a landmark decision by the 9th Circuit Court because of the high profile players and issues at stake" said lead attorney and Wade Cook General Counsel, Troy Romero. "The Court is telling individuals that, no matter who you are, the protection of copyrightable material will be preserved." Robbins was forced to pay the entire amount.[61]
In 2001 Robbins filed a lawsuit against The Vancouver Sun newspaper, alleging defamation and libel. The judge determined the Vancouver Sun defamed Robbins when it called him a "adulterous, wife-stealing hypocrite". Awarding Robbins $20,000 in damages, the judge wrote "While damages are presumed, the plaintiff's failure to take the witness stand and to testify about his feelings and the impact of the defamation upon his reputation leaves the court somewhat in the dark about these matters". The court awarded Robbins his attorneys' fees and costs in addition to damages.[62][63]
In July 2012, the San Jose Mercury News published a report about a Tony Robbins' Firewalk Event conducted in San Jose, California, on July 19, 2012. This was picked up by other media outlets including Fox News.
These reports were later retracted as inaccurate. On August 8, 2012, Fox News' program Fox & Friends issued an on-air retraction and correction to the inaccurate report; Steve Doocy stated:
During a recent segment concerning a Tony Robbins’ Fire Walk Experience in San Jose, California, we reported more than two dozen participants were hospitalized with burns. While a few of the 6,000 received minor burns akin to a sunburn, they received on-site medical attention and continued to participate in the event. None were hospitalized and there were no reported third-degree burns. We understand news reports to the contrary were inaccurate.[64][65]
In his book Awaken the Giant Within, Robbins recalls meetings with various celebrities, saying he was a student of their success. People he mentioned were Nelson Mandela, Mikhail Gorbachev, Bill Clinton, Margaret Thatcher, François Mitterrand, and Princess Diana.[68] In Robbins' infomercials, celebrity appearances were made by Fran Tarkenton, Pamela Anderson, Quincy Jones, Erin Brockovich, and Anthony Hopkins. Robbins stated that they came without any compensation.[69]
Robbins' first marriage was to Becky Jenkins, who already had three children from two former marriages; Robbins considers them his own children.[70] Robbins and his first wife were divorced in June 2001. He married Bonnie Humphrey, now known as Sage Robbins, later that year.
Robbins alluded to his personal belief in a higher power in Unlimited Power, giving the grand complexity of life as evidence of an intelligent designer.[71] In an article on turning setbacks into success, he attributes his career to "God's hand", which he also calls "Grace".[72]
Robbins discovered he had a brain tumor in 1994. After a few months, his tumor infarcted.[73][not in citation given]
Robbins, Anthony (1986). Unlimited Power: The New Science of Personal Achievement. New York: Simon & Schuster. pp. 448 pages. ISBN 0-684-84577-6. 
Robbins, Anthony (1992). Awaken the Giant Within. New York: Simon & Schuster. pp. 544 pages. ISBN 0-671-79154-0. 
Robbins, Anthony (1995). Notes from a Friend: A Quick and Simple Guide to Taking Control of Your Life. New York: Fireside. pp. 112 pages. ISBN 0-684-80056-X. 
Robbins, Anthony (1998). Lessons in Mastery. Simon & Schuster Audio/Nightingale-Con. ISBN 0-7435-2515-9. 
Robbins, Anthony (2001). Get The Edge (incl. Personal Power Classic Edition). Guthy-Renker. ASIN B000207IT4. 
Robbins, Anthony (2002). Live with Passion!: Strategies for Creating a Compelling Future. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-7435-2521-3. 
Robbins, Anthony (2006). The Edge: The Power to Change Your Life Now. Megaforce / Nightingale-Con. pp. DVD. ASIN B000I5XD1K. 
Categories: 1960 birthsAmerican motivational speakersAmerican motivational writersAmerican people of Croatian descentAmerican self-help writersLife coachesLiving peopleNeuro-linguistic programming writersPeople from the San Gabriel ValleyPopular psychologyRelationship educationHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from September 2013Articles with a promotional tone from April 2014All articles with a promotional toneUse mdy dates from October 2011Articles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2013Articles with unsourced statements from July 2013Commons category template with no category setCommons category with page title same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
When I recently met author, strategist and coach Tony Robbins backstage at a taping of Oprah Winfrey's ground-breaking series Lifeclass, the first thing I was struck by was his sheer size. He is a somewhat startling six-feet-seven, yet he comes across like a loving, gentle giant, and when he talks to you he gives you his full magnetic attention. He is known for being an exuberantly charming, inspiring, energetic and articulate speaker and is also a huggably nice, caring person and a generous humanitarian. The New York Times calls Tony Robbins "the high priest of human potential." In the course of his impressive career, he has advised a diversity of luminaries including  Nelson Mandela, Mikhail Gorbachev, Margaret Thatcher, Mother Teresa and three U.S. presidents, and CEOs, Olympic athletes and individuals all over the world regularly consult with him for his guidance. Countless more people have been transformed by his extensive selection of books, tapes and his exhilarating seminars.  Robbins has gone through his own personal evolutions throughout his life, including a metamorphosis triggered by a brain tumor back in 1994 when he says, "I lost all sense of certainty in my life, whether I was going to live or die" which sparked an awakening which deepened, enriched and spiritually-infused his work and perspective.  This candid, in-depth interview offers insight into Anthony Robbins' heart and soul.
 Tony Robbins will be appearing in two shows airing this coming Monday, April 30th on OWN -- the Oprah Winfrey Network: the season finale of Oprah's Lifeclass: The Tour at 8/7c followed by an episode of his series Breakthrough at 10/9c. (If you are not sure where to find OWN, you can use the channel finder.)
Marianne Schnall: I think a lot of people at times see themselves as a passive recipient of whatever life brings, rather than realizing that they are in control of their own destiny. What would you say to wake people up to their own power, their own sense of control over their lives?
Tony Robbins: Well, I think you have to acknowledge, everyone has to acknowledge that we aren't in control. We have influence. We're not in control of the external world. It doesn't matter. The idea that we're puppets or that we're victims, comes from the fact that people look around and they focus on the fact that there's so much they can't control. But if you look at anyone who has great well-being, anyone who has a sense of impact, anyone who leads, whether it be a mom leading a family or a person leading a business - the thing that makes them different than everyone else is they understand there are two worlds. The external world which I can influence and the internal world which I do control. And that internal world is where you have to master yourself. And I think that whatever your story is, whatever your core belief system is, you're going to find a way to support it. 
If I said to you right now -- I'll do this in a seminar, I'll say, look around the room right now and I'm going to give you a quick test and I want you to notice everything that's brown. Every single thing that's brown. Look behind you. Look around you. Try it right now wherever you are.
TR: Okay, close your eyes. And now tell me everything that's green. [laughs] And so what happens is I dare say you saw more brown. Now open your eyes and look for green.  More green than when you were looking before, because you get what you look for -- right? So my whole approach is to get people out of your story. If your story is that 'life's a bitch and then you die,' that's how your story shows up. If your story is -- the one I encourage people to go consider is: what if life was not happening to you, but was happening for you. If that was your approach, then you look at everything in life and say everything is happening for a reason and a purpose and it serves me, but it's my job to figure out how to get it to serve me. Most human beings have had experiences in their past that they hated, that were horrific, that they never want to go through again and they probably wouldn't want any friend or someone they cared about to go through, and yet when you look back on it five years later, ten years later, at some point you say thank God that happened, because of that I have this tremendous drive, or I have this compassion because I suffered, or other people are not going to suffer because I did and I'm going to make sure it doesn't occur.  So everything happens for a reason and a purpose and it serves us, it gives us a different approach, and then the focus becomes, what can I control, what can I take and shape in my life and then you don't end up finding yourself in that place. 
But, really, I think all people's lives are controlled by three decisions. You look at people's lives -- it's not their conditions, it's their decisions. So everybody has a choice and every moment in your life you're making three decisions. You're making it while you're listening to me right now. First one is 'What are you going to focus on?' You're going to focus on what somebody is saying, what it means to you, you're focusing on how much longer am I going to have to listen to this crap [laughs], you're focusing on what you're going to eat -- you know, whatever it is, but whatever you focus on you're going to feel. Now some people have a patterned focus and they focus on what they can't control and some people focus on what they can. That one pattern alone can shift somebody from being depressed and feeling empowered.  Some people's pattern, for example, is focused on the past. Some patterns the focus almost always goes to the future. Some to the present. There's no right or wrong, but whatever your pattern of focus is, it starts to control your whole life because it's the first filter of everything. If your focus is on what you don't have versus what you do have, it's not hard to figure out what your life is going to be like. We don't have to go any further than that and we can determine what your life is going to be like. You're going to be miserable. 
On the other hand, as soon as you focus on something, the second decision your brain has to make -- and most people, by the way, make these decisions unconsciously -- which is why their life is unconscious. They let their unconscious just do it, rather than taking control. So the second one is you focus on something your brain has to immediately decide, 'What does this mean?' Is this person dissing me? Are they harassing me? Are they challenging me? Are they teasing me? Just one word change and you're going to go into a radically different emotional state, respond to that person in a very different way. Is this the end or is this the beginning? If you think it's the end of a relationship, you're going to treat the person very differently than if you think it's the beginning of the relationship. So that shift, shifts how you feel. And that's the third decision: what am I going to do? So as soon as I have a meaning, I have an emotion. If the emotion is anger, the choices I am going to pull from and what I'm going to do are going to be very different, than if the emotion is overwhelm than if the emotion is gratitude, than if the emotion is excitement. So our entire lives are controlled by that. Is God punishing me? Is God challenging me? Has this got nothing to do with God, is it just my lazy ass? [laughs]  So I am always looking at those three decisions with people -- what do we tend to focus on, what do these things really mean to them, which is their story, their set of beliefs, their rules, and thirdly, 'What do they do?' which is their role models for action depending on what state they're in. And when you shift a person's life, you shift it by changing the pattern of focus, the pattern of meaning and the pattern of action.
MS: I think part of the problem is as you said, most of us are living our lives on autopilot, unconsciously. Even for myself I find it takes a lot of effort, because we're not brought up to watch our thoughts, to even be aware of what we're thinking, because we don't really know how to pay attention to our inner world. What advice would you have on that? I was reading something of yours where you were talking about a mental diet -- it is easier said than done, in terms of remaining aware and mindful of your thoughts and catching yourself when you're in a negative thought pattern.
TR: You're so right because I always tell people that one of the rarest of all human commodities is self awareness. Not self consciousness -- self consciousness, you're constantly evaluating yourself and judging yourself.  But self awareness, which means becoming aware of the part of you that is patterned. You remember at that little group when I was doing the warm up with you, I had people pulling hands apart and bringing them together, let's figure out what thumb it was and change thumbs. And everybody's face looks weird when you change thumbs -- it's so unconscious. So becoming aware of your patterns is the first step. And that's basically what I have people do, I have them become aware. Because once you wake up, you might go to sleep for awhile, but you'll never be asleep again because your brain knows to look for it. It's like -- I don't know if you've ever bought an outfit or a car or something and all of a sudden you see that outfit or car everywhere. It's a part of your brain that's called the reticular activating system, the RAS, and it tells your brain what to notice. Once you set a goal, once you become aware of something, it becomes part of your consciousness. 
So that's what I try to do, I try to wake people up. But as you said, when you do something as simple as a seven day mental diet, and you say here's what we're going to do for seven days: I'm going to become aware of my patterns -- not from the standpoint of trying to be a positive person, but to understand that if I go into negative states on a regular basis -- when you're in negative state you don't treat people better, you treat them worse. When you're in a negative state, you don't optimize your ability at work or your creativity or your business or your sport or whatever it is you're involved with, or as a parent. You just don't. And you sure as hell don't enjoy your life.
So as a thought process or a discipline in mental strength and mental happiness and a sense of empowerment, I say to people, take seven days and all I want you to do is very simple. Seven straight days where you catch yourself with anything you're saying that is derogatory, negative, about the future or about yourself or about another human being. So all you've got to do is very simple. You catch yourself and you just go erase. Catch yourself and say erase -- but you've got to go seven straight days where you don't have to say erase. Well, for most people, this is a month long process [laughs], because they have no idea how much negativity they state about the future, or they state about themselves, or they state about other people. And you make them right write it down and you'll start to see a pattern. You write it down, you erase, no more, right? And you keep a little journal doing this and again, most people they'll start going and they might even get through half a day, a quarter of a day and all of a sudden they'll have this regurgitation of shit that comes out of their head. And that little discipline will remind you, it will just make you so aware of how many unconscious thoughts you have each day. And then it's not about beating yourself up, it's about saying, 'Wow. This isn't me. This is the automatic part of my brain that undisciplined it will just throw out trash.' You know, weeds grow automatically. You don't have to plant weeds. I look at people's lives and you see what's not working in their lives and it usually comes from an undisciplined mind.
MS:  There are so many different things we are educated about, yet this is something that is completely not taught to us as children -- to be aware of our thoughts and how that affects us.  I only learned about this myself, later in life, through the practice of meditation and still, sometimes when I wake up in the middle of the night and my brain starts going off on the things I have to do or I'm worrying about, I have to literally tell my brain to stop and focus on my breathing. It is a constant training and retraining, and I notice the difference in myself when I do have time to meditate and when I don't. How do you personally stay centered and balanced? What tools do you use or recommend?
TR: Let me answer that two ways. Number one -- I'll tell you tools second -- but let me tell you the number one piece. Whenever you have something that's a mission that's larger than yourself, whether it be your children, whether it be a business, whether it be a non-profit focus -- I don't care what it is. Something that is your life's passion, that is more than just you, you will find that you're not going to have a whole lot of time inside your consciousness for negativity. I believe that life supports what supports more of life. In other words, motivation does matter. If you're just trying to take care of yourself, you're part of life and I believe life steps in and gives you a certain level of insight. If you're trying to serve something larger then yourself -- your family -- you know when I suddenly had four kids overnight and I was 25 years old and I had a 17-year-old, an 11-year-old, a five-year-old and one on the way, I grew more than any other time in my life, no matter what else I was doing, because I had to have insights to support this family all of a sudden. It grew me geometrically. If you're trying to take care of a whole community, you have to have a different level of insight, because your motivation is to truly serve something much larger than yourself and then those things come true. If you're trying to serve humanity, I think you need even greater insight. 
So I think number one is if you get outside yourself, you're going to find yourself having a lot less of these limiting thoughts because your purpose is to serve something. As long as we're within ourselves, we have challenges. Because that's just the nature of the human mind. That's why meditating is a wonderful experience, but why it's so difficult for people. What's actually to me a more powerful meditation -- and I still meditate as well -- is that sense of service where everything else disappears. You're not worried about your thoughts. You're not fighting and trying not to think of anything else. You're moving towards something. Living life on a purpose is the greatest gift you can find for yourself. But how do you do it on a day to day basis? You ask better questions. Questions control focus. So if I say to you, tell me Marianne, what's something in your life right now that you're really proud of? When you look back on your life in the last few years or over your whole life, what's something that stands out for you that you could be really proud of, that you do feel proud about. I read your biography, so you've got plenty.
MS: That they seem to be in touch with their authentic selves, which is something I don't remember being so in touch with at their age.
TR: Wow. So something that you didn't have in your life, you're able to give them. That's probably part of your drive of why you did. But when you feel proud about them, just as I ask you the question, and you start to focus on what I'm asking, obviously you shift your focus to what you're proud of. If I ask you what you're excited about and I get you to really take a few moments and think about it, you're going to start to feel that. In your own life -- I have what I call my kind of morning questions or solution questions. If suddenly all hell is breaking loose, the first question I ask is 'What's great about this?' If my brain first answers, 'nothing' [laughs], what I do is I force myself to just say, what's great about this? Okay -- what's great about this is at least now we know. What's great about this is I'm having to be aware of this so I can go attack it now.  What's great about this is I'm going to get an insight out of this, I'm going to solve this and once I solve this, it will help so many other people. So what's great about this? My next question is what's not perfect yet? And the question presupposes there's perfection in this. And the brain's kind of an interesting thing. Whatever you ask it, it will give you an answer. If you go, how come I can never lose weight? There's a presupposition to that question that you can never lose weight and so your brain operates that way and goes well, because you're a pig [laughs]. If you go, what's not perfect yet? Our brain will go what's not perfect yet is, we've got to deal with this challenge because somebody was unconscious and it's not solved yet, right? And I go, what am I willing to do to make this work? What am I willing to do right now to move this forward and make this work?
So I go from 'Holy shit, this huge problem' to 'What's great about it? What's not perfect yet?' so it acknowledges the challenge -- and what am I willing to do to really transform this? And my last question is how can I transform it and enjoy it? And again, I've asked these questions so often that what happens to my brain is it just kicks in gear, so I want to do more than just to accomplish it, I want to find a way to enjoy what I'm going to do, which usually means finding some higher purpose or something about it that says, you know what? Rather than this just being a pain in the butt, this is going to lead you to something quite magical. 
So I use questions. Questions change focus. And if you develop some simple questions to ask yourself -- you know, one of my primary questions in life -- everybody has a question they ask more often than anything else unconsciously, I do a whole seminar where you dig it in and find out what yours is. But my number one question in life is 'How can I make it better?' Think about it -- my whole life has been shaped by that. All the skill sets that I have, all the things I'm able to do in this world, the things you saw on the show, the things you saw in the live event that we did there -- they've all come out of me basically saying how can I make this better? How can I make myself better? How can I make this process better? It's an obsessive question for me. And ask and you shall receive. So questions are the answer. But you want higher quality questions, and that's what will direct your focus.
MS: So that's another aspect of all this that doesn't come naturally to us, taking the time to contemplate these types of questions,  since our society is so focused instead on all these meaningless, materialistic goals, and doesn't encourage us to do this type of inner reflection. There are so many necessary shifts in perspective that aren't supported by our society so it is a lot of relearning and working against a different tide.
TR: Well, the tide I think is cultural, more than anything else. We live in a culture that is about me. We live in a culture that expects instantaneous gratification for everything, and the web has only enhanced that in many ways. It empowers in many ways, but it also makes people believe 'I should have everything right now.' And the missing element in our culture today and the reason why -- you know, in 2006 we had the highest levels of unhappiness ever measured in North America and it was at the peak of the financial -- before the crisis -- peak of our last 30 years of financial well-being for the United States. And I believe the reason is because people expected more and more with less and less effort. There was no sense of mastery. There's no sense of 'I'm responsible in life for something.' 
What makes people feel alive is to have a life of meaning, not to be happy. Happiness is wonderful. It comes and it goes. Pleasure comes and goes. Pleasure is in the body. Happiness is in the mind. But in the spirit, that experience of meaning is what's the richest experience for human beings and meaning sometimes comes from very tough situations that you push through and that's because you only push through because there's a motive larger than yourself, so what are you responsible to life for? What are you here to give? What are you here to share? What are you made for? What's your sense of purpose? These are the things that change a person's life much more quickly than trying to solve their own individual problems. It's not to say you can't be practical -- I teach the practical side of things. But very quickly, people go to an event like mine -- they'll find that they came because they want to make more money, or they want to lose weight, or they want to transform their relationship, or they want to turn their kid around, or whatever the case may be -- take their career to the next level. I deliver on that, but I'm a Trojan Horse. Once I get you there and I deliver on it, now you're enthralled and now I lead you to a place where you remember who you are and what you're here for.
MS: One important message I see conveyed in your work is that some of the most powerful transformations can come from going through a really difficult time or a time of crisis. We're taught to fear those events in our lives, but they can be these unbelievable opportunities and gifts, if you're open to it that way. The trick is remaining open, rather than shutting down, which is usually our instinct.
TR: You're absolutely right. I always tell people there's nothing greater than a crisis to create a breakthrough. Because that's when we breakthrough usually -- most people don't proactively breakthrough -- they breakthrough because they have to. They breakthrough because it's a 'must' to change now, not a 'should' to change now. And the beauty of crisis is it doesn't feel beautiful, is it melts us down. And when you're melted down you can recast your life in a new way. But when you stay in the same form, you just keep doing what you're doing. People have so much momentum in the way they are -- they have so much inertia, would probably be a better description -- in this is how things are, the sameness, the certainty of what I know, that very often it takes a crisis to break that inertia and get somebody to all the way push through. So that crisis is almost always an opportunity. It's corny and it's used a million times, but the whole Chinese symbol about crisis and opportunity. You know, danger and opportunity at the same time -- it's exactly what it is. But the most powerful thing about a crisis is, it moves you to do something that you wouldn't have done before. Because you have to. You know the current situation is not working, so you're going to have to do something else. And I think crisis is almost always a gift. If you look at people's lives and ask them what have been some of the greatest breakthroughs of your life, and then ask them what preceded it, virtually always it was a crisis of some sort. And all a crisis is, is nothing is working, you're not being rewarded, you're getting pain for the very things maybe at one time you were rewarded for.
MS: I know that you're a father. What advice would you give to parents, and people who care for children, like teachers, on raising happier, more resilient, more empowered kids?
TR: I would say you have to first go first. You can't raise a happy, more resilient kid if you're not a happy, more resilient adult. We teach people how we are, we don't teach them by what we say, we teach them by the way we live. So I look at this and say, breakthroughs in life always come from those three things. I think I may have mentioned at your event there, which is you've got to first be able to create -- people think about get the right strategy, I don't know how to do something -- but the reason you don't know how to do it, is you've got a belief system, a story if you would, that's limiting you. You know, 'I'm out of control, it's too much, I don't have enough time, I've tried everything' -- there's some story that's keeping you from getting the very strategies to make you most effective. And a way to get out of those lousy stories, the number one skill set, is to really learn to change your state. It is the one thing that none of us are taught. We're taught alright -- but we're taught by two million commercials we should have instantaneous release from pain, and the way we should do it is reach for something. Drink something, eat something, ingest something that is going to suddenly change it all.  The problem, of course, is when you take away the pain, you take away the drive to change. And so we have a huge portion of our society that's medicated -- some medicated by prescription drugs, some medicated by food, some medicated by alcohol, but it's a massive medication process. And so learning to change your state and being able to demonstrate that with your kids in an instant -- what I teach, which is a radical change is the way you use your physical body. Learning how to do that on a dime, over and over again and developing that as a habit, will teach your kids the most important thing of all, which is to be resourceful. 
We're all going to face extreme stress in our lives, there's no one who is going to escape that. That's the one thing, rich or poor, I don't care who you are, you're going to lose. You're going to go through some pain. You're going to lose your home or you're going to lose your job or you're going to lose your savings or you're going to lose a dear friend or you're going to lose a child or you're going to have somebody come to you and say as I've had, 'You have a tumor in your brain' -- and those days, those moments, and those things happen and how you respond is going to determine the quality of your life. It's not how things go when it's well, it's the ability to change that state, get resourceful, find an empowering meaning and find a solution to move forward, that's what makes people successful, so you've got to do that first. You've got to say this is a skill set, a set of skills I need to get within my own life. I need to become the master of my own mind, the master of my emotions. I need to get emotionally fit and strong and the only way you're going to do that is by going to a gym. You're not going to do it, frankly -- you know reading a book is a nice thing, but like people say, 'Why do you do seminars?" Well, you could read a book on swimming or you can go swimming with somebody who is an expert swimmer who'll throw you in the deep end and make sure you don't die, but also make sure you get totally immersed and you know what you're doing, so you can go do it on your own. That's really the ideal environment for people. A book or an audio type of thing is probably the next best thing.
MS: When you look out at humanity, right now, at the world, what do you think is at the root of the serious problems the world is facing, when you diagnose the human species at the moment?
TR: I think of human beings as having -- you know I had an experience when I was diagnosed with a tumor, and I found myself having these really crazy aberrant behaviors. You know, I fought the idea of it. I went through all these different elements, long story short, I had an experience where I realized I had lost all sense of certainty in my life, whether I was going to live or die and I began to realize that for most of my life I had worked early on in my life as a kid to pound certainty inside myself, because I didn't have any. I had no role models in my house. There was nobody that was happy or successful, in any way. Happy, meaning, you know my mom was married four times. We were always broke. There were times there was no food, literally. The reason I feed people today, over two million people every year, is because my family was fed when I was 11-years-old by some strangers on Thanksgiving. I just never forgot it and decided someday I would do the same for other people, so it was a great gift to my life. With none of that available to me, I pounded certainty into myself. I literally conditioned myself to be certain, to have that confidence, that strength, and it was something I did by controlling my mind. I would do what I call incantations. An affirmation you might go, 'I'm happy, I'm happy, I'm happy, I'm happy' and your brain goes 'bullshit' -- but an incantation is something that you state with such intensity over and over again and you engage your entire body where I would literally go out at 17 years old on these slow jog runs for an hour and a half doing these incantations. You know, 'I now command my subconscious mind to direct me in helping as many people as possible, by giving me the strength, the humor, the brevity, whatever it takes to show these people, to get these people to change their life now' -- and do it over and over again. Or 'God's wealth is circulating in my life, it's what flows to me, an avalanche of abundance. All my needs, desires and goals are met instantaneously, by infinite intelligence -- where I'm one with God and God is everything.' I'd do that for an hour. And I'd shout at the top of my lungs while I'm jogging and I would literally condition myself to be there. 
So now, here I am 31 years old, I'm the most successful I'd ever dreamed of being and I've got a tumor. What the hell -- all of a sudden I'm not functioning anymore. What I lost was my certainty. And that triggered me -- I was literally going to work with this man who was a Saudi Arabian sheik, who was paying me a million dollars to come coach him and I'm thinking to myself, this guy ... You know I never think like -- I'm always compassionate -- I don't ever think like 'this guy's an idiot.' And I'm thinking 'this guy's an idiot' [laughs]. He's got no reason not to feel good about his life and I was getting all whipped up and I was in the shower and in the shower, I came up with probably the seminal piece of my work, which is that all human beings are driven by six needs, is the answer to your question. People have a need for certainty -- and that need for certainty is in every human being, certainty that you can avoid pain, certainty that you can at least be comfortable. It's a survival instinct, right?  But at the same time everyone goes after certainty in different ways. Some people get certainty by working harder and saying I'm going to master something. Some people get certainty by lowering their expectations, going 'it will never work. Everybody's screwing me anyway. The world is against me. I'm a victim.'  And they lose their dreams, but they get their needs. The needs are not like goals. They're not like belief systems that are built into you. So if you can get certainty by eating -- you're stressed out, you go eat a bunch of your favorite food, you overwhelm your bloodstream, and all of a sudden you start breathing again. You could do it that way. You could do it by smoking a cigarette. There's a million ways to get certainty. The only question is, are the ways you're doing it, are they empowering, neutral or dis-empowering? If it works for the moment and it doesn't hurt anybody, it's kind of neutral. If it works long term, obviously for yourself and others, it's empowering. If it just works for the moment, just gives you a little hit, but it has a downside long term, you know drugs, food, alcohol, that's extreme. All those things -- how does it cost you? Well here's the weird thing -- if you get totally certain -- if every moment in your life, Marianne, you knew what was going to happen, when it was going to happen, how it was going to happen, how would you feel?
TR: Bored out of your mind. So God, in her infinite wisdom -- gave us a second need: variety, uncertainty. We all want uncertainty. Variety is the spice of life. We all want surprises. Do you like surprises?
MS: I can't help remember what Oprah said during the Lifeclass taping -- depends on the type of surprise. 
TR: As long as it's a type of surprise we want, right? The ones we don't want are a problem, but we need them to feel alive, so we need variety. Now here's the interesting thing. People will go into a relationship, if it's a brand new relationship, it's so exciting because it's something brand new, it's variety, it's different. And you're so excited by the feelings. And what most people try to do because they don't want to lose that, they try to control it to make it certain. And if they make it so certain then you become bored in the relationship. It's a delicate balance. It's not a teeter totter where you and I get across on a seesaw or teeter totter and we go okay, here's the goal, we're going to balance it. Alright, now once you and I balance it, how long before one of us is going to start jerking that thing around just to feel alive. That's what people do with their lives. 
So the third need is significance: the need to feel unique, special, important or needed. Everybody has those needs, including the people that say I don't need to be special. If thou dost protest too much, it's still a part of them. So significance can be achieved by being the toughest person, the smartest person, the sweetest person, the most generous person. You can do it by the way you dress. You can do it by having a big problem, bigger than anybody else's. I'm sure you've seen people that argue about 'Oh, you think you've got it bad, let me tell you what my problem is.' [laughs] They're arguing over significance. So you can get it in a way that's empowering, mutual or dis-empowering, once again. Violence is the fastest way -- and this is a long answer, but you're asking me a big question and I'm giving you the context. Violence is the fastest way to get significance without education, without background, without any money. If I feel completely insignificant and you walked through the hood and I come up to you and put a gun to your head, just how significant am I on a zero to ten scale in your life right now? I'm 100, right?
And here's the other thing that I've learned. There's six needs. The only difference between human beings is two things. One, which of these six needs are the top two for you? Because while we have all the same needs, we don't value them equally. So some people are more certainty driven. In fact, if you mess with anything, they freak out. Control freaks. Where you're late for anything they go nuts. Or you change anything they go nuts. If certainty is at the top of your list, you have a very different life then if variety is at the top of your list. That person is going to go sky diving, they're going to do everything that they possibly can, they've got completely different direction for their lives. 
So the top two shape you, so interestingly enough, if significance is the most important thing to you in your life, you're going to behave very differently with what the fourth need is, love. Connection and love. Most people settle for connection, because love's too scary. They don't want to lose that feeling, that super high is too crushing so they settle for the comfort of connection. And again, you can get connection in lots of ways. You can get it by a friendship. You can get it by a dog. You can get it by a child. You can get it by being attached to a cause. You can get it by having huge problems and sharing those problems with other people, going 'I have that problem too' and you both get to connect. Those are the most common ones to do these things. But here's what I found -- any time an action you take, any time a thought pattern you have, any time you have an emotion that meets at least three of these needs, it becomes an addiction. Take an example of putting a gun to your head. Why do we have in the world so much violence? I put a gun to your head -- here I am feeling totally insignificant -- instantly I'm significant at a zero to ten at a ten plus. How certain am I that you're going to respond to me if I put a gun to your head?
TR: And by the way, every time we do it, there's going to be some variety. And in a sick way, we're connected. 'I live in a place where I feel America's dominating the world and destroying my family,' I go fly a plane into a building -- guess what, it might take you ten years to build that building, but I could blow it up in two hours. Didn't take a whole lot, $400,000 for the whole operation, changed the world as we know it. So it wasn't a lot of money -- it was just somebody feeling like I could be significant. And by the way, those people went in and they died flying those planes into there believing that if I do this, I'll be more significant. I will go up and be with Allah and I'll be greeted and my family will be honored, because I'll be a martyr. It's huge. People will die for significance. People will die for love. 
More often than not, men bio-chemically are driven for significance and women more by connection, but in the world we live in today, you can find just as many women driven for significance as there are men and vice versa. So the reason I tell you this, because this relates to everything you see. So these first four needs, everybody finds a way to meet. I don't care who they are. You might get certainty by lowering your expectations. You might get variety by eating. You might get significance by tearing other people down or reading magazines that tear other people down and you can feel superior to those people. Or by sharing your problems so that you can connect with people. You can do it in negative ways, neutral or positive. 
The final two needs are the spiritual needs.  They're not religious, they're spiritual, they're what lifts your spirit. And that is, number five is, you've gotta grow. If you don't grow, you're not going to be fulfilled. Most people meet their needs basically, even if they have to lie to themselves for those first four needs, but very few people are fulfilled because they aren't growing.  Growth is what life is. The one word that makes happiness happen for people is progress. I don't care where you are in your life, if you're making progress with your family, if you're making progress with your body, if you're making progress with your kids, if you're making progress in your energy or your health, you're going to feel better about your life. And so progress is a symbol of growth. Everything in the universe grows or dies. And the last one is contribution. What makes us feel alive is to have something that has greater meaning. Life is not about me, it's about we. So it's a long answer to your question -- so now where are the challenges in the world? The challenges in the world come from, as we develop, as individuals and societies, we start out extremely egocentric. All babies are egocentric. Meaning, they care about whose needs?
TR: Their own, that's it. So we only grow because in the beginning it's okay for babies to do that. In fact if you're a mother or a father, you're filled with oxytocin when you have a child. It makes you love the baby, even though they look like a lizard [laughs], it doesn't matter. You'll think it's the beautiful thing in the world. But there's a day that oxytocin wears off, and that's the day that fear enters our body, because you start realizing, 'Oh my God, I've got to do something, gotta be something, gotta somehow be a certain way', in order to be loved, in order to survive, even. So inside of all of us we have these patterns where we eventually become at least ethnocentric. We care about our group, our mom, our dad, our family, our religion, our white people, our African American people, our Chinese, our whatever. Right? And not everybody evolves beyond that. And some people, eventually, evolve beyond that until they're more human-centric or even spirit-centric where they care about everything. The more you consciously care that way your life changes. When you look around the world, consciousness is delivered by which needs you value. If your value is certainty, you're in survival mode. If you're in variety, you're in the fun mode, which is just me. If you're in significance, then you're going to be in a mode of trying to achieve something or being an achiever of something. If you're in love mode, it's going to be spirit and connection. You're going to care about a larger group of people. If you're into growth and contribution, it's a different level. So there are elevations. 
So if you look around the world and I can tell you right now that the majority of the planet is focused on certainty and significance. And those two absolutely guarantee unhappiness. Because if you're driven by significance, it doesn't matter what you achieve, it's never enough. It doesn't matter how many people you conquer, it doesn't matter how much money you make, it doesn't matter -- because there's always a comparison to something else and as a result, those people can never be fulfilled. It's the number one thing in our society, is significance. I was just in India and if you go to India and you ask -- and I've done studies there, of junior high and high school students, 'What do you want to be when you grow up?' -- the number one answer is a software engineer, but what's more interesting is why. And they say 'Because I want to do well and be successful so I can take care of my family'. If you ask, instead, in the United States today -- USA Today I believe was the one did the poll -- 'What do you want to be when you grow up?' to junior high and high school students in the United States, what do you think their answer is? 
TR: To be famous. The number one answer -- which today you can do by being infamous, right? You just create a video online of doing something crazy. So our world is hugely driven by significance. The other one is certainty. If you are driven by certainty you can't grow. If you are driven by certainty if somebody messes with you, you can get very intense, even violent, depending upon the person's personality. So I look around the world and say, the challenges these days, almost all challenges these days, virtually all, are human challenges. Humans created the problems, so humans can solve them, but only by a higher level of consciousness. You know, it's the whole thing, you can't solve the problem at the same level of consciousness that created the problem. And the evolution happens as people learn to value higher needs in their life, as what guides them. So think about it this way: 9/11 there were people who ran in that building, firemen, who knew there was no way on earth they're going to come back out of that building. They were going to literally give their life to save strangers. Now what makes a human being do that? The answer is significance. Significance and contribution are elements that would get them to go do that.  But here's the difference, the guys that flew the plane that killed everybody were also driven by significance. The difference is I said two things. What do we value most and also, we have a different set of maps or beliefs of how to meet that need. So one person's belief to be significant is to kill "the enemy". The other person's way of being significant is to die for a stranger. So that belief system about how to meet your needs, that's the structure. 
So you asked me a pretty giant question so I know it's a long answer, but here's how I look at it: I look at society and I look at people and I say...  I'm not Mr. Motivator. Somebody wrote Mr. Motivator. I think you get a better sense -- I believe in energy. I believe in passion. I believe in teaching people in an environment where it's like being at an NBA Championship Game. But on the other hand, my view is I'm the 'why' guy. I don't need to motivate you. What I need you to discover is what is your motivation. So if you say, 'I'm unmotivated' -- you're not unmotivated, you're highly motivated to eat, right? [laughs]  So my job is to uncover that process. So I look around and I say: what is the driving force inside of somebody? What's really making this thing work? What needs are they trying to meet? And then if I can show them a better way to meet those needs, suddenly they see the whole world differently. 
MS:  Lately I feel hopeful, I see so many signs that there's this mass awakening happening, like human consciousness is evolving right before our eyes. That's how I like to see the world, rather than the focus on all of the problems, the light that is emerging, all these people waking up.
TR: That's right. Waking up is the whole key. But what's waking everybody up right now? It's crisis. Think about it, that's why there's all the seasons. Winter serves. Because things die in winter and things are cleaned out so that there's room for the new springtime. I think we're not yet quite to springtime, each of us individually can enter springtime, but as a culture, we're right now still in winter and there's enough crisis there which some people are already pushed over the edge and others people aren't and I can promise you, over the next ten years you're going to see a lot more crisis and you're going to see a lot more breakthroughs and on the other side of it, we'll enter a new springtime.
MS: I run a women's website and non-profit organization Feminist.com, and I've heard you talk a lot about masculine and feminine energy, which I believe is in both men and women. In fact, we have a new initiative "Men & Women as Allies", which is not just about men and women working together towards gender equality, but also looking at how destructive gender stereotypes impact men as negatively as they do women. What is your sense of that? In addition to everything else it seems that people are up against, they may not be aware of the influence of constricting gender roles. That's why I think it is so great when I watch episodes of Breakthrough and I see men openly crying and expressing emotion and vulnerability. I think that's a whole other issue -- this idea that we all have masculine and feminine qualities in each of us and we need to value them both to be whole.
TR: I think you're absolutely right. I think both parts of yourself have to be... We only feel alive when we're whole. And to think that you're one or the other is a joke. Culturally, though, what has happened, is we overvalue one, not based on our real wiring. In other words, both masculine and feminine are in everyone, and my experience, and I've dealt with four million people in live seminars in a hundred countries -- and I can tell you beyond a shadow of a doubt that somewhere in the range of 90% of the people are wired similar to their sexuality, meaning there is a driving force inside you that you're born with that is the stronger of the two. So you use both as a whole, but equally challenging is, the culture tends to reward the opposite. Most men under stress become more feminine -- meaning feminine in its natural state is the thing I was talking to Oprah about. I think you were there when I was talking about the affirming, right?
TR: So women have this beautiful capacity that men don't seem to have, when they're masculine men, at least, of affirming.  Guys just don't do that when their masculine males, it's quite the opposite. Masculine energy grows by challenge. That energy tends to grow. The reason I bring it up, though, is, a woman can do anything a man can do today and then some. She can even have a child without a man, so there's not a question about where the equality is. But what you have to look at is beyond equality. I think in my experience, because again I've dealt with so many magnificent achiever women who will blow away any guy, but I can tell you that if their core is feminine, if they don't honor that feminine, because the culture for so many years, it was so out of balance, the culture encourages women to be masculine and encourages men to be feminine. It's actually a reversal of where we were at one time. My experience is for fulfillment -- I'm not talking about balance, for fulfillment, you've got to be able to know what your core is and be able to return and nurture that part of yourself. Because if a mom is a single mom and she's out there and she's playing both roles in life, she has developed her masculine very strongly. In fact, she's probably had to develop more of her masculine then maybe is her nature and as a result though, women should get to turn that off since she's responsible all the time for everything and everyone, it's a difficult situation. So a big part of my focus with people is to say, let's figure out what your core is. And you'll know, because you know what really, truly fulfills you outside your cultural conditioning and get people to feel that and make sure that there's a segment of that in their life that is nurtured deliberately and consciously.
MS: How would you describe your life philosophy or your sense of spirituality?  I'm sorry to keep asking you such big questions.
TR:  I like big questions. To me spirituality is just love, period. When you're in a state of love, you do what's right. When you're really in love, it's not about you. When you're really in love, it's about giving, serving, delivering to others and that's when we feel most alive. We feel most small, we feel most challenged when we're only focusing on ourselves. Because even when you fulfill yourself, meaning you get what you think you want, you still find yourself in a position where it's never enough. You only feel it for so long. It's like what you get will never make you happy. Who you become, will make you very happy or very sad. And so it's that becoming that makes us feel alive. That becoming is it.
I look at it this way -- I try to break it down in practical terms, so that people can think about life and say, here's what I'm about. I'm about having people experience the most extraordinary quality of life that they possibly could imagine. Now what's an extraordinary quality of life for you, might be different, Marianne, then for your friends or even for your daughters or for me or anyone else. Everyone has a different model of what that looks like, so I'm not here to tell people what an extraordinary life looks like. I just know that it's one where you're truly fulfilled and honor that extraordinary life on your terms. Some people have built giant companies, for some people it's having a beautiful garden, some people it's learning to sing a beautiful song, write a poem -- it's different for everybody. 
But I personally believe that there are two master lessons in life, is how I practically break it down. There's the science of achievement and there's the art of fulfillment. If you're going to have an extraordinary life, both skills must be mastered. Now the science of achievement is in fact, the science. If you want to lose weight, be healthy, have fitness, if you want to make more money, if you want to achieve something, there are rules to achievement, there are rules of finance, there's rules of the body. We're all unique and individual biochemically, but there are certain rules that if you violate them, you're going to have disease in the body. If you're aligned with them, you're going to have an abundance of energy and vitality and health. Same thing financially. I don't care what your color, your background, your age is, your gender -- if you do certain things, you're going to have too much month at the end of the money, if there are certain principles you violate. If you do other things, you're going to have an abundance of economics. So there are very clear rules. There's a science to achievement. I spent probably the first 10 to 15 years of my life, primarily focused on finding all those best strategies and that's how I built my original reputation and I've turned things around, helped people achieve, make things go. 
But along the way, when I got my tumor, I kind of uncovered that there was another part of life that I wasn't fully masterful of and that is the art of fulfillment. I call it an art, because everybody's idea of art is as unique as a human being. It's like you go to an art show and some people look at this big blue dot and go, 'That's the most amazing thing' and somebody else says, 'Are you kidding me? That's insane.' [laughs] Everyone has a different thing. In fact, you want to know what God loves, what the universe loves, go to the forest. There's total diversity in the forest. Everywhere you look is diversity. So what I look at is: what's going to make you feel fulfilled and that's totally unique to you, Marianne, then it is to your children, then it is to me, even for the people we love. 
But I do know that there are some principles, not laws, but some fundamental principles and that is for you to feel fulfilled you've got to grow and you've got to give. You've got to feel like there's progress, something, somewhere in your life, for you to feel good and you've got to feel like your life is more than just about yourself, when those two things are there. So I look at life and say: these are the two parts of life -- the ability to take the invisible and make it visible. Take thoughts and turn them into actions, turn them into results, turn your dreams into reality. That's really the science of achievement. The ability to enjoy and be fulfilled and to have meaning and all that, that's really the art of fulfillment.
MS:  The question I always like to end with, because I believe in visualizing, is what would be your wish or prayer for the children of the future?
TR: I think my prayer would be for them to own their true value in life, but to know that that value they're born with and yet it's magnified by what they give. If you could install one value into all human beings, it would be the need that's already there called contribution, but getting them to go there first, instead of certainty, and that's not an easy thing, because it means you have to face fears. But I think getting people outside themselves.
I had a great Mom. She was crazy as hell. She beat the shit out of me. I went through an incredibly violent childhood. But she loved the shit out of me too. She was a mixed up lady. She was beat when she was a kid, so when she felt out of control that's what happened. But she also took me when I was four years old, maybe five years old, on my birthday I got some balloons and she would say to me, 'Do you want these balloons here or do you want to give them to these people?' She'd bring me to this old folks' home, and I'd hand these balloons to these old folks and they just lit up like a Christmas tree. It was like I had enough experiences like that, that I got hooked on contribution at an earlier stage, earlier than even my certainty being met. I got hooked on higher value structure and it has shaped my life in every way, shape and form. 
My kids, I took them all out when my boy was four or five, I'll never forget, we went to a place in Oceanside, California, this park and we go to this park and we've got these baskets of food and we're looking for homeless people and we find this guy lying on the floor in the bathroom, just covered in a bunch of rags and he's sleeping and I said to my son, 'Give him this big basket.' It was so big he could barely carry it and I said, 'Why don't you give this to this man?'  and he starts to go in and he puts the basket down and all of a sudden, bam, this guy wakes up and he grabs my son's arm. And my son screams and I jump ten feet, right, and before anything could happen, he pulls my son's hand close to his face and he kisses his hand. My son's 26 now, my youngest, and he still remembers that today. He still contributes. He still driven and the thing I'm most proud of him in his life, is he's a contributor in everything he does. Those things, those value systems, change the quality of a human being's life, but they change the quality of a community, they change the quality of the world. I think getting hooked on contribution is the way outside of yourself, outside of your pain and into a life that's meaningful.
MS: You have such a beautiful spirit and it has been a real pleasure to speak to you and help spread your inspiring messages and wisdom. 
TR: You're so kind. Thank you very much. I love people and I love seeing impact. I'm as driven today as I was when I started this stuff at 17. I'm even more driven today. So it never gets old for me and I love seeing what you saw. I love to see people wake up and feel that aliveness again. That's what I live for. 
For more information about Tony Robbins as well as a schedule of his upcoming events and seminars, visit www.tonyrobbins.com.
Marianne Schnall is a widely published writer and interviewer whose writings and interviews have appeared in a variety of media outlets. She is also the co-founder and executive director of the women's website and non-profit organization Feminist.com, as well as the co-founder of the environmental site EcoMall.com. Her new book, based on her interviews with a variety of well-known women, is titled Daring to Be Ourselves: Influential Women Share Insights on Courage, Happiness and Finding Your Own Voice.
																(RNS) On September 5, 1997, the world mourned when Mother Teresa, whose work with the poorest of the poor made her a global icon, died...                                
Karen Horneffer-Ginter, Ph.D.: Full Cup, Thirsty Spirit: Bringing the Best of Our Intelligence to Self-Care
																My mother used to say, "You can't be unhappy and grateful at the same time." Over the years, I have found how right she was, in matters of the heart.                            
							            							            What are the key characteristics of well-motivated Olympic athletes? And how do we achieve them? Through my extensive work with numerous Olympians over several years, I have developed a constellation of traits that defines the champion's mentality.							        
							            							            By the end of the program, tears had been shed, "hallelujahs" were cried out and souls were opened up to the possibility of living for something more in this life.							        
							            							            In a world where we have more choices then we know what to do with, we can get addicted to making choices and become not so interested in actually sticking with one of them. This video is for anyone who has a dream or anyone looking for clarity in discovering their dream.							        
Karen Horneffer-Ginter, Ph.D.: Full Cup, Thirsty Spirit: Bringing the Best of Our Intelligence to Self-Care
							            							            It's worth considering how we can optimize our self-care efforts.  Take some time to reflect on how much time feels like enough time and what mix of activities feels like it best meets the range of your needs.							        
=======================================================
Tony Robbins makes it his business to know why we do the things we do. The pioneering life coach has spoken to millions of people through his best-selling books and three-day seminars.
Tony Robbins might have one of the world's most famous smiles; his beaming confidence has helped sell his best-selling line of self-help books, and fill even his 10,000-seat seminars. What's less known about the iconic motivational speaker is the range and stature of his personal clients. From CEOs to heads of state to Olympic athletes, a wide swath of high-performing professionals (who are already plenty motivated, thank you very much) look to him for help reaching their full potential.Robbins' expertise in leadership psychology is what brought him to TED, where his spontaneous on-stage interaction with Al Gore created an unforgettable TED moment. It also perfectly demonstrated Robbins' direct -- even confrontational -- approach, which calls on his listeners to look within themselves, and find the inner blocks that prevent them from finding fulfillment and success. Some of his techniques -- firewalking, for example -- are magnets for criticism, but his underlying message is unassailable: We all have the ability to make a positive impact on the world, and it's up to us, as individuals, to overcome our fears and foibles to reach that potential.Robbins has won many accolades for his work -- including his memorable performance in the Jack Black comedy Shallow Hal. (It was a small but vital role.) His Anthony Robbins Foundation  works with the homeless, elderly and inner-city youth, and feeds more than 2 million people annually through its International Basket Brigade.
"What Tony delivers is an ever crescendoing call-and-response oratory that often gives the proceedings a teetering, Pentecostal kind of energy.
Tonight (Tuesday, July 27) on NBC TV stations, Tony Robbins debuts his first-ever TV series, Breakthrough with Tony Robbins. In the six-episode series, Robbins works with six people facing an extreme life challenge, inspiring them to become more resilient and find the inner resources to build better lives and relationships. Find more information on the […]
Two years ago today, TED.com posted its first six TEDTalks. It was a radical notion to share these powerful talks and ideas with the world — but it looks like it was the right notion. This week, TEDTalks notched its 50 millionth view, and we moved to a daily publishing schedule to keep up with […]
With 50 million views since we debuted online two years ago, TED talks have become a powerful cultural force. To celebrate this milestone, we’re releasing a never-before-seen list: the Top 10 TED talks of all time, as of June 2008. With speakers like neuroanatomist Jill Bolte Taylor and global health expert Hans Rosling, the list […]
Explore your web — the needs, the beliefs, the emotions that are controlling you … so there’s more of you to give … and so you can appreciate what’s driving other people. It’s the only way our world’s going to change.
I’m both challenged and excited. My excitement is: I get a chance to give something back. My challenge is: The shortest seminar I usually do is 50 hours.
=======================================================
  background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/errors-alerts/error-sprite._V192240803_.gif");
BODY { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #000000; margin-top: 0px; }
.horizontal-search { font-weight: bold; font-size: small; color: #FFFFFF; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; }
.horizontal-websearch { font-size: x-small; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; padding-left: 12px; }
div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: medium; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
div#leftcol, div#leftcolhidden { float: left; width: 180px; margin:5px 0px 0px 5px; display: inline;}
.noLinkDecoration a.noclick:hover { color: #000000; text-decoration: none; border-bottom: 1px dashed; }
.topnav-active a:link, .topnav-active a:visited { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; color: #E47911; text-decoration: none; }
.eyebrow { font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-weight: bold;text-transform: uppercase; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
.tabon a, .tabon a:visited  { font-size: 10px; color: #FFCC66; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.taboff a, .taboff a:visited { font-size: 10px; color: #000000; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none; text-transform: uppercase; font-weight: bold; line-height: 10px; }
.hr-center { margin: 15px; border-top-width: 1px; border-right-width: 1px; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-width: 1px; border-top-style: dotted; border-right-style: none; border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-top-color: #999999; border-right-color: #999999; border-bottom-color: #999999; border-left-color: #999999; }
.amabot_right .amabot_widget .headline, .amabot_left .amabot_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
.amabot_left .amabot_widget, .amabot_right .amabot_widget, .tigerbox {  padding-top: 8px;  padding-bottom: 8px;  padding-left: 8px;  padding-right: 8px;  border-bottom: 1px solid #C9E1F4;   border-left: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-right: 1px solid #C9E1F4;  border-top: 1px solid #C9E1F4; }
.homepageTitle { font-size: 28pt; font-family: 'Arial Bold', Arial; font-weight: 800; font-variant: normal; color: #80B6CE; line-height:1em; }
.amabot_right div.unified_widget .headline, .amabot_left div.unified_widget .headline { color: #E47911; font-size: .92em; display: block; font-weight: bold; }
td.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, td.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:100%; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; }
td.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2, div.amabot_center div.unified_widget h2 { font-size:135%; font-weight:bold; margin:0 0 0.35em 0px; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore { clear:both; font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0; padding-left:1.15em; text-indent: -1.15em; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; }
div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:link, div.unified_widget p.seeMore a:visited { text-decoration:underline; }
div.unified_widget .carat, div.left_nav .carat { font-weight:bold; font-size:120%; font-family: verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; color:#E47911; margin-right:0.20em; }
div.unified_widget table h4, div.unified_widget h4 { color:#000; font-size:100%; font-weight:normal; margin:0; padding:0; }
td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, td.amabot_left div.unified_widget, div.amabot_right div.unified_widget, div.amabot_left div.unified_widget { border: 1px solid #C9E1F4; padding: 8px; margin-bottom:20px; }
* html td.amabot_right div.unified_widget, * html div.amabot_right div.unified_widget { height:100%; }
div.rcmBody h2 span.homepageTitle { display:block; margin-bottom:-0.3em; margin-top:-0.12em; line-height:1em; }
div.leftnav_popover h2 { font-family:verdana,arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin:0 0 0.5em 0; color:#E47911; line-height: 1em; font-size:100%; padding-right:0.5em; background-color: #FFFFFF; padding-left:0; }
div.leftnav_popover ul.popover_col li { list-style:none; font-size:90%; line-height:1.5em; line-height:1.2em; margin: 0 5px 0.7em 0 }
div.leftnav_popover div.h_rule_popup { clear:left; margin-bottom: 5px; border-bottom:1px dashed #cccccc; }
div.newAndFuture div.asinItem li { list-style-position: outside; margin:0 0 0.35em 20px; padding:0; text-indent: 0; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList li { list-style: none; clear: both; display: list-item; padding-top: 6px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productImage { display: block; float: left;vertical-align: top;text-align: center;width:60px; }
div.unified_widget ol.topList .productText { display: block; float: left; padding-left:10px; vertical-align: top; }
div.pageBanner h1 { font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-weight:normal; font-size:225%; color: #e47911; letter-spacing:-0.03em; margin:0; }
div.pageBanner h1.bkgnd { background-repeat:no-repeat; background-color:#FFFFFF; overflow:hidden; text-indent:-100em; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBox1._V156426185_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxL._V156426179_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/categoryWidget/sBoxR._V156426200_.png);      
    background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png);
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/searchSprite._V336361205_.png) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/loading-large._V192184511_.gif);
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/amznlike_sprite_02._V196113939_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/loading-indicator._V192185253_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif');
        background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/buttons._V243643239_.gif')
    background-image:url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/traffic/s9m/alert-small._V195630253_.gif");
  background:transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/amznlike/donsbeak-sm-up._V197474569_.png) no-repeat 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/author-central/error-sprite-mini.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York Times® Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/left-arrow-semi-rd._V192185131_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
    background: transparent url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/shoveler/right-arrow-semi-rd._V192185269_.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;
For more than 30 years Tony Robbins' passion has been helping people BREAK THROUGH and take their lives to another level--no matter how successful they already are--in the areas that matter most: their business, personal finance, intimate relationships, careers and health.Tony Robbins has helped more than 50 million people from more than 100 countries transform their lives and their businesses through his books, audio programs, health products, live events and personal coaching. He's been fortunate enough to work with everyone from presidents of countries to some of the true legends of entertainment, sports and the business world. But his work is not limited to Fortune 500 CEOs and athletes. He has a special passion for small-business owners, parents and students.Being the Chairman of seven privately held companies and five holding companies in diverse industries keeps him busy. Many of… Read more(please enable JavaScript to read more)
For more than 30 years Tony Robbins' passion has been helping people BREAK THROUGH and take their lives to another level--no matter how successful they already are--in the areas that matter most: their business, personal finance, intimate relationships, careers and health.Tony Robbins has helped more than 50 million people from more than 100 countries transform their lives and their businesses through his books, audio programs, health products, live events and personal coaching. He's been fortunate enough to work with everyone from presidents of countries to some of the true legends of entertainment, sports and the business world. But his work is not limited to Fortune 500 CEOs and athletes. He has a special passion for small-business owners, parents and students.Being the Chairman of seven privately held companies and five holding companies in diverse industries keeps him busy. Many of his companies have become brands that are leaders in their category--from the award winning Namale Resort & Spa in the Fiji Islands, to Twinlab and Metabolife in the sports nutrition field, to the Anthony Robbins brand in personal and professional improvement.Most of Tony's core strategies for creating breakthroughs have come from his  work with some of the biggest names in the business world: He's had the privilege of modeling and distilling the strategies of leaders in some of the fastest-growing companies in the world. He's used these distinctions to help optimize and grow enterprises to new and more profitable levels.One of the things Tony is most proud of is his humanitarian work through the non-profit Anthony Robbins Foundation. He's always believed that if we're blessed enough to have insight and economic opportunities, then we're also blessed enough to be able to give back. To those who much has been given, much is expected. Tony Robbins is extremely blessed to be able to feed more than two million people in 56 countries every year through his International Basket Brigade.
Awaken the Giant Within : How to Take Immediate Control of Your Mental, Emotional, Physical and Financial Destiny... by Anthony Robbins
Unleash the Power Within: Personal Coaching from Anthony Robbins That Will Transform Your Life! by Anthony Robbins
Poder sin límites: La nueva ciencia del desarrollo personal (Vintage Espanol) (Spanish Edition) by Anthony Robbins
Controle su destino / Awaken the Giant Within (Spanish Edition) by Anthony Robbins and Jose Manuel Pomares
  background: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/tile-blue-bg._V46870869_.gif)
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tl._V192184760_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tm._V192184721_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-tr._V192184429_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bl._V192184824_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-bm._V192184603_.gif);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/box-gray-br._V192545463_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tl2._V192545542_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-tr2._V192545537_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-bl._V192545543_.gif);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/dp/box-line-br._V192545543_.gif);
                RT @JamesRobert_: People may doubt what you say, but they will believe what you do. @tonyrobbins
Business is about maximizing your opportunity. Learn how Tony Robbins maximizes every minute of his business day. In celebration of Small Business Week, get access to a free session of Tony’s … Read more
One of my most influential mentors, teachers, and dear friends is Mr. Ken Blanchard,who celebrated his 75th birthday yesterday! I am so grateful to have gotten to know Ken personally over the years … Read more
Imagine that you’re a farmer, and your tax collector gives you two options: (a) get taxed by the seed or  (b) get taxed by the crop. Which option do you choose? Most people will choose (b), by … Read more
            Without JavaScript you will not be able to watch videos. To enable JavaScript, refer to your browser's help pages for instructions.
        Without Adobe Flash Player you will not be able to watch videos. Click here to get the latest Flash Player.
Help us improve our Author Pages by updating your bibliography and submitting a new or current image and biography.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMen’s GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids’ Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV – Amazon’s Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
(Video) The Amazing Life Of Tony Robbins | The Biography Of The #1 Peak Performance Coach                   HomeSuccessStartupsMotivationLifeQuotesVideosNewsAbout  Home / Interviews / (Video) The Amazing Life Of Tony Robbins | The Biography Of The #1 Peak Performance Coach(Video) The Amazing Life Of Tony Robbins | The Biography Of The #1 Peak Performance CoachBy Joel Brown on December 26, 2011        You may know Tony Robbins as The Worlds #1 Peak Performance Coach, a lot of us in fact look up to Tony Robbins and admire this mans passion, drive and enthusiasm to coach hundreds of millions of people to live a happy and successful life.I have been following Tonys work for years now but have only recently really understood where he started out and how his life was before the glitz and the glamour.For Anthony Robbins, it was not all that easy to get where he is today. His rise to the top began in a place where many people struggle to pursue their dreams. Anthony Robbins Biography – (1 of 5) Anthony Robbins Biography – (2 of 5) Anthony Robbins Biography – (3 of 5) Anthony Robbins Biography – (4 of 5) Anthony Robbins Biography – (5 of 5)Joel Brown is the CEO and Founder of Addicted2Success.com. With a long time passion for Entrepreneurship, Self development & Success, Joel started his website with the intention of educating and inspiring likeminded people all over the world to always strive for success no matter what their circumstances. Follow Joel Brown on Twitter or keep upto date with him on Facebook:Facebook.com/JoelBrownA2S← Previous Story (Video) What The Hell Happened To Your New Years Resolution?Next Story → This 16 Year Old App Creator Scored Funding From A Hong Kong BillionaireYou may also like... The 7 Habits Of Highly Respected People 50 Powerful Tony Robbins Quotes That Have Changed My Life 6 Effective Ways To Become A Well Known Authority In Any Niche 6 Commentselaine gordonDecember 26, 2011 at 4:35 pmI never knew his life was like that, what an amazing human being, he has changed the world in soo many ways. great post Joel thanks for the share.ReplyAlex RussellDecember 28, 2011 at 6:54 am“My definition of success is to live your life in a way that causes you to feel a ton of pleasure and very little pain – and because of your lifestyle, have the people around you feel a lot more pleasure than they do pain.”Thanks for posting the video! It was a pleasure to watch him grow.ReplykotoroJanuary 9, 2012 at 5:32 amTony robbins is a good guy, but this was so illuminating to me. he didnt transform himself into confidence he had that from childhood, actually many of his defining charachteristics come from childhood but then he goes on to sell it like its a product he made. the same trend can be found in most professions like this like paul mckenna.ReplyMichelle WildgooseFebruary 28, 2012 at 4:23 amWhat ever it is that he is doing or has done to become the motivator that he is today, giving into the lives of people around him and indeed the world; there is one think that I know and that is, he has surely helped me just by me listening to this awesome video. “Tiny Changes Mean Huge Results” He said “When it seems impossible, when it seems like nothing is going to work, you’re usually just a few …       If you have not seen this one as yet, please enjoy! and share with your friends who may be going through some difficult times.ReplyHafeezur RehmanJuly 17, 2013 at 10:37 pmTony is great humanist.He is deciffering the human thinking machine its health when thinking in success, the success is in front of you.And when thinking unhealthy the failure is there.I salute Tony for he is continously deciffering the human thinking for multiple successes.ReplyNguyenJanuary 6, 2014 at 4:02 amThanks for sharing this valuable background of Tony. I was looking for this and found it now. CheersReplyLeave a Reply Cancel reply      Facebook     PopularLatestComments  Joel Brown | December 15, 201237 Inspirational Quotes That Will Change Your Life  Joel Brown | November 19, 201210 Creative Ways To Make Money Online  Brenton Weyi | April 25, 2013Why Successful People Leave Their Loser Friends Behind  Joel Brown | November 2, 2011The Top 25 Millionaires & Billionaires That Are Using Their Money To Save The World  Joel Brown | April 14, 201330 Famous Quotes That Will Inspire Success In You  Laua Leigh Clarke | June 28, 2013How To Think, To Get What You Want  Joel Brown | November 30, 2011The Top 5 Regrets In Life By Those About to Die  Joel Brown | August 24, 2011(Images) 56 Inspirational Picture Quotes That Will Motivate Your Mind, Body & Soul  Joel Brown | October 24, 2012The Top 17 Richest Celebrity Couples In The World  Chad Howse | December 15, 2011The Top 10 Things Successful People Do To Reach Their Dreams  RSD Todd | June 6, 20145 Worldviews Winners Use to Succeed at the Game of Life  Matthew Ozolins | June 5, 2014The 5 Hard Truths About Chasing Success  Joel Brown | June 4, 2014(Video) How Successful Startups Hire  Jared Kleinert | June 4, 20147 Relationship-Building Tips from NY Times Bestselling Author Keith Ferrazzi  Joel Brown | June 2, 2014Why It’s So Important To Break Out Of Your Comfort Zone  Joel Brown | June 1, 2014(Video) This Guy Has Lived An Epic Life  Joel Brown | June 1, 2014(Motivational Video) Have You Really Truly Lived?  C.M.Nivadha Rajan says:simply clever advice.thank you Mr.todd and Mr...  Monica Gonzalez says:Loved it!!! Big smile in my face....  Rahul Patil says:super information ............thank u .....About Addicted2SuccessOur mission at Addicted2Success is to empower and inspire people by spreading knowledge of self development and life changing stories to the world.We show you what it really takes to become a successful human being. With new motivational videos, interviews, audio and more with your favourite entrepreneurs, life coaches, celebrities and inspirational people from all over the world.Links  RSD Todd | June 6, 20145 Worldviews Winners Use to Succeed at the Game of Life  Matthew Ozolins | June 5, 2014The 5 Hard Truths About Chasing Success  Joel Brown | June 4, 2014(Video) How Successful Startups HireTagsSuccess motivation Success Advice Inspiration Quotes Millionaires Success Tips entrepreneurs Millionaire Entrepreneur Dreams Business Advice Successful people Forbes Tony Robbins Billionaires Steve Jobs Life Failure Billionaire Anthony Robbins Bill Gates Music Industry Rich Startups WinningCopyright © 2014 Addicted2Success.com | Quotes | Motivation | InspirationShare with your friendsYour NameYour EmailRecipient EmailEnter a MessageI read this article and found it very interesting, thought it might be something for you. The article is called (Video) The Amazing Life Of Tony Robbins | The Biography Of The #1 Peak Performance Coach and is located at http://addicted2success.com/interviews/video-the-amazing-life-of-tony-robbins-the-1-peak-performance-coach/.CaptchaSubmit                        
=======================================================
      Sign in with your Google Account (YouTube, Google+, Gmail, Orkut, Picasa, or Chrome) to like BALOOOOBA's video.
      Sign in with your Google Account (YouTube, Google+, Gmail, Orkut, Picasa, or Chrome) to dislike BALOOOOBA's video.
      Sign in with your Google Account (YouTube, Google+, Gmail, Orkut, Picasa, or Chrome) to add BALOOOOBA's video to your playlist.
=======================================================
      Sign in with your Google Account (YouTube, Google+, Gmail, Orkut, Picasa, or Chrome) to like Network Billionaire Videos's video.
      Sign in with your Google Account (YouTube, Google+, Gmail, Orkut, Picasa, or Chrome) to dislike Network Billionaire Videos's video.
      Sign in with your Google Account (YouTube, Google+, Gmail, Orkut, Picasa, or Chrome) to add Network Billionaire Videos's video to your playlist.
=======================================================
Robbins was born Anthony J. Mahavorick in North Hollywood, California. He was raised in Azusa, California, and he attended Glendora High School. His parents divorced when he was seven years old, and his mother later remarried twice. Tony took on the surname of Jim Robbins, his second stepfather. Inspired by motivational speaker Jim Rohn, Robbins began selling his own seminars. He then went on to study neurolinguistic programming and to establish his career. In 1989, Robbins saw success using infomercials to promote his products.
In 1994, a routine medical check revealed a tumor in Robbins' pituitary gland. According to his recounting in Personal Power the tumor was actually an adenoma that had infarcted several years prior. Due to the pressure of the adenoma on his pituitary gland, he had circulating levels of growth hormone several times higher than what would be normal for an adult his age. This had resulted in a subclinical manifestation of the disease known as acromegaly, which doctors told Robbins was responsible for his remarkable growth spurts as a teenager, as well as his large hands and feet (He is 6 feet 7 inches tall, or 201 cm). After consultation with a number of different physicians, Tony eventually decided not to have the adenoma resected, as it was not causing any clinical manifestations, such as organomegaly or heart valve defects.
In a CNN interview in 2001, Robbins said it was difficult to end his 15-year marriage to Becky Robbins, saying it was the toughest decision of his life. He said that he also knew if he stayed with her, he'd be ruining her life and his. Robbins reiterates similar comments about his previous relationship in his recent Ultimate Relationship Program (recorded with family therapist Dr. Cloe Mandanes and also Sage Robbins).
Anthony Robbins calls himself a peak performance coach as opposed to a motivational speaker. Robbins says that he attempts to find out what people do when they are at their peak, and then help them access that peak state whenever necessary, and he believes what he does is more effective than providing a rousing half-time speech and temporary motivation.
Robbins started his career promoting seminars for Jim Rohn, and then started teaching neuro-linguistic programming (NLP) after learning it from NLP co-founder John Grinder, who encouraged him to look into the firewalking experience. In 1983, Robbins located Tolly Burkan and learned how to firewalk from him. Robbins then added firewalking to his seminars, which enabled him to gain media coverage and launch his celebrity status. Robbins later began to teach what he referred to as Neuro-Associative Conditioning (NAC), and recently collaborated with Dr. Cloe Madanes on what they call Human Needs Psychology.
In his Personal Power program, he says that the difference between NAC and NLP, lies in the use of the word 'conditioning' as opposed to 'programming'. Robbins says his use of the word 'conditioning' implies that the subject has greater responsibility for his or her own change, as opposed to being programmed by someone else. Some free products by Tony Robbins can be found here.
In a 2002 newsletter for the James Randi Educational Foundation, Randi comments on some experiences recounted by a participant at a 2002 "Unleash the Power Within" seminar. The participant recalled some experiences that had him question the credibility of Robbins. For instance, the participant questions the basis for some of the assertions made about Robbins' healthy diet system. There was also a demonstration at the seminar by one of Robbins' associates that was intended to show that the EMF from a mobile phone can weaken an arm as part of the marketing of an EMF reduction device. James Randi calls the applied kinesiology used in the EMF demonstration as "scam." 
Roes also relates that some participants arriving with their partners or spouses found themselves separated and paired with strangers, and then were directed to repeatedly massage and confide in these strangers. Some participants were surprised and uncomfortable with this.
The participant was also strongly encouraged to sign up for the next seminar, and then found that, for him, the time span in which he had the opportunity to cancel and obtain a refund was too short.
Freelance writer Steve Salerno in his book Sham: How the Self-Help Movement Made America Helpless, states "NLP has shown up in many settings inside and outside SHAM" (his acronym for the Self-Help and Actualization Movement) but he particularly criticizes Anthony (Tony) Robbins, who he claims "made NLP his own, refining it and personalizing it into what he christened "neuroassociative conditioning" (a claim with which other proponents of NLP would disagree; see history section in NLP article). Salerno criticizes proponents of self-help, including Tony Robbins, stating it "actually fans the fires of discontent, making people feel impaired or somehow deficient as a prelude to (supposedly) curing them." Salerno opines that there are contradictions in Richard Bandler and John Grinder (the co-founders of NLP) ending up in court over who owned the rights to NLP given NLP's promotion in business for negotiations and conflict resolution and also in Tony Robbins having become divorced while marketing products for the "perfect marriage".
William T. Jarvis identifies what he believes are several flaws and misconceptions in the ideas, in particular about health and diet, in Robbins US national best seller, Unlimited Power : The New Science Of Personal Achievement. Robbins believes that deep breathing activates the lymphatic system, and likens the lymphatic system to the sewerage system of the body. Jarvis states that there is no evidence that different breathing makes long-lasting changes in the lymphatic system, but that any effects are temporary. Jarvis agrees with Robbins' encouraging participants to eat more fruit, but criticizes the way it is presented. According to Jarvis, Robbins incorrectly argues that fruit is the perfect food. In contrast Jarvis argues that milk is the closest to being the most complete food. Jarvis states that some of the information about drinking distilled water gives an inaccurate view of how the body metabolic wastes system functions. Jarvis believes that there are misconceptions about health benefits of food combining, which are supposedly based on Herbert Shelton's ideas, and that Robbins' evidence of a positive effect of undereating is flawed. Jarvis also writes that Robbins makes inaccurate claims about dietary protein requirements.
Robbins also recycles an oft-cited but unsubstantiated reference to the "Yale Study of Goals" in Unlimited Power as scientific evidence of the power of positive thought. The anecdote claims that a survey was taken of the 1953 graduating class at Yale, and only 3% of the class had written goals regarding their financial situations. Twenty years later the class was interviewed again, and the 3% of the class who had written goals were worth more than the other 97% of the students combined. This would have been strong evidence of the power of written goal setting, but the alleged Yale study appears to be an urban legend.
PickyDomains.com is world's first risk-free naming service. We can come up with a great domain, name or slogan for you (like we already did for 1500+ clients) for $50 and the best part - you pay ONLY if you like our work, so there is no risk involved.
"I really didn't think it's still possible to find a catchy 5 letter domain name, but pickydomains was able to do it! And the best thing i paid only $50 for it. It's great service i really recommend it."
