=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Willard Carroll "Will" Smith, Jr.[1][2][3] (born September 25, 1968) is an American actor, producer, and rapper. He has enjoyed success in television, film, and music. In April 2007, Newsweek called him the most powerful actor in Hollywood.[4] Smith has been nominated for 4 Golden Globe Awards, 2 Academy Awards, and has won 4 Grammy Awards.
In the late 1980s, Smith achieved modest fame as a rapper under the name The Fresh Prince. In 1990, his popularity increased dramatically when he starred in the popular television series The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air. The show ran for nearly 6 years (1990–96) on NBC and has been syndicated consistently on various networks since then. In the mid-1990s, Smith moved from television to film, and ultimately starred in numerous blockbuster films. He is the only actor to have 8 consecutive films gross over $100 million in the domestic box office, and 11 consecutive films gross over $150 million internationally and the only one to have 8 consecutive films in which he starred open at #1 spot in the domestic box office tally.[5]
Will Smith is ranked as the most bankable star worldwide by Forbes[6] despite the box-office and critical disappointment of his 2013 film, After Earth,[7] co-starring Jaden Smith. 16 of the 20 fiction films he has acted in have accumulated worldwide gross earnings of over $100 million each, and 5 took in over $500 million each in global box office receipts. As of 2014, his films have grossed $6.6 billion in global box office.[8] He received Best Actor Oscar nominations for Ali and The Pursuit of Happyness.
Smith was born and raised in West Philadelphia to refrigeration engineer Willard Carroll Smith, Sr. and Philadelphia school board administrator Caroline Bright. He also lived in Germantown in Northwest Philadelphia.[9][10] He was raised Baptist.[11] His parents separated when he was thirteen,[12] but did not actually divorce until around 2000.[13][dead link]
Though widely reported, it is untrue that Smith turned down a scholarship to attend the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT); he never applied to the school,[14] although he was admitted to a "pre-engineering program" there.[13] According to Smith, "My mother, who worked for the School Board of Philadelphia, had a friend who was the admissions officer at MIT. I had pretty high SAT scores and they needed black kids, so I probably could have gotten in. But I had no intention of going to college."[15]
Smith started as the MC of the hip-hop duo DJ Jazzy Jeff & The Fresh Prince, with his childhood friend Jeffrey "DJ Jazzy Jeff" Townes as turntablist and producer,[16] as well as Ready Rock C (Clarence Holmes) as the human beat box. The trio was known for performing humorous, radio-friendly songs, most notably "Parents Just Don't Understand" and "Summertime".[16] They gained critical acclaim and won the first Grammy awarded in the Rap category (1988).[16]
Smith spent money freely around 1988 and 1989 and underpaid his income taxes.[16] The Internal Revenue Service eventually assessed a $2.8 million tax debt against Smith, took many of his possessions, and garnished his income.[17] Smith was nearly bankrupt in 1990, when the NBC television network signed him to a contract and built a sitcom, The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, around him.[16]
The show was successful and began his acting career. Smith set for himself the goal of becoming "the biggest movie star in the world," studying box office successes' common characteristics.[12]
Smith's first major roles were in the drama Six Degrees of Separation (1993) and the action film Bad Boys (1995) in which he starred opposite of Martin Lawrence.
In 1996, Smith starred as part of an ensemble cast in Roland Emmerich's Independence Day. The film was a massive blockbuster, becoming the second highest grossing film in history at the time and establishing Smith as a prime box office draw.[18] He later struck gold again in the summer of 1997 alongside Tommy Lee Jones in the summer hit Men in Black playing Agent J. In 1998, Smith starred with Gene Hackman in Enemy of the State.[16]
He turned down the role of Neo in The Matrix in favor of Wild Wild West (1999). Despite the disappointment of Wild Wild West, Smith has said that he harbors no regrets about his decision, asserting that Keanu Reeves's performance as Neo was superior to what Smith himself would have achieved,[19] although in interviews subsequent to the release of Wild Wild West he stated that he "made a mistake on Wild Wild West. That could have been better."[20]
In 2005, Smith was entered into the Guinness Book of World Records for attending three premieres in a 24-hour time span.[21]
On December 10, 2007, Smith was honored at Grauman's Chinese Theatre on Hollywood Boulevard. Smith left an imprint of his hands and feet outside the world renowned theater in front of many fans.[23] Later that month, Smith starred in the film I Am Legend, released December 14, 2007. Despite marginally positive reviews,[24] its opening was the largest ever for a film released in the United States during December. Smith himself has said that he considers the film to be "aggressively unique".[25] A reviewer said that the film's commercial success "cemented [Smith's] standing as the number one box office draw in Hollywood."[26] On December 1, 2008, TV Guide reported that Smith has been selected as one of America’s top ten most fascinating people of 2008 for a Barbara Walters ABC special that aired on December 4, 2008.[27]
Smith was reported in 2008 to be developing a film entitled The Last Pharaoh, in which he will star as Taharqa.[28]
Men in Black III opened on May 25, 2012 with Smith again reprising his role as Agent J. This was his first major starring role in four years.
On August 19, 2011, it was announced[29] that Smith had returned to the studio with producer La Mar Edwards to work on his fifth studio album. Edwards has worked with artists such as T.I., Chris Brown, and Game. Smith's most recent studio album, Lost and Found, was released in 2005.
Smith and his son Jaden played father and son in two productions: the 2006 biographical drama The Pursuit of Happyness, and the science fiction film After Earth, which was released on May 31, 2013.
Smith will star opposite Margot Robbie, in the upcoming romance comedy-drama Focus, as Nicky Spurgeon, a veteran con artist who takes a young, attractive woman under his wing, but things get complicated when they become romantically involved. Focus will be released on February 27, 2015.[30]
Smith was set to star in the sci-fi thriller Brilliance, an adaptation of Marcus Sakey's novel of the same name scripted by Jurassic Park writer David Koepp. But the actor left the project.[31]
According to Variety, Smith is in talks to star in an untitled football drama based on the GQ magazine article Game Brain by Jeanne Marie Laskas. Smith would play Dr. Bennett Omalu, a forensic neuropathologist who became the first person to discover Chronic traumatic encephalopathy in a football player's brain. CTE, as it's known, is a degenerative disease caused by severe trauma to the head that can only be discovered after death. Naturally, this afflicted several football players as they entered their twilight years, and those that suffered from CTE either died from the condition or failed to manage the pain and committed suicide. Smith's involvement is mostly due to his last-minute exit from the sci-fi thriller-drama Brilliance.[32]
Nobel Peace Prize Concert December 11, 2009, in Oslo, Norway: Smith with wife Jada and children Jaden and Willow
Smith married Sheree Zampino in 1992. They had one son, Willard Carroll "Trey" Smith III on November 11, 1992,[33] and divorced in 1995. Trey appeared in his father's music video for the 1998 single "Just the Two of Us".
Smith married actress Jada Koren Pinkett in 1997. Together they have two children: Jaden Christopher Syre Smith (born 1998), his co-star in The Pursuit of Happyness, and Willow Camille Reign Smith (born 2000), who appeared as his daughter in I Am Legend. Smith and his brother Harry own Treyball Development Inc.,[34] a Beverly Hills-based company named after Trey. Smith and his family reside in Los Angeles, California.[35]
Smith was consistently listed in Fortune Magazine's "Richest 40" list of the forty wealthiest Americans under the age of 40. He donated $4,600 to the 2008 presidential campaign of Democrat Barack Obama.[36] On December 11, 2009, Smith and his wife hosted the Nobel Peace Prize Concert in Oslo, Norway - to celebrate Obama's winning of the prize.[37]
Will Smith was raised in a Baptist household, and while he remained a Christian for years and never identified as a Scientologist,[38] he no longer identifies as religious.[39] Though he is not a Scientologist and has denied rumors claiming him as a member of the Church of Scientology, he has spoken favorably about it, saying "I just think a lot of the ideas in Scientology are brilliant and revolutionary and non-religious."[40][41]
Smith gave $1.3 million to charities in 2007, of which $450,000 went to two Christian ministries, and $122,500 went to three Scientology organizations; the remaining beneficiaries included "a Los Angeles mosque, other Christian-based schools and churches, and [.....] the Yitzhak Rabin Memorial Center in Israel."[42] Smith and his wife have also founded a private elementary school in Calabasas, California, the New Village Leadership Academy.[43] Federal tax filing showed that Will Smith donated $1.2 million to the school in 2010.[44]
In 2012, he expressed support for the legalizing of same-sex marriage, in an endorsement of President Barack Obama's declaration to adopt this stance on the issue.[45]
Robert Downey, Jr., Chris Evans, Mark Ruffalo, Chris Hemsworth, Scarlett Johansson and Jeremy Renner vs. Tom Hiddleston – The Avengers (2013)
Categories: 1968 births20th-century American male actors20th-century American singers21st-century American male actors21st-century American singersMale actors from Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaAfrican-American businesspeopleAfrican-American film directorsAfrican-American film producersAfrican-American male actorsAfrican-American male rappersAfrican-American record producersAfrican-American sports executives and administratorsAmerican beatboxersAmerican male film actorsAmerican male television actorsAmerican male voice actorsColumbia Records artistsFilm directors from PennsylvaniaGrammy Award-winning artistsInterscope Records artistsLiving peoplePhiladelphia 76ers ownersRappers from Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaHidden categories: Pages with login required references or sourcesAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from May 2014Use mdy dates from March 2013Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesArticles with hCardsArticles with dead external links from April 2014Commons category with local link same as on WikidataMusicBrainz artist same as WikidataArticles with MusicBrainz artist linksWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with MusicBrainz identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Will Smith was the second of four children of Caroline (school board employee) and Willard C. Smith Sr. (owner of a refrigeration company). He grew up in a middle class area in West Philadelphia called Wynnefield. Will attended the Overbrook High School located in the Overbrook section of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He got the nickname "Prince" because of the way he could charm his way out of trouble. Bright student Will also signed up with the high-status Julia Reynolds Masterman Laboratory and Demonstration School in Philadelphia.Pursuing music, he met Jeffrey A. Townes at a party and they soon began performing together as "D.J. Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince". When the duo took off in popularity, Smith made and spent a lot of money on a house, cars and jewelry, leading to his near-bankruptcy in his early twenties.Luckily, in 1989, he met Benny Medina, who had an idea for a sitcom based on his life in Beverly Hills. Smith loved the idea as did N.B.C. which put on the The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air (1990). The plot was simple - Will basically played himself; a street-smart West Philly kid transplanted to Beverly Hills. The series lasted six years. During that time, he ventured into movies where the critics took note of him in Six Degrees of Separation (1993). With the success that came with the action picture Bad Boys (1995), Will's movie career was set. He had a huge Blockbuster hit with Independence Day (1996), where he plays the alien-battling Marine Corps Captain Steven Hiller.
      Met wife Jada Pinkett Smith when she tried out for the role of his girlfriend on The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air (1990). The role eventually went to Nia Long.
      Has three children. Son, Willard Smith III (Trey Smith) born in November 11, 1992, with Sheree Fletcher. Son, Jaden Christopher Syre Smith (Jaden Smith) born July 8, 1998 and daughter, Willow Camille Reign Smith (Willow Smith) born October 31, 2000 with Jada Pinkett Smith.
      Has said he based his character Captain Steven Hiller in Independence Day (1996) on his favorite big screen hero, Harrison Ford, most notably his performances of Han Solo in Star Wars (1977) and its sequels.
      Received the first ever Grammy Award for Best Rap Performance, for the song "Parents Just Don't Understand" in 1989 with his partner Jeffrey A. Townes (aka Jazzy Jeff).
      As a public role model, hosted the Presidential Inaugural Celebration for Youth, as part of the Gala for President Bill Clinton. [January 1993]
      Graduate of Philly's legendary Overbrook High School, whose alumni include Wilt Chamberlain, Hal Lear, Wali 'Wonder' Jones, Walt Hazzard, The Dovells, The Orlons, DeeDee Sharp, etc. and, in tribute to his student years there, his production company is called Overbrook Entertainment.
      Attended the prestigious Julia Reynolds Masterman Laboratory and Demonstration School in Philadelphia, as well as Catholic school and public Overbrook HS.
      Dropped from Columbia Records as an artist after lackluster sales of his third solo album, which was self-titled, and greatest hits compilation. [Summer 2003]
      Incorporates the line "Aw, hell no!" into all his movies as a running catch phrase like Arnold Schwarzenegger's "I'll be back!".
      Gained a place in the Guinness World Records book for most public appearances in 12 hours, by attending three red carpet "premieres" for Hitch (2005) on 22nd February 2005. He walked the red carpet and introduced the film at Manchester, Birmingham, and finally for the premiere in London, England.
      Once stated that in his whole career, he most regrets turning down the part of Neo in The Matrix (1999) and the film that he most regrets making was Wild Wild West (1999).
      He has been at his adult height of 6' 2" since he was 13, although he is now about 60 pounds heavier than he first was when he reached this height.
      Premiere Magazine ranked him as #44 on a list of the Greatest Movie Stars of All Time in their Stars in Our Constellation feature (2005).
      He sang a few lines "Wild Wild West" to his on screen cousin Carleton, a movie in which he starred 6 years later.
      Was considered for the role of "Mr. Smith" in Mr. & Mrs. Smith (2005) before Brad Pitt was cast.
      Is supposedly a huge fan of the Swedish well-known (but barely known in the U.S.) melodic heavy metal band Soilwork.
      Ranked #14 on Premiere's 2006 "Power 50" list. Had ranked #18 in 2005. He is the second-highest ranked actor, behind only Tom Cruise.
      He and Jada Pinkett Smith were forced to leave their home in California because a bush fire threatened to destroy it and several other houses in the same area. [October 2005]
      His 1995 divorce from ex-wife Sheree Fletcher led to a $900,000 lump sum divorce settlement for Zampino plus $24,000 per month in alimony and child support; this equals $288,000 a year.
      Lost his place in the Guiness World Records book for most public appearances in 12 hours to German actors Jürgen Vogel and Daniel Brühl, who attended four red carpet premieres of their movie Ein Freund von mir (2006), one more than Will (22 October 2006).
      In the 1998 rap lyrics of "Gettin' Jiggy", Will Smith says that Muhammad Ali would call him "The Greatest." Two and a half years later, he played the title role in Ali (2001).
      An animated caricature of him appeared in Men in Black: The Series (1997) (the animated series adaptation of Men in Black (1997)), alongside a caricature of his MIB co-star Tommy Lee Jones, set against a shot that parodied one of the famous low angle shots of a building being threatened by a flying saucer, an in-joke reference to Smith's 1996 hit Men in Black: The Series (1997), which preceded Men in Black (1997).
      His character from Men in Black (1997), Agent Jay, was not originally written to specifically be a black man. In fact, the role was offered to Caucasian actors Chris O'Donnell and David Schwimmer before Smith accepted the part.
      Had to undergo treatment on his shoulder in a New York hospital after he suffered a strain. [March 2007]
      December 2007 - According to Forbes, for each dollar he got paid, Smith's movies averaged $10 of gross income.
      Is often called "Mr. July" by the media due to the fact that most of his summer blockbusters open in July.
      He and his daughter Willow Smith both had movies opening 2 July, 2008. His was Hancock (2008), hers was Kit Kittredge: An American Girl (2008).
      As of Hancock (2008), he holds the record for the actor to star in the most consecutive $100 million-grossing movies (8).
      Was in consideration for the part of Curtis Taylor Jr in Dreamgirls (2006). However Jamie Foxx was cast instead.
      He has solved Rubik's cubes in both The Fresh Prince of Bel Air and The Pursuit of Happiness. This is a real talent of his; he has shown on live TV that he can solve a Rubik's Cube in under 55 seconds.
      Living in Beijing, China for the next three months with his family while his son, Jaden Smith, films The Karate Kid (2010). [July 2009]
      Recently purchased a home in south Stockholm, Sweden because he feels it is the best place to relax. [August 2004]
      Attended a press conference in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil to promote I Am Legend (2007). He stayed at the famous Copacabana Palace Hotel. [January 2008]
      [on his first season of The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air (1990)] "I was trying so hard. I would memorize the entire script, then I'd be lipping everybody's lines while they were talking. When I watch those episodes, it's disgusting. My performances were horrible."
      On the change in his body that Ali's intense physical training required: "I'm human viagra. I'm Willagra. I'm a sex machine now. I'm raring to go every second of the day. My wife's loving it."
      My biggest emotional defeat and the greatest emotional pain I've had as an actor was when 'Wild Wild West' opened up to $52 million. The movie wasn't good. And it hurt so bad to be the No. 1 movie, to open at $52 million and to know the movie wasn't good.
      It's a whole different thing being an actor. A rapper is about being completely true to yourself. Being an actor is about changing who you are. You make yourself a different person. You become a different person.
      You're so much stronger when your partner is strong. I honestly believe there is no woman for me but Jada. Of all the women I've met - and there've been a few - no one can handle me the way Jada does. Once you feel someone locked in on you, it's no contest. As fine as other women can be, as tempting sexually, I'm not going anywhere. This is it. I can't imagine what anyone else could offer.
      I really believe that a man and a woman together, raising a family, is the purest form of happiness we can experience.
      If you're not willing to work hard, let someone else do it. I'd rather be with someone who does a horrible job, but gives 110% than with someone who does a good job and gives 60%.
      My grandmother once told me, 'Don't let failure go to your heart and don't let success go to your head.'
      [on Star Wars] "I might have been eight or nine. That was the movie that put me into a space where the science fiction element was almost a spiritual connection for me. I thought, if someone could imagine that and then put it on a screen and make me feel like that... and my entire career I've been trying to make people feel like Star Wars made me feel."
      About Aishwarya Rai Bachchan: "I really wanted to work with her in Hitch (2005) but she was shooting Bride & Prejudice (2004) at the time and she couldn't do it. She has this powerful energy where she doesn't have to say anything, do anything, she can just stand there. Anything she's making, I'll be there" (February 2006).
      If I weren't a musician/actor, I'd be a computer engineer. I was always good at math. I probably would have been the guy who invented the remote control if I'd been around then.
      When I started in movies, I said, 'I want to be the biggest movie star in the world.' The biggest movie stars make the biggest movies, so [my producing partner James Lassiter and I] looked at the top 10 movies of all time. At that point, they were all special-effects movies. So Independence Day, no-brainer. Men in Black, no-brainer. I, Robot, no-brainer.
      [on refusing to kiss Anthony Michael Hall in Six Degrees of Separation (1993)] It was very immature on my part. I was thinking, 'How are my friends in Philly going to think about this?' I wasn't emotionally stable enough to artistically commit to that aspect of the film. In a movie with actors and a director and writer of this caliber, for me to be the one bringing something cheesy to it... This was a valuable lesson for me. Either you do it or you don't.
      Give me a problem, I'll give you a solution. I just love living. That's a feeling you can't fake. I'm glad every single day. I think that even the camera can feel that I'm a happy man.
      (1996) I was nine and my older sister must have been 15. Some guys pulled a knife on me and took my money when I was coming home from school. I came in crying and my sister asked me why. I told her and she right away grabbed a baseball bat. We walked around for four hours looking for this guy. She had no concern for her own safety. Somebody had done something to her brother and she was going to do everything in her power to make sure they never did it again. We never found the guys, but that type of love and commitment is what I search for. My mother and my grandmother. That same kind of unconditional love. All women have the organs. But that's not what excites me about being in a relationship with women, that's not what makes me feel good. What I want to know is, 'Are you gonna grab a bat when someone steals my money?' Now, Miss Jada's so little, she might need two bats, but she's more than happy to go grab 'em. Outside of our love relationship, she's my best friend, too.
      (1996, Movieline Magazine) There's probably only four women in Los Angeles that have intimate knowledge of Will Smith. You know, I had my brief period, a short time in my life, but that got real old real quick. I want to love somebody. I just always prefer one woman. The intimacy is so much more enjoyable when it's with someone you love. Because I know I can pretty much have sex with anyone I choose, it becomes less appealing. It's no challenge. A successful relationship is much harder than sleeping with as many women as you can sleep with.
      (1996, on fame) There are members of the press who make their living infringing on people's private moments. You never know where these people are going to be. They stay outside your house and climb the gates and walk around looking in your windows. Now I've got a bunch of 140-pound Rottweilers. It's just a shame to have to live like that, because I like people so much. Still, you don't know what people will do. You can never feel completely safe. You've got to look around all the time. I'm kind of used to that, being black, watching out for white people coming to get you. Now it's tenfold...I'm having trouble dealing with the concept that you sacrifice your right to courtesy by being a celebrity. Because I'm a celebrity, someone is allowed to block my way from getting into my car. If I'm in the middle of a conversation, because I'm a celebrity, someone can come up to me and go, 'Can you sign this?' You're supposed to do the nice thing and sign, because if you don't, it's like, 'He's such an asshole. He doesn't sign autographs.' You're in mid-gulp at a restaurant and people ask you to put down your fork, take some dirty pen that you have no idea of where it's been, sign some filthy piece of paper ripped off a paper bag they found outside, then go back and put your hands in your food.
      (1996, on fame) I'm pretty good at diffusing potential situations, but I find myself having to diffuse them a lot more often than before. I heard Sylvester Stallone say once that after he made Rocky, everybody wanted to fight him. Well, every big guy wants to fight me now. They go. 'Yo. I ain't no alien-hit me,' and I'm like, 'I don't want to hit you. I just want to get some cheese from the supermarket to make grilled cheese sandwiches for my son.' Why do people want to fight me? What did I do? I think of myself as a pretty calm, likable guy. It's really weird. I was nonthreatening on 'The Fresh Prince,' so nobody wanted to fight me, but then I buffed up for Independence Day, came on a little cocky, and suddenly people want to knock me down. People who know me from TV think I've seen them in their underwear drinking on their couch, so the response is more familiar, more friendly. Film gives you almost God status, you know? It makes people crazy.
      (1996, on fame) I was in Manhattan making Men In Black and this girl was driving along, saw me and started mouthing over and over, 'Oh, my God. Oh, my God,' then crashed into another car." Smith shakes his head in amazement. "Now, she gets out of her car, but she doesn't say, "Oh. I crashed into the back of a car!' She runs over to me and asks for my autograph. That's when I thought: This is real different. Then, I was at the Virgin Megastore in Manhattan and this girl came up to me, pulled her shirt up and asked me to sign her breasts with a Sharpie. I mean, she's standing there in the middle of the store with her titties hanging out and I'm like, 'Listen, those are really nice breasts, but this is really an inappropriate time and place.' In another store, this toothless 80-year-old lady came up to me, grabbed my face and tried to kiss me right on the lips. I said, 'Now, ma'am, if I walked up to you, grabbed your face and tried to kiss you on the mouth, the cops would give me a Rodney King and take me right to jail.' And she was like, 'Oh, slop being mean. Just give me a kiss.'
      (1996) As for my life right now, the picture I always see in my mind is of that incredible game Michael Jordan had where he had 63 points. He just turned to the TV cameras and shrugged, like, 'Hey, I'm just throwing 'em up there and they're going in.' That's how I feel. I'd love to say that I'm brilliant, that I'm the second coming. The real answer is that I'm blessed. I throw 'em up from wherever I am and they just keep going in. How cool is that?
      (1996) I'm above average in talent, but where I think I excel is psychotic drive. All I need is for somebody to say I can't do something and this crazy switch inside me makes me attack whatever I'm doing. Psychotic drive is where I excel over people that are probably more naturally gifted.
      (1996) In film and TV, there's a natural, gradual decline to your career. In the music business, it's literally one day. The day your record hits the radio, you explode to number one on the countdown. You're the man, you're large, you're doing show after show. Then you're over just that fast. I had the ups of people telling me, 'You're the man, Will.' then the downs of selling your house because you can't afford all this stuff you bought because everybody told you were the man. The money disappeared. But, my God, I learned about myself because I had the ups and all the downs...I've been in really ugly situations, hostage situations, on the road with my music. You know, you get out to Albany, Georgia and the promoter didn't make his money, so he doesn't want to pay you. I mean, during the first part of my music career, we signed our first deal with a gangster who later tried to shoot us. He was a penny-ante gangster, but the bullets were for real. As we were driving away, he shot at the car five or six times. It was pretty scary, but you don't think about that while it's happening, you're just trying to get away. He would have killed us if he could actually shoot.
      [on turning down the lead role in The Matrix (1999)] You know, _The Matrix_ is a difficult concept to pitch. In the pitch, I just didn't see it. I watched Keanu's performance - and very rarely do I say this - but I would have messed it up. I would have absolutely messed up The Matrix (1999). At that point I wasn't smart enough as an actor to let the movie be. Whereas Keanu was smart enough to just let it be. Let the movie and the director tell the story, and don't try and perform every moment.
      As a child I watched 'Dallas', and that was the vision for my life as long as I can remember. The property had a name! It was called 'Southfork'. How does a property have a name? Ours was just 'Row House'.
      [on passing on the role of Django in Django Unchained (2012)] Django wasn't the lead, so it was like, I need to be the lead. The other character was the lead! I was like, 'No, Quentin, please, I need to kill the bad guy!' I thought it was brilliant. Just not for me.
      [on Justin Bieber] I talk to Justin once a week, and he is suffering from immature adulthood in the media and surrounding world. He's not doing anything that a normal nineteen-year-old wouldn't want to do and wouldn't need to do to become a man. The transition from boyhood to manhood is a very difficult transition that he's handling on a world stage better than 95 percent of the people who talk shit about him.
      I love to create. There's something about making movies that just really gets me excited. It's not the movie-making probably as much as the storytelling. I love people being wrapped in a story and being able to deliver that emotional punch line at the end of the story.
      [in an interview for "After Earth" talking about what scares him the most in cinema] It's been an absolute necessity that the movie be a blockbuster, but I think I'm going to start moving out of that and finding more danger in my artistic choices.
$5,500,000 (back-end for producing, based on worldwide gross of $358,000,000 plus share of DVD and pay-TV revenue)      
=======================================================
                From early success as The Fresh Prince, he has become one of Hollywood's most powerful players, notching up hits on the movie and music charts as well as gaining acclaim for Ali.Willard Christopher Smith Jr, was born to parents Caroline, a school board employee, and Willard C Smith, the owner of a refrigeration company. His middle class up-bringing saw him attend a Catholic school, Overbrook High School, despite his family being Baptist. His West Philadelphia neighbourhood was a melting pot of cultures with Orthodox Jews co-existing with a large Muslim population. Smith was a good student whose charming personality and quick tongue were renowned for getting him out of trouble, a trait for which he soon gained the nickname “Prince’’. Smith began rapping at age 12 emulating heroes like Grandmaster Flash but tingeing his rhymes with a comedic element that would later become his trademark. At 16 Smith met a DJ at a party by the name of Jeff Townes. The pair became friends and the duo DJ Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince was born. "I had pretty high SAT scores and they (MIT) needed black kids, so I probably could have gotten in. But I had no intention of going to college."  The pair began producing music but steered clear of the Gangsta Rap sound that was emerging on the West Coast in groups like Public Enemy and NWA. The Fresh Prince rapped about teenage preoccupations in a clean, curse-free style that middle America found safe and lapped up. The pair’s first single, “Girls Ain’t Nothing But Trouble”, was a hit in 1986 and their first album, Rock The House, put pay to any thoughts of attending college with Smith becoming a millionaire at 18. Early on it was reported that Smith had turned down a scholarship to Boston’s elite Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) but Smith later scotched the rumour telling an interviewer: "My mother, who worked for the School Board of Philadelphia, had a friend who was the admissions officer at MIT. I had pretty high SAT scores and they needed black kids, so I probably could have gotten in. But I had no intention of going to college." In 1988, DJ Jazzy Jeff and The Fresh Prince continued their success with the album He’s The DJ, I’m The Rapper featuring the radio-friendly singles “Parents Just Don't Understand”, “Brand New Funk” and “Nightmare on My Street”. The album won the first ever Grammy Award for a Rap Performance. That album was followed by And In This Corner... which, while not hitting the heights of its predecessor, continued the pair’s rise to stardom. Two year’s later, Smith began his remarkable cross-over into acting. Drawing on his experiences of fledgling stardom, NBC signed Smith to star in a sitcom about a street-smart kid from Philadelphia being shipped off to California to live with wealthy relatives in Bel-Air. Playing on his rapper persona and at times featuring DJ Jazzy Jeff, The Fresh Prince Of Bel-Air was a huge success that ran for six seasons. As well as the show, the rap duo kept producing music until 1993. The 1991 album Homebase produced the hits “Summertime” and “Ring My Bell” and their final album together, 1993’s Code Red, was notable for “Boom! I Shake The Room”.While still making The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, Smith began a second cross-over into movies. Small roles in the drama Where The Day Takes You and the comedy Made In America were followed by a critically-acclaimed lead in the drama Six Degrees of Separation. As in The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air Smith played a charming street-wise kid moving among a wealthy elite but in the film his character was portrayed as a psychologically-complex gay hustler. The film enjoyed moderate success but its title idea has become a household term for the closeness of human society. Smith’s first steps into super-stardom came with his next film Bad Boys. The high-budget cop movie saw him team up with comic Martin Lawrence, breaking away from the black cop-white cop formula that had been so successful for Beverly Hills Cop and the Lethal Weapon series. The two black leads proved an instant success and Smith, playing the smooth, serious, cop to Lawrence’s clown, was established as leading-man material. The 1996, epic sci-fi disaster movie Independence Day was his next assignment and it confirmed him as a major player in Hollywood and a go-to guy for the all-important summer blockbuster. Smith played an air force pilot leading the counter-attack against the invading alien forces and his comedic talents effortlessly transformed into the pithy one-liners that all action hero leads need to be able to drop while dispatching their enemies. Smith fought aliens again in his next blockbuster, the 1997 sci-fi-action-comedy Men In Black. Playing opposite Tommy Lee Jones, Smith chewed up the blue screen as the new recruit to Jones’s old hand. Smith sang the theme song and its inclusion on his album Big Willie Style, along with the hit song “Gettin’ Jiggy Wit It”, meant Smith had two successes on his hands at the same time. Another Jerry Bruckheimer blockbuster followed with the slick conspiracy thriller Enemy of the State playing opposite Gene Hackman. The string of four hits came to an end in 1999 with Wild Wild West, a sci-fi-cowboy-comedy caper with Kevin Kline. Despite the film’s failure, the track Smith cut for the title track was a hit on his album Willennium. The golf movie The Legend of Bagger Vance was next with Smith playing the caddie to Matt Damon’s out-of-sorts swinger. Ali, based on boxing legend Muhammad Ali, saw Smith return to critical acclaim. His turn as the charismatic boxing great saw Smith put in the performance of his life, training and disciplining himself to extraordinary lengths to do justice to the athleticism, and ego, of Ali. The film under-performed at the box-office despite a record-breaking opening day but Smith’s performance was good enough to be nominated for a Best Actor Oscar. A number of sequels were next with Smith reprising his roles in Men In Black and Bad Boys. Neither were flops but they were both nowhere near as successful as their predecessors. Staying with the sci-fi-action theme Smith moved on to I, Robot in 2004. The Isaac Asimov adaptation saw Smith playing a cop in 2035 investigating a murder by a robot and then battling a robot insurgency.Smith’s smooth-talking charmer persona was put to use in the 2005 romantic comedy Hitch. Smith played a ladies’ man dating consultant who helps luckless guys with their romantic moves but who finds his powers are ineffectual on the girl he really wants.  In 2005, the actor was recognised by the Grauman's Chinese Theatre on Hollywood Boulevard where he left his handprints in cement in front of lots of fans. Smith also penned the theme-song to Hitch and included it on his album 'Lost and Found'. Hitch was a massive success and was followed by another critical and financial hit, the 2006 rags-to-riches tale, 'The Pursuit of Happyness'. Starring alongside his real-life son Jaden, Smith captivated audiences with the story of a solo father who has to build a life from scratch. He received his second Academy Award nomination for Best Actor for his performance. Smith has been married twice. His first marriage in 1992 lasted only three years but produced a son, Willard Smith III, who is also known as Trey. He has been married to actress Jada Pinkett Smith since 1997. The couple have a son, Jaden, who was born in 1998 and a daughter, Willow, born in 2000. Like their parents, the offspring carry with them the music and acting genes and have since made their mark on the entertainment scene, with support from their connected relations. Smith produced his son's hit remake of 'The Karate Kid', which was released in 2010, and is also overseeing the career of daughter Willow, who is signed to Jay-Z's record label.  Like many in Hollywood, Smith is politically liberal and made donations to the presidential campaign of President Barack Obama. He is a fan of chess and video games and, a good son, Smith is known to take his mother on holiday every year, usually to the Canyon Ranch spa in Tucson, Arizona. The president has stated that Smith should play Obama in a film as he "has the ears". The pair have discussed making a film about the 2008 election but this will only happen when the president has finished his term, Despite being one of Hollywood's most bankable stars, Smith did not star in a lot of movies between 2007 and 2010, perhaps due to his concentration on his children's work. He appeared alongside his daughter in 2007's 'I Am Legend', a remake of the Charlton Heston last-man-on-earth film Omega Man, where he battled blood-thirsty vampires and won. Next came Hancock, which earned him a nomination for the Saturn Award for Best Actor for portraying an alcoholic anti-superhero in one of 2008's big summer blockbusters. The same year also saw him appear in 'Seven Pounds'. On 1 December 2008, he was selected as being one of America's top ten most fascinating people of the year in a Barbara Waters ABC Special. He has taken a break since then and will next be appearing in 'Men in Black III', set for release in 2012, and' One Thousand AE' in 2013. On 19 August 2011, it was announced that Smith has returned to the music studio with La Mar Edwards, who has worked with Chris Brown and The Game, to record a new album.  
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
The history of pop icons attempting to make it in Hollywood is a long and often sad one. Cher was a big success, with Jon Bon Jovi looking good for the future, while the likes of David Bowie and Mick Jagger have made many a sorry attempt to cut it. The world of rap has a far better record of producing film stars. Tupac caused a major stir before his untimely death, LL Cool J's star is rising, as is Queen Latifah's. And then there's the biggest of them all - Will Smith, formerly known as The Fresh Prince, surely the most successful crossover star of the modern era.Born Willard Christopher Smith Jr on October 25th, 1968, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Smith grew up amidst the middle-classes, his mother serving on the school board and his father owning a refrigeration company, installing and maintaining freezer cabinets in supermarkets. The second of four children (the younger Harry and Ellen are twins), Will was a bright child, constantly playing upon his natural charm, a habit which, at Philly's legendary Overbrook High School, earned him the nickname Prince (he'd also star at the city's Julia Reynolds Masterman Laboratory and Demonstration School). His upbringing would see him experience many different social circles. The Smiths were a Baptist family, yet Will would attend a Catholic school. His neighbourhood was half populated by Orthodox Jews, and close by was a strongly Muslim area. School was 90% white, but 90% of Smith's playmates were black. He learned how to be liked by everyone.Influenced both by Eddie Murphy and new hip-hop heroes like Grandmaster Flash, Will began rapping at the age of 12, quickly developing his own slick, semi-comic style. Then, at age 16, he met the man with whom he would score his first worldwide success. At a party in Philadelphia, he fired a fart spray into a fan (a mechanical fan, that is, not a fan of his music), impressing no one. No one except DJ Jazzy Jeff - real name Jeff Townes - who had himself been working at music since the age of 10. The pair became firm friends and began to collaborate, Jeff as DJ, Will as rapper (having expanded his nickname to Fresh Prince). So vigorous was their pursuit of musical excellence that Will even turned down a scholarship to Boston's super-prestigious MIT in order to follow his dream. At least, that's the legend built up around this sophisticated performer. Smith himself later claimed that MIT was mentioned because he had very high SAT scores and his mother knew the admissions officer there. But there was little real chance of his being accepted, he'd say, as "I was a B-student that did C-level work. Occasionally I'd pull it out the bag and get an A". Despite his parents' wishes, he didn't want to go to college anyway - the music was now his thing and, come college time, he'd already made a huge success of it.. The pair's music was quirky, cheery and squeaky clean, a far cry from the new Gangsta Rap that was beginning to rear its bloodied head, and mainstream success was near-immediate. Their first single, Girls Ain't Nothing But Trouble (sampling the theme to I Dream Of Jeannie) was a hit in 1986, boosting the sales of their debut album Rock The House and making Will a millionaire at the age of 18. He wouldn't stay rich for long, though. Forgetting to pay his tax he was cleaned out by the IRS and forced to build his fortune again. Fortunately, more hits followed, including the album He's The DJ, I'm The Rapper, the first hip-hop LP to go double-platinum. In 1989, they won the first ever Grammy for Best Rap Performance for the track Parents Just Don't Understand, and received the three millionth call to their own 900 number (the US equivalent of 0898), the first ever set up by pop stars. A further Grammy was won in 1991, for the track Summertime, and the hits kept coming till Code Red, their final album together, in 1993. This, of course, was not the end of Will's rapping career. He would re-emerge in 1997 with a debut solo LP, Big Willie Style, which spawned the enormo-hit Gettin' Jiggy Wit It, and would strike again with 1999's mighty Willennium.But by this time Will was already at the top of another profession. Back in the late Eighties, he'd met one Benny Medina, who had an idea for a sitcom concerning his experiences in Beverly Hills. NBC took up the option and, casting Will as a sassy, street-smart kid coping comically with life in Los Angeles' richest area, produced a series titled The Fresh Prince Of Bel-Air. The show, a major success, ran for six years, and gave Will a foot-hold in Hollywood, with movie offers soon coming thick and fast.First came the bleak and melodramatic Where The Day Takes You, about young runaways in Hollywood, with Will way down a cast including Dermot Mulroney, Lara Flynn Boyle and Kyle MacLachlan. Then came a bigger role in Made In America, starring Whoopi Goldberg and Ted Danson, where Will performed a superb comic turn as Teacake, best friend to Goldberg's onscreen daughter Nia Long (also Will's girlfriend in Fresh Prince Of Bel-Air). Critics were mightily impressed by his first dramatic lead, as a manipulative imposter in John Guare's Oscar-nominated Six Degrees Of Separation, then the public came on board with Bad Boys. One of the first modern, high-budget action thrillers to feature two black leads, this paired Will with fellow comic Martin Lawrence and took the box-office by storm. Will was now big business. It's possible that Smith might've hit the cinematic big time a little earlier when he was offered $11 million to appear in a blockbuster produced by Brian Grazer. Smith discussed the project with his business partner, James Lassiter and decided it wasn't right for him at that stage. Each part, they believed, had to be a career building-block, raising Smith steadily through the Hollywood ranks. Grazer's film was too risky, they weren't sure of the script and, despite Smith still being in the midst of his tax problems, they turned it down. Their planning was meticulous, and really quite courageous.This he proved in his next feature, the sprawling, explosive Independence Day. As Marine Corps Captain Steve Hiller (a character he based on childhood hero Harrison Ford's Han Solo), he made the very best of limited dialogue, and stole the show by punching out a grotesque, murderous alien then delivering a deadpan "Welcome to Earth". For a while, he could do no wrong. With Tommy Lee Jones as his straight-man, he scored an spectacular cross-generational hit with Men In Black, then starred in the superior conspiracy thriller Enemy Of The State. Next came his one major set-back, with the relative failure of Wild Wild West. Despite the popularity of the Smith-rapped theme tune, the public did not take to the movie's bizarre combination of buccaneering cowboy action and gothic science fiction. Maybe if George Clooney had not pulled out of the role taken by Kevin Kline things might have been different. But Will pressed on, undeterred, charting high again in America as the mystical caddie helping Matt Damon re-find his golf game in Robert Redford's The Legend Of Bagger Vance. Then came Will's greatest challenge yet - Michael Mann's bio-pic Ali. He actually turned the role down eight times, believing no one could successfully replicate Muhammad Ali's skill and charisma. Only a personal call from the great man himself could change his mind. Once in, he was really in. He trained like a demon, gaining the approval of both Sugar Ray Leonard, and his own wife. "I'm human viagra," Smith said of his newfound vitality, "I'm Willagra. I'm a sex machine now. I'm raring to go every second of the day. My wife's loving it". His involvement in the movie wasn't purely as an actor either. With finance hard to come by, both Smith and Mann put up their fees to meet costs that eventually spiralled above the $105 million budget. Released on Christmas Day, 2001, Ali made $10.2 million in its first 24 hours, a record for a film opening on December 25th. but still only took $58 million. Nevertheless, for his stunning performance in the most challenging of roles, Will found himself Oscar-nominated, as was Jon Voight, earlier his co-star in Enemy Of The State.Following this came the much-anticipated Men In Black 2 where, with the world threatened once again, Will sought out mentor and retired agent Tommy Lee Jones, now a post office worker, and attempted to give him back his memories so they could re-enter the alien-butt-kicking fray together. The movie also reteamed Will with Lara Flynn Boyle, star of his screen debut, who played the sulky, scary alien-queen who kidnapped the entire MIB staff. During production, a degree of rewriting took place due to the September 11th tragedy - initially Smith and Jones were supposed to wind up battling a giant alien worm on top of the World Trade Centre. Now, to the great joy of Martin Lawrence, came Bad Boys 2, like the original directed by Michael Bay. This time Smith and Lawrence (with Will now seeing Martin's onscreen cop sister) were on the trail of a drug dealer shifting his money between Florida and Cuba. Once again they were a hugely charismatic comedic duo, but this time they were rather overshadowed by stunt overkill, the high-speed action being too sharply edited to create any real tension or excitement. Like MIB2 it went into profit but, again like MIB2, the margin was much smaller than that of the original.Will moved on to I, Robot, an adaptation of Isaac Asimov sci-fi stories, directed by Alex Proyas. This saw him in 2035 as a technophobic Chicago cop who's called in to investigate when a robot kills a human at the giant US Robotics corporation. Thing is, robots cannot kill humans, they're not able to, it's one of the Laws of Robotics. So are they thinking for themselves, are they taking over the world - Jesus, have they taken it over already? Teaming up with robot psychologist Bridget Moynahan, Will aims to find out.Next he would lend his voice to the animated Shark Tale, playing a young fish who's found beside the body of the son of shark mob boss. Robert De Niro. Heralded as a hard-man killer, he boasts and brags and finds himself pursued by vampish Angelina Jolie and a vengeful De Niro. It was another huge hit, as was Hitch (originally known as The Last First Kiss), a rom-com released in time for Valentine's Day, 2005. Here Will played a professional dating consultant who counsels lonely guys seeking dates in New York City. Setting pudgy accountant Kevin James up with wealthy power-babe Amber Valetta, he then discovers that his methods don't work for their inventor as he struggles to impose himself on gossip columnist Eva Mendes. Interestingly, Hitch would also see Smith enter the Guiness Book Of Records when he appeared at three premieres in 12 hours, at Manchester, Birmingham and London.As said, Hitch was a huge box office success. Taking $177 million in the US alone, it further cemented Smith's position as one of the biggest draws of the era. His next outing would go further, both raking in the cash and delivering Smith his second Oscar nomination. This was The Pursuit Of Happyness, the true story of one Chris Gardner. Here an ambitious Smith's investments fail, wife Thandie Newton leaves, and he's left to both rebuild his life and support his young kid - played by his own son, Jaden. Trying to keep afloat while working through an unpaid internship at a brokerage firm, he must call on all his resourcefulness and good humour as he and the boy spend their nights in shelters and even in public toilets.. Very different would be Smith's next production, the long-anticipated I Am Legend. For an age this remake of Charlton Heston's The Omega Man had been set to star Arnold Schwarzenegger, only for the big man's political career to force him to drop out. Smith would take over as Neville, apparently the last man on Earth, warding off a legion of vampires who seek his blood when night falls.Will Smith has been twice married: first to Sheree Zampino (1992-95), who he met in 1991 at a taping of A Different World, and with whom he had one child, Willard Smith III. Then there was actress Jada Pinkett (1997-now) with whom he has a son, the aforementioned Jaden Christopher Syre, and a daughter, Willow Camille Reign. He actually met Pinkett many years before they married, when she tried out for the part of his girlfriend in Fresh Prince Of Bel-Air (the part going, as mentioned, to Nia Long). Come 2003, he and Jada would create and write a TV show, All Of Us, based on their own lives. Both would make occasional guest appearances.Having received $5 million for Men In Black, $14 million for Enemy Of The State, and an amazing 20 million (plus a percentage of gross profits) for Ali, MIB2 and Bad Boys 2, Smith is one of Hollywood's prime earners. Deservedly so when you consider his movies' box office takings ($144 million for I, Robot, $160 million for Shark Tale, $177 million for Hitch, $162 million for The Pursuit Of Happyness). He's also busied himself as a producer, having set up his own production company, Overbrook Entertainment with partner James Lassiter. The company is said to be working on a remake of Clint Eastwood's infamous stalker-flick Play Misty For Me. Then there's his Treybell Development company, which deals in building projects in Philadelphia. But not everything has been golden for this golden boy. It could have been considered a mistake to turn down the role of Neo in The Matrix and the lead in Phone Booth. It was certainly unfortunate when, in the summer of 2003, the relative failure of Will's third album and his Greatest Hits led to him being dropped by Columbia Records.But he'd already been there and done that. Having conquered the worlds of music and film, you'd think Will Smith would have no ambitions left, that there was no mountain left to climb. But, being Will Smith, he says the biggest is yet to come. In ten years or so, he plans to run for President. He said it, then he denied it. It just has to be true. Only a crazy man would bet against him.Dominic Wills 
			LONDON, ENGLAND - MAY 16:  Actor Will Smith attends the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England.  (Photo by Adam Jacobs/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - MAY 16:  Actor Will Smith attends the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England.  (Photo by Adam Jacobs/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - MAY 16:  Actor Will Smith attends the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England.  (Photo by Adam Jacobs/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - MAY 16:  Actor Will Smith attends the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England.  (Photo by Adam Jacobs/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - MAY 16:  Actor Will Smith attends the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England.  (Photo by Adam Jacobs/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - MAY 16:  Actor Will Smith attends the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England.  (Photo by Adam Jacobs/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - MAY 16:  Actor Will Smith attends the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England.  (Photo by Adam Jacobs/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - MAY 16:  Actor Will Smith attends the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England.  (Photo by Adam Jacobs/Getty Images)
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - MAY 16: Will Smith and Nicole Scherzinger attend the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England. (Photo by Stuart Wilson/Getty Images)
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - MAY 16: Will Smith and Nicole Scherzinger attend the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England. (Photo by Stuart Wilson/Getty Images)
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - MAY 16: Will Smith and Nicole Scherzinger attend the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England. (Photo by Stuart Wilson/Getty Images)
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - MAY 16: Will Smith attends the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England. (Photo by Stuart Wilson/Getty Images)
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - MAY 16: Will Smith attends the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England. (Photo by Stuart Wilson/Getty Images)
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - MAY 16: Will Smith attends the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England. (Photo by Stuart Wilson/Getty Images)
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - MAY 16: Will Smith attends the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England. (Photo by Stuart Wilson/Getty Images)
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - MAY 16: Will Smith attends the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England. (Photo by Stuart Wilson/Getty Images)
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - MAY 16: Barry Sonnenfeld, Emma Thompson, Josh Brolin, Alice Eve, Will Smith and Nicole Scherzinger attend the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England. (Photo by Stuart Wilson/Getty Images)
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - MAY 16: Barry Sonnenfeld, Emma Thompson, Josh Brolin, Alice Eve, Will Smith and Nicole Scherzinger attend the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England. (Photo by Stuart Wilson/Getty Images)
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - MAY 16: Barry Sonnenfeld, Emma Thompson, Josh Brolin, Alice Eve, Will Smith and Nicole Scherzinger attend the premiere for Men In Black 3 at Odeon Leicester Square on May 16, 2012 in London, England. (Photo by Stuart Wilson/Getty Images)
			BERLIN, GERMANY - MAY 14:  (L-R) Will Smith and Josh Brolin arrive for the Men In Black 3 Germany Premiere at O2 World on May 14, 2012 in Berlin, Germany.  (Photo by Andreas Rentz/Getty Images for Sony)
Eat, Pray, LoveThe Other GuysDinner For SchmucksScott Pilgrim vs The WorldSaltThe ExpendablesThe Last AirbenderKnight and DayThe Karate KidThe A-Team
adam sandler angelina jolie colin firth daniel craig george clooney jackie chan jennifer lopez johnny depp judi dench leonardo dicaprio liam neeson mel gibson meryl streep morgan freeman penelope cruz robert de niro steven spielberg tom cruise vin diesel will smith 
	This site uses cookies. If you continue without changing your settings, you're consenting to receive the cookies set by our website.  Find out more 
=======================================================
1987JuneMost Likely to SucceedThree weeks before he's scheduled to graduate from Philadelphia's Overbrook High, Smith and childhood pal "Jazzy Jeff" Townes release their debut hip-hop album Rock The House. With a burgeoning music career, Smith, known by his stage name, "The Fresh Prince," defers a scholarship to MIT to pursue his passion. It pays off. The clean-cut duo's second album, He's The DJ, I'm The Rapper, makes it to No. 4 on Billboard's Top 200 Albums chart and earns them a Best Rap Performance Grammy for the jokey single "Parents Just Don't Understand." 1990September 10Yo Holmes, to Bel-AirSmith is cast as "Will Smith" in the NBC sitcom The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, about a street-smart Philly kid who moves in with wealthy relatives in L.A. "Will has this very infectious personality, with a great spirit," NBC entertainment chief Brandon Tartikoff tells PEOPLE. "Whatever he has, you can't teach. I think the Eddie Murphy comparison is there." The show lasts until 1996 and continues to live on in syndication. 1992NovemberDaddy Loves YouSix months after marrying fashion design student Sheree Zampino (they met in 1991), the couple has their first child. Named Willard C. Smith III, their son goes by the nickname "Trey." Smith and Zampino, however, separate in 1995. Smith dedicates his 1998 single "Just the Two of Us," to Trey – who stars alongside his dad in the video – telling him, "It didn't work out with me and your mom/But yo, push come to shove/You was conceived in love." 1993December 08Joining the Drama ClubSmith earns raves for his first dramatic film role as gay con artist Paul in Six Degrees of Separation. However, Smith refuses to kiss costar Anthony Michael Hall and a stand-in is used. "It was very immature on my part," he tells Entertainment Weekly. "I was thinking, 'How are my friends in Philly going to think about this?' I wasn't emotionally stable enough to artistically commit to that aspect of the film." 1995SpringFriends FirstShortly after his separation from Zampino, Smith leans on actress Jada Pinkett, who he met in 1990 when she auditioned and was rejected for the role of his girlfriend on The Fresh Prince. "I helped him understand what happened in his marriage," Pinkett tells PEOPLE in July 1996, "and he helped me see what happened in my relationship. He's become my best friend. There's nothing I can't say to him, nothing I can't share." 1996July 04Action HeroFollowing the $140 million success of 1995's shoot 'em up cop flick Bad Boys, Smith tackles the alien thriller Independence Day. He embraces his inner alpha male onscreen as a cigar-chomping fighter pilot who vows to "kick E.T.'s ass."  The film earns $93 million in its first week and more than $300 million during its U.S. theatrical run. 1997July 02Alien 2Outer space comes to Earth in Smith's newest extra-terrestrial blockbuster, the alien-infested Men in Black. In addition to being the biggest-grossing film of the year, Men in Black rejuvenates Smith's music career as the soundtrack's title cut becomes the most-played radio song in the history of rap, according to EW. November 25Return to the ThroneWith the release of Big Willie Style, his first album in four years, Smith reasserts the importance of fun in hip-hop. "Rap's gone through a sort of dark ages," Smith tells EW. "With the loss of Biggie and Tupac, the industry is ready for a change. I'm just feeling good to be a part of the renaissance." Listeners embrace his attitude as club favorite "Gettin' Jiggy Wit It" gives Smith the first No. 1 single of his career. December 31MarrylandAs 1997 comes to an end, Smith and Pinkett marry in a lavish ceremony at the Cloisters, a medieval-style mansion near her hometown of Baltimore. The couple, attired in a matching Badgley Mischka gown and suit, tie the knot in front of about 100 friends and relatives. Pinkett, who is almost two months pregnant at the time, will give birth to the pair's first child, Jaden Christopher Syre, on July 8.1999June 30Wild IndeedSmith turns down the role of Neo in The Matrix, which went to Keanu Reeves, in order to make the critically-maligned Western Wild Wild West, with Kevin Kline and Salma Hayek. The film is rumored to have reached a budget of $200 million, and grosses only $113 million in the U.S.  
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): TODD KAPLAN/STARFILE; FOTO FANTASIES; ALBERT ORTEGA/CELEBRITY PHOTO; MYLES ARONOWITZ/MGM; Jim Smeal/WireImage; Kobal Collection/Wireimage; Columbia/Everett; JOHN DOLAN/AP; MURRAY CLOSE/WARNER BROS. 
									Trey Willard III, son (11/11/1992)Jaden Christopher Syre, son (7/8/1998)Willow Camille Reign, daughter (10/31/2000) 
   Aug 26, 2013 STREET CLOTHES  It's a T-shirt and jeans kind of Friday for Will Smith and wife Jada, who keep in step leaving their… See Photo   Jul 11, 2013 SIGNATURE LOOK  Will Smith puts pen to paper for some fans as he arrives Wednesday at N.Y.C.'s John F. Kennedy International… See Photo
=======================================================
Height: 6'2" Hometown: Wynnefield, Pennsylvania, United States In a Relationship With:Jada Pinkett Smith Best Quotes:“In West Philadelphia, born and raised.”“Give me a problem, I'll give you a solution. I just love living. That's a feeling you can't fake. I'm glad every single day. I think that even the camera can feel that I'm a happy man.” 
Will Smith is an American actor, producer, and rapper. In the late 1980s, he achieved some fame as a rapper under the name The Fresh Prince. In 1990, his popularity increased when he starred in the TV sitcom The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air. The show ran for six years and ended in 1996 on NBC with syndications on various networks. During his TV career, he also went into films, and then blockbuster movies. His most successful films have been Bad Boys, Bad Boys II, Independence Day, Men in Black, Men in Black II, I, Robot, The Pursuit of Happyness, I Am Legend, Hancock, Wild Wild West, Enemy of the State, Shark Tale, Hitch, and Seven Pounds.
Will came to prominence on the hit show The Fresh Prince Of Bel Air, but has since made his mark in the hip hop world as well as Hollywood – with two Oscar nominations to his name.
He was previously married to Sheree Zampino in 1992, and had a son Willard Christopher Smith III AKA Trey. After his divorce in 1995, he married actress Jada Pinkett Smith in 1997 and has had two children with her — Jaden and Willow Smith, who have appeared alongside him in Pursuit of Happyness, After Earth and I Am Legend respectively. Will’s marriage to Jada has almost always been under media scrutiny, with rumors after rumor suggesting they are on the verge of divorce.
Willow Smith & Moises Arias: CPS Wants To Interview Him -- Reportmore…Will & Jada Smith Under Investigation By Child Protective Services — Reportmore…Moises Arias & Willow Smith: Truth About Their Creepy Relationshipmore…Will & Jada Smith: Willow, 13, Needs You To Be Parents, Not Friendsmore…Will & Jada Smith: Willow's 'Mature' Enough To Be With Moises Ariasmore…Will & Jada Pinkett Smith: You Need To Keep A Better Eye On Your Kidsmore…Willow Smith, 13, Caught In Bed With Shirtless Actor, 20 -- See Picsmore…Anna Wintour & Will Smith's Family Attending Kim Kardashian's Weddingmore…Hottest '90s TV Guys: Will Smith, John Stamos & More — Picsmore…Willow Smith: All Grown Up In Karl Lagerfeld Shoot For 'V' Magazinemore…Will Smith Reacts To James Avery's Death With Emotional Facebook Postmore…James Avery: Fake Will Smith Account Posts Tasteless Tweet About Uncle Philmore…
=======================================================
Birth Name: Willard Christopher Smith Jr.Birth Place: Philadelphia, PADate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 09/25/1968, LibraProfession: Actor; rapper; producer
Beloved for his good looks, easygoing wit and effervescent charm both on and off screen, this hip-hop star-turned-actor has come a long way from his days rapping on the streets of Philly. Initially Smith came to prominence as the Fresh Prince, one half of the popular rap duo DJ Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince, which released the catchy, PG-rated hits "Summertime" and "Parents Just Don't Understand," the latter winning the first-ever Grammy Award for Best Rap Performance in 1988. Still immature, Smith fell victim to the pitfalls of sudden success, squandering his money and teetering on the verge of bankruptcy, but TV soon changed his life and career. Beginning in 1990, Smith lent his considerable charisma to the sitcom The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, in which he more or less played himself as a smart-alecky city kid who moves in with his stuffy, rich relatives. During his six years on the show, he launched a movie career, wisely playing roles antithetical to his small-screen persona (a gay con artist in Six Degrees of Separation, a quip-happy cop in the action comedy Bad Boys). But by 1996, Smith was ready to leave TV behind altogether. Picking his projects carefully (and often supplying songs for the soundtracks), he appeared in one blockbuster per year---Independence Day, Men in Black, Enemy of the State---between 1996 and '98, while also releasing his first solo album, the multi-platinum Big Willie Style, in 1997. Though that slate of films didn't highlight Smith's versatility, they did prove his box-office appeal as the quintessential nice guy who could kick butt if needed. That nice-guy reputation extended to his personal life as well. Despite his mounting fame, Smith was never in the tabloids. Even his ex-wife, Sheree Zampino, got along with him and his new spouse, actor-singer Jada Pinkett Smith, with whom he went on to co-create and produce the successful sitcom All of Us, loosely based on their own experiences as a blended family. Although Smith was a veritable A-list star---one of the few African-American entertainers who was bankable with audiences of all races---he still longed to be taken seriously as an actor. So in the '00s, he headlined two prestige projects back-to-back: the poorly received golf drama The Legend of Bagger Vance and the 2001 Muhammad Ali biopic Ali, a performance that earned Smith solid reviews and his first Oscar nod, though the film itself performed well below expectations at the box office. Unsurprisingly, Smith then returned to his comfort zone, appearing in the sequels to two of his earlier hits (Men in Black II and Bad Boys II) and even began producing his own vehicles, including the poorly reviewed box-office smash Hitch, which proved that perhaps critics---not parents---were the ones who just didn't understand. However, the next year, Smith earned Oscar, Golden Globe and SAG nominations playing father to his real-life son, Jaden, in the inspirational drama The Pursuit of Happyness, which also proved to be one of his biggest commercial hits. Sci-fi blockbusters I Am Legend and Hitchcock followed in 2007 and 2008, and in 2010, Smith passed the action-hero torch down to Jaden, producing a new version of The Karate Kid starring his son as the iconic title character.Will Smith Fast Facts:
Got the nickname "Prince" from a teacher at Philadelphia's Overbrook High School because of his regal bearing and ability to talk his way out of trouble. 
Teamed with Jeffrey Townes for rap duo DJ Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince; their hit song "Parents Just Don't Understand" won the first-ever Grammy for Best Rap Performance in 1988. 
Played a gay hustler in his first major movie role, 1993 drama Six Degrees of Separation, but refused to film an on-screen kiss with costar Anthony Michael Hall. 
For the title role in 2001 biopic Ali, put on 30 pounds of muscle and followed the actual training regimen legendary boxer Muhammad Ali used to prepare for his bouts. 
Supported then-Sen. Barack Obama during the 2008 presidential campaign; asked during the campaign what actor he'd choose to portray him in a potential film, Obama suggested Smith. 
Production company, Overbrook Entertainment, is named for the Philadelphia neighborhood in which he grew up. Will Smith Relationships: Caroline Smith - MotherPam Smith - SisterSheree Fletcher - Ex-wifeWillow Smith - DaughterEllen Smith - SisterJada Pinkett Smith - WifeHarry Smith - BrotherTrey Smith - SonJaden Smith - SonWillard C. Smith Sr. - FatherWill Smith Awards: 2006 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role - Nominee2009 People's Choice Awards:  Favorite Male Movie Star - Winner2009 People's Choice Awards:  Favorite Male Action Star - Winner2005 People's Choice Awards:  Favorite Male Action Star - Winner2007 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture - Drama - Nominee2002 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture - Drama - Nominee1993 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series - Musical or Comedy - Nominee1988 Grammy:  Best Rap Performance - Winner1997 Grammy:  Best Rap Solo Performance - Winner2001 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actor in a Leading Role - Nominee2005 César Awards:  Honorary César - Winner1998 Grammy:  Best Rap Solo Performance - Winner2006 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actor in a Leading Role - Nominee1991 Grammy:  Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group - Winner1994 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series - Musical or Comedy - Nominee
Buy The Will Smith Music Video Compilation from Amazon.comFrom Sbme Special Mkts. (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $13.58 (as of 06/05/14 10:18 AM EST - more info)Buy Maximum Will Smith: The Unauthorised Biography of Will Smith (Maximum series) from Amazon.comFrom Chrome Dreams (Audio CD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $13.25 (as of 06/05/14 10:18 AM EST - more info)
