=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Desmond Mpilo Tutu (born 7 October 1931) is a South African social rights activist and retired Anglican bishop who rose to worldwide fame during the 1980s as an opponent of apartheid. He was the first black Archbishop of Cape Town and bishop of the Church of the Province of Southern Africa (now the Anglican Church of Southern Africa).
Tutu's admirers see him as a man who since the demise of apartheid has been active in the defence of human rights and uses his high profile to campaign for the oppressed. He has campaigned to fight AIDS, tuberculosis, poverty, racism, sexism, the imprisonment of Chelsea Manning, homophobia and transphobia. He received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1984; the Albert Schweitzer Prize for Humanitarianism in 1986; the Pacem in Terris Award in 1987; the Sydney Peace Prize in 1999; the Gandhi Peace Prize in 2007;[1] and the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2009. He has also compiled several books of his speeches and sayings.
Desmond Mpilo Tutu was born in Klerksdorp, Transvaal, the second of the three children of Zacheriah Zililo Tutu and his wife, Leah Nomaliza, and the only son.[2] Tutu's family moved to Johannesburg when he was twelve. His father was a teacher and his mother was a cleaner and cook at a school for the blind.[3] Here he met Trevor Huddleston, who was a parish priest in the black slum of Sophiatown. "One day," said Tutu, "I was standing in the street with my mother when a white man in a priest's clothing walked past. As he passed us he took off his hat to my mother. I couldn't believe my eyes—a white man who greeted a black working class woman!"[3]
Although Tutu wanted to become a doctor, his family could not afford the training, and he followed his father's footsteps into teaching. Tutu studied at the Pretoria Bantu Normal College from 1951 to 1953, and went on to teach at Johannesburg Bantu High School and at Munsienville High School in Mogale City. However, he resigned following the passage of the Bantu Education Act, in protest of the poor educational prospects for black South Africans. He continued his studies, this time in theology, at St Peter's Theology College in Rosettenville, Johannesburg, and in 1960 was ordained as an Anglican priest following in the footsteps of his mentor and fellow activist, Trevor Huddleston.
Tutu then travelled to King's College London, (1962–1966), where he received his bachelor's and master's degrees in theology. During this time he worked as a part-time curate, first at St Alban's Church, Golders Green, and then at St Mary's Church in Bletchingley, Surrey.[4] He later returned to South Africa and from 1967 until 1972 used his lectures to highlight the circumstances of the African population. He wrote a letter to Prime Minister B. J. Vorster, in which he described the situation in South Africa as a "powder barrel that can explode at any time": the letter was never answered.[citation needed] He became chaplain at the University of Fort Hare in 1967, a hotbed of dissent and one of the few quality universities for African students in the southern part of Africa.[citation needed] From 1970 to 1972, Tutu lectured at the National University of Lesotho.
In 1972, Tutu returned to the UK, where he was appointed vice-director of the Theological Education Fund of the World Council of Churches, at Bromley in Kent. He returned to South Africa in 1975 and was appointed Dean of St Mary's Cathedral in Johannesburg—the first black person to hold that position.[citation needed]
On 2 July 1955, Tutu married Nomalizo Leah Shenxane, a teacher whom he had met while at college. They had four children: Trevor Thamsanqa Tutu, Theresa Thandeka Tutu, Naomi Nontombi Tutu and Mpho Andrea Tutu, all of whom attended the Waterford Kamhlaba School in Swaziland.[5]
In 1975 he moved into what is now known as Tutu House in Soweto and he and his family were still living there in 2005.[6] It is said to be one of the few streets in the world where two Nobel Prize winners have lived.[7]
His son, Trevor Tutu, caused a bomb scare at East London Airport in 1989 and was arrested. In 1991, he was convicted of contravening the Civil Aviation Act by falsely claiming there had been a bomb on board a South African Airways' plane at East London Airport.[8] The bomb threat delayed the Johannesburg-bound flight for more than three hours, costing South African Airways some R28000. At the time, Trevor Tutu announced his intention to appeal against his sentence, but failed to arrive for the appeal hearings. He forfeited his bail of R15000.[8] He was due to begin serving his sentence in 1993, but failed to hand himself over to prison authorities. He was finally arrested in Johannesburg in August 1997. He applied for amnesty from the Truth and Reconciliation Commission which was granted in 1997; a move that was harshly criticised by some as preferential treatment by a commission that was co-founded and chaired by his father.[9][10] He was then released from Goodwood Prison in Cape Town where he had begun serving his three-and-a-half-year prison sentence after a court in East London refused to grant him bail.[11]
Naomi Tutu founded the Tutu Foundation for Development and Relief in Southern Africa, based in Hartford, Connecticut. She attended the Patterson School of Diplomacy and International Commerce at the University of Kentucky and has followed in her father's footsteps as a human rights activist. She is currently a graduate student at Vanderbilt University Divinity School, in Nashville, Tennessee.[12] Desmond Tutu's other daughter, Mpho Tutu, has also followed in her father's footsteps and in 2004 was ordained an Episcopal priest by her father.[13] She is also the founder and executive director of the Tutu Institute for Prayer and Pilgrimage and the chairperson of the board of the Global AIDS Alliance.[14]
In 1997, Tutu was diagnosed with prostate cancer and underwent successful treatment in the US. He subsequently became patron of the South African Prostate Cancer Foundation, which was established in 2007.[15]
Beginning on his 79th birthday, Tutu entered a phased retirement from public life, starting with only one day per week in his office through February 2011. On 23 May 2011 in Shrewsbury, Massachusetts, Tutu gave what was said to be his last major public speech outside of South Africa. Tutu honoured his commitments through May 2011 and added no more commitments.[16]
However, Tutu subsequently came out of retirement to give a commencement speech at Gonzaga University in Spokane, Washington, on 13 May 2012, and gave an address at Butler University's Desmond Tutu Center in Indianapolis, Indiana on 12 September of that year.[17]
In 1976, the protests in Soweto, also known as the Soweto Riots, against the government's use of Afrikaans as the compulsory language of instruction in black schools became an uprising against apartheid. From then on Tutu supported an economic boycott of his country. He vigorously opposed the "constructive engagement" policy of the Reagan administration in the United States, which advocated "friendly persuasion".[18] Tutu rather supported disinvestment, although it hit the poor hardest, for if disinvestment threw blacks out of work, Tutu argued, at least they would be suffering "with a purpose". In 1985, the US and the UK (two primary investors into South Africa) stopped any investments. As a result, disinvestment did succeed, causing the value of the Rand to plunge more than 35 percent, and pressuring the government toward reform.[citation needed] Tutu pressed the advantage and organised peaceful marches which brought 30,000 people onto the streets of Cape Town.[19]
Tutu was Bishop of Lesotho from 1976 until 1978, when he became Secretary-General of the South African Council of Churches. From this position, he was able to continue his work against apartheid with agreement from nearly all churches. Through his writings and lectures at home and abroad, Tutu consistently advocated reconciliation between all parties involved in apartheid. Tutu's opposition to apartheid was vigorous and unequivocal, and he was outspoken both in South Africa and abroad. He often compared apartheid to Nazism; as a result the government twice revoked his passport, and he was jailed briefly in 1980 after a protest march. It was thought by many that Tutu's increasing international reputation and his rigorous advocacy of non-violence protected him from harsher penalties. Tutu was also harsh in his criticism of the violent tactics of some anti-apartheid groups such as the African National Congress and denounced terrorism and Communism.
When a new constitution was proposed for South Africa in 1983 to defend against the anti-apartheid movement, Tutu helped form the National Forum Committee to fight the constitutional changes.[20]
In 1990, Tutu and the ex-Vice-Chancellor of the University of the Western Cape Professor Jakes Gerwel founded the Desmond Tutu Educational Trust. The Trust – established to fund developmental programmes in tertiary education – provides capacity building at 17 historically disadvantaged institutions. Tutu's work as a mediator to prevent all-out racial war was evident at the funeral of South African Communist Party leader Chris Hani in 1993. Tutu spurred a crowd of 120,000 to repeat after him the chants, over and over: "We will be free!", "All of us!", "Black and white together!"[21]
In 1993, Tutu was a patron of the Cape Town Olympic Bid Committee. In 1994, he was an appointed a patron of the World Campaign Against Military and Nuclear Collaboration with South Africa, Beacon Millennium and Action from Ireland. In 1995, he was appointed a Chaplain and Sub-Prelate of the Venerable Order of Saint John by Queen Elizabeth II,[22] and he became a patron of the American Harmony Child Foundation and the Hospice Palliative Care Association (HPCA) of South Africa.
The 14th Dalai Lama and Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Nobel Peace Prize laureates. Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. 2004.
After the fall of apartheid, Tutu headed the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. He retired as Archbishop of Cape Town in 1996 and was made emeritus Archbishop of Cape Town, an honorary title that is unusual in the Anglican church.[23] He was succeeded by Njongonkulu Ndungane. At a thanksgiving for Tutu upon his retirement as Archbishop in 1996, Nelson Mandela said that Tutu made an "immeasurable contribution to our nation".[24]
Tutu is generally credited with coining the term Rainbow Nation as a metaphor for post-apartheid South Africa after 1994 under African National Congress rule. The expression has since entered mainstream consciousness to describe South Africa's ethnic diversity.
Since his retirement, Tutu has worked as a global activist on issues pertaining to democracy, freedom and human rights. He is the patron of the Institute for Justice and Reconciliation, the successor organisation of the South African Trust and Reconciliation Commission. In this role he presents the annual South African Reconciliation Award. In 2006, Tutu launched a global campaign, organised by Plan, to ensure that all children are registered at birth, as an unregistered child did not officially exist and was vulnerable to traffickers and during disasters.[25] Tutu is the Patron of the educational improvement charity Link Community Development.
"Instead of growing old gracefully, at home with my family – reading and writing and praying and thinking – too much of my time has been spent at airports and in hotels," the Nobel laureate said in a statement.[26]
Tutu is widely regarded as "South Africa's moral conscience"[27] and has been described by former President of South Africa Nelson Mandela as "sometimes strident, often tender, never afraid and seldom without humour, Desmond Tutu's voice will always be the voice of the voiceless".[24] Since his retirement, Tutu has worked to critique the new South African government. Tutu has been vocal in condemnation of corruption, the ineffectiveness of the ANC-led government to deal with poverty, and the recent outbreaks of xenophobic violence in some townships in South Africa.
After a decade of freedom for South Africa, Tutu was honoured with the invitation to deliver the annual Nelson Mandela Foundation Lecture. On 23 November 2004, Tutu gave an address entitled "Look to the Rock from Which You Were Hewn". This lecture, critical of the ANC-controlled government, stirred a pot of controversy between Tutu and Thabo Mbeki, calling into question "the right to criticise".[28]
On 10 May 2013, Tutu said he would no longer be able to vote for the African National Congress, citing inequality, violence, and corruption. "The ANC was very good at leading us in the struggle to be free from oppression," Archbishop Tutu wrote, "But it doesn't seem to me now that a freedom-fighting unit can ­easily make the transition to becoming a political party." He sharply criticised the decision of the South African government to delay the issuance of a visa to the Dalai Lama, accusing the government of "kowtowing to China".[29]
Tutu stated that Nelson Mandela would be dismayed that Afrikaners got excluded from memorial services to commemorate Mandela's death.[30] The spokesman for Tutu said the cleric changed his plans and would attend the funeral of Mandela, after not being officially invited himself.[31]
Tutu made a stinging attack on South Africa's political élite, saying the country was "sitting on a powder keg"[32] because of its failure to alleviate poverty a decade after apartheid's end. Tutu also said that attempts to boost black economic ownership were benefiting only an elite minority, while political "kowtowing" within the ruling ANC was hampering democracy. Tutu asked, "What is black empowerment when it seems to benefit not the vast majority but an elite that tends to be recycled?"[32]
Tutu criticised politicians for debating whether to give the poor an income grant of $16 (£12) a month and said the idea should be seriously considered. Tutu has often spoken in support of the Basic Income Grant (BIG) which has so far been defeated in parliament. After the first round of volleys were fired, South African Press Association journalist, Ben Maclennan reported Tutu's response as: "Thank you Mr President for telling me what you think of me, that I am—a liar with scant regard for the truth, and a charlatan posing with his concern for the poor, the hungry, the oppressed and the voiceless."[33]
Tutu warned of corruption shortly after the re-election of the African National Congress government of South Africa, saying that they "stopped the gravy train just long enough to get on themselves."[34] In August 2006 Tutu publicly urged Jacob Zuma, the South African politician (now President) who had been accused of sexual crimes and corruption, to drop out of the ANC's presidential succession race. He said in a public lecture that he would not be able to hold his "head high" if Zuma became leader after being accused both of rape and corruption. In September 2006, Tutu repeated his opposition to Zuma's candidacy as ANC leader due to Zuma's "moral failings."[35] In November 2013 he warned that politicians and activists were stoking anger which resulted in a spate of sometimes violent protests, that he identified as an assault on South Africa's democracy.[36]
Initiation rituals amongst the Xhosa people have led to the death of over 825 boys since 1995, many others suffered complications including penile amputation. Following the death of 43 boys during December 2013, Tutu urged traditional leadership and government to intervene, and “to draw on the skills of qualified medical practitioners to enhance our traditional circumcision practices.” He furthermore emphasized the cultural importance of the ritual as educational institution, preparing initiates “to contribute to building a better society for all.”[37]
The head of the Congress of South African Students condemned Tutu as a "loose cannon" and a "scandalous man" – a reaction which prompted an angry Mbeki to side with Tutu. Zuma's personal advisor responded by accusing Tutu of having double standards and "selective amnesia" (as well as being old). Elias Khumalo claims that Tutu "had found it so easy to accept the apology from the apartheid government that committed unspeakable atrocities against millions of South Africans", yet now "cannot find it in his heart to accept the apology from this humble man who has erred".[38]
On 18 July 2007, in Johannesburg, Nelson Mandela, Graça Machel, and Tutu convened The Elders, a group of world leaders to contribute their wisdom, kindness, leadership and integrity to tackle some of the world's toughest problems. Mandela announced its formation in a speech on his 89th birthday.
"This group can speak freely and boldly, working both publicly and behind the scenes on whatever actions need to be taken," Mandela commented. "Together we will work to support courage where there is fear, foster agreement where there is conflict, and inspire hope where there is despair."[39]
Tutu served as Chair of The Elders from the founding of the group in July 2007 to May 2013. Upon stepping down and becoming an Honorary Elder, he said: "As Elders we should always oppose presidents for Life. After six wonderful years as Chair, I am sad to say that it was time for me to step down."[40] Kofi Annan currently serves as Chair and Gro Harlem Brundtland as Deputy Chair. The other members of the group are Martti Ahtisaari, Ela Bhatt, Lakhdar Brahimi, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, Jimmy Carter, Hina Jilani, Graça Machel, Mary Robinson and Ernesto Zedillo.
Several other leaders were previously affiliated with The Elders. Former Elder Muhammad Yunus stepped down as a member of the group in September 2009, stating that he was unable to do justice to his membership due to the demands of his work.[41] Aung San Suu Kyi is a former honorary Elder. During her period under house arrest, the Elders kept an empty chair at each of their meetings to mark their solidarity with Suu Kyi and Burma’s other political prisoners. In line with the requirement that members of The Elders should not hold public office, Suu Kyi stepped down as an honorary Elder following her election to parliament on 1 April 2012.[42] Li Zhaoxing was present at the launch of The Elders but did not formally join the group.
The Elders work globally, on thematic as well as geographically specific subjects. The Elders' priority issue areas include the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Korean Peninsula, Sudan and South Sudan, sustainable development, and equality for girls and women.[43]
Tutu led The Elders' visit to Sudan in October 2007 – their first mission after the group was founded – to foster peace in the Darfur crisis. "Our hope is that we can keep Darfur in the spotlight and spur on governments to help keep peace in the region," said Tutu.[44] He has also travelled with Elders delegations to Cote d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Ethiopia, India, South Sudan and the Middle East.[45] Tutu has been particularly involved in The Elders' initiative on child marriage, attending the Clinton Global Initiative in New York in September 2011 to launch Girls Not Brides: The Global Partnership to End Child Marriage.[46]
The Elders are independently funded by a group of donors: Sir Richard Branson and Jean Oelwang (Virgin Unite), Peter Gabriel (The Peter Gabriel Foundation), Kathy Bushkin Calvin (The United Nations Foundation), Jeremy Coller and Lulit Solomon (J Coller Foundation), Niclas Kjellström-Matseke (Swedish Postcode Lottery), Randy Newcomb and Pam Omidyar (Humanity United), Jeff Skoll and Sally Osberg (Skoll Foundation), Jovanka Porsche (HP Capital Partners), Julie Quadrio Curzio (Quadrio Curzio Family Trust), Amy Towers (The Nduna Foundation), Shannon Sedgwick Davis (The Bridgeway Foundation) and Marieke van Schaik (Dutch Postcode Lottery). Mabel van Oranje, former CEO of The Elders, sits on the Advisory Council in her capacity as Advisory Committee Chair of Girls Not Brides: The Global Partnership to End Child Marriage.[47]
Archbishop Desmond Tutu gets an HIV test on The Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation's Tutu Tester, a mobile test unit.
Tutu has focused on drawing awareness to issues such as poverty, AIDS and non-democratic governments in the Third World. In particular he has focused on issues in Zimbabwe and Palestine.
Tutu has been vocal in his criticism of human rights abuses in Zimbabwe as well as the South African government's policy of quiet diplomacy towards Zimbabwe. In 2007 he said the "quiet diplomacy" pursued by the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) had "not worked at all" and he called on Britain and the West to pressure SADC, including South Africa, which was chairing talks between President Mugabe's Zanu-PF party and the opposition Movement for Democratic Change, to set firm deadlines for action, with consequences if they were not met.[48] Tutu has often criticised Robert Mugabe in the past and he once described the leader as "a cartoon figure of an archetypical African dictator".[27] In 2008, he called for the international community to intervene in Zimbabwe – by force if necessary.[49] Mugabe, on the other hand, has called Tutu an "angry, evil and embittered little bishop".[50]
Tutu has often stated that all leaders in Africa should condemn Zimbabwe: "What an awful blot on our copy book. Do we really care about human rights, do we care that people of flesh and blood, fellow Africans, are being treated like rubbish, almost worse than they were ever treated by rabid racists?"[27] After the Zimbabwean presidential elections in April 2008, Tutu expressed his hope that Mugabe would step down after it was initially reported that Mugabe had lost the elections. Tutu reiterated his support of the democratic process and hoped that Mugabe would adhere to the voice of the people.[51]
Tutu called Mugabe "someone we were very proud of", as he "did a fantastic job, and it’s such a great shame, because he had a wonderful legacy. If he had stepped down ten or so years ago he would be held in very, very high regard. And I still want to say we must honour him for the things that he did do, and just say what a shame."[51]
Tutu stated that he feared that riots would break out in Zimbabwe if the election results were ignored. He proposed that a peace-keeping force should be sent to the region to ensure stability.[51]
In 2009, Tutu assisted in the establishing of the Solomon Islands' Truth and Reconciliation Commission, modelled after the South African body of the same name.[52][53] He spoke at its official launch in Honiara on 29 April 2009, emphasising the need for forgiveness to build lasting peace.[54]
Tutu has acknowledged the significant role Jews played in the anti-apartheid struggle in South Africa and has voiced support for Israel's security concerns, speaking against suicide bombing.[55] He is the chief advocate of the doctrine of Supersessionism, the biblical interpretation that the Christian Church supersedes or replaces Israel in God's plan, and that the New Covenant nullifies the biblical promises made to Israel.[56] Consequently he is also an active and prominent proponent of the campaign for divestment from Israel,[57] likening Israel's treatment of Palestinians to the treatment of Black South Africans under apartheid.[55] Tutu drew this comparison on a Christmas visit to Jerusalem in 1989, when he said that he is a "black South African, and if I were to change the names, a description of what is happening in Gaza and the West Bank could describe events in South Africa."[58] He made similar comments in 2002, speaking of "the humiliation of the Palestinians at checkpoints and roadblocks, suffering like us when young white police officers prevented us from moving about".[59]
In 1988, the American Jewish Committee noted that Tutu was strongly critical of Israel's military and other connections with apartheid-era South Africa, and quoted him as saying that Zionism has "very many parallels with racism", on the grounds that it "excludes people on ethnic or other grounds over which they have no control". While the AJC was critical of some of Tutu's views, it dismissed "insidious rumours" that he had made antisemitic statements.[60] (The exact wording of Tutu's statement was reported differently in different sources. A Toronto Star article from the period indicates that he described Zionism "as a policy that looks like it has many parallels with racism, the effect is the same.")[61]
Tutu preached a message of forgiveness during a 1989 trip to Israel's Yad Vashem museum, saying "Our Lord would say that in the end the positive thing that can come is the spirit of forgiving, not forgetting, but the spirit of saying: God, this happened to us. We pray for those who made it happen, help us to forgive them and help us so that we in our turn will not make others suffer."[62] Some found this statement offensive, with Rabbi Marvin Hier of the Simon Wiesenthal Center calling it "a gratuitous insult to Jews and victims of Nazism everywhere."[63] Tutu was subjected to racial slurs during this visit to Israel, with vandals writing "Black Nazi pig" on the walls of the St. George's Cathedral in East Jerusalem, where he was staying.[62]
In 2002, when delivering a public lecture in support of divestment, Tutu said "My heart aches. I say why are our memories so short. Have our Jewish sisters and brothers forgotten their humiliation? Have they forgotten the collective punishment, the home demolitions, in their own history so soon? Have they turned their backs on their profound and noble religious traditions? Have they forgotten that God cares deeply about the downtrodden?"[55] He argued that Israel could never live in security by oppressing another people, and stated, "People are scared in this country [the US], to say wrong is wrong because the Jewish lobby is powerful – very powerful. Well, so what? For goodness sake, this is God's world! We live in a moral universe. The apartheid government was very powerful, but today it no longer exists."[55] The latter statement was criticised by some Jewish groups, including the Anti-Defamation League.[64][65] When he edited and reprinted parts of his speech in 2005, Tutu replaced the words "Jewish lobby" with "pro-Israel lobby".[66]
US attorney Alan Dershowitz referred to Tutu as a "racist and a bigot" during the controversial Durban II conference in April 2009.[67]
As of March 2012, Tutu was a member of the Advisory Board for Global March to Jerusalem (GM2J).[68] According to Paul Larudee, founding member of GM2J, the aim was to "march from many starting points and converge on Jerusalem, either reaching that destination or getting as close to it as possible" on 30 March 2012 as an act of nonviolent resistance to what he describes as Israel's Judaization of Jerusalem.[69]
In 2003, Tutu accepted the role as patron of Sabeel International,[70] a Christian liberation theology organisation which supports the concerns of the Palestinian Christian community and has actively lobbied the international Christian community for divestment from Israel.[71] In the same year, Tutu received an International Advocate for Peace Award from the Cardozo School of Law, an affiliate of Yeshiva University, sparking scattered student protests and condemnations from representatives of the Simon Wiesenthal Center and Anti-Defamation League.[72] A 2006 opinion piece in the Jerusalem Post newspaper described him as "a friend, albeit a misguided one, of Israel and the Jewish people".[73] The Zionist Organization of America has led a campaign to protest Tutu's appearances at North American campuses.
Tutu was appointed as the UN Lead for an investigation into the Israeli bombings in the Beit Hanoun November 2006 incident. Israel refused Tutu's delegation access, so the investigation didn't occur until 2008.
During that fact-finding mission, Tutu called the Gaza blockade an abomination[74] and compared Israel's behaviour to the military junta in Burma.
In 2011, 27 members of the American Psychiatric Association boycotted the group's annual meeting in Honolulu, Hawaiʻi to protest against the selection of Tutu as speaker, as they objected to Tutu’s statement that Zionism has "very many parallels with racism", his description of Israel as an apartheid state, his call for academic and cultural boycotts of Israel, a position which conflicts with APA’s policy, and what the members regarded as his "strongly anti-Semitic comments" and "falsehoods about Israel". APA president Carol Bernstein invited Tutu to speak about South Africa’s Truth and Reconciliation Commission for the Menninger lecture.[75][76][77]
In 2007, the president of the University of St. Thomas in Minnesota cancelled a planned speech by Tutu, on the grounds that his presence might offend some members of the local Jewish community.[78] Many faculty members opposed this decision, and with some describing Tutu as the victim of a smear campaign. The group Jewish Voice for Peace led an email campaign calling on St. Thomas to reconsider its decision,[79] which the president did and invited Tutu to campus.[80] Tutu declined the re-invitation, speaking instead at the Minneapolis Convention Center at an event hosted by Metro State University.[81] However, Tutu addressed the issue two days later while making his final appearance at Metro State.
"There were those who tried to say 'Tutu shouldn’t come to [St.Thomas] to speak.' I was 10,000 miles away and I thought to myself, 'Ah, no,’ because there were many here who said 'No, come and speak,’" Tutu said. "People came and stood and had demonstrations to say 'Let Tutu speak.' [Metropolitan State] said 'Whatever, he can come and speak here.' Professor Toffolo and others said 'We stand for him.' So let us stand for them."[82]
Tutu wrote to the Chinese government demanding the release of dissident Yang Jianli in 2007.[83] He criticised China for not doing more against the Darfur genocide.[84] During the 2008 Tibetan unrest, Tutu praised the 14th Dalai Lama and said that the government of China should "listen to [his] pleas for... no further violence".[85] He later spoke to a rally calling on heads of states worldwide not to attend the 2008 Summer Olympics opening ceremony "for the sake of the beautiful people of Tibet".[86]
The Dalai Lama was not granted a visa to South Africa to participate in the 80th birthday party of fellow Nobel Peace Prize winner Tutu on 7 October 2011. He said his application for a visa had not come through on time despite having been made to Pretoria several weeks earlier.[87][88] In 2009 Beijing had warned against allowing the Dalai Lama into the country.
In 2003, Tutu was elected to the board of directors of the International Criminal Court's Trust Fund for Victims.[89] He was named a member of the UN advisory panel on genocide prevention in 2006.[90]
However, Tutu has also criticised the UN, particularly on the issue of West Papua. Tutu expressed support for the West Papuan independence movement, criticising the UN's role in the takeover of West Papua by Indonesia. Tutu said: "For many years the people of South Africa suffered under the yoke of oppression and apartheid. Many people continue to suffer brutal oppression, where their fundamental dignity as human beings is denied. One such people is the people of West Papua."[91]
Tutu was named to head a United Nations fact-finding mission to the Gaza Strip town of Beit Hanoun, where, in a November 2006 incident the Israel Defense Forces killed 19 civilians after troops wound up a week-long incursion aimed at curbing Palestinian rocket attacks on Israel from the town.[92] Tutu planned to travel to the Palestinian territory to "assess the situation of victims, address the needs of survivors and make recommendations on ways and means to protect Palestinian civilians against further Israeli assaults," according to the president of the UN Human Rights Council, Luis Alfonso De Alba.[93] Israeli officials expressed concern that the report would be biased against Israel. Tutu cancelled the trip in mid-December, saying that Israel had refused to grant him the necessary travel clearance after more than a week of discussions.[94] However, Tutu and British academic Christine Chinkin are now due to visit the Gaza Strip via Egypt and will file a report at the September 2008 session of the Human Rights Council.[95]
Before the 31st G8 summit at Gleneagles, Scotland, in 2005, Tutu called on world leaders to promote free trade with poorer countries. Tutu also called on an end to expensive taxes on anti-AIDS drugs.[96]
Following this summit, the G8 leaders promised to increase aid to developing countries by $48bn a year by 2010. Further, they gave their word of honour that they would do the best they could to achieve universal access to prevention and treatment for the millions and millions of people globally threatened by HIV/AIDS.
Before the 32nd G8 summit in Heiligendamm, Germany, in 2007, Tutu called on the G8 to focus on poverty in the Third World. Following the United Nations Millennium Summit in 2000, it appeared that world leaders were determined as never before to set and meet specific goals regarding extreme poverty.[97]
In January 2003, Tutu attacked British Prime Minister Tony Blair's stance in supporting American President George W. Bush over Iraq. Tutu asked why Iraq was being singled out when Europe, India and Pakistan also had many weapons of mass destruction.[98] In 2012, Tutu pulled out of an event in South Africa at which Blair was also due to appear, citing what he described as the former UK prime minister's "morally indefensible" decision to attack Iraq,[99] and called for him to face trial for alleged war crimes at the Hague.[100] Blair defended himself at the conference,[101] while Juan Cole observed that "Blair was paid thousands of dollars to attend the conference; if Tutu had gone, he would have spoken gratis."[102]
In October 2004, Tutu appeared in a play at Off Broadway, New York, called Guantanamo – Honor-bound to Defend Freedom. This play was highly critical of the US handling of detainees at Guantanamo Bay. Tutu played Lord Justice Steyn, a judge who questions the legal justification of the detention regime.[103]
In January 2005, Tutu added his voice to the growing dissent over terrorist suspects held at Camp X-Ray in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, referring to detentions without trial as "utterly unacceptable." Tutu compared these detentions to those under Apartheid. Tutu also emphasised that when South Africa had used those methods the country had been condemned; however when powerful countries such as Britain and the United States of America had invoked such power, the world was silent and in that silence accepted their methods even though the left charged that they violated essential human rights.[104]
In February 2006, Tutu repeated these statements after a UN report was published which called for the closure of the camp. Tutu stated that the Guantanamo camp was a stain on the character of the United States, while the legislation in Britain which gave a 28-day detention period for terror suspects was "excessive" and "untenable". Tutu claimed that arguments being made in Britain and the United States were similar to those the South African apartheid regime had used. "It is disgraceful and one cannot find strong enough words to condemn what Britain and the United States and some of their allies have accepted," said Tutu. Tutu also attacked Tony Blair's failed attempt to hold terrorist suspects in Britain for up to 90 days without charge. "Ninety days for a South African is an awful déjà-vu because we had in South Africa in the bad old days a 90-day detention law," he said. Under apartheid, as at Guantanamo, people were held for "unconscionably long periods" and then released, he said.[105]
In 2007, Tutu stated that the global "war on terror" could not be won if people were living in desperate conditions. Tutu said that the global disparity between rich and poor people creates instability.[106]
Tutu's supporters consider him a tireless campaigner for health and human rights, and he has been particularly vocal in support of controlling TB and HIV.[107] He is Patron of the Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation, a registered Section 21 non-profit organisation,[clarification needed] has served as the honorary chairman for the Global AIDS Alliance and is patron of TB Alert, a UK charity working internationally.[108] In 2003 the Desmond Tutu HIV Centre was founded in Cape Town, while the Desmond Tutu TB Centre was founded in 2003 at Stellenbosch University. Tutu suffered from TB in his youth and has been active in assisting those afflicted, especially as TB and HIV/AIDS deaths have become intrinsically linked in South Africa. "Those of you who work to care for people suffering from AIDS and TB are wiping a tear from God’s eye," Tutu said.[107]
On 20 April 2005, after Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger was elected as Pope Benedict XVI, Tutu said he was sad that the Roman Catholic Church was unlikely to change its opposition to condoms amidst the fight against HIV/AIDS in Africa: "We would have hoped for someone more open to the more recent developments in the world, the whole question of the ministry of women and a more reasonable position with regards to condoms and HIV/AIDS."[109]
In 2007, statistics were released that indicated HIV and AIDS numbers were lower than previously thought in South Africa. However, Tutu described these statistics as "cold comfort" as it was unacceptable that 600 people died of AIDS in South Africa every day. Tutu also rebuked the government for wasting time by discussing what caused HIV/AIDS, which particularly attacks Mbeki and Health Minister Manto Tshabalala-Msimang for their denialist stance.[110]
In 2002, Tutu called for a reform of the Anglican Communion in regard to how its leader, the Archbishop of Canterbury, is chosen. The ultimate appointment is made by Queen Elizabeth II on the advice of the British Prime Minister, who is in turn selecting from two candidates nominated by the Church of England's nominations commission.
Tutu said that the selection process will be properly democratic and representative only when the link between church and state is broken. In February 2006 Tutu took part in the 9th Assembly of the World Council of Churches, held in Porto Alegre, Brazil. There he manifested his commitment to ecumenism and praised the efforts of Christian churches to promote dialogue to diminish their differences. For Tutu, "a united church is no optional extra."
Tutu says he reads the Bible every day and recommends that people read it as a collection of books, not a single constitutional document: "You have to understand is that the Bible is really a library of books and it has different categories of material," he said. "There are certain parts which you have to say no to. The Bible accepted slavery. St Paul said women should not speak in church at all and there are people who have used that to say women should not be ordained. There are many things that you shouldn't accept."[111]
In the debate about Anglican views of homosexuality, Tutu has opposed traditional Christian disapproval of homosexuality. Commenting days after the election of Gene Robinson, an openly gay man, to be a bishop in the Episcopal Church in the United States of America on 5 August 2003, Tutu said, "In our Church here in South Africa, that doesn't make a difference. We just say that at the moment, we believe that they should remain celibate and we don't see what the fuss is about."[112] Tutu has remarked that it is sad the church is spending time disagreeing on sexual orientation "when we face so many devastating problems – poverty, HIV/AIDS, war and conflict".[113]
Tutu has increased his criticism of conservative attitudes to homosexuality within his own church, equating what advocates call homophobia with racism, saying at a conference in Nairobi that he is "deeply disturbed that in the face of some of the most horrendous problems facing Africa, we concentrate on 'what do I do in bed with whom'".[114] In an interview with BBC Radio 4 on 18 November 2007, Tutu accused the church of being obsessed with homosexuality and declared: "If God, as they say, is homophobic, I wouldn't worship that God."[115] Tutu has said that in future anti-gay laws would be regarded as just as wrong as apartheid laws.[116]
Tutu has lent his name to the fight against homophobia in Africa and around the world. He stated at the launching of the book Sex, Love and Homophobia that homophobia is a "crime against humanity" and "every bit as unjust" as apartheid. He added that "we struggled against apartheid in South Africa, supported by people the world over, because black people were being blamed and made to suffer for something we could do nothing about; our very skins... It is the same with sexual orientation. It is a given."[117]
Tutu has been more supportive on recent years of non-celibate gay Christian clergy, praising Gene Robinson and even writing the foreword for his autobiography, In the Eye of the Storm (2008).[118] He said of Robinson: "For someone in the eye of the storm buffeting our beloved Anglican Communion, Gene Robinson is so serene; he is not a wild-eyed belligerent campaigner. I was so surprised at his generosity toward those who have denigrated him and worse. Gene Robinson is a wonderful human being, and I am proud to belong to the same church as he." [sic][119] He also wrote to the Revd Grayde Parsons praising the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.)'s decision to allow non-celibate male and female clergy.[120]
Tutu supported the creation of the Harvey Milk Foundation after being a co-recipient of 2009 Presidential Medal of Freedom with Milk and meeting his nephew, Stuart Milk, who accepted the medal on behalf of his uncle. Tutu remains involved as a founding member of the foundation's advisory board.[121]
I would refuse to go to a homophobic heaven. No, I would say sorry, I mean I would much rather go to the other place. I would not worship a God who is homophobic and that is how deeply I feel about this. I am as passionate about this campaign as I ever was about apartheid. For me, it is at the same level.
On 8 March 2009, Tutu joined the "Africa for women's rights" campaign launched by the International Federation for Human Rights (FIDH), the African Centre for Democracy and Human Rights Studies (ACDHRS), Femmes Africa Solidarité (FAS), Women's Aid Collective (WACOL), Women in Law and Development in Africa (WILDAF), Women and Law in South Africa (WLSA) and a hundred other African human rights and women's rights organisations. This campaign for the fulfilment of women's human rights, and the end of violence and discrimination against women, aims to generate mass mobilisation and draw maximum attention, to increase pressure on African states to ratify the international and regional women's human rights protection instruments, without reservation, and to respect them, in domestic laws and in practice.
In 1994, Tutu said that he approved of artificial contraception and that abortion was acceptable in a number of situations, such as incest and rape. He specifically welcomed the aims of the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo.[123] He accepted the full legalisation of abortion in South Africa, in 1996, despite some personal reservations[124]
Archbishop Tutu at the COP17 We Have Faith: Act Now for Climate Justice Rally, 27 November 2011 in Durban, South Africa
Tutu was at the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen. He made a speech in front of many at the event. Tutu is also a "Climate Ally" in the "tck tck tck Time for Climate Justice" campaign of the Global Humanitarian Forum and a 350.org messenger.[125] He also helped to lead a rally in 2011 in Durban, South Africa (We Have Faith:Act Now for Climate Justice Rally) in the run up to the COP17 negotiations; where he advocated for all governments to sign a binding document to ensure that climate justice is realised for all people. He focused on the needs of those most affected by climate change (namely those in developing nations) and the corporate greed feeding the current climate crisis.
On 28 April 2011, Tutu published a strongly worded article about Arizona Senate Bill 1070, which criminalises illegal immigration into the US State of Arizona, and requires Arizona police to request immigration documentation of any person suspected of committing a crime, a clause which would require immigrants and citizens to carry documentation on their person at all times. He stated that he was "saddened today at the prospect of a young Hispanic immigrant in Arizona going to the grocery store and forgetting to bring her passport and immigration documents with her. I cannot be dispassionate about the fact that the very act of her being in the grocery store will soon be a crime in the state she lives in. Or that should a policeman hear her accent and form a 'reasonable suspicion' that she is an illegal immigrant, she can – and will – be taken into custody until someone sorts it out, while her children are at home waiting for their dinner." He urged the State of Arizona to create a new model to deal with the pitfalls of illegal immigration, one that "is based on a deep respect for the essential human rights Americans themselves have grown up enjoying."[citation needed]
Tutu has been a staunch opponent since the start of the Iraq War, saying that it has "destabilised and polarised the world to a greater extent than any other conflict in history". In September 2012, Tutu called for George Bush and Tony Blair to be tried for their role in the conflict by the International Criminal Court and that they should be made to "answer for their actions".[126]
Together with Mairead Maguire and Adolfo Pérez Esquivel, Tutu published a letter in support of Chelsea Manning, saying (in November 2012, nine months prior to Manning coming out as a trans woman in August 2013),
"The words attributed to Manning reveal that he went through a profound moral struggle between the time he enlisted and when he became a whistleblower. Through his experience in Iraq, he became disturbed by top-level policy that undervalued human life and caused the suffering of innocent civilians and soldiers. Like other courageous whistleblowers, he was driven foremost by a desire to reveal the truth" and, "The military prosecution has not presented evidence that Private Manning injured anyone by releasing secret documents... Nor has the prosecution denied that his motivations were conscientious;"[127]
In 2009 Tutu joined the project "Soldiers of Peace", a movie against all wars and for a global peace.[128][129]
Also in 2009, along with prominent chefs and celebrities like Daniel Boulud and Jean Rochefort, Desmond Tutu endorsed Action Against Hunger's No Hunger Campaign calling on the former Vice-President Al Gore to make a documentary film about world hunger.[130]
Tutu delivering the keynote address at the University of the Western Cape's New Member Recognition Event, 2009
In 1998, he was appointed as the Robert R Woodruff Visiting Professor at Emory University, Atlanta. He returned to Emory University the following year as the William R. Cannon Visiting Distinguished Professor. In 2000, he founded the Desmond Tutu Peace Foundation to raise funds for the Desmond Tutu Peace Centre in Cape Town. The following year he launched the Desmond Tutu Peace Foundation USA, which is designed to work with universities nationwide to create leadership academies emphasising peace, social justice and reconciliation.
In 2001, the Desmond Tutu Educational Trust, with funding from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, launched the Desmond Tutu Footprints of the Legends Awards to recognise leadership in combating prejudice, human rights, research and poverty eradication. Since 2004, he has been a visiting professor at King's College London. In 2007, 2010 and 2013, he joined 600 college students and sailed around the world with the Semester at Sea program.[131] Tutu addressed Gonzaga University's Class of 2012 on 13 May 2012 in Spokane, Washington.[132]
Tutu co-chairs 1GOAL Education for All campaign which was launched by Queen Rania of Jordan in August 2009 which aims to secure schooling for some 72 million children world-wide who cannot afford it, in accordance with the Millennium Goal Promise of Education For All by 2015 giving them an opportunity to get education through the FIFA 1Goal campaign.[133][134]
In the ongoing effort to research the diversity of the human genome, Tutu donated some of his own cells to the project. They were sequenced as an example for a Bantu individual representing Sotho-Tswana and Nguni speakers (publication: February 2010).[135]
Tutu currently serves as the honorary chair of the Association of European Parliamentarians with Africa's (AWEPA) Eminent Advisory Board.[136]
On 16 October 1984, the then Bishop Tutu was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. The Nobel Committee cited his "role as a unifying leader figure in the campaign to resolve the problem of apartheid in South Africa".[137] This was seen as a gesture of support for him and The South African Council of Churches which he led at that time. In 1987 Tutu was awarded the Pacem in Terris Award.[138] It was named after a 1963 encyclical letter by Pope John XXIII that calls upon all people of good will to secure peace among all nations.[139] In 1992, he was awarded the Bishop John T. Walker Distinguished Humanitarian Service Award. His 2010 book, Made for Goodness was awarded a Nautilus Book Award.
In June 1999, Tutu was invited to give the annual Wilberforce Lecture in Kingston upon Hull, commemorating the life and achievements of the anti-slavery campaigner William Wilberforce. Tutu used the occasion to praise the people of the city for their traditional support of freedom and for standing with the people of South Africa in their fight against apartheid. He was also presented with the freedom of the city.[140]
In 1978 Tutu was awarded a fellowship of King's College London, of which he is an alumnus. He returned to King's in 2004 as Visiting Professor in Post-Conflict Studies. The Students' Union nightclub, Tutu's, is named in his honour.[141]
In 1996 Tutu was the first recipient of the Archbishop of Canterbury's Award for Outstanding Service to the Anglican Communion, a new award created specially for him, and designated the highest possible award within the Anglican Communion, standing in precedence ahead of the previous highest award, the Cross of St Augustine, gold division.
In June 1999 Tutu was elected an Honorary Fellow of Sidney Sussex College in the University of Cambridge, from which he has been awarded the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Divinity.
In 2006 Tutu was named an honorary patron of the University Philosophical Society, Trinity College, Dublin, for his tremendous contributions to peace and discourse.
Freedom of the city awards have been conferred on Tutu in cities in Italy, Wales, England and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. He has received numerous doctorates and fellowships at distinguished universities. He has been named a Grand Officer of the Légion d'honneur by France; Germany has awarded him the Order of Merit Grand Cross, and he received the Sydney Peace Prize in 1999. He is also the recipient of the Gandhi Peace Prize, the King Hussein Prize and the Marion Doenhoff Prize for International Reconciliation and Understanding. In 2008, Governor Rod Blagojevich of Illinois proclaimed 13 May 'Desmond Tutu Day'. On his visit to Illinois, Tutu was awarded the Lincoln Leadership Prize and unveiled his portrait which will be displayed at the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library in Springfield.[142]
In October 2008, Tutu received the Wallenberg Medal from the University of Michigan in recognition of his lifelong work in defence of human rights and dignity.
On 8 May 2009, Tutu was the featured speaker during Michigan State University's spring undergraduate convocation. During the commencement, an honorary doctor of humane letters degree was bestowed on Tutu. Two days later, he received an honorary doctor of divinity degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.[143] The two schools had coincidentally met in the previous month's NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship, a detail not missed by Tutu.[144]
In May 2009 Tutu was awarded an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree from the University of Edinburgh.[145] In commemoration of this event the University established the Desmond Tutu Masters' Scholarship for students from Africa to do postgraduate Master's study within the School of Divinity.[146]
Tutu was awarded an honorary degree from Bangor University, Bangor, Wales, on 10 June 2009. During the ceremony, Tutu thanked the people of Wales for their role in helping end apartheid.
On 12 June 2009 the University of Vienna conferred the degree "Doctor Theologiae honoris causa" on Desmond Tutu. The Faculty of Protestant Theology and Senate based the decision on Tutu's outstanding achievement in developing and establishing what can be called "ubuntu-theology", his manifestation of what became known as "public theology". By integrating the principles of the South African ubuntu philosophy with his theological thinking, he made a major contribution beyond classical Liberation Theology.
Southwark Cathedral named two new varieties of rose in honour of Desmond and Leah Tutu at the 2009 RHS Flower Show at Hampton Court Palace. To celebrate the event, the Southwark Cathedral Merbecke Choir gave a concert in the presence of Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu and his wife Leah at Southwark Cathedral on 11 July 2009.[147][148] The Archbishop joined the choir on stage for its encore – an arrangement of George Gershwin's 'Summertime'.
In 2009 he also received the Spiritual Leadership Award from the international Humanity's Team movement[149][150] and the Presidential Medal of Freedom from US President Barack Obama.[151] In 2013 he received the £1.1m ($1.6m) Templeton Prize for "for his life-long work in advancing spiritual principles such as love and forgiveness".[152]
Tutu was inducted into the Golden Key International Honour Society as an Honorary Member in 2001, by the University of Stellenbosch.[153]
The Archbishop was named an Honorary Chairman of Building Tomorrow's board of directors. Building Tomorrow engages young people in their mission to build schools for underserved children and communities in Uganda. Tutu has said, "I believe that education is the key to unlocking the door that will eradicate poverty and that young people have the power to make it happen."
Desmond Tutu serves as an Honorary Co-Chairman for the World Justice Project which works to lead a global, multidisciplinary effort to strengthen the Rule of Law for the development of communities of opportunity and equity.
Tutu is one of the patrons of The Forgiveness Project,[154] a UK-based charity that uses real stories of victims and perpetrators of crime to facilitate conflict resolution, break the cycle of vengeance and encourage behavioural change. As a supporter of their work,[155] Tutu joined Anita Roddick at the launch of The Forgiveness Project's exhibition, the F Word, at the Oxo Tower Gallery in January 2004 and on 12 May 2010 delivered the charity's inaugural annual lecture.[156]
Speaking to 800 people at St John's Smith Square in London on lecture's topic of "Is violence ever justified?" he talked about the process of truth and reconciliation, the transformative nature of forgiveness and the uniquely African concept of Ubuntu - 'I am me, because you are you', saying that when wars come to an end, only forgiveness enables people to fully move away from conflict.[157]
Archbishop Tutu was joined on stage by Mary Blewitt who lost 50 members of her family in the Rwandan genocide; Jo Berry whose father was killed in the 1984 Brighton hotel bombing; and Patrick Magee, the former IRA activist who planted the bomb. The event was chaired by BBC broadcaster Edward Stourton
Virgin Radio (2007) – Tutu contacted Virgin Radio on 15 October 2007 in the "Who's Calling Christian" phone in where famous people ring in to raise a substantial amount of money for charity.
Gimme Hope Jo'anna the 1988 hit single by Eddy Grant, which was banned by the South African Government, mentions Tutu as "The Archbishop who's a peaceful man."
Tutu the 1986 album by Miles Davis is dedicated to Tutu. The title track, written by Marcus Miller, has become a jazz fusion standard.
The Rainbow People of God: The Making of a Peaceful Revolution, Doubleday, 1994. ISBN 978-0-385-47546-4
Bounty in Bondage: Anglican Church in Southern Africa – Essays in Honour of Edward King, Dean of Cape Town, with Frank England, Torguil Paterson, and Torquil Paterson (1989)
Love in Chaos: Spiritual Growth and the Search for Peace in Northern Ireland, with Mary McAleese (1999)
Race and Reconciliation in South Africa (Global Encounters: Studies in Comparative Political Theory), with William Vugt and G. Daan Cloete (2000)
At the Side of Torture Survivors: Treating a Terrible Assault on Human Dignity, with Bahman Nirumand, Sepp Graessner and Norbert Gurris (2001)
Sex, Love and Homophobia: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Lives, with Amnesty International, Vanessa Baird and Grayson Perry (2004)
Where God Happens: Discovering Christ in One Another and Other Lessons from the Desert Fathers, with Rowan Williams (2005)
The Soul of a New Cuisine: A Discovery of the Foods and Flavors of Africa, with Marcus Samuelsson, Heidi Sacko Walters and Gediyon Kifle (2006)
The Gospel According to Judas by Benjamin Iscariot, by Jeffrey Archer and Frank Moloney (2007) – Tutu narrates the audiobook version
Made for Goodness: And Why This Makes All The Difference, with Mpho Tutu (2010), winner of the Nautilus Book Award
The Rise of the Reluctant Innovator (edited by Ken Banks). Foreword. London Publishing Partnership, (2013)
Tutu has also written articles for Greater Good, a magazine published by the Greater Good Science Center of the University of California, Berkeley. His contributions include the interpretation of scientific research into the roots of compassion, altruism and peaceful human relationships.
Categories: 1931 birthsLiving peopleAlumni of King's College LondonAnglican archbishopsAnglican writersAnti-apartheid activistsAnti-poverty advocatesArchbishops of Cape TownBates College alumniBishops of JohannesburgBishops of LesothoCancer survivorsCommanders of the Order of Orange-NassauCommanders of the Order of St JohnFellows of King's College LondonGrand Crosses of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of GermanyGrand Officiers of the Légion d'honneurHamilton College (New York) alumniHamilton College (New York) facultyHIV/AIDS activistsLGBT rights activists from South AfricaMale feministsNautilus Book Award winnersNobel Peace Prize laureatesPeople from KlerksdorpPeople of the National University of LesothoPresidential Medal of Freedom recipientsRecipients of the Gandhi Peace PrizeSouth African Basotho peopleSouth African democracy activistsSouth African humanitariansSouth African Nobel laureatesSouth African non-fiction writersSouth African revolutionariesSouth African Tswana peopleSustainability advocatesTempleton Prize laureatesUniversity of South Africa alumniXhosa peopleHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from March 2014Articles with dead external links from October 2010Pages with citations lacking titlesPages with citations having bare URLsUse South African English from September 2013All Wikipedia articles written in South African EnglishAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2010Wikipedia articles needing clarification from January 2011Articles with unsourced statements from October 2012Commons category with local link same as on WikidataUse dmy dates from April 2014Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
Desmond Tutu was born in Klerksdorp, in the South African  state of Transvaal. The family moved to Johannesburg when he was 12, and he attended Johannesburg Bantu High School. Although he had planned to become a physician, his parents could not afford to send him to medical school. Tutu's father was a teacher, he himself trained as a teacher at Pretoria Bantu Normal College, and graduated from the University of South Africa in 1954.
The government of South Africa did not extend the rights of citizenship to black South Africans. The National Party had risen to power on the promise of instituting a system of apartheid  -- complete separation of the races. All South Africans were legally assigned to an official racial group; each races was restricetd to separate living areas and separate public facilities. Only white South Africans were permitted to vote in national elections. Black South Africans were only represented in the local governments of remote "tribal homelands." Interracial marriage was forbidden, blacks were legally barred from certain jobs and prohibited from forming labor unions. Passports were required for travel within the country; critics of the system could be banned from speaking in public and subjected to house arrest.
When the government ordained a deliberately inferior system of education for black students, Desmond Tutu refused to cooperate. He could no longer work as a teacher, but he was determined to do something to improve the life of his disenfranchised people. On the advice of his bishop, he began to study for the Anglican priesthood. Tutu was ordained as a priest in the Anglican church in 1960. At the same time, the South African government began a program of forced relocation of black Africans and Asians from newly designated "white" areas. Millions were deported to the "homelands," and only permitted to return as "guest workers."
Desmond Tutu lived in England from 1962 to 1966, where he earned a master's degree in theology. He taught theology in South Africa for the next five years, and returned to England to serve as an assistant director of the World Council of Churches in London. In 1975 he became the first black African to serve as Dean of St. Mary's Cathedral in Johannesburg. From 1976 to 1978 he was Bishop of Lesotho. In 1978 he became the first black General Secretary of the South African Council of Churches.
This position gave Bishop Tutu a national platform to denounce the apartheid system as "evil and unchristian."  Tutu called for equal rights for all South Africans and a system of common education. He demanded the repeal of the oppressive passport laws, and an end to forced relocation. Tutu encouraged nonviolent resistance to the apartheid regime, and advocated an economic boycott of the country. The government revoked his passport to prevent him from traveling and speaking abroad, but his case soon drew the attention of the world. In the face of an international public outcry the government was forced to restore his passport.
In 1984, Desmond Tutu was awarded the Nobel Prize for Peace, "not only as a gesture of support to him and to the South African Council of Churches of which he is leader, but also to all individuals and groups in South Africa who, with their concern for human dignity, fraternity and democracy, incite the admiration of the world."
Two years later, Desmond Tutu was elected Archbishop of Cape Town. He was the first black African to serve in this position, which placed him at the head of the Anglican Church in South Africa, as the Archbishop of Canterbury is spiritual leader of the Church of England. International economic pressure and internal dissent forced the South African  government to reform. In 1990, Nelson Mandela of the African National Congress was released after almost 27 years in prison. The following year the government began the repeal of racially discriminatory laws.
After the country's first multi-racial elections in 1994, President Mandela appointed Archbishop Tutu to chair the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, investigating the human rights violations of the previous 34 years. As always, the Archbishop counseled forgiveness and cooperation, rather than revenge for past injustice. In 1996 he retired as Archbishop of Cape Town and was named Archbishop Emeritus. For two years, he was Visiting Professor of Theology at Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia. Published collections of his speeches, sermons and other writings include Crying in the Wilderness, Hope and Suffering, and The Rainbow People of God.
In 2007, Desmond Tutu joined former South African President Mandela, former U.S. President Jimmy Carter, retired U.N Secretary General Kofi Annan, and former Irish President Mary Robinson to form The Elders, a private initiative mobilizing the experience of senior world leaders outside of the conventional diplomatic process. Tutu was named to chair the group. Carter and Tutu have traveled together to Darfur, Gaza and Cyprus in an effort to resolve long-standing conflicts. Desmond Tutu's historic accomplishments -- and his continuing efforts to promote peace in the world --  were formally recognized by the United States in 2009, when President Barack Obama named him to receive the nation's highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
Watch a tribute to Nobel Peace Prize-winner Archbishop Tutu's life and work.  Listen to former South Africa President, Nelson Mandela, Peace Prize winners and others speak about the profound leadership of Archbishop Tutu in post apartheid South Africa from the film, "Just Call Me Arch."
Sponsors | Privacy Policy | Technical Questions | Editorial Questions | Usage Policy | Directors & Staff | Site Map  | RSS Feeds 
=======================================================
Desmond Tutu is a renowned activist from South Africa. In this biography, we have provided information about his childhood, life and timeline.
father: Zachariah Tutu mother: Aletta  Spouse: Leah Nomalizo Tutu children: Trevor Thamsanqa, Theresa Thandeka, Naomi Nontombi, Mpho Andrea education: King's College London, University of South Africa (1954), St. Martin's School Founder/Co-Founder: Tutu Foundation for Development and Relief
                                    1987 - Pacem in Terris Award 1992 - Bishop John T. Walker Distinguished Humanitarian Service Award 2010 - Nautilus Book Award 
                                     1996 - Archbishop of Canterbury's Award for Outstanding Service to the Anglican Communion 2009 - Spiritual Leadership Award 1984 - Nobel Peace Prize award 
Desmond Tutu is a well-known South African activist, whose efforts to solve the issue of apartheid, during 1980s, fetched him worldwide fame. Born in 1931, in Klerksdorp, Tutu chose teaching as his profession. After serving as a lecturer for few years, he pursued Theology. He was the first black person to become the Archbishop of Cape Town. He also became the first black Bishop of Johannesburg. Tutu is the second South African to receive Noble Peace Prize. 
Tutu became the voice of the 'voiceless' black people, who suffered from racial discrimination in South Africa. His lectures and writings at home and abroad played a significant role in solving the issue of apartheid. Apart from this, Desmond Tutu has organized several campaigns to fight AIDS, poverty and racism. The Noble laureate has compiled several books of his speeches and sayings. Desmond Tutu was the head of Truth and Reconciliation Commission and at present, is the chairperson of 'The Elders'.
Born on 7th October 1931, in Klerksdorp, as a Methodist, Desmond Tutu became an Anglican when his family changed religions. He moved with his family to Johannesburg when he was 12 years old. In Johannesburg, Tutu came across Anglican priest Trevor Huddleston, who was strictly against apartheid, the system of legal racial separation. Tutu was influenced by Huddleston and considered the priest as his role model. Although Tutu wanted to become a physician, his family could not afford the training. Hence, he decided to follow the path of his father and chose teaching as his profession. 
Desmond Tutu studied at the Pretoria Bantu Normal College, from 1951 through 1953, and pursued a diploma in teaching. After completing the course, he went on to teach at Johannesburg Bantu High School for three years, till 1957. Following the implementation of Bantu Education Act 1953, which deteriorated the standard of black education and reduced it to second rate, Tutu resigned from the job, in protest of poor academic conditions of the black South Africans.
Desmond Tutu then continued his studies and pursued Theology at St Peter’s Theology College in Rosettenville. Following in the footsteps of his role model and fellow activist Trevor Huddleson, he became an Anglican priest in 1960. Tutu traveled to London to continue further studies, where he earned his Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in Theology. 
After acquiring education, Desmond Tutu returned to South Africa. He used his lectures to highlight the miserable conditions of the black population in the country. Tutu served as a lecturer from 1970 to 1974, at the University of Lesotho, Botswana. He was appointed as the Anglican Dean of Johannesburg in 1975. He used his position to challenge the white rule publicly. From 1976 to 1978, Tutu served as the Bishop of Lesotho and in 1978, became the Secretary-General of South African Council of Churches. After a year, he was chosen as the Archbishop of Cape Town, South Africa. He became the first black Bishop of Johannesburg in 1985.
Desmond Tutu married Nomalizo Leah Shenxane in 1955. Their four children - Trevor Thamsanqa Tutu, Theresa Thandeka Tutu, Naomi Nontombi Tutu and Mpho Andrea Tutu, studied at Waterford Kamhlaba School, in Swaziland. Desmond Tutu was diagnosed with Prostate Cancer in 1997. Consequently, he became the patron of South African Prostate Cancer Foundation, which was established in 2007. Tutu is a beholder of a number of honorary degrees, earned from prestigious universities across the world. 
Desmond Tutu was one of the outspoken critics of apartheid - the system of legal racial separation. He used his position as the Bishop of Lesotho to work against it. Students’ rebellion against apartheid started in Soweto, in 1976. This protest came to be known as ‘Soweto Riots’. Tutu played his part by supporting an ‘economic’ boycott of his country. He also fought against the racial discrimination by constantly preaching reconciliation between different parties associated with apartheid, through his writings and lectures at home and abroad. 
On September 7, 1986, Desmond Tutu became the first black person to become the head of Anglican Church in South Africa. He was invited to Birmingham, England, as part of Citywide Christian Celebrations in 1989. His wife accompanied him to visit various establishments, such as Nelson Mandela School in Sparkbrook. South Africa’s first multi-racial elections were held in 1994, when Nelson Mandela was elected as country’s first black President. He appointed Tutu as the chairperson of Truth & Reconciliation Commission (TRC).
In order to devote his time to the TRC, Tutu took retirement from the position of Archbishop of Cape town, in 1996. After a year, although he announced that he would undergo several months of treatment for prostate cancer in the United States, he continued to work for TRC. Tutu returned to United Kingdom in 2004 to serve as a visiting professor at King’s College. In the present time, although he is still suffering from cancer, he travels extensively across different places and works for fair causes, in and out of his country.    
Desmond Tutu’s extensive efforts to support noble causes have fetched him a number of prestigious awards. Tutu was awarded the highly coveted Noble Peace Prize in 1984, for his contribution towards resolving the issue of apartheid. Three years later, he was awarded the 'Pacem in Terris' Award. He won the 'Bishop John T. Walker Distinguished Humanitarian Service Award' in 1992 and in 1999; Tutu was entitled to the 'Sydney Peace Prize'. He also won Gandhi Peace Prize in 2005 and received the Lincoln Leadership Prize in 2008.
 1958 :  Resigns from teaching, to begin ordination training at St Peters Theological College, in Johannesburg
 1967 :  Returns to South Africa to teach at the Federal Theological Seminary at Alice on the Eastern Cape
 2008 :  Travels to Gaza on a UN mission, to investigate the killing of 21 Palestinian civilians, by Israeli shelling, in November 2006.
His Holiness the Dalai Lama Welcomes Archbishop Desmond Tutu to DharamsalaViews: 49958 | Likes: 218 | Dislikes: 7Desmond & The Tutus - PeterViews: 71122 | Likes: 285 | Dislikes: 9Archbishop Desmond Tutu on ForgivenessViews: 66364 | Likes: 240 | Dislikes: 6 
=======================================================
Desmond Tutu, in full Desmond Mpilo Tutu   (born October 7, 1931, Klerksdorp, South Africa), South African Anglican cleric who in 1984 received the Nobel Prize for Peace for his role in the opposition to apartheid in South Africa.
Tutu was born of Xhosa and Tswana parents and was educated in South African mission schools at which his father taught. Though he wanted a medical career, Tutu was unable to afford training and instead became a schoolteacher in 1955. He resigned his post in 1957. He then attended St. Peter’s Theological College in Johannesburg and was ordained an Anglican priest in 1961. In 1962 he moved to London, where in 1966 he obtained an M.A. from King’s College London. From 1972 to 1975 he served as an associate director for the World Council of Churches. He was appointed dean of St. Mary’s Cathedral in Johannesburg in 1975, the first black South African to hold that position. From 1976 to 1978 Tutu served as bishop of Lesotho.
In 1978 Tutu accepted an appointment as the general secretary of the South African Council of Churches and became a leading spokesperson for the rights of black South Africans. During the 1980s he played an unrivaled role in drawing national and international attention to the iniquities of apartheid. He emphasized nonviolent means of protest and encouraged the application of economic pressure by countries dealing with South Africa. The award of the 1984 Nobel Prize for Peace to Tutu sent a significant message to South African Pres. P.W. Botha’s administration. In 1985, at the height of the township rebellions in South Africa, Tutu was installed as Johannesburg’s first black Anglican bishop, and in 1986 he was elected the first black archbishop of Cape Town, thus becoming the primate of South Africa’s 1.6 million-member Anglican church. In 1988 Tutu took a position as chancellor of the University of the Western Cape in Bellville, South Africa.
During South Africa’s moves toward democracy in the early 1990s, Tutu propagated the idea of South Africa as “the Rainbow Nation,” and he continued to comment on events with varying combinations of trenchancy and humour. In 1995 South African Pres. Nelson Mandela appointed Tutu head of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which investigated allegations of human rights abuses during the apartheid era.
Tutu retired from the primacy in 1996 and became archbishop emeritus. In July 2010 he announced his intention to effectively withdraw from public life in October, though he said he would continue his work with the Elders, a group of international leaders he cofounded in 2007 for the promotion of conflict resolution and problem solving throughout the world. On October 7, 2010—his 79th birthday—he began his retirement.
Tutu authored or coauthored numerous publications, including The Divine Intention (1982), a collection of his lectures; Hope and Suffering (1983), a collection of his sermons; No Future Without Forgiveness (1999), a memoir from his time as head of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission; God Has a Dream: A Vision of Hope for Our Time (2004), a collection of personal reflections; and Made for Goodness: And Why This Makes All the Difference (2010), reflections on his beliefs about human nature. In addition to the Nobel Prize, Tutu received numerous honours, including the U.S. Presidential Medal of Freedom (2009), an award from the Mo Ibrahim Foundation that recognized his lifelong commitment to “speaking truth to power” (2012), and the Templeton Prize (2013).
"Desmond Tutu". Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online.Encyclopædia Britannica Inc., 2014. Web. 06 Jun. 2014<http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/610695/Desmond-Tutu>.
Desmond Tutu. (2014). In Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved from http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/610695/Desmond-Tutu
Desmond Tutu. 2014. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Retrieved 06 June, 2014, from http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/610695/Desmond-Tutu
Encyclopædia Britannica Online, s. v. "Desmond Tutu", accessed June 06, 2014, http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/610695/Desmond-Tutu.
        While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies.
            Click anywhere inside the article to add text or insert superscripts, subscripts, and special characters.
            You can also highlight a section and use the tools in this bar to modify existing content:
                    You can double-click any word or highlight a word or phrase in the text below and then select an article from the search box.
                    Or, simply highlight a word or phrase in the article, then enter the article name or term you'd like to link to in the search box below, and select from the list of results.
    You can make it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by keeping a few points in mind:
You may find it helpful to search within the site to see how similar or related subjects are covered.
At the bottom of the article, feel free to list any sources that support your changes, so that we can fully understand their context. (Internet URLs are best.)
    Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions.
=======================================================
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/gno/sprites/global-sprite-v1._V339353059_.png);
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif);
  background: center center url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/snake._V192571611_.gif) no-repeat;
  background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/gui/beacon-sprite._V391206562_.png);
  list-style: disc url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/text/orange-circle._V29336548_.gif) outside;
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/error-sprite-mini._V1_.gif');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/sitbreader-sprites._V1_.png');
    background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/sitb/reader/v4/201310281126/en_us/loading-pre-lightbox._V1_.gif');
   background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/twister/tiny-snake._V192199047_.gif') no-repeat scroll 0px 0px;
  cursor: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-in._V184888790_.bmp'),pointer;
  cursor: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/detail-page/cursors/zoom-out._V184888738_.bmp),pointer;
.swSprite { display: -moz-inline-box; display: inline-block; margin: 0;padding: 0; position: relative; overflow: hidden; vertical-align: middle; background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image, .rhfWrapper .shoveler div.disabled-button { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-site-wide._V377386094_.png); }
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .next-button a .bg-image {  background-position: -60px -80px;background-color: white;}
.rhfWrapper .shoveler .back-button a .bg-image { background-position: -30px -80px; background-color: white;}
.dpSprite { background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-dp-2._V384267953_.png'); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
.udpSprite { background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/udp-sprite-dp-2._V358106326_.png') no-repeat; vertical-align: middle; display: inline-block;}
.cmtySprite { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/common/sprites/sprite-communities._V136632413_.png); background-repeat: no-repeat; }
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/tags/graysnake._V192250049_.gif');
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/electronics/click2call/click2call-sprite._V156431432_.png);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/personalization/bxgy/fbt-cart-preorder-sprite._V192190832_.gif);
        background-image: url( http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/wishlist/add-to-wl-button-sprite._V192250042_.gif);
    background: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/common/loading/loading-small._V192239831_.gif') no-repeat 50px 20px;
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/x-locale/communities/customerimage/shuttle-gradient._V192250138_.gif); 
    background: no-repeat center 45px url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/ui/loadIndicators/loading-small._V192238939_.gif');
    background: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/nav2/images/sprite-carousel-btns-stars2._V376388587_.png") no-repeat scroll 0 0 transparent;
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_left_17._V248144977_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_body   .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_right_17._V248144979_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_left._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_header .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_top._V265110086_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_left   { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_left._V265110084_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_right  { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom_right._V265110087_.png); }
.ap_popover_unsprited .ap_footer .ap_middle { background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/po_bottom._V265110084_.png); }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png);
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-arrow-v._V219326286_.png);
Rabble-Rouser for Peace: The Authorized Biography of Desmond Tutu: John Allen: 9780743269377: Amazon.com: Books
     #twister .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; } #twister .a-dropdown-container span.a-button-dropdown { display: none !important } 	
     #buybox_feature_div .a-native-dropdown, #buybox .a-native-dropdown { display: inline; font-weight: normal;}
     #buybox_feature_div label.a-native-dropdown, #buybox label.a-native-dropdown {padding-right: 5px;}
     #buybox_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown, #buybox .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown  { display: none !important;} 
     #defaultChildDropdown_feature_div .a-dropdown-container .a-button-dropdown { display: none !important;}
BooksAdvanced SearchNew ReleasesBest SellersThe New York TimesŽ Best SellersChildren's BooksTextbooksTextbook RentalsSell Us Your BooksBest Books of the MonthDeals in Books 
No Kindle device required. Download one of the free Kindle apps to start reading Kindle books on your smartphone, tablet and computer.
Comment: This is a EX LIBRARY book, stickers and markings accordingly. All pages are intact, and the cover is intact (including dust cover). The spine may show signs of wear. Item is in good condition. 
Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) is a service we offer sellers that lets them store their products in Amazon's fulfillment centers, and we directly pack, ship, and provide customer service for these products. Something we hope you'll especially enjoy: FBA items qualify for FREE Shipping and .
    * https://omni-grok.amazon.com/xref/src/appgroup/websiteTemplates/retail/SoftlinesDetailPageAssets/udp-intl-lock/src/legacy.css?indexName=WebsiteTemplates#40
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/merch/global/kindle-widget-photo._V397906885_.jpg');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-right._V192549178_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_br._V192190565_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/digital/fiona/general/small_box_03._V192190907_.gif');
  background-image: url('http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/kindle/turing/assets/ui/widgets/kindle2-sprite-box-topleft._V192549173_.gif');
       "The Bible is dynamite . . . nothing could be more radical." For South Africa's famous Anglican Archbishop Tutu, the choice between prayer and social action is not an either-or proposition; "rather, prayer inevitably drove you off your knees into action." Much has been written about Tutu's role as head of South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, where apartheid perpetrators came forward to confess and ask forgiveness, but the focus of this compelling biography by his longtime media secretary is on Tutu's dynamic leadership role in the apartheid resistance when those racist perpetrators were in power. The inside story of his life is also a gripping history of the fight for peaceful change. Tutu's passionate comments, whether he is meeting with world leaders to campaign for economic sanctions or defusing violent street battles at home, are both fierce and funny. But they can also be moving, as when he accepted the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize not for himself but for the millions of his people who had been uprooted and dumped as if they were rubbish. Hazel RochmanCopyright © American Library Association. All rights reserved
John Allen is a South African journalist who served as director of communications for that country's groundbreaking Truth and Reconciliation Commission, and for Trinity Church, Wall Street, in New York. He is a former president of the South African Society of Journalists and has received awards in South Africa for defense of press freedom and in the United States for excellence in religious journalism.
  Journalist John Allen has given us both a highly readable, engaging biography of retired Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu, and of the remarkable story of South Africa's transition to true democracy. What emerges is a portrait of a complex man of God, who understands that faith that is not translated into action to advance justice is worthless. Tutu's so-called "African spirituality"--in which there are no false (Western) distinctions between the sacred and secular, the body and soul--holds great wisdom and the power to heal many of the world's deepest problems. This is a worthwhile read for anyone interested in modern history, world events, and the role of people of faith in shaping and altering the course of events in positive ways. The diminutive Tutu stands alongside the giants of our own, and any other, age.
My admiration for Desmond Tutu is unbounded.  I've read his words, I've heard him speak, I've been inspired by his passion for the social gospel and Christian pacifism.  He is indeed a prophet.That's why I'm flabbergasted at how uninspired and uninspiring John Allen's biography is.  The book is clearly well-researched; there are almost 40 pages of tiny-printed endnotes.  Moreover, Archbishop Tutu clearly has approved the biography; it's "authorized."  Finally, Mr. Allen is a well-respected South African journalist.But, alas, the book is one of the most boring reads I've ever struggled through.  Partly this is because Mr. Allen spends a great deal of time going over the minutiae of South African parliamentary politics during Tutu's lifetime--to such an extent, in fact, that it's easy for the reader to lose sight of the fact that the book is actually a biography of Tutu.  All this political detail may be of great interest to South Africans, but is much less so to outsiders.But the tediousness of the book is partly because Mr. Allen's prose is just leaden.  A typical example (p. 316):  "In February, before the Anglican bishops met, the World Council of Churches' (WCC) Program to Combat Racism, headed by Barney Pityana, had held a consultation in Harare, Zimbabwe, and called for sanctions to be intensified.  The week after the bishops' meeting in Soweto, Pityana was in London, where he heard Tutu explain on BBC radio the synod's decisions.  Back at his office at the WCC in Geneva, he wrote to Tutu about 'how disappointing these positions were to us.'"  After a few hundred pages pages of such prose, one begins to lose focus and interest.Read more ›
  The book starts in a very dramatic fashion with the description of a confrontation between Tutu and P.W. Botha. The vividly-written drama of the meeting has a certain sense of urgency to it and immediately draws in the reader and keeps him/her enthralled throughout the book. Though a thick book, I finished it fast since I didn't want to put it down. That for me is a thumbs-up.The author leads us through Tutu's life with ease and finesse as he describes Tutu's youth, his stay in England, his slow climb up the hierarchy in the clergy in South Africa despite resistance, his forays into the anti-Apartheid movement. He not only made the international community aware of Apartheid (`apart hate') but also lobbied with them for imposing sanctions on South Africa. The book climaxes with the freeing of Mandela and the holding of elections in mid-1990s.Throughout this easy-to-read book, Allen slowly builds up a mosaic of Tutu as being strong willed, persistent, compassionate and with a sense of humour. The various layers of Tutu's personality are revealed to the reader through anecdotes and reminiscences of others.The strength of this book also becomes one its only drawback. It is extremely well-researched but then there is so much happening all the time, so many characters both well-known and less known that the book, at certain pages, becomes a muddle of facts through which the reader has to plod through. However, that doesn't take away significantly from the quality of the book.
      I am a United States citizen with extremely limited knowledge of the History or politics of South Africa.  I was aware of Desmond Tutu because of his Nobel Prize.
      An excellent biography. I will echo another review that this book is highly readable. I wish I would have been tuned into the events in South Africa as a teen (or that my Social...
      Having lived in South Africa for 36 years (1954-1990), I found that there were (not surprisingly), two sides to Desmond Tutu.
 Millions of Amazon Prime members enjoy instant videos, free Kindle books and unlimited free two-day shipping. 
Unlimited Instant VideosAmazon Instant VideoAll movies and TV showsPrime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of movies and TV showsShop Instant VideoRent or buy movies and TV showsYour WatchlistAdd videos to watch laterYour Video LibraryYour purchases and rentalsWatch AnywhereTablets, game consoles, TVs and more
Digital MusicDigital Music StoreBest SellersNew ReleasesDealsPlay your music on the goAmazon Music for your phonePlay your music at homeAmazon Music for your PC
Amazon Cloud DriveYour Cloud DriveAccess your photos, docs, and moreCloud Drive for WebProtect the content from your computerCloud Drive Photos for MobileGet the app for your phone or tabletCloud Drive Photos for TVSee your photos on the big screenCloud Drive and KindleEnjoy photos on your Kindle FireLearn More About Cloud Drive
Appstore for AndroidAppsShop over 200,000 apps and gamesGamesShop new, bestselling, and free gamesFree App of the DayGet a new paid app for free every dayTest Drive Apps and GamesTry thousands of apps and games right nowDownload Amazon AppstoreInstall on your Android phone or tabletAmazon AppsKindle, Shopping, MP3, IMDb, and moreYour Apps and DevicesView your apps and manage your devices
 Kindle E-readersKindleSmall, light, perfect for readingKindle PaperwhiteThe best device for reading, period.Kindle Paperwhite 3GWith free 3G wirelessKindle E-reader AccessoriesCovers, chargers, sleeves and moreKindle StoreKindle BooksNewsstandKindle Owners' Lending LibraryWith Prime, Kindle owners read for free
Apps & ResourcesFree Kindle Reading AppsFor PC, iPad, iPhone, Android, and moreKindle Cloud ReaderRead your Kindle books in a browserManage Your Content and Devices
 Kindle Fire TabletsKindle Fire HD60% faster than Kindle FireKindle Fire HDX7" HDX display, powerful 2.2 GHz processorKindle Fire HDX 8.9"Largest HDX display, 8MP rear cameraKindle Fire AccessoriesCases, chargers, sleeves and more
Content & ResourcesInstant VideoApps & GamesDigital MusicKindle BooksNewsstandAudible AudiobooksManage Your Content and Devices
Watch and PlayAmazon Fire TVStreaming 1080p media player with voice searchAmazon Fire Game ControllerDedicated wireless controller
BooksBooksKindle BooksChildren's BooksTextbooksMagazinesSell Us Your BooksAudible AudiobooksAudible MembershipGet to know AudibleAudible Audiobooks & MoreWhispersync for VoiceSwitch between reading and listening
Movies, Music & GamesMovies & TVBlu-rayAmazon Instant VideoCDs & VinylDigital MusicMusical InstrumentsVideo GamesDigital GamesEntertainment CollectiblesTrade In Movies, Music & Games
ElectronicsTV & VideoHome Audio & TheaterCamera, Photo & VideoCell Phones & AccessoriesVideo GamesMP3 Players & Portable SpeakersCar Electronics & GPSMusical InstrumentsElectronics AccessoriesWearable Technology
Computers Laptops & TabletsDesktops & MonitorsComputer Accessories & PeripheralsExternal drives, mice, networking & moreComputer Parts & ComponentsSoftwareDigital SoftwarePrinters & InkOffice & School SuppliesTrade In Your Electronics
Home, Garden & PetsKitchen & DiningFurniture & DécorBedding & BathAppliancesPatio, Lawn & GardenFine ArtArts, Crafts & SewingPet SuppliesWedding Registry
Tools, Home ImprovementHome ImprovementPower & Hand ToolsLamps & Light FixturesKitchen & Bath FixturesHardwareHome Automation
Beauty & HealthAll BeautyLuxury BeautyMens GroomingHealth, Household & Baby CareGrocery & WineGrocery & Gourmet FoodNatural & OrganicGourmet GiftsWineAvailable in select statesAmazonFreshAvailable in select citiesSubscribe & SaveUp to 15% off, free shipping, and morePrime PantryEveryday essentials in everyday sizes
Toys, Kids & BabyToys & GamesBabyKids' ClothingBaby ClothingVideo Games for KidsAmazon Mom20% off diapers, free shipping and moreBaby RegistryKids Birthdays
Clothing, Shoes & JewelryClothingShoesHandbagsAccessoriesLuggageJewelryWatchesMore to ExploreShopbop.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsEastDane.comEligible for Amazon Prime shipping benefitsMYHABIT.comFast, free shipping in the U.S.
SportsExercise & FitnessHunting & FishingAthletic ClothingBoating & Water SportsTeam SportsFan ShopSports CollectiblesGolfAll Sports & Outdoors
AutomotiveAutomotive Parts & AccessoriesAutomotive Tools & EquipmentCar/Vehicle Electronics & GPSTires & WheelsMotorcycle & PowersportsIndustrial & ScientificIndustrial SuppliesLab & ScientificJanitorialSafety
Unlimited Instant VideosDigital Music20 million songs, play anywhereAmazon Cloud DriveAppstore for AndroidGet a premium app for free todayKindle E-readers & Books Kindle Fire TabletsAmazon Fire TVMovies, TV & more on your HDTVBooks & AudibleMovies, Music & GamesElectronics & ComputersHome, Garden & ToolsBeauty, Health & GroceryToys, Kids & BabyClothing, Shoes & JewelrySports & OutdoorsAutomotive & Industrial›Full Store Directory
Your AccountYour OrdersYour Wish ListYour RecommendationsYour Subscribe & Save ItemsYour Prime MembershipManage Your Content and DevicesFormerly "Manage your Kindle"Your Music LibraryFormerly Cloud PlayerYour Cloud Drive5 GB of free storageYour Prime Instant VideoUnlimited streaming of thousandsof movies and TV showsYour WatchlistYour Video LibraryYour Games & Software LibraryYour Android Apps & Devices   
Create a Wish ListFind a Wish List or RegistryWish from Any WebsiteAdd items to your List from anywhereWedding RegistryBaby RegistryKids' BirthdaysSchool Lists - NewFriends & Family Gifting
.ap_classic { border-top:1px solid #ccc;border-left:1px solid #ccc;border-bottom:1px solid #2F2F1D; border-right:1px solid #2F2F1D;background-color:#EFEDD4;padding:3px; }
.ap_classic .ap_content { clear:both;background-color:white;border:1px solid #ACA976;padding:8px;font-size:11px; }
    background-image: url(http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-v._V219326283_.png);
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-h._V219326280_.png");  
    background-image: url("http://g-ecx.images-amazon.com/images/G/01/javascripts/lib/popover/images/light/sprite-vertical-popover-arrow2._V371798167_.gif");
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input,.cust-rec-aui-button select,.cust-rec-aui-button textarea{
.cust-rec-aui-button button,.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="button"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="reset"],.cust-rec-aui-button input[type="submit"]{
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-1click, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-cart, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-sns, .cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-icon i.a-icon-buynow{
.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:visited,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:active,.sign-in-tooltip-new-customer a:hover
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7f8fa),color-stop(100%,#e7e9ec));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7f8fa',endColorstr='#e7e9ec',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-button-pressed:hover .a-button-inner {
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f7dfa5), color-stop(100%, #f0c14b));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5', endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
  background: -webkit-gradient(linear, left top, left bottom, color-stop(0%, #f5d78e), color-stop(100%, #eeb933));
  filter: progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f5d78e', endColorstr='#eeb933',GradientType=0);
.cust-rec-aui-button .a-button-primary:active .a-button-inner, .a-button-primary.a-touch-press .a-button-inner {
	background:-webkit-gradient(linear,left top,left bottom,color-stop(0%,#f7dfa5),color-stop(100%,#f0c14b));
	filter:progid:DXImageTransform.Microsoft.gradient(startColorstr='#f7dfa5',endColorstr='#f0c14b',GradientType=0);
Get to Know UsCareersInvestor RelationsPress ReleasesAmazon and Our PlanetAmazon in the CommunityFire TV  Amazons Media PlayerMake Money with UsSell on AmazonBecome an AffiliateAdvertise Your ProductsIndependently Publish with Us›See allAmazon Payment ProductsAmazon.com Rewards Visa CardAmazon.com Store CardShop with PointsCredit Card MarketplaceAmazon Currency ConverterLet Us Help YouYour AccountShipping Rates & PoliciesAmazon PrimeReturns & ReplacementsManage Your Content and DevicesHelp
=======================================================
“True reconciliation is a deeply personal matter. It can happen only between persons who assert their own personhood and who acknowledge and respect that of others.” - Archbishop Desmond Tutu
Desmond Tutu was born in 1931 in Klerksdorp, a small gold mining town in South Africa. His father was a teacher and his mother worked as a cook in an institution for blind women. She also did laundry for a white family. At the age of twelve his family moved to the capital city of Johannesburg.In 1948, when Desmond was 17, the government of South Africa began a policy of strict racial segregation called apartheid. Under this system, South Africans who were not white were denied basic rights. The aim of apartheid was for the 4 million whites to maintain control over the 23 million non-whites in South Africa.White people in South Africa owned most of the land and lived in cleaner, safer neighborhoods. Black and “Colored” people were forced into poor areas called townships where they lived in tin shacks with no water or electricity. They sometimes did not have enough food to feed their families and often could not get jobs. They also had to carry a “pass” with them at all times. If they were caught without the pass, they were arrested and put in jail. White people did not have to carry a pass and could go wherever they wanted at any time.Hear Archbishop Tutu explain why the Global Call to Action is so important. When he was a teenager, Desmond became very sick with tuberculosis and almost died. He had to be in the hospital for almost two years. After he recovered, he wanted to become a doctor and find a cure for tuberculosis. Though his grades were good in high school, his family could not afford to send him to medical school and so he decided to become a teacher just like his father.Because he was black, Desmond was only allowed to teach in black schools. He soon discovered that the education that black students received was much poorer than the education of white students. Most of the black children only went to school for three hours a day. Since they were expected to become servants for white people, they weren’t taught math, science and other academic subjects.Desmond decided that he could not continue being a teacher in this system. “I just felt I couldn’t be a part of this…I said to myself, sorry, I’m not going to be a collaborator in this scheme. Then I asked myself, 'What can I do?'" He found the answer to that question by becoming a priest in the Anglican Church and a leader of the struggle against the system of apartheid.From the start, black South Africans, along with other non-whites had fought to end the hated system of discrimination. Some, angry after years of oppression, thought the only solution was to answer to the violence of apartheid with more violence. But Desmond Tutu believed non-violence was the answer. He worked to build a peaceful movement for democracy and against the violence of the government.In 1976, police opened fire on 10,000 high school students in the town of Soweto who were protesting unfair treatment. This set off a period of protest called the Soweto Uprising, during which over 500 youth were killed by the South African government. In response, Desmond Tutu led peaceful marches that called for economic sanctions against South Africa. This strategy of divestment asked people in other countries to stop investing in South African businesses and stop buying South African goods.In 1984 Archbishop Desmond Tutu was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his nonviolent work to end apartheid and bring equality for the people in South Africa. In 1986 he became the first black person to be Archbishop in the Anglican Church of South Africa.The strategy of divestment, along with protests by South Africans and people around the world, finally ended apartheid. On April 27, 1994 Desmond Tutu and all the other people of color in South Africa could vote together with whites for the first time. On that day, Nelson Mandela was elected as the first black president of South Africa. When Nelson Mandela won the election, Desmond Tutu remembers, “We were on cloud 9. It was like falling in love…it was the day of liberation for all of us, black and white together.”Archbishop Tutu continues to be a world leader in the struggle for human rights. He believes that all people are God’s children, sisters and brothers, members of the same family. As in any family, when a member is sick or in need, the whole family pitches in to help. He would hope that in that spirit of compassion we would all help each other. He is deeply concerned about the spread of diseases such as malaria, TB and AIDS. He longs for a world where there are opportunities for everyone to receive an education, to have access to health care, clean water, to have a house and to be able to live with dignity. A world where people care for people rather than things, where there is enough for all and where we can celebrate our diversity of language, culture and faith.
