=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Vin Diesel (born Mark Sinclair Vincent;[1][2] July 18, 1967) is an American actor, producer, director, and screenwriter. He came to prominence in the late 1990s, and first became known for appearing in Steven Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan in 1998. He is most known for his portrayals of Riddick in The Chronicles of Riddick trilogy (2001–2013) and of Dominic Toretto in The Fast and the Furious film series (2001–present), two franchises in which he also acted as producer.
He starred in xXx (2002) and Sidney Lumet's Find Me Guilty (2006). His voice acting work includes Brad Bird's The Iron Giant (1999), the video games of The Chronicles of Riddick franchise, and the upcoming Guardians of the Galaxy adaptation of the Marvel comics of the same name.
As a filmmaker, Diesel directed, wrote, produced and starred in the drama film Strays, as well as in two short films. He is the founder of the production companies One Race Films, Racetrack Records, and Tigon Studios.
Diesel was born in New York City. His mother, Delora Sherleen (Sinclair) Vincent, is an astrologer.[3][4] Diesel has stated that he is "of ambiguous ethnicity".[5] His mother's background includes Scottish, English, and German.[6] He has never met his biological father, and has stated that "all I know from my mother is that I have connections to many different cultures".[7] Diesel has self-identified as "definitely a person of colour".[8] He once stated that he is "Italian and a lot of other stuff".[citation needed] He has stated that his parents' relationship was illegal in some parts of the United States due to anti-miscegenation laws.[9] Diesel was raised by his Caucasian mother and African-American stepfather, Irving H. Vincent, an acting instructor and theater manager.[8][10][11] He made his stage debut at age seven when he appeared in the children's play Dinosaur Door, written by Barbara Garson. The play was produced at Theater for the New City in New York's Greenwich Village. His involvement in the play came about when he, his brother, and some friends had broken into Theater for the New City's space on Jane Street with the intent to vandalize it. They were confronted by the theater's artistic director, Crystal Field, who, instead of calling the police, handed them scripts and offered them parts in the upcoming show.[12][13][14]
Diesel remained involved with the theater throughout adolescence, going on to attend the city's Hunter College, where his creative writing studies led him to begin screenwriting. He has identified himself as a "multi-faceted" actor[15] as a result of early difficulties finding roles due to his mixed heritage.[15][16] He changed his name to Vin Diesel while working as a bouncer at the New York nightclub Tunnel, because one's real name is not usually given out in that business. The name "Vin" is simply a shortened version of "Vincent". He received the nickname "Diesel" from his friends, who said he ran off diesel fuel, referring to his non-stop energy.
Diesel's first film role was a brief uncredited appearance in the film Awakenings (1990). He then wrote, directed, produced, and starred in the short film Multi-Facial (1994), a short semi-autobiographical film which follows a struggling actor stuck in the audition process. The film was selected for screening at the 1995 Cannes Festival. He made his first feature-length film, Strays (1997), an urban drama in which he played a gang leader whose love for a woman inspires him to try to change his ways. Written, directed, and produced by Diesel, the film was selected for competition at the 1997 Sundance Festival, leading to an MTV deal to turn it into a series. He was cast in Steven Spielberg's 1998 Oscar-winning film Saving Private Ryan on the poignancy of his performance in Multi-Facial. In 1999, he earned critical acclaim for his voice work as the title character in the animation film The Iron Giant.[17]
Diesel had a major role in the business drama Boiler Room (2000),[17] and then got his breakthrough role as the anti-hero Riddick in the science-fiction film Pitch Black (2000).[17] Diesel attained action hero stardom with two box office hits: the street racing action film The Fast and the Furious (2001), and the action thriller xXx (2002).[17] In 2004, Diesel reprised his role as Riddick in The Chronicles of Riddick,[17] which was a box office failure considering the large budget. In 2005, he played a lighthearted role in the comedy film The Pacifier, which became a box office success.[17]
In 2006, he chose a dramatic role playing real-life mobster Jack DiNorscio in Find Me Guilty.[17] Although he received critical acclaim for his performance, the film did poorly at the box office.[17] Later that year, Diesel made a cameo appearance in The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift, reprising his role from The Fast and the Furious. He was originally offered the lead in 2 Fast 2 Furious, but turned it down.[17] He was also offered the chance to reprise his role from xXx in xXx: State of the Union, but turned it down as well.
In 2007, Diesel was set to produce and star as Agent 47 in the film adaptation of the video game Hitman, but eventually pulled back and served as executive producer on the film instead. In 2008, he starred in the science-fiction action thriller Babylon A.D.. Diesel returned to the The Fast and The Furious series, alongside all the actors from the original film, in Fast & Furious, which was released in April 2009.[17]
Diesel reprised his role as Dominic Toretto in the fifth and sixth films of the Fast and Furious franchise, Fast Five (2011) and Fast & Furious 6 (2013). He reprised his role as Riddick in the third film of the Riddick series simply titled Riddick (2013). In August 2013, Diesel received an honorary star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .[18]
Diesel is slated to star in the planned July 2014 Fast & Furious 7,[19] and will be voicing the character Groot in the planned August 2014 Marvel Cinematic Universe film Guardians of the Galaxy.[20]
Diesel is noted for his recognizably deep voice; he has said that his voice broke at around age 15, giving him a mature sounding voice on the telephone.[21] He has a twin brother, Paul, a younger brother, Tim, and a sister, Samantha.[17] Around 2001, Diesel dated his Fast and the Furious co-star, Michelle Rodriguez.[22]
Diesel has a daughter, Hania Riley (born 2008), and a son Vincent (2010) with his girlfriend, Mexican model Paloma Jimenez.[23][24][25] Speaking to An tEolas, an Irish newspaper, Diesel stated he has been seen as a hard man, but is in touch with his soft side as a father.[26] Diesel claims that he prefers dating in Europe, where he is less likely to be recognized and where celebrities are not romantically linked to each other. He prefers to maintain his privacy regarding his personal life: "I'm not gonna put it out there on a magazine cover like some other actors. I come from the Harrison Ford, Marlon Brando, Robert De Niro, Al Pacino code of silence."[27]
Diesel has expressed his love for the Dominican Republic, and how he relates to its multicultural facets.[28] He is acquainted with its president, Leonel Fernández, and appeared in one of Fernández's earlier campaign ads. Los Bandoleros, a short film directed by Diesel, was filmed in the Dominican Republic.[29]
Diesel has played Dungeons & Dragons for over 20 years,[30] and wrote the foreword for the commemorative book 30 Years of Adventure: A Celebration of Dungeons & Dragons. In the 30th anniversary issue of Dragon magazine, it was revealed that Diesel had a fake tattoo of his character's name, Melkor, on his stomach while filming xXx.
Categories: 1967 birthsLiving people20th-century American male actors21st-century American male actorsAfrican-American male actorsMale actors from New York CityAmerican male film actorsAmerican film directorsAmerican film directors of Italian descentAmerican film producersAmerican male writersAmerican people of Italian descentAmerican screenwritersAmerican male stage actorsAmerican male voice actorsAmerican male video game actorsAmerican writers of Italian descentDungeons & Dragons writersHunter College alumniTwin people from the United StatesWriters from New York CityHidden categories: Articles with Irish-language external linksWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesWikipedia pending changes protected pages (level 1)Wikipedia protected pages without expiryUse mdy dates from October 2013Articles with hCardsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2014Commons category with local link same as on WikidataArticles with DMOZ linksWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Vin Diesel was born in New York City. He was raised by his astrologer/psychologist mother, Delora Sherleen (Sinclair), and adoptive father, Irving H. Vincent, an acting instructor and theater manager, in an artist's housing project in New York's Greenwich Village. He never knew his biological father. His first break in acting happened by chance, when at the age of seven he and his friends broke into a theatre to vandalize it. A woman stopped them and offered them each a script and $20, on the condition that they would attend everyday after school. From there, Vin's fledgling career progressed from the New York repertory company run by his father, to the Off-Off-Broadway circuit. At age 17 and already sporting a well-honed physique, he became a bouncer at some of New York's hippest clubs to earn himself some extra cash. It was at this time that he changed his name to Vin Diesel.Following high school, Vin enrolled as an English major at Hunter College, but dropped out after three years to go to Hollywood to further his acting career. Being an experienced theatre actor did not make any impression in Hollywood and after a year of struggling to make his mark, he returned to New York. His mother then gave him a book called "Feature Films at used Car Prices" by Rick Schmidt. The book showed him that he could take control of his career and make his own movies. He wrote a short film based on his own experiences as an actor, called Multi-Facial (1995), which was shot in less than three days at a cost of $3,000. Multi-Facial (1995) was eventually accepted for the 1995 Cannes Film Festival where it got a tumultuous reception.Afterwards, Vin returned to Los Angeles and raised almost $50,000 through telemarketing to fund the making of his first feature, Strays (1997). Six months after shooting, the film was accepted for the 1997 Sundance Film Festival, and although it received a good reception, it did not sell as well as hoped. Yet again Vin returned disappointed to New York only to receive a dream phone call. Steven Spielberg was impressed by Multi-Facial (1995) and wanted to meet Vin, leading him to be cast in Saving Private Ryan (1998). Multi-Facial (1995) earned Vin more work, when the director of The Iron Giant (1999) saw it and decided to cast Vin in the title role. From there, Vin's career has steadily grown, with him securing his first lead role as Richard B. Riddick in the sci-fi film Pitch Black (2000). That role has earned him a legion of devoted fans and the public recognition he deserves.
      He worked as a bouncer in New York at the famous nightclubs Tunnel (which has since closed) and Mars.
      Is an admitted fan of "Dungeons and Dragons", and, according to an interview on Late Night with Conan O'Brien (1993) that he played for 24 years.
      Was offered the role of Matt Murdock/Daredevil in Daredevil (2003) that eventually went to Ben Affleck.
      Vin's mother has English, German and Scottish ancestry, while Vin's biological father's identity and background are not publicly known. Vin has described himself as "definitely a person of color", and has stated that he is also of part Italian ancestry, as well as "a lot of stuff". He was raised by his Caucasian mother and African-American stepfather.
      Wrote an original screenplay titled "Doormen" (based on his experiences as a bouncer) as a follow-up to Strays (1997), his directorial debut. However, his acting career exploded and his plans to direct the film fell by the wayside. The concept eventually developed into the Fox Digital Entertainment web series The Ropes (2011), which Diesel created and produced.
      Credits the book "Feature Filmmaking at Used Car Prices" by Rick Schmidt as the one resource above all upon which he built his career. This book, according to Diesel, gave him the tools, knowledge, and most importantly, the inspiration to develop his short film Multi-Facial (1995), which he wrote, produced, directed and starred in.
      He was cast opposite Ben Affleck in Reindeer Games (2000), but left the production shortly after filming began over concerns with the quality of Ehren Kruger's screenplay and creative differences with director John Frankenheimer.
      Revolution Studios wanted him for the title role in Hellboy (2004), but director Guillermo del Toro thought that Ron Perlman was the perfect choice for the role, and would not direct the movie if he was not cast.
      Was listed as a potential nominee on both the 2003 and 2004 Razzie Award nominating ballots. He was listed as a suggestion for the Worst Actor category on the 2003 ballot for his performances in the films Knockaround Guys (2001) and xXx (2002). And was listed as a suggestion again on the nominating ballot in the Worst Actor category the next year for his role in A Man Apart (2003). He did not receive either nomination. The following year though, he finally received his first Razzie nomination for Worst Actor in the film The Chronicles of Riddick (2004). However, he did not "win".
      Is the cousin of rapper/producer Kwame "The Boy Genius". Kwame says if you watch his old videos, you'll see Vin in a few of them.
      In addition to being considered for the role of Hellboy in 2004, he was also considered for the part of Abe Sapien.
      Attended Hunter College and got his jump start by Steven Spielberg just like fellow actors Sam Feuer and Edward Burns.
      Started the video game company Tigon Studios in 2002. They in turn worked on the movie based game The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay (2004). Tigon Studios is now working on more next gen games as well as having a hand in all Vin Diesel-based games.
      Wrote a three-page letter to director Steven Spielberg expressing his admiration for his work, particularly Schindler's List (1993). Spielberg was impressed with the heartfelt prose, prompting him to invite Diesel into the star-studded cast of Saving Private Ryan (1998).
      Is close with The Fast and the Furious (2001) castmates Paul Walker, Jordana Brewster, Tyrese Gibson and Michelle Rodriguez.
      Vin revealed in several interviews that he has remained extremely close to friend and The Fast and the Furious (2001) co-star Michelle Rodriguez. His children even refer to her as their aunt.
      Traded a cameo in The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift (2006) for the rights to the character Riddick from Pitch Black (2000) and The Chronicles of Riddick (2004).
      Was considered to voice the role of Ultron in Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015) before James Spader was cast.
      He was awarded a Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 7000 Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, California on August 26, 2013.
      I would get into fights with other bouncers when a guy was already on the floor and the other guys thought it was alright to jump up in the air and land on the guy's head.
      why he didn't do the "Fast and the Furious" sequel] I was being offered three franchises at the same time - Pitch Black (2000), xXx (2002) and The Fast and the Furious (2001) -- and I had to choose. I couldn't do all three. [he has since appeared in sequels to all three franchises]
      [on the xXx (2002) poster and what it means for his career] This isn't a poster. This is a declaration of war!
      [on the planned "Chronicles of Riddick" trilogy] We gave the script to the studio, I bought three leather binders. One said C1, one said C2 and one said C3. They all had locks on them and we only gave the key to C1 to the studio"
      In the next film, Riddick is going to go to the underverse. Riddick will act with new elementals. Not air elementals [as Judi Dench's character is] but fire and water. It'll come full circle in C3 when he must return to Furia.
      [on The Chronicles of Riddick (2004)] The concept behind switching genres was to create a film that you could continue exploring. In the ending of this movie, it's not just something that says we're opening it up so we can tell another story, it's very specific. A very daring ending because it's left open-ended.
      From the very very beginning, when everyone thought it was crazy, I was thinking of The Chronicles of Riddick (2004) as a trilogy. That would start with the movie you saw, and Pitch Black (2000) would act as a prequel that introduced you to the character. So in simple terms, in Chronicles 2 we venture to the Underverse. We knew we could get away with a PG-13 on the first one, but once you go to the Underverse it's rated R, because it's a place where war is the norm and there is constant, constant battling. Then on Chronicles 3 we will see Riddick return to Furia, to deal with the homeland.
      I was a bouncer for nine years - it was all I knew how to do - and my training was not to talk loosely . . . That's still my thought process: Shut your mouth, watch your back and keep working 'til your ass falls off.
      With age, you get to a place where you don't want to knock people out. You just want to give people a hug.
      When people view me, they don't necessarily see a black man. For that reason, a film like Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967) or Driving Miss Daisy (1989) could never work with me in it.
      I am truly multi-racial. I never knew my biological father. I've always had less information than I would have liked to have had. All I know from my mother is that I have connections to many different cultures.
      [on Multi-Facial (1995)] That film is my tribute to my background. The man who raised me is black. Culturally, he made me who I am. He was a theatre director, so he also guided me artistically.
      We're in a gaming society now, so people are conditioned to work a little bit for their story. People like to be rewarded for whatever equity they put into your universe.
      [on the Fast & Furious and Riddick franchises]: My whole approach to making these movies and to creating these sagas is saying to the studio, 'The audience is paying attention to the nuances and all the story points that lead up to this film. The more you acknowledge that, the better movie you have.'
      [on Multi-Facial (1995)] I guess I've always looked past the exterior and the ambiguity that my existence represents. When I was in my mother's stomach, it was still illegal in parts of America for people of color and white people to procreate. Everyone had known me just as a bouncer in New York because I wasn't able to get any work. There was something too ambiguous about the way I look that would prevent me from ever getting a star.
=======================================================
Every new generation demands its own action heroes. The Seventies had Burt Reynolds and Clint Eastwood: the Eighties brought Harrison Ford and Mel Gibson: the Nineties gave us Costner and Cruise. Then came the Noughties, complete with computer-generated super-SFX and anti-establishment, skateboard-slacker attitudes. A new kind of hero was called for, a man with the physique for the new extremes of stunt-filled action. He must have a true heart but have his morals warped and emotions hammered by the soul-destroying deceit of what passes for civilisation today. And he must, in a Western society gradually driving racism to the peripheries, be multi-ethnic. Step forward Vin Diesel: muscle-man thespian of no distinct ethnic origin- the first new cinematic superstar of the new Millennium.He was born Mark Vincent on the 18th of July, 1967, in New York City. Never knowing his biological father, he was told by his astrologer mother Delora (holder of a master's degree in psychology) that he had many different cultural roots - African-American, Italian and possibly Cuban, amongst others. "I've always had less information than I would like to have had", he said later. Matters of identity were further confused by his twin brother, Paul, now a film editor, being blonde with blue eyes.Young Mark was raised, along with Paul and two younger siblings, in the Westbeth project in Greenwich Village, a government-funded block peopled only by artists. Here he received a major grounding in the imaginative arts, not least from his adoptive father, Irving, an actor and drama teacher.The kids would go swimming down at the Carmine Street pool, and play hide and seek on the broken-down piers on the Hudson River. And they'd get involved in the project's various projects. Mark made his starring debut onstage when only 5. He wasn't supposed to be the star, he was supposed to be a horse in a kids' production of Cinderella. But Paul, cast as Prince Charming, suffered stage fright after the first act and Mark, never slow in coming forward, stepped into the lead role.Financially, times were usually hard. "Nobody had money", recalls Vin "so there was this underlying resentment towards money". Consequently, people would make their own entertainment. At 12, Mark became involved in a Sunday night game of Dungeons & Dragons organised by a friend's mother. He became heavily involved in the game and was still buying paraphernalia over 20 years later, when role-playing had become his career as well as his hobby.At school, Mark was troubled by an ongoing identity crisis, not fitting into any particular group. He'd find some relief, by fluke, at age 7. With friends, he'd broken into Manhattan's Theatre for the New City, intent upon vandalism and a few laughs. After busting and scrawling a little, they were messing around in the mezzanine when, suddenly, a heavyset woman appeared onstage, under a spotlight. Convinced she'd call the cops, the kids froze in horror. But, instead, she handed each of them a script and some money, with the words "If you guys want to play here, come every day at 4 o'clock. Here's $20 a week. Know your lines".The woman was Crystal Field, artistic director of the theatre, and dedicated to developing artists from low income groups and minority communities. It was she who'd be directly responsible for Mark's future development. He did turn up every day at 4, and took to stage-life with glee. "That was the first time I was ever able to make a whole audience laugh", he later recalled "without getting sent to the Dean's office". Perhaps more importantly, he enjoyed slipping into character. "I found there was something refreshing about having my identity be crystal clear".In the meantime, Mark picked up a penchant for extreme sports that would also serve him well later. Along with the other kids, he'd strap on his rollerblades and hang on to the fenders of the city's notorious taxi-cabs, often achieving speeds of over 50mph.Like many men with a confused sense of self, Mark looked for confidence in body-building. Up until the age of 15, he was just a tall kid with a big Afro and a bigger mouth, seeking attention wherever he could find it. At 15, though, he began lifting weights and hanging with an older crew. "I've worked out for years", he explained later "For a long time it was my only sense of gratification". He began to go out clubbing, attending Studio 54 and, later, the Danceteria. And it was clubbing that gave him the connections to get his first job - at 17, as a bouncer. This would provide cash while he acted with Irving's repertory company and in off-Off-Broadway productions. It would also give him his stage name. It was traditional for bouncers to choose rock-hard monikers for themselves. Vin Diesel was as good as any.Hoping to make his acting education official, Vin now applied for an elite drama course at the State University of New York at New Paltz, north of the metropolis, near Poughkeepsie (the town immortalised by Gene Hackman's feet-picking line in The French Connection). He was turned down, the first of many set-backs. Instead, he enrolled at Hunter College in New York City, majoring in English, but he wouldn't see out the full course, preferring to spend his days acting on stage and on local TV, and his nights bouncing at the hip likes of Mars and The Tunnel. By the late Eighties, though, times had changed on the door. Gangsta culture had sprung up and now it was necessary for bouncers to wear bullet-proof vests. Where before his peers had been college guys, keen and able to talk art and philosophy, now Vin's bouncer-brothers were less intellectually inclined. After 9 years on the job, having seen one friend shot and another have his throat cut with a razor (he survived, thankfully), Vin would jack it in for good.. Ever ambitious, he decided that his future lay in Hollywood, so he took off for LA, telling everyone he'd return a star. It wouldn't be that easy. For a start, he later explained, his years as a bouncer had given him a measured confidence that worked against him at interviews and auditions. Physically intimidating, focused and intense, he inadvertently gave people the impression that, if he didn't get the part, someone was going to get hurt. No one reacted well to THAT.Beyond this, that question of race was raised again. Vin was deemed too black to play Italian, too white to be a homeboy. Supporting himself by using his natural charm to sell light-bulbs and gardening implements over the phone, he struggled on for a while. But it proved to be no good. He returned to New York, not a star at all.Back home, he lived with his mum and dad, building himself what he called "a hobbit hole" on the landing between the first and second floors. Realising that he would have launch himself, rather than rely on some lucky break, he spent his days immersing himself in cinema, studying the work of Clark Gable (he loves It Happened One Night), Marlon Brando and Sidney Poitier. He devoured all the new art movies, all the independents, too, gaining new confidence all the while. "If a Henry Jaglom film doesn't make you feel confident enough to make films", he joked later "I don't know what will".Eventually, his mother stepped in with a little common-sense help. Presenting him with a copy of Rick Schmidt's book Feature Films At Used Car Prices, she set him on the path to self-help. With an idea for a short screenplay, he bought a word processor, wrote the piece inside 30 days, and took the WP back to the shop, it still being within the guaranteed return period. On a budget of $3000, Multi-Facial was shot in 3 days. In it, Vin starred as, well, as himself, really, playing a multi-ethnic actor who, deemed suitable for neither black nor white roles, tries a different ethnicity for each audition and fails every time.Released in 1994, Multi-Facial was shown the next year at the Cannes Film Festival, causing something of a stir. On the strength of this, Vin returned to LA and, telemarketing once more, managed to raise $50,000 for his next effort, a study in misogyny called Strays, once more starring and directed by Vin himself. The movie was accepted by and shown at the Sundance Film Festival in 1997, but did not sell well. Vin returned to New York once more, wondering what the hell he had to do to make it.Then, out of the blue, a call came through, a dream call from Steven Spielberg. Spielberg, impressed by a viewing of Multi-Facial, said he was writing a part for Vin in his next epic, to be titled Saving Private Ryan. Thus 1998 saw Vin employed in Tom Hanks' band of brothers (alongside fellow newcomers Barry Pepper and Giovanni Ribisi) as they crossed war-torn France in search of Matt Damon. It was a brief part, Private Adrian Caparzo being the first of the platoon to die, but it was an absurdly impressive big feature debut. Vin's second major role, too, was Multi-Facial-inspired. Director Brad Bird was also taken by Vin's performance and had him provide the voice for the titular monster in The Iron Giant, an animation based on a story by Poet Laureate Ted Hughes, co-starring Jennifer Aniston.. And it wasn't just Multi-Facial that was catching the eye of the industry's prime movers. Strays, too, had had an effect. Producer Ted Field had seen the movie at Sundance and made contact with Vin. He was particularly keen on Vin writing a screenplay based on his experiences as a bouncer. Vin, in turn, was interested in a movie Field was developing, a sci-fi thriller called Pitch Black. He hounded Field till allowed to audition - and thus won the part that would make his name.Having been turned down by Joel Schumacher for the part of Robert De Niro's transvestite voice coach in Flawless due to his physique (as he said himself: "I have obviously spent my life celebrating masculinity"), having turned down a villain-role in Shaft, and having walked off the Ben Affleck-starring Reindeer Games due to his part not being enlarged as promised, Pitch Black more than made up for the disappointment. Here he was Richard B. Riddick, a condemned murderer being transported between planets and jails. Unfortunately, the space-craft is hit by a meteor storm and forced to crash-land on a planet previously colonised, but where all the inhabitants mysteriously disappeared during an eclipse. Another eclipse is coming and, being as they last for years, things are not looking good, especially when the survivors realise there are creatures here that live and feed in the dark.It was a superior thriller, interesting in that it deliberately blurred the edges between good and evil, with none of the characters being obviously likeable. And Vin stood out, so much so that the script, which originally had him die in the finale, was changed to allow Riddick to appear in a sequel. This made all the pain of the shoot worthwhile. With Riddick having had his eyes polished and lasered in jail, Vin had to wear contact lenses that gave off a weird metallic glow. After the first day's shoot, lasting 14 hours, the lenses fused to his eyes, forcing the producers to fly in a specialist from a town three hours away - the shoot taking place in the Australian outback, where Mad Max had been filmed two decades before.Despite the Reindeer Games fiasco, Vin now found himself starring alongside Ben Affleck (and Ribisi) in Boiler Room. Here Ribisi played a young hustler who gets drawn into a shady world of illegal brokers, led by Affleck, who's playing much the same character as Alec Baldwin in Glengarry Glenn Ross. Diesel shone once more as one of the young stars of the firm. Drunk, violent and a bad, bad lad, he's nevertheless the only one with any honour. A complicated character, as all Diesel's characters would henceforth be.Pitch Black and Boiler Room were released on the same day in 2000, immediately marking Vin as one to watch. Critic Roger Ebert noted his potential in his review of Boiler Room, saying "Diesel is interesting. Something will come of him".How right he was. For a start, New Line, noticing the inroads made by Vin and by his Private Ryan co-star Barry Pepper with We Were Soldiers, released Knockaround Guys, a movie completed in 1999 and then shelved. Here several sons of Brooklyn mafia bosses attempt to recover a bag of money lost in a small Montana town. Vin put in another unusual performance. Though a tough guy and a fighter, his Taylor Reese also possesses a "wise sadness about human nature".Knockaround Guys wasn't a hit, but it didn't need to be. By the time New Line released it, Vin had already carried his first mega-hit, The Fast And The Furious. Here Paul Walker played an undercover cop who infiltrates a street gang prone to stealing and racing flash cars at improbable speeds, trying to out-do rival gangs. Vin was Dominic Toretto, gang leader, who befriends Walker, thinking him to be a new kid on the block. Packed with super-stunts and concerning love and loyalty, it was like Point Break with cool motors.And it was a monster. Taking $41 million in its first weekend, surpassing its $38 million budget immediately, it crushed the challenge of Dr Dolittle 2 to take the US Number One spot. Director Rob Cohen was quick to praise Diesel's input, telling the Toronto Sun: "He has the power and physicality but what I didn't know, when I cast him in The Fast And The Furious, (was) how deep he could take things and how a kind of charm emerges. In the past, action heroes have basically been killing machines who can make a joke. Vinny, on the other hand, has the courage to be overwhelmed and uncertain and sometimes to be almost nakedly needy". High praise for a guy who wasn't even in the lead role.Now Vin was in the big league, and he knew it. Approached to play the lead in another SFX-fest, he went on holiday, telling his agents not to call him unless the producers offered $10 million. They did, and so he came to star in xXx. Here he was Xander Cage, a charismatic extreme sports obsessive who sells videos of himself performing outrageous stunts - one being where he steals a Corvette from a right-wing senator, and drives it off a cliff, making his escape by parachute. Recruited by government agent Samuel L. Jackson (who he might earlier have encountered in Shaft), he's ordered to gather information on a nihilist cell possibly plotting the downfall of everything. Of course, he hates the government, but loves the danger, and rather fancies his boss's girlfriend, played by the excellent Asia Argento. Again, he was a hero far more complicated than the norm.. It was a rough shoot, made rougher by the death of stunt-man Harry O'Connor, killed when he hit the pillar of a bridge in Prague. But xXx was another major hit and, with his name first above the credits for the first time, Diesel was made, his reputation boosted still further when xXx sold 5 million DVDs in its first week alone. He followed it with A Man Apart where he played a DEA agent who, having busted a cartel kingpin, finds his home attacked and his beloved wife killed, forcing him into a personal mission of revenge. It was mostly action, but the plotline did allow Diesel to exhibit grief for his lost spouse, an ooportunity he took with some aplomb, much as Mel Gibson had in Lethal Weapon.As long suspected, his excellent performance in Pitch Black now led to a spin-off franchise, beginning with The Chronicles Of Riddick. Here he reprised his character - still cynical, still ambiguously heroic - now being chased by interstellar bounty hunters and battling undead cult the Necromongers on the scorched planet Crematoria. Delivering an ongoing explanation of the action would be Judi Dench, Diesel having seen her onstage in The Breath Of Life and demanded the producers secure her services.After this, Diesel would attempt to widen his appeal with The Pacifier, an action comedy where he played a Navy SEAL who attempts to rescue a kidnapped government scientist from Serbs, and winds up babysitting for and protecting the man's five kids. Of course, he grows to love them, solves all their problems and even directs the eldest son's local production of The Sound Of Music. It seemed a stretch for Diesel, much as Arnold Schwarzenegger had pushed the boat out with Junior and Kindergarten Cop, yet still The Pacifier was a $100 million hit. Having turned down xXx 2 and a $25 million offer to star in Tokyo Drift, a sequel to The Fast And The Furious (Diesel would just appear in cameo near the end), he'd move on to Find Me Guilty, a court-room comedy-drama directed by the king of court-room dramas, Sidney Lumet. This would be based on the longest trial in American judicial history, the 21-month epic, stretching between 1987 and 1988, when some twenty members of the Lucchese mafia family went up before the beaks. Here Diesel would play Jackie Di Norscio, a paunchy criminal already serving 30 years, who decides to defend himself and proceeds to crack a string of jokes, tear witnesses apart and expose the frailties of the justice system. Typically for a Diesel character, he wasn't a good guy, but he was charismatic and effective, Diesel enjoying several fine moments, including one scorching scene with the excellent Annabella Sciorra, playing his ex-wife.. The Pacifier and Find Me Guilty would justify Diesel's decision to spread his wings and turn down immediate returns to xXx and The Fast And The Furious, yet he'd quickly return to action with 2008's Babylon AD. Directed by Mathieu Kassovitz, this would be set in a future world of ecological and social collapse where big corporations rule. Diesel would play a hard-bitten mercenary hired by a thuggish Gerard Depardieu to pick up a girl from an Eastern European convent, smuggle her into the US and deliver her to Charlotte Rampling, high priestess of some new religion. With Kassovitz at the helm it was bound to be wild, the story involving terrorism, artificial intelligence, genetic engineering, corruption and virgin births, and Diesel would be back to his monosyllabic best, pasting people with great aplomb. The next year would see him keep up the hi-octane action with a long-mooted return to one of his earlier hits in Fast & Furious. Once more he'd play Dominic Toretto, returning to the US after six years hiding out in the Dominican Republican and now hijacking oil tankers at incredible pace. As well as performing amazing stunts, he'd also attempt to hunt down a drug dealer he believes to be responsible for the death of the only woman he ever loved. Again, he'd be the perfect front-man for an extraordinary effects-fest and the film would take over $150 million at the US box office.Outside of work, Diesel would now find himself settling down. Having been romantically connected with Fast And The Furious co-star Michelle Rodriguez, 18-year-old Czech model Pavla Hrbkova, and Playboy Playmate Summer Attice, as well as Entertainment Tonight reporter Maria Menounos, Diesel had begun a relationship with Mexican model Paloma Jimenez, 16 years his junior. Jimenez would give birth to a daughter, Hania Riley, in April, 2008.Still Diesel kept seeking projects to challenge himself and his audience. He planned to appear alongside Nicole Kidman in a new version of Guys And Dolls and also worked hard to put together a script for an epic wherein he'd star as the great general Hannibal. Incredibly, he was even a hero in real life. In 2002, he pulled his motorbike over on Hollywood's highway 101 when he saw a car turn over and catch fire. He pulled the kids out from the back seat and managed to get the panicking driver to crawl out through the passenger side, saving them all from fiery death.The Pitch Black, Fast & Furious and xXx franchises will keep no doubt keep Vin Diesel on top for some years yet. But expect the unexpected, too, from this most unusual of superstars.Dominic Wills 
			MADRID, SPAIN - APRIL 26:  Actors Vin Diesel (R) and Elsa Pataky attend a photocall for "Fast & Furious 5" at Hotel Santo Mauro on April 26, 2011 in Madrid, Spain.  (Photo by Carlos Alvarez/Getty Images)
			MADRID, SPAIN - APRIL 26:  Actors Vin Diesel (R) and Elsa Pataky attend a photocall for "Fast & Furious 5" at Hotel Santo Mauro on April 26, 2011 in Madrid, Spain.  (Photo by Carlos Alvarez/Getty Images)
			MADRID, SPAIN - APRIL 26:  Actor Vin Diesel attends a photocall for "Fast & Furious 5" at Hotel Santo Mauro on April 26, 2011 in Madrid, Spain.  (Photo by Carlos Alvarez/Getty Images)
			MADRID, SPAIN - APRIL 26:  Actor Vin Diesel attends a photocall for "Fast & Furious 5" at Hotel Santo Mauro on April 26, 2011 in Madrid, Spain.  (Photo by Carlos Alvarez/Getty Images)
			MADRID, SPAIN - APRIL 26:  Actor Vin Diesel attends a photocall for "Fast & Furious 5" at Hotel Santo Mauro on April 26, 2011 in Madrid, Spain.  (Photo by Carlos Alvarez/Getty Images)
			MADRID, SPAIN - APRIL 26:  Actors Vin Diesel (R) and Elsa Pataky attend a photocall for "Fast & Furious 5" at Hotel Santo Mauro on April 26, 2011 in Madrid, Spain.  (Photo by Carlos Alvarez/Getty Images)
			MADRID, SPAIN - APRIL 26:  Actors Vin Diesel (R) and Elsa Pataky attend a photocall for "Fast & Furious 5" at Hotel Santo Mauro on April 26, 2011 in Madrid, Spain.  (Photo by Carlos Alvarez/Getty Images)
			MADRID, SPAIN - APRIL 26:  Actors Vin Diesel (R) and Elsa Pataky attend a photocall for "Fast & Furious 5" at Hotel Santo Mauro on April 26, 2011 in Madrid, Spain.  (Photo by Carlos Alvarez/Getty Images)
			MADRID, SPAIN - APRIL 26:  Actors Vin Diesel (R) and Elsa Pataky attend a photocall for "Fast & Furious 5" at Hotel Santo Mauro on April 26, 2011 in Madrid, Spain.  (Photo by Carlos Alvarez/Getty Images)
			MADRID, SPAIN - APRIL 26:  Actors Vin Diesel (L) and Elsa Pataky attend a photocall for "Fast & Furious 5" at Hotel Santo Mauro on April 26, 2011 in Madrid, Spain.  (Photo by Carlos Alvarez/Getty Images)
			MADRID, SPAIN - APRIL 26:  Actors Vin Diesel (R) and Elsa Pataky attend a photocall for "Fast & Furious 5" at Hotel Santo Mauro on April 26, 2011 in Madrid, Spain.  (Photo by Carlos Alvarez/Getty Images)
			MADRID, SPAIN - APRIL 26:  Actors Vin Diesel (R) and Elsa Pataky attend a photocall for "Fast & Furious 5" at Hotel Santo Mauro on April 26, 2011 in Madrid, Spain.  (Photo by Carlos Alvarez/Getty Images)
			LAS VEGAS, NV - MARCH 31:  Actor Vin Diesel accepts the Action Star of the Year award at the CinemaCon awards ceremony at The Colosseum at Caesars Palace during CinemaCon, the official convention of the National Association of Theatre Owners, March 31, 2011 in Las Vegas, Nevada.  (Photo by Ethan Miller/Getty Images)
			LAS VEGAS, NV - MARCH 31:  Actor Vin Diesel accepts the Action Star of the Year award at the CinemaCon awards ceremony at The Colosseum at Caesars Palace during CinemaCon, the official convention of the National Association of Theatre Owners, March 31, 2011 in Las Vegas, Nevada.  (Photo by Ethan Miller/Getty Images)
			LAS VEGAS, NV - MARCH 31:  Actor Vin Diesel accepts the Action Star of the Year award at the CinemaCon awards ceremony at The Colosseum at Caesars Palace during CinemaCon, the official convention of the National Association of Theatre Owners, March 31, 2011 in Las Vegas, Nevada.  (Photo by Ethan Miller/Getty Images)
			LAS VEGAS, NV - MARCH 31:  Actor Vin Diesel accepts the Action Star of the Year award at the CinemaCon awards ceremony at The Colosseum at Caesars Palace during CinemaCon, the official convention of the National Association of Theatre Owners, March 31, 2011 in Las Vegas, Nevada.  (Photo by Ethan Miller/Getty Images)
			UNIVERSAL CITY, CA - JULY 16:  Actor-director Vin Diesel arrives at the premiere of Universal Studios Home Entertainment's "Los Bandoleros" at Universal CityWalk on July 16, 2009 in Universal City, California.  (Photo by Charley Gallay/Getty Images)
			UNIVERSAL CITY, CA - JULY 16: (L-R) Director Justin Lin, Universal Studios Home Entertainment president Craig Kornblau, and actor-director Vin Diesel arrive at the premiere of Universal Studios Home Entertainment's "Los Bandoleros" at Universal CityWalk on July 16, 2009 in Universal City, California. (Photo by Charley Gallay/Getty Images)
			LONDON - MARCH 19:  Vin Diesel arrives for the UK Premiere of Fast and Furious 4 at Vue West End cinema in Leicester Sqaure on March19, 2009 in London, England.   (Photo by Tim Whitby/Getty Images)
			LONDON - MARCH 19:  Vin Diesel arrives for the UK Premiere of Fast and Furious 4 at Vue West End cinema in Leicester Sqaure on March19, 2009 in London, England.   (Photo by Tim Whitby/Getty Images)
Eat, Pray, LoveThe Other GuysDinner For SchmucksScott Pilgrim vs The WorldSaltThe ExpendablesThe Last AirbenderKnight and DayThe Karate KidThe A-Team
adam sandler angelina jolie colin firth daniel craig george clooney jackie chan jennifer lopez johnny depp judi dench leonardo dicaprio liam neeson mel gibson meryl streep morgan freeman penelope cruz robert de niro steven spielberg tom cruise vin diesel will smith 
	This site uses cookies. If you continue without changing your settings, you're consenting to receive the cookies set by our website.  Find out more 
=======================================================
'This tiny sliver of land... changed the course of human history':The Queen and Obama lead tributes to D-Day heroes as world leaders join veterans for emotional return to Normandy beaches
        Surrounded by thousands of war graves Her Majesty bowed as she laid a wreath during a poignant service of remembrance in Bayeux, the first town in Normandy to be freed from Hitler's grip after the invasion on June 6 1944. Ten miles away U.S. President Barack Obama spoke at the American War Cemetery in Colleville-sur-Mer where almost 10,000 U.S troops who died in the Second World War are buried. Flanked by veterans, President Obama said they and their comrades 'turned the tide in that common struggle for freedom' on D-Day. At dawn those who stormed the beaches of Normandy exactly 70 years ago saluted the English Channel to mark the moment the D-Day assault started.
Samantha Cameron wears 1940s-inspired suit as she joins Prime Minister at D-Day service of remembrance in France
      The Prime Minister's wife looked chic and smart in a grey suit and cream blouse as she arrived hand-in-hand with David at the Bayeux Cathedral.
'Everything is proceeding according to plan. And what a plan!' How Churchill told MPs of the most ambitious operation ever launched as the D-Day landings were still underway
A royal salute for the fallen heroes of D-Day: Charles and Camilla join the Queen to pay their respects
      The Queen laid a wreath during a ceremony at the Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery in Bayeux where 4.144 soldiers are buried.
The British people's greatest day: Cynics will say it's time to move on. But today raise a glass to the sheer ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
Mother left in tears after two customers called her a 'slut' for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
      Rhea Holley, of Faversham in Kent, pictured left with son Arthur, was at a Costa Coffee, pictured right, in Purley in south London, when two customers in their 60s started verbally abusing her for breast-feeding. The pair started calling her a 'slut' and telling her she was 'disgusting' and that her feeding the baby in public was 'offensive'. Costa Coffee workers then 'reprimanded the couple' telling them breast-feeding was allowed in public.
Mother in tears after being called a 'slut' by two customers for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
Police searching for Madeleine McCann 'carry out DNA tests on scraps of clothing they found in a concealed pit close to the area where she went missing'
      Forensic experts drafted in from the UK are said to be carrying out analysis of the 'non organic' material, which was found near a hole in the ground on wasteland in Portugal's Praia de Luz resort.
Flood warnings issued as Britain faces a weekend soaking with a fortnight's rain forecast to fall in just an hour... so enjoy today's sunshine while you can
      The Met Office said thundery rain is expected to start falling across Britain early tomorrow morning, with showers unlikely to ease off until the evening.
      Studies show the optimum amount is 3-4mg of caffeine per kilogram of bodyweight one hour prior to exercise.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
      Julie Matthias, 49, of Chatham, Kent, has been diagnosed with Foreign Accent Syndrome - which affects just 60 people worldwide.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
Putin and Charles set to meet at Sword beach for the first time since Prince said Russia was acting like Hitler
      Amid tensions over Russian aggression towards Ukraine, the two men are attending commemorations marking 70 years since the D-Day landings.
Parents held after son, 11, reaches 15 STONE: Couple arrested on suspicion of child cruelty after 'doctors became concerned about boy's wellbeing
      The parents, from King’s Lynn, Norfolk, claim their son's weight gain is genetic and they have tried to keep his size under control.
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she'd been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida - ending a 20-year scam in which she stole £144,000
       Janet Curtis, 64, top right, from Clacton, Essex, said her rheumatoid arthritis meant she could barely walk more than a few yards, and left her needing 24-hour live-in care. But fraud investigators found video footage showing her water-skiing on holiday in Florida, left, walking round theme parks and swimming. Curtis, pictured outside Ipswich Crown Court yesterday, bottom right, admitted nine benefits fraud charges and was ordered to repay the money, and given a curfew and 18-month suspended prison sentence.
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she'd been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida ending 20 year scam in which she stole £144,000
'Fraudsters hijacked our phone line and then stole £41,000 when we called the bank': Customers scammed and then left stranded by their banks
      In two separate cases investigated customers with Lloyds Bank and Nationwide Building Society lost a total of almost £60,000 to the scam.
Fears government agencies can listen in to private mobile phone calls at the ‘flick of a switch’ after Vodafone reveals authorities use secret wires across its entire network which stretches to 29 countries
      Vodafone said direct-access wires were connected to its network, allowing authorities in 29 countries - including Italy, Malta and Spain - to monitor conversations.
New obesity jab could be available within two years after scientists discover hormone that helps the body burn fat
      Researchers at Havard Medical School and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in the U.S. have found a new hormone, they believe could provide the key to treating obesity and diabetes.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
      Researchers from London's University of Westminster asked 124 men - half of whom were hungry and half well-fed - to rate different women by attractiveness.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
'I wasn't even hungry': Russian cannibal is FREED from court despite admitting he ate his fisherman friend - as victim's distraught wife says all she is left with is his foot
       Her husband, Andrei Kurochkin was eaten by his close friends who were fishermen after they were lost for months during an expedition in frozen Siberia. Olga Korochkin, 38, spoke out after hearing confirmation that cannibalised human remains found were those of her husband.
Outrage as actors dressed as Nazis takeover West Sussex airport 24 hours before 70th anniversary of D-Day to film scenes for Ryan Reynolds film
      Stars of new Second World War film Woman in Gold, starring Helen Mirren and Ryan Reynolds, arrived at Shoreham Airport today dressed in full Nazi uniform.
‘Rape? Sometimes it's RIGHT': Indian state minister says offence is only a crime if the woman reports it to police - days after murderous gang-rape of two sisters
      'This is a social crime which depends on men and women. Sometimes it's right, sometimes it's wrong,' said Babulal Gaur, minister for Madhya Pradesh.
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left three Canadian Mounties dead and put city on day-long lock-down
      Justin Bourque, 24, was taken into custody early Friday morning after a deadly shootout in Moncton, New Brunswick, that left three police officers dead.
Suffocated baby's twin returned to parents after judge clears father of accidentally killing her as they slept on sofa, saying the couple 'deserve to be believed'
      The middle class father came under suspicion from Lancashire County Council following the death of his daughter, but judge Mr Justice Peter Jackson (pictured) cleared him of blame.
'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richman poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
       Former Man V. Food host Adam Richman is celebrating is 70lb weight loss with a naked spread in Cosmopolitan UK's July issue. Mr Richman, 40, poses lying down with a soccer ball precariously covering his genitals. He wears soccer cleats and knee socks and is surrounded by a smattering of soccer balls that read 'USA', in reference to this summer's World Cup.
Use leftover Melba toast... and other money-saving tips by aristocratic politician who lives in a 13-bed manor
      Tory peer Baroness Rawlings, who is married to a multi-millionaire, suggested people reuse their linen and use a bath to warm the room.
      Labour MP Stella Creasy says women will have to ‘breed for Britain’ if immigration is restricted - and she has a point, writes RICHARD LITTLEJOHN.
      As 94-year old grandmother Bertha Guymer, pictured, lay dying on a hospital bed in Essex, a thief stole her wedding rings, her family has claimed.
'Can't catch me': Fugitive, 20, who taunted police on Facebook weeps in the dock as he is jailed for stealing thousands from his grandparents and assaulting his mother
      Joe Barlow, from Laindon, Essex, was jailed for five separate offences at Basildon Crown Court, including stealing £8,500 from his grandparents’ savings to pay for drugs.
'The job isn't finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite triumph over Farage in Newark by-election
       The Conservative candidate Robert Jenrick (top right) attracted 17,431 votes - a comfortable majority over Ukip's Roger Helmer (pictured left with Nigel Farage), who received 10,028. The Prime Minister warned the Conservatives had to keep hammering home key messages on the economy, tax cuts and jobs.
'Everything is proceeding according to plan. And what a plan!' How Churchill told MPs of the most ambitious operation ever launched as the D-Day landings were still underway
      MPs applauded after the wartime Prime Minister described the start of the 'most complicated and difficult' operation ever launched.
The British people's greatest day: Today, raise a glass to the ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
      If I had to single out one moment of the struggle which represented the zenith of our national achievement, then it must be D-Day, writes MAX HASTINGS.
The British people's greatest day: Cynics will say it's time to move on. But today raise a glass to the sheer ingenuity, courage and bloody mindedness of Britons like Stan Hollis, who turned a potential disaster into awesome victory
The average woman wants to meet ‘the one’ aged 24, have a child at 27 and reach the top of their career by 34
      Nearly two-thirds of those studied had a detailed life plan they try to follow – with targets such as passing their driving test by 19, living healthily by 24 and getting engaged at 26.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
      Vincent Walsh, professor of human brain research at University College London, also proposed they should be allowed to set their own work times, arriving whenever they want.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
Does the amount of make-up you wear affect how people treat you? Student tries three different looks to find out
       Brinton Parker, a 21-year-old student at the University of California, was inspired to conduct her experiment after noticing how her peers critiqued people's looks. So during a single week, she went to school wearing three very different make-up looks - bare-faced, moderate and heavy - in a bid to measure the ways it altered how people treated her.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
      Scientists secretly gave 2,051 babies and children in homes thought to include Sean Ross Abbey, Co. Tipperary, pictured, a diphtheria vaccine without their consent.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
Former Crimewatch presenter Sue Cook tells Rolf Harris trial she too forgot a game show appearance in Cambridge in 1970s and the star 'shouldn't be accused of lying'
      Sue Cook, 65, told the jury at Southwark Crown Court in London that she had forgotten 'loads' of events she had been to over the years.
Why Tetris is so addictive: Playing the game is like 'scratching an itch' and appeals to our brain's desire to tidy up
      A psychologist from the University of Sheffield has revealed that Tetris appeals to our brain's desire to solve mini tasks, while being tantalised by more problems.
      People who match with each other on the app can now send pictures visible for 24 hours to each other.
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Ferry captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his boat in a storm
      Steve Kingston, who runs a river ferry company in King's Lynn, Norfolk, refused to take the council's advice to leave his ship. In response the authorities sent in police to carry out the heavy-handed arrest.
Pepper-sprayed, handcuffed and thrown in a cell: Captain, 62, demands apology from police after brutal arrest for refusing to abandon his ferry in a storm
Four generations of depravity: Court orders 'incest family' who lived in remote Australian bush to provide DNA samples to help police unravel decades of sexual abuse
       Two members of a NSW family accused of mass incest have been DNA swabbed following a court order. 'Raylene Colt' and 'Betty Colt' (the legal pseudonyms given to them) were ordered to report to a Sydney police station on Friday to provide samples. The family was discovered in regional NSW in 2012 living in squalid conditions and have been the subject of a child abuse investigation since.
      Researchers at the University of Rochester, in the U.S., say male brains are affected more significantly than female brains.
Give me my pocket money or I'll jump: Chinese boy, 10, holds parents to ransom over late payment of his 50p
      When ten-year-old Xiao Wei's father was late in paying him his weekly 50p stipend in Shangsi, China, the stubborn youngster took matters into his own hands.
Father jailed for stabbing his partner six times during vicious attack in front of their children after she called police to report him
      Nicholas Robinson, pictured, broke down in tears at Leeds Crown Court after he received the 11-year sentence for the attempted murder of Claire Chambers.
      Dr Viren Swami from the University of Westminster said those in love also tend to think their partner is better looking than themselves.
Is this the street in which Jack the Ripper lived? Geographic profiling pinpoints exact address of Victorian serial killer
       A former Canadian police officer ,who pioneered the use of geographical profiling, thinks the Ripper lived on Flower and Dean Street in Whitechapel, East London (pictured in 1902). The street was destroyed in the Blitz but in Victorian times was part of a slum area. In 1888, detectives conducted door-to-door inquiries along the street, hinting that they were close to catching the killer. Dr Kim Rossmo used the murder locations, a scrap of bloody clothing and an algorithm to calculate the Ripper's likely routes on the days of the murders.
School at centre of alleged Islamist 'Trojan Horse' takeover plot rejects Ofsted report saying it is failing to protect pupils from extremism
      The report - made public yesterday but leaked to the Mail on Monday - said Golden Hillock school in Birmingham (pictured), was doing too little to keep students safe from extremist views.
Sales executives whose boss 'spoke to their breasts not their face' in line for five-figure pay out after tribunal finds he was 'fixated'
      Darren Scott, 55, was obsessed with Diane Nicholl-Pierson’s breasts and regularly spoke to them instead of her face, an employment tribunal found.
Still clutching their rosaries after hundreds of years, eerie photographs show mummies buried in a Czech underground crypt
       A monastery in the Czech Republic has a ghoulish secret for those willing to venture underground - two dozen corpses clutching rosaries are on display. The bodies in the Capuchin Crypt of the Holy Cross Church, in Brno, date back hundreds of years, but they were only recently rediscovered and opened to public viewing.
      Not everyone who has terminal cancer can find it in themselves to be so valiant and heroic, to face death with such dignified equanimity.
      In a bitter attack on the UK, Jean-Claude Juncker also condemned what he described as a British campaign against his presidency.
It's one in a mill-ion! Stunning riverside home with its own working water mill and vintage car museum could be yours (for £700,000)
       The secluded estate is set in 67 acres of woodland near South Molton, between the picturesque Dartmoor and Exmoor national parks in Devon, and features a water mill with exposed mechanics and a huge millstone. The magnificent building also features a spectacular 13,000 sq ft vintage car museum, riverside terrace and floodlit weir.
'Chaos and mass delays' as power failure grounds flights at Bristol Airport and passengers are told to wait outside terminal
      Passengers have taken to Twitter to voice their frustration as flights are delayed and the terminal fills with grounded passengers.
Sales of widescreen TVs boom ahead of World Cup as Tesco gears up for the big event by getting extra nuts in
      Tesco said TV sales have almost doubled ahead of the event, while John Lewis reported a 47 per cent jump in sales in its vision department.
Shot twice, stuffed in a sack and dumped in a canal... but Pakistani girl, 18, SURVIVES botched 'honour killing' carried out by her own family for marrying the man she loved
       Saba Maqsood (pictured) was attacked by her father, uncle, brother and aunt before she was tossed into the canal, said Ali Akbar, a spokesman for police in Hafizabad, Punjab province. It comes just a week-and-a-half after the broad daylight 'honour killing' of another woman in a city centre drew worldwide condemnation. Mr Akbar told Reuters that the most recent case was also 'an honour-related incident'. 'The victim, Saba ... married her neighbour Muhammad Qaiser for love five days ago against the wishes of her family,' he said.
          Nigella Lawson lets her hair down at charity dinner... as her production company makes £2.5 million profit in a year
          Cara Delevingne shows off her supermodel style in plunging printed silk jumpsuit as she attends Stella McCartney party with pal Jourdan Dunn
          Pregnant Claire Sweeney displays growing bump in two tone mini dress as she treats herself to restaurant meal
          It's over: Jennifer Lopez and dancer boyfriend Casper Smart 'call it quits'... amid transsexual sexting scandal
          Katherine Jenkins ditches her usual glamorous make-up for a more natural look as she showcases her slim frame in navy mini dress
          One Direction's Louis Tomlinson to become co-chairman of Doncaster Rovers Football Club after 'finalising multi-million pound takeover deal'
          BGT 2014's final will be a huge TV event... and a mindless, cynical circus: JIM SHELLEY's 12 reasons for hating Britain's Got Talent
          Prison food went down well then! Chris Brown shows off a fuller physique as he arrives at 'get out of jail free' party thrown by lover Karrueche Tran
          Earning her fashion stripes: Pregnant Holly Willoughby wears comfortable T-shirt and jeans as she leaves Soho restaurant
          Samantha Cameron walks hand-in-hand with veteran's family member at service to mark the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings
          Now where did I put those Daisy Dukes? Jessica Simpson parades her slimmer figure in semi-sheer dress as she prepares for summer wedding
          Only the best for his wife-to-be! George Clooney 'on the hunt for French love nest' with fiancee Amal Alamuddin... as he 'plans move into politics'
          Lara Stone shows off her cleavage and slim pins as she is joined by husband David Walliams at Terrence Higgins Trust event
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney enters the Big Brother house... and claims she has been celibate for a year
          Sienna Miller and fiancé Tom Sturridge lead the way during ANOTHER celebrity-packed night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Lo(han) and behold... she's out again! Flame-haired Lindsay rocks a grungy leather jacket and skirt combo as she enjoys another night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Moss be having fun! Kate looks worse for wear in clashing prints as she hits Prince gig and Chiltern Firehouse with Nick Grimshaw
          Don't mind us! Michael Sheen and Sarah Silverman make a discreet exit after late night out at celebrity haunt Chiltern Firehouse
          Millie Mackintosh highlights her slender frame in snakeskin jumpsuit at Smirnoff Mix It campaign launch
          Another celebrity convert: Amber Le Bon models the world's first in-flight onesie (but don't expect to look as good as her at 30,000ft)
          Simply bellissimo! Chloe Green opts for effortless Italian glamour in pale pink tie- up shirt and leather skirt as she kicks off charity road trip in Venice
          Fit for Hollywood royalty! Sandra Bullock looks regal in side-split blue gown as she speaks at Jane Fonda Tribute
          Lovely in lace! Kate Beckinsale steals the show in strapless white dress at Macbeth opening night bash
          She must've Heard it was a fashion event! Amber steals the limelight as she displays her pins in fetching red minidress at Stella McCartney presentation
          Now that's Fancy! Shipshape Iggy Azalea slips into green bikini for luxury yacht holiday to celebrate 24th birthday
          Team green! Brooke Vincent's 22nd birthday celebrations continue as she hits Manchester in sexy jumpsuit flanked by pals
          Fancy meeting you here! Kim Kardashian and Hilary Duff bring their children to same parenting class in Beverly Hills
          'He's struggling!' Kris Jenner opens up about Rob Kardashian's issues, but does not deny daughter Kourtney is pregnant with third child
          Maggie Gyllenhaal wows in colourful boho chic as she holds her own at Stella McCartney's Spring 2015 presentation
          Crazy Stupid Stomach! Cheryl Cole reveals her washboard abs in low- cut crop top in stills from video for new single
          Meet first 10 Big Brother 2014 contestants: A former prostitute, a strict catholic and a one-hit wonder amongst those first in house
          Here come the girls! Daisy Lowe sports cropped blouse and flared dress trousers for night out at Scott's with fellow fashionista Alexa Chung
          Emma Roberts cuts a striking figure in a fetching red dress as she receives Maui Film Festival Shining Star Award alongside fiance Evan Peters
          When in Ibiza! TOWIE's Mario Falcone puts his washboard abs on display as he greets topless fans during stag do holiday
          They love the nightlife! Aussie star Guy Pearce plays tour guide as he takes actor  Robert Pattinson and his blonde lady friend on a trip to Sydney's top hotspots
          Doesn't she get a day off? Alesha Dixon shows off her super flat stomach as she dresses up again for UK premiere of Belle
          Kourtney Kardashian covers up 'baby bump' in baggy black sweater as she and Scott Disick grab lunch in The Hamptons
          That's better! Bradley Cooper trades questionably tight shorts for baggy cargo pants as he takes a break from the set of American Sniper
          TOWIE's Gemma Collins wears white skinny jeans with confidence after losing nearly two stone ahead of Marbella special
          'He's lost... but he's no racist': Rapper 50 Cent defends Justin Bieber following N-word storm... as singer 'takes responsibility for his actions'
          Still selfie obsessed! Kendall and Kylie Jenner pucker up for picture... despite being mobbed by fans at book signing
          'She has the perfect body!' Kris Jenner says daughter Kendall's topless modelling shots 'comes with the territory'
          Jumping into action! Emma Willis wins the viewers votes as she kicks off Big Brother 2014 in flattering white all-in-one
          Big Brother 2014 Launch: Pauline Bennet goes on a 'power trip' as a playboy bunny and devout Catholic are amongst first stars to enter the house
          Big Brother reveals first twist of the series as Pauline Bennet is told to pick who wins £5,000 and which housemate is excluded on first night
          He's scored! Phil Neville can't resist kissing bikini-clad wife Julie as family holiday in Barbados continues
          You gotta fight for your copyright! Beastie Boys awarded $1.7million after suing drink firm which used their music in commercials
          George RR Martin makes fundraising appeal to Game Of Thrones fans to name a character he will kill in upcoming novel
          Time to update the wardrobe! Chantelle Houghton wears her favourite white blazer as she goes shopping with Dolly
          Together again! Eva Longoria reunites with Desperate Housewives co-star Felicity Huffman at Jane Fonda Tribute
          Orange is the new black: Ashley Tisdale shows off her tanned and toned legs in tiny bright shorts as she enjoys shopping trip
          The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
          Rolling Stones stars Mick Jagger, Ronnie Wood and Charlie Watts visit Jerusalem's Western Wall before first ever Israel concert
          Look, I can do streetwise too! J-Lo is just Jenny From The Block as she steps out in denim after being branded a 'sell out' at Bronx homecoming 
          Diary of BGT's ditziest finalist: Lettice on auditioning hungover, her outrageous stage costumes and being loaned a £1.5million violin to perform
          The Queen lights up the Champs-Élysées: Her Majesty - in her FOURTH chic outfit of the day - has red carpet rolled out for her in Paris ahead of D-Day
          Pastel perfection: Lindsay Lohan reveals very slim pins in pale blue skinny jeans and jumper as she steps out to lunch
          Catherine Zeta-Jones and Morgan Freeman share a friendly kiss gone wrong... as she and Michael Douglas arrive at Hollywood event together
          Pins on parade! Jessica Seinfeld and Liv Tyler wear revealing short summer dresses at Stella McCartney presentation
          'She's celestial... I was born into her': Keith Urban on his divine connection with Nicole Kidman... and how her drug intervention saved him
          She's still got it! Jane Fonda, 76, wows as she accepts lifetime achievement award... days after giving sex tips on Conan O'Brien
          Return Of The Jedi! Mark Hamill, 62, shows he can still handle a Lightsaber during visit to Disney World 37 years after first playing Luke Skywalker
          'You don't always have to be naked!' TLC slam Rihanna for using sex to sell records saying it's the easy way to get to the top in the music industry
          Justin Bieber has been 'non-stop crying' after two videos surface showing him singing vile racial slurs at the age of 14
          Escorted by her Goodfella! Robert De Niro's wife Grace Hightower shines in blue dress at documentary premiere in New York
          A cause close to her heart: Demi Lovato speaks about her own personal struggles during mental health event
          Pregnant Jessica-Jane Clement shows off her growing baby bump as she takes her dogs for a leisurely walk
          'People don't want them here': Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian continue to annoy Hamptons locals with 'outrageous filming demands'
          Lupita Nyong'o to star in and produce big screen adaptation of award-winning novel Americanah
          I'll be back... after my cigar break: Arnold Schwarzenegger takes things slowly as he has a sly puff on set of Terminator: Genesis
          Jaime King parades her pins in sporty cardigan and matching mini-skirt at the McDonald's World Cup party in NYC
          'I am not an opportunist!' Fan who bought Whitney Houston's mansion for $1.5m insists he will NOT open it to the public
          Christie Brinkley, 60, proves you're never too old for leather trousers as she stuns on lunch date with her son Jack
          Showing off her street style! Emmy Rossum awaits Stella McCartney presentation on the sidewalk in chic fringe dress
          Orange Is The New White! Taylor Schilling shows off toned pins in pearl-coloured dress at TheWrap's Emmy Celebration
          'Ready to rumble!' Pretty Little Liars star Tammin Sursok puckers up for the camera as she celebrates returning to work after giving birth seven months ago
          Did she use those scissors on her skirt? LeAnn Rimes sizzles in slinky white dress with thigh-high slit as she cuts ribbon to kick off CMA Music Festival
          Over already? Jennifer Lopez parties in NY with handsome rapper T.I.... as 'cheating' toy boy Casper Smart is nowhere to be seen
          Carey Mulligan and Helena Bonham Carter chant at a Votes for Women rally in first still from upcoming film Suffragette
          Are those clothes from the Thrift Shop? Macklemore and Ryan Lewis make a cool arrival in dapper attire to Sin City nightclub
          Happy to get his kit off! Robbie Williams gets help to change into his football top during preparations for SoccerAid
          One big happy family! Hilary Swank shows her maternal side as she gives her boyfriend's little girl a kiss at French Open
          'I've had a lot of therapy': Katy Perry talks about getting over exes John Mayer and Russell Brand... and how long she's gone without sex in new interview
          Ricky Gervais and longtime partner Jane Fallon attend Derek event after visiting their Muppet pals on Sesame Street
          Date night! Twilight star Ashley Greene stuns in tiny black playsuit at she takes boyfriend Paul Khoury to glitzy event in West Hollywood
          While they were teaching! Sandra Bullock makes a surprise visit to her son Louis' school as she donates goodies to the faculty
          What will Rita think? Calvin Harris parties with ANOTHER mystery woman on a night out as girlfriend Ora enjoys Mexican getaway
          Evan Rachel Wood sued for $30M after bailing on film 10 Things I Hate About Life... as rep slams lawsuit as 'preposterous' and a 'bullying tactic'
          'With you I will go': Kanye West beams as Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli serenades Kim Kardashian at their lavish Florence wedding
          Newlywed Kim Kardashian to spend up to a month shooting KUWTK spin-off in The Hamptons... but Kanye West isn't sure if he wants to join her
          Deja blue: Rosario Dawson is back in her favorite colour after wowing in that revealing gown at the Cannes Film Festival
          'I'm Sporty Spice!' Gisele Bundchen shows off washboard stomach in a bikini for cover shoot as she admits she loves to exercise
          That's her secret! Jordana Brewster shows off svelte arms pushing her son Julian along in his stroller
          The fight for $50m: Bowling For Columbine filmmaker Michael Moore claims wife of 22 years spent recklessly as they prepare for divorce trial
          She's no shrinking violet! Lorde wears purple lipstick from her new Mac collection during bewitching performance in London
          Looking scarily good! Camilla Belle wears a skull print T-shirt as she arrives at LAX after South America trip
          You'll never take King's Landing with THAT! Game Of Thrones star Kit Harington poses with plastic dragon at Universal Studios
          'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richmand poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
Sword-wielding Sikhs clash at India's Golden Temple during prayers to mark the deadly 1984 military assault at Amritsar
       At least six people were injured as dozens of Sikh radicals clashed with supporters of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC) at the Golden Temple, in Amritsar. It is understood the scuffle erupted over who would speak first at the service, held to remember victims of government offensive Operation Blue Star that left hundreds dead on June 6, 1984.
Lansley had all the urgency of a snail crossing a hosta leaf: QUENTIN LETTS on Yesterday in Parliament
      Andrew Lansley uses thousands of words to say almost nothing, moving at the speed cold honey drips from a teaspoon.
TOM UTLEY: Yes, I risk a lynching by feminists, but why on earth is a 'family friendly' government paying mums to dump children in nurseries?
      The Queen's Speech contained details about a Childcare Payments Bill, which would offer subsidies of up to £2,000 a year to mothers.
TOM UTLEY: Yes, I risk a lynching by feminists, but why on earth is a 'family friendly' government paying mums to dump children in nurseries?
Newborn who died from contaminated hospital drip was just nine days old it emerges as total number of babies seriously ill from the rogue batch has risen to 18
      The baby boy who died from a suspected contaminated drip in London's St Thomas' hospital was today named as nine-day-old Yousef Al-Kharboush
Has plain cigarette packaging backfired? Australian figures show 59 million MORE cigarettes were sold during first year of ban on branded packs
      Plain packaging laws came into effect in December 2012 under Labor health minister Nicola Roxon, as part of an attempt to discourage smoking, which claims 15,000 lives each year.
'A battle for life or death is in progress': Read the first breaking news report of D-Day as it happened 70-years ago
      The first breaking news report of D-Day as it happened 70-years-ago has been re-released to mark the anniversary of the beginning of the liberation of Europe.
That'll definitely help: U.S. Secret Service buys special software that can detect SARCASM on Twitter
      The tender calls for a social media analytics software tool that can analyse Twitter data in real-time, identify statistical patterns and present complex data in a clear, concise way.
'I thought we were crashing': British holidaymakers' terror as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes dramatic emergency landing after losing cabin pressure
       The Jet 2 flight LS516 (inset, file picture) started to rapidly descend just an hour after departing from Paphos, Cyprus, to Newcastle last night. The plane dropped thousands of feet in minutes, while oxygen masks were deployed for passengers (top). The aircraft was forced to divert to Sofia Airport in Bulgaria, where emergency crews were waiting on the tarmac (bottom). Today, British passengers told of their terror after the plane made an emergency landing due to loss of cabin pressure
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
      Eddie Davenport managed to get himself out of his sickbed to present an award at last Monday’s London Club & Bar Awards at the Intercontinental Hotel.
      Grayson Perry and his wife Philippa turned up at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition party on Wednesday in what looked like mix ’n’ match wardrobes.
From Londoners praying to New Yorkers using smartphones on the loo: Ikea survey reveals morning habits of major cities
      The Swedish furniture giant has published a new study called Life At Home which looks at the morning habits of residents in Berlin, London, Moscow, Mumbai, New York, Shanghai and Stockholm.
'It's time for the people to speak': Aunt of Spain’s new Queen Letizia tweets her followers calling for a Republic
      Henar Ortiz Alvarez, the aunt of future queen Letizia Ortiz, made her feelings known on Twitter tweeting: It's time for the people to speak...'
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: How unconventional 25-year marriage to first wife inspired world's greatest living scientist... and a movie
       Eddie Redmayne had books on Albert Einstein in his dressing room when he took on the part of Professor Stephen Hawking for a film about the physicist's 25-year love affair with his first wife Jane (the actor with Felicity Jones in the film, left, and the Hawkings in the 1960s, right). The actor, who shot to stardom in the movie musical Les Miserables, explained that Einstein and Dean were brilliant in their fields and idols to women. Redmayne grinned and said of Hawking (inset): 'Women flock to him, too. He loves women; women love him.'
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
      But researchers at the University of Pittsburgh found a man's consumption of alcohol had no influence on their daughter's drinking habits.
Conman jailed for posing as Britain's Steven Spielberg to trick animation companies into giving him £800,000
      David Griffiths, 50, (pictured) from Oreton in Shropshire, conned investors by pretending to be a multi-millionnaire owner of a successful production company with close links to animation giants Pixar.
Conman jailed for posing as Britain's Steven Spielberg to trick animation companies into giving him £800,000
Restaurant rage: Living in an area with lots of fast food stores can make you impatient and unable to savour things, researchers warn
      Toronto researchers say just the presence of the chains was enough to cause people to struggle to slow down and savour things.
The transforming desk that moves up and down to keep you fit - and can even track how much exercise you get at the office
      The $3,900 Stir Kinect desk has a motor to raise and lower itself, converting it into a standing desk or a traditional desk.
Scaffolding company fined £5,000 after worker was caught dangling his legs over the edge five floors up with no safety barrier
      JOS Scaffolding Ltd pleaded guilty to breaking safety laws after pictures of its precariously-perched workers on a busy London street were sent to the Health and Safety Executive.
'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die': New book reveals Roman Polanski's private memories of wife Sharon Tate, slaughtered by Charles Manson's 'Family' when she was pregnant
      Sharon Tate's sister Debra has compiled a book of exclusive photographs and memories dedicated to the actress from her husband Roman Polanski.
Girlfriend of Mark Shand leads tributes to him at fundraiser for endangered elephants held in his memory
       More than 600 guests attended the evening in London hosted by Mr Shand's nephew Ben Ellio, Elephant Family’s CEO and Mr Shand's former girlfriend Ruth Powys (both pictured left) as well as Sotheby’s Chairman Henry Wyndham. Guests included the Prince and Princess Michael of Kent (right), Joseph Fiennes (centre), Sir Evelyn de Rothschild, Richard Caring and Bianca Jagger who gathered to celebrate Mr Shand's life and legacy. The evening launched a new campaign which was also Mr Shand's final wish - to raise money to create a series of much needed lifeline elephant corridors in Assam in North East India which could save the future for 1,700 wild, endangered elephants. Mr Shand (inset), who was 62, suffered a head injury when he slipped and fell on the pavement on a night out in Manhattan, New York, in April.
'Stabby, stab, stab': Two US girls, 12, who knifed schoolmate 19 times used code words to plan horrific 'Slender Man' attack
      A police document compiled soon after the stabbing in Waukesha, Wisconsin, revealed that when Morgan Geyser and Anissa Weier discussed the attack, they would use the word 'cracker' to describe a knife or killing.
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at US university, killing one and wounding three
      Students at Seattle Pacific University say Jon Meis saved countless lives when he sprang into action as the shooter stopped to reload his weapon.
Extravagant hen dos now cost guests so much they rival the amount spent on attending the actual wedding!
      Gone are the days of a knees-up down the pub as the average cost of attending a hen do has rocketed and often involves a trip abroad.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
      Mr Justice Saunders told the jury a private detective working for the tabloid had accessed the 13-year-old’s phone - but had not deliberately deleted the voicemails.
News of the World journalists did not delete Milly Dowler's voicemails and give her parents 'false hope' she was alive, hacking trial told
This is how you catfight, son! Father teaches his kittens the best way to pack a punch when he sees how terrible they are at brawling
       A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video shot in an unknown location that proves boys will be boys no matter the species. The YouTube clip from user kamzer opens with two very young kitten siblings wrestling on a kitchen counter. Suddenly their papa cat peeps up from the floor below and before they can purr 'TKO,' their dad is in the mix teaching them a proper left hook.
Jurassic Park actor arrested and charged with kidnap and rape of 13-year-old girl he met for acting classes
      Cameron Thor, 54, is accused of sexually assaulting the girl over the course of a year by police in Los Angeles, California, who say he took her to a secluded area.
Now that's a randy rodent! Male guinea pig at animal sanctuary breaks free from his cage and makes 100 females pregnant
      The two-year-old rodent - nicknamed Randy - managed to get all of the female guinea pigs at Hatton Country World, Warwickshire, pregnant before staff cottoned on to his antics.
Weak pound and high cost of living: Why retiring abroad is now branded 'a luxury' with some popular destinations even pricier than UK
      Experts warned moving abroad is 'no longer an option for the average British person' according to experts, due to rising prices in Europe.
Britons' favourite drive is the A470 through Snowdonia National Park and the Brecon Beacons (and everyone hates the M25)
      Wales and Scotland topped the poll for the best UK roads, followed by the north of England, but the south has most of the worst roads in Britain.
Submarines on Titan and giant nets to capture asteroids: Nasa unveils futuristic designs that could help explore new worlds
       Nasa has unveiled 12 proposals for next-gen exploration technologies in Washington, including a mission to bag an asteroid (illustration left), a submarine in Titan's largest sea (top right) and a spacecraft that could travel from the sun to Neptune in a year (bottom right). These will each receive $100,000 of funding for study over 18 months.
      A new report by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau has confirmed that the original search area along the 'seventh arc' of the southern Indian Ocean for MH370 is the right place to be looking for the missing jet.
Masked rapist, 67, who attacked 100 women over 30 years is finally caught after woman fights him off in Moscow park
      Valery Makarenkov prowled the streets and parks of capital Moscow preying on women in a reign of terror that spanned more than 30 years.
Diabetic put her life at risk to lose weight: Mother stopped taking her insulin injections after ballooning to 19 stone
      Hayleigh Juggins, 20, from Bedfordshire, ignored doctors' advice to take insulin after the birth of her daughter, Angel.
Would YOU eat it? Seaside parlour creates battered fish and chip flavoured ice cream - complete with mushy peas
      Teare Wood's Ice Cream Parlour, in Whitby, North Yorkshire, has combined the traditional holiday tastes to tempt tourists.
Thalidomide survivors launch a fresh legal bid against manufacturers of controversial morning sickness pill
      Papers have been filed at the High Court on behalf of eight people whose mothers took the anti-morning sickness drug when pregnant in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
      Research published in the journal The Obstetrician and Gynaecologist shows a small percentage of headaches were caused by potentially life-threatening neurological conditions.
       Wheeling in on horses and carts, thousands of travellers have pitched up on a privately owned golf course in the small market town of Appleby, Cumbria, for the largest event of its kind in Europe. The week-long Appleby Horse Fair attracts members of the gypsy community from around the world, and has previously been featured in popular Channel 4 show My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding.
Flight of a lifetime! 130 tickets go on sale to fly alongside Lancaster bomber that's in UK for last time - but it will set you back £2,150
      The Lancaster will be in the UK, flying from Canada to England, for four days, arriving on August 8, making the 18-hour trip for the first and final time.
House price bubble threatens to derail economy, warns IMF - and Chancellor says Bank of England 'should not hesitate' to rein in market if necessary
      The International Monetary Fund called for 'targeted and timely' measures to clamp down on risky mortgage lending.
Two people rescued by police after barricading themselves in a bedroom because they were scared of their dog Fluffy
      The dog owners blocked themselves in their home in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, after becoming frightened of their Staffordshire bull terrier, Fluffy (pictured).
Motorcyclist rushed to hospital and bystanders injured by flying debris after crash with a police car
      The motorcyclist suffered left head and leg injuries in the crash at around 1.20pm on the Cotton Street junction with Poplar High Street, in Poplar, east London.
Daughter 'had elderly parents shot dead and buried in their garden after mother admitted sleeping with son-in-law... and then she tricked relatives for 15 years into believing they were still alive'
       Susan and Christopher Edwards (right) 'lied to everybody' for 15 years to cover up the killings of Patricia and William Wycherley, (left) from Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, and diverted a total of £245,000 into their own accounts, Nottingham Crown Court was told. Mr Wycherley, 85, and his 63-year-old wife were both shot twice with a revolver over bank holiday weekend in May 1998 and were buried in the garden (centre) prosecutor Peter Joyce QC said.
World's biggest tumour weighing 30lbs and the size of a watermelon is removed from the uterus of Indian woman
      WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT: Surgeons in the city of Chennai spent three-and-a-half hours removing the giant uterine tumour, which could have been growing for two years.
      When hungry, people were found to find a wider range of body shapes attractive and were more likely to be attracted to bigger people.
      After pinpointing three types of stem cells in umbilical cords, Melbourne researchers could be on the verge of a major breakthrough in preventing cerebral palsy.
Woman, 22, seriously hurt in acid attack outside restaurant as 48-year-old female suspect is arrested
      A 48-year-old woman has been arrested on suspicion of causing grievous bodily harm in the attack, which happened in Sandown on the Isle of Wight in the early hours of yesterday.
Woman, 22, seriously hurt in acid attack outside restaurant as 48-year-old female suspect is arrested
Dying for a tan: Man, 32, diagnosed with terminal skin cancer after spending £7,000 on sunbed sessions over eight years
       Damien Platt, from Greater Manchester, was diagnosed with melanoma after using a sunbed up to four times a week for nine minutes at a time 'to make hi self feel good'. He said: 'To find out I had melanoma was the worst feeling in the world. I felt completely numb and found it very hard to function properly for days, people would try talking to me but nothing would register. Now I'm just trying to be as happy as possible with the time I've got left.' Image ( bottom right) shows the scar on his leg where the mole was removed and (top right) shows him with a tan.
Forget passwords, the future of security is SQUIGGLY LINES: How free-form gestures may replace PINs and grids on phones
      During tests, Rutgers University in New Jersey's free-form gestures (pictured) could not be stolen by hackers.
The end of mouldy bread? Edible film made from oils could extend the life of an everyday loaf by more than two weeks
      Scientists at the Federal University of Viçosa in Brazil used essential oils found in clove and oregano to prolong the life of sliced bread (stock image).
Man and women die from ‘overpowering fumes’ after jumping into cesspit to retrieve ‘expensive phone’
      The woman had dropped her device – worth 2,000 yuan (£190) – in the open-pit toilet, reported Dahe, a website run by the Henan provincial government.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
      The MEP strolled to his hotel with tourism executive Ande Soteri at 3.42am after a gala dinner, with conference delegates reportedly 'gossiping' that they left the party together in capital Valletta.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
You will be happy! Thai junta offers free haircuts and puddings to the masses as part of charm offensive after seizing power in military coup
      Army bosses, who seized power in Bangkok just weeks ago, say cheering up the country is a top priority and want to reinstate Thailand as the ‘Land of Smiles’.
You will be happy! Thai junta offers free haircuts and puddings to the masses as part of charm offensive after seizing power in military coup
      Jobless Andrew Boyce won the money and a Porsche Boxster GTS after he snapped up 50 tickets for a draw at the Westfield shopping centre in Stratford, east London
Filthy fish and chip shop shut down after dead mice were found rotting while staff cooked meals and droppings were found in spice mix
       Health inspectors investigating an Oldham takeaway discovered rotting mice decaying on a glue trap, left, with a deep fat frying covered in grease and fat, top right, and work surfaces used for preparing food covered in mouse droppings, a court has heard. Owner Sarfaz Rouf told magistrates that he did not have a 'vast knowledge' of food hygiene. Him and Iram Bibi were fined just £250 each and the business has now closed.
      Brand Fatyo from Japan has ditched the traditional size labels in its garments in favour of more literal descriptions such as - titch, skinny, fat and jumbo.
Zoo worker in gorilla suit shot with tranquiliser dart during 'escape drill' because no-one told the vet it wasn't real
      The 35-year-old zoo employee was shot on Monday at Tenerife's Loro Parque Zoo. Staff were taking part in a drill designed to ensure they had an emergency plan in place in case one of the gorillas escaped.
Builder hired to renovate Oxford Street store stole £30,000 of designer goods including sunglasses and perfume during his first shift
      A builder helped himself to £30,000 of designer goods on his first shift when he was hired to renovate Boots on Oxford Street, London.
Don't REIN on my parade! Moment horse bolted from Whitehall procession throwing off its rider (who still got up and saluted the Queen as she came past seconds later)
      As the Queen made her way from Buckingham Palace, Musaqaleh had other plans, bolting off towards Horse Guards Parade.
Versace, Gucci... il Duce? Wardrobe where Mussolini's corpse was kept for 11 years up for auction on eBay
      The wardrobe itself is worthless but, having been the hiding place for the dictator’s corpse between 1946 and 1957, it has ghoulish value for collectors of fascist memorabilia.
How the moon was made: Researchers reveal new evidence Earth was hit by giant object as big as Mars 4.5 billion years ago
      German researchers say their analysis of Apollo moon rocks rocks show Earth was hit by a huge object called 'Theta' which led to the moon's formation.
Did HUMANS wipe out the woolly mammoth? Study finds a direct link between hunting and the extinction of large Ice Age animals
      Researchers at Aarhus University in Denmark came to the conclusion after looking at the pattern of extinctions for 177 species between 132,000 years and 1,000 years ago.
Sky-high WiFi will soon be available across Europe: Passengers on British Airways flights to get internet within three years
      Internet will be soon be available on British Airways flights (pictured) across Europe. The service will be provided by London-based satellite operator Inmarsat.
Thor, god of the lie-in! 'Talking' puppy growls 'no' at his owner as he's told to get out of bed at 3:30am
       Thor the dog from Birmingham, Michigan, is seen in a video peacefully lying in bed before being woken up at 3.30am. But showing that it's not just humans who struggle in the morning, the little pup repeatedly growls what sounds like 'no' as he refuses to get up.
William Hague condemns Assad's election victory as 'an insult to Syrians' that bore 'no relation to genuine democracy'
      Tens of thousands took to the streets in government-held areas even before the results were announced on Wednesday evening, waving portraits of Assad and the official Syrian flag.
Tasty Terracotta Army! Food artist makes China's iconic warriors with PIZZA dough (but they won't last thousands of years)
      Annabel de Vetten created the scaled-down warriors to celebrate the opening of Pizza Express' 500th restaurant... in Beijing.
Trans-cending preconceptions: Thought-provoking new photo series celebrates the lives of trans-identified and gender nonconformist individuals
      Rhys Harper, who is based in Syracuse, New York, is hoping his project will help to shift people's perspective on the subject.
      Revellers at the rented student house in Fallowfield, Manchester, were plunged into the basement after the floor fell through. Nobody was hurt.
      Ben Baldwin, 22, from Barnsley, has cerebral palsy, severe epilepsy and learning difficulties and is often too ill to go outside, so Tiger visits him in his bed.
An eggs-traordinary find! Ancient reptile fossils shed light on how mysterious Pterosaurs nested like modern-day birds
      The five intact eggs were found in the Xinjiang province, China and all belonged to a previously unknown pterosaur species, Hamipterus tianshanensis.
You appear to have an ad-blocker running which will prevent this page from functioning as intended. Please disable your ad-blocker or set an exception for this page.Today's hottestfashion findsSee moreRihannaWow like Rihanna in an embellished sheer dressRead more ›KarruecheWork a simple white dress into your summer wardrobeRead more ›JenniferStep up your cool style with a pair of fresh sneakersRead more ›KourtneyGo back to black in monochrome Nike trainersRead more ›
          Shane Warne caught kissing and sharing intimate embrace with Playboy cover girl Emily Scott... but he STILL insists he's single
          Boho babe: Alessandra Ambrosio forgoes make-up as she runs errands in LA clad in a pretty lilac tie-dye maxi-dress
          King Kevin rules supreme: Spacey is magnificent in one-man show Clarence Darrow, writes QUENTIN LETTS
          BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Let's hear it for the Scottsboro Boys! Brandon Victor Dixon to star in West End production of extraordinary show
          Poetic, haunting... these D-Day letters moved me to tears: CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV
          A hit and miss comedy: There are funny moments, but Jump Street's daft cops fail to reach the hilarious heights of their first film
          This won't do Grace any favours: BRIAN VINER reviews Nicole Kidman's latest film Grace of Monaco
          'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die:' Roman Polanski shares private memories of wife Sharon Tate in new book on pregnant beauty's tragic life
          Hollywood's $800 facial: The secret to Angelina Jolie's glowing skin combines microdermabrasion, laser and a peel
          It's DJ Delta! The Voice Kids coach Goodrem jets home from Hollywood with an edgy new look complete with ripped jeans and shiny headphones
          She's certainly a good advertisement! US TV presenter Maria Menounos promotes her diet and fitness book in shiny black shorts in New York City
          'I gave him every bit of advice but now it's up to him': Usher opens up about his friend Justin Bieber's spiral out of control
          It's ON Again! Spring Breakers star Ashley Benson steps out with her beau Ryan Good wearing a bright playsuit
          Put away the bowl! Cindy Crawford reveals her stunning mane of hair was not always her crowning glory in cute flashback photo
          'I almost killed Tom Cruise!' Emily Blunt recalls terrifying moment she nearly crashed a car while shooting scenes for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Still a sex symbol! Raquel Welch, 73, looks decades younger in white jeans and yellow jacket while out to dinner
          Her own best ad! Kate Hudson displays her washboard abs as she models for fitness line... and shares her workout motivation
          Angela Simmons displays toned physique in sexy summery outfit as she hints at new venture following power lunch with her 'fitness gurus'
          The Devil Wears...white! Meryl Streep goes sinister as the Chief Elder of a dystopian society in The Giver
          Nature girl! Vanessa Hudgens shows off her toned tummy in black crop top and shorts during a vigorous hillside hike
          'I'd be open to doing more True Detective': Matthew McConaughey expresses interest in reprising Rust Cohle TV role
          Pretty as a picture! Jessica Alba shows her passion for prints while leaving the studio with takeout lunch
          That's where she gets it from! Leggy Gigi Hadid is chic in short metallic frock while out with her stylish mother Yolanda Foster
          Natalie Portman is fresh-faced and flawless as she touches down at LAX with husband Benjamin Millepied and their adorable son Aleph
          Good news for Miley Cyrus as police 'arrest two people in their 20s' in connection with star's stolen $100k Maserati
          Hot mama! Country singer Jessie James shows off her trim post-baby body at CMT Awards... just three months after giving birth
          Don't mention the outfit! Even Lena Dunham has 'no comment' over her unflattering ensemble as she enjoys a stroll in New York
          'Superhero workout!' Arrow's Stephen Amell shows off his impressive 'parkour' skills on military inspired obstacle course
          Strong sensitive types! Insurgent's Theo James brings Fault In Their Stars book to the gym while Miles Teller pumps some iron
          Farrah Abraham reveals she's writing a Christian parenting book... despite admitting she needs 'space' from her four-year-old and waxes child's eyebrows
          She's glowing: Holly Willoughby shows off growing bump in navy skater dress as she films This Morning segment
          She's anything but PLANE! Carol Vorderman shows off her pins in hot pink and black dress at photocall after jetting herself back from awards show
          'We've got a Christmas bun in the oven! Coronation Street's Paula Lane announces first pregnancy with childhood sweetheart Tom Shaw on Twitter
          'I'm going to get stick for this': Amy Willerton posts bikini selfie... but worries about how her fans will react
          'Squats are the key! Even 10 make me feel better': Victoria's Secret Angel Candice Swanepoel reveals secrets behind that body
          The lady is a vamp! Rihanna unleashes her rock chick side in a skimpy leather two-piece and fierce lace-up heels for Paris charity event
          Explicit content! Lindsay Lohan can't even manage a supporting role in sheer logo top... but at least gives parental advisory warning
          A leggy Lily Allen makes rare appearance with husband Sam Cooper for date night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Think pink! Alex Gerrard shows off her toned figure and glowing tan in bubblegum-hued workout gear
          She's well-heeled: BGT star Lettice Rowbotham whips off her shoes as she heads to BBC studios
          Russell Brand DEFENDS Justin Bieber for making vile racial slurs at the age of 14... claiming he should be 'let off' because it was 'ages ago'
          Whatever the leather: New mum Caprice shows off her post-pregnancy figure in skin-tight leather skirt and top
          Welcome to the strip: Danielle Lloyd and husband Jamie O'Hara jet into Vegas for a holiday with friends
          Not a bad consolation prize! Michael Carrick puts World Cup woes behind him as he and wife Lisa strip to their swimwear to top up their tans in Ibiza
          Graham Norton saves Amanda Holden from revealing more than she intended while doing a handstand in LBD
          It's a very Vogue birthday: Model Bambi Norwood-Blyth celebrates by shooting for fashion magazine with designer husband Dan Single
          J-Wow! Jennifer Lopez doesn't leave much to the imagination as she strips down to sexy latex stockings and suspenders to play first-ever hometown gig
          J.Lo revisits the Bronx and THAT Versace dress for homecoming show... after transsexual bikini model linked to Casper Smart speaks out
          Feeling like a million dollars! Matchmaker Patti Stanger, 53, wears plunging swimsuit as she celebrates her birthday with toyboy fiancé
          Do Ya Thang! Rihanna is sexy in a silky black miniskirt and matching tuxedo jacket as she goes for dinner in Paris
          Here comes the bride! Adam Levine to marry model Behati Prinsloo in 'intimate Mexican ceremony' on July 19
          Politics is the new black: AnnaLynne McCord votes for her spiritual guru as congressional candidate... but she comes in fourth
          She can't resist her man in uniform! Suki Waterhouse gets to grips with Bradley Cooper on set of American Sniper
          Million dollar smile! Victoria Justice beams in an unusual wrap dress at the Spent: Looking For Change premiere
          Strong after 22 years! Woody Allen strolls through Central Park with Soon-Yi Previn... as he prepares to shoot Emma Stone movie in Rhode Island
          Mama June doesn't let her 'forklift foot' get in the way of a family pool day as she goes swimming in socks
          Ramona Singer holds hands with husband Mario on romantic movie date... after firing off legal warning to his mistress over 'lewd messages'
          'Millie Mackintosh and Abbey Clancy already have their eyes on a few pieces': Julien Macdonald unveils glamorous beachwear range for Matalan
          She's stopping traffic: Elsa Pataky wears striking lime green reptilian dress to take over the streets of Madrid for fashion shoot
          Ivana Trump sells her Palm Beach mansion for $18 million - more than FOUR TIMES what she paid for it in 1994
          Table for three! Pregnant Julia Carey displays subtle baby bump as she steps out for dinner with James Corden at Chiltern Firehouse
          Beyonce shows off her amazing legs in pink mini dress as she has a date night with Jay Z in New York
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney set to reveal sex secrets in Big Brother house
          Watch your tan-line! Abbey Clancy wows in a daring cut-out panel swimsuit as she holidays in Hawaii with Peter Crouch
          Now that's a game plan! Gisele Bundchen and Tom Brady's sprawling new Boston mansion takes shape
          Your slip is showing! Leggy Chrissy Teigen heats up New York in black lace lingerie and white knit sweater while heading to dinner
          Looking slinky! Casey Batchelor struts in shiny snakeskin leggings and low-cut top as she models her new fashion collection
          She's got it! Eliza Doolittle is a triumph in plunging leather crop-top and sporty silk trousers at The Other Ball
          'There's quite a bit of blood': The 911 call made after The Brady Bunch housekeeper Ann B Davis has fatal fall is released
          Does she EVER stay in? As Princess Beatrice dines at Roka, we bring you the hotspot-hopping royal's guide to London's smartest restaurants
          From Iceland to ice cool: Sexiest Woman of All Time Rachel Stevens swaps supermarket chic for a semi-sheer top and smart tailoring
          Hawaii-five-WHOAH!! Emma Roberts bares her toned tum in daring crop top... while Lupita Nyong'o is a vision in green at the Maui Film Festival opening 
          Is this Jen 2.0? Meet the 2014 Miss Universe Australia finalist who works as Jennifer Hawkins' body double - and she's from her home town!
          'No more marriages': Pregnant Katie Price vows to never wed again after third husband Kieran Hayler cheated on her
          He's leaving Home! Summer Bay's resident  hottie Lincoln Younes swaps surfing for the 1960s as he takes a new role in Love Child
          Supporting her man! Khloe Kardashian opts for cleavage-baring top as she watches French Montana at J-Lo Bronx show
          Kanye West to take 'drastic measures' to beef up daughter North's security as he 'fears for her safety'
          True Blood star Jim Parrack to divorce wife of six years Ciera... as he 'moves on' with Hunger Games actress Leven Rambin
          Hats you win! Racing fan Jodie Kidd smoulders as she strikes a pose in glamorous headgear ahead of the Derby
          He's clearly nutritious! TOWIE's Gemma Collins can barely keep her lips off mystery new boyfriend as she debuts him on health shop trip
          Belle-y of the ball: Miley stands out in crop top and ripped jeans as she leaves hotel after Copenhagen concert
          He still has the big house! OJ Simpson's Florida home sold for $655,000 in foreclosure auction
          'It's given me a chance to give something back': Cambridge medical student wins swimsuit round of the Miss England
          I got fired for being pregnant: Lara Stone says she was axed for modelling job because she was too fat
          Are they dating? Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Meryl Davis reunite for cosy night on the town two weeks after DWTS win
          Mother of three Elsa Pataky, 37, dazzles in black mini skirt as she unveils her new fitness book and her rock hard abs
          Alessandra Ambrosio shows off her toned tum in black crop top and displays perfect pins in thigh-split skirt as she attends event with fiance Jamie Mazur
          Cashmere from Tesco. Undies from Asda. Posh frocks from Sainsbury's: The ultimate guide to summer style at the supermarket!
          Her faiery tale life! Sam Faiers puts her cleavage on display in plunging dress for Alice In Wonderland themed magazine photo shoot
          Cara Santana puts on a brave face as she hits the gym in midriff baring vest after boyfriend Jesse Metcalfe's ex slammed his bedroom prowess
          'She's being tormented and harassed': Kardashians rent store in The Hamptons and landlord gets 'slammed on internet' and 'snide comments' for doing it
          Kendall Jenner continues to take the plunge as she dons low-cut black number while promoting new sci-fi book with Kylie
          Sheer daring! Pregnant Rebecca Ferguson looks radiant in black gown as she shows off her baby bump ahead of performance at Parkinson's event
          Something to get off your chest? Lily Allen's deep pink hair is overshadowed by keyhole black dress featuring centre split at The Other Ball
          It's there in black and white: Jessica Wright wears chic backless jumpsuit... while Diana Vickers thrills in mini at Parkinson's event
          Former Beverly Hills, 90210 star Rebecca Gayheart goes dotty in see- through shirt as she takes adorable daughter Billie Dane out for the day
          That's why the Sexiest Woman Of All Time goes to Iceland! Rachel Stevens is far cry from title as she goes make-up free in frozen food store
          'Some guys prefer blondes, some brunettes - I like old ladies': 'Extreme toyboy', 31, takes 91-year-old girlfriend home to meet his mother
          'I need to step up and own what I did': Bieber apologises after fresh clip of singer 'changing song lyrics to joke about killing a n****** and joining Ku Klux Klan'
          Getting to grips with the wildlife! Ellie Goulding posts cute Instagram snap cuddling a koala while on tour in Australia
          Let the pageant begin! Miss USA 2014 contestants strut their stuff at the preliminary competition in Louisiana
          Demi Lovato steals the spotlight in a statement black and yellow frock as she picks up Fun Fearless Latina Of The Year Award
          Robin Wright and Mel B prove simplicity is best in elegant black ensembles at magazine bash
          Let's bounce! Hugh Jackman is jumping for joy in a mysterious new video that says shows him hopping around the world
          'I invented the international press tour': Tom Cruise makes claim after whirlwind three-country première feat for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Ooh la la! Kirsten Dunst goes topless for Madame Figaro magazine as she reveals she feels more appreciated in France
          If you don't answer that, I will! Kevin Spacey halts new play on opening night to snap at audience member whose phone went off
          Battle of the busts! LeAnn Rimes and Kristen Bell compete for the most plunging gown at CMT Music Awards... and LeAnn just edges it
          She's got a lot of front! Carrie Underwood wears a revealing halter neck summer dress as she takes top prize at CMT Music Awards
          It's a boy! Offspring star Matthew Le Nevez announces the name and sex of his newborn and reveals he misses playing dreamy Dr Patrick
Is that an Old Master painting - or Beyonce’s Master Cleanse? Photographer recreates celebrity diets as still lifes
       Italian Dan Bannino reproduced the diets of Gwyneth Paltrow, Kate Moss, Beyonce Knowles, Simon Cowell, Bill Clinton, Lord Byron, and even King Henry VIII. 'My aim was to capture the beauty that lies in this terrible constriction of diets and deprivation', explains Mr Bannino. 'To show how this weirdness hasn’t changed even since the 15th century.'
Fizzy drinks 'loaded with harmful sugars could increase the risk of developing diabetes, cardiovascular and liver disease'
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say the drinks contain more fructose, which is converted to fat in the liver, than people realise.
      Crowds screamed out as the boy, thought to be about three years old, appeared to cling to the ledge of an apartment block in Vila Velha, Brazil.
       The rhino was part of a relocation programme in the Zululand region of South Africa, which aims to keep the animals safe. The images of its dramatic airlift, which was carried out by KZN Wildlife Game Capture, were taken by photographer Em Gatland, who described witnessing the transfer as surreal and a mixture of emotion.
China may have banned Tiananmen Square memorial but the rest of Asia remembers: From Hong Kong to Taiwan thousands hold vigil on 25th anniversary of Beijing massacre
Dont come back, next time you wont get out alive: Talibans taunt as they released deserter POW Bowe revealed in propaganda video
Pictured: Grinning father of famous model moments after he executed his neighbour and minutes before he 'swallowed the gun' in dramatic standoff with Chinese SAS
Suicidal Chinese mother leaps from third floor balcony after her daughter refused to break up with 'lazy' boyfriend (but miraculously survives)
Hundreds of pro-Russian rebels killed in fierce attack by Ukrainian forces as Obama tells Nato allies 'you'll never be alone'
Thousands of anti-monarchist protesters take to streets of Spain calling for a republic after King Juan Carlos abdicates after 39 years
Woolly jumpers, wide collared jackets and unflattering skirts ... the medal for worst Commonwealth Games uniforms goes to Australia
King Juan Carlos of Spain in shock abdication after 40 years as his son and glamourous ex-newsreader wife take on challenge of leading Spain out of the doldrums
Spain harbours highest number of expat benefit cheats with more than 700 believed to be scamming the system while soaking up the sun
Mother of British backpacker missing in Malaysian jungle for six days arrives in country 'to be here when they find him'
Come here you big BULLy! Chinese wrestlers get to grips with giant calves in man over beast competition
China disgust at woman who beheads cat and posts image online - and then blames 'alcohol and domestic misfortune'
Bodies of five French soldiers from WWI found alongside their wallets, rifles and a figurine of the Virgin Mary in French wood 100 years after they were killed
'The job isn't finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite...
Obama pleads with Scotland to vote 'No' to independence AND for Britain to stay in the European Union
My Big Fat Gypsy horse fair: Traditional gathering begins in Appleby - and is already hit by row over...
Brother of Sudanese woman facing death penalty for ‘abandoning her Islamic faith’ by marrying a Christian says...
Home of the free! Father paints his house with stars and stripes in protest at local officials who tried to...
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left...
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at Seattle Pacific...
Another shabby day for the marshmallow President: As his Taliban hostage swap sours, why Obama is a pygmy...
A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video, that proves boys will be boys no...
Amid urban squalor, Nature's glory takes wing: Just why is this dazzling blue kingfisher slumming it among shopping trolleys in South London?
       These kingfishers, captured by photographer Tomos Brangwyn on the River Wandle, are a tribute to the amazing turn-around in the fortunes of Britain’s urban rivers over the past 50 years.
Amid urban squalor, Nature's glory takes wing: Just why is this dazzling blue kingfisher slumming it among shopping trolleys in South London?
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say fasting could be particularly beneficial for people whose immune systems have been damaged by chemotherapy.
Couples that sleep together, stay together: Spouses are more likely to slumber in sync if the wife is satisfied with their marriage
      New study showS that overall synchrony in sleep-wake schedules among couples was higher when the woman was happier in the relationship.
Who left the hand-brake off? Investigation under way after Ryanair plane rolls backwards and crashes into airport building, destroying tail wing
      The force of the impact tore apart the rear stabiliser of the £72m Boeing 737 at Rome Ciampino Airport yesterday.
Malaysian police refuse to rule out foul play in case of missing backpacker Gareth Huntley as his family await autopsy to determine whether shirtless body found in Malaysian jungle pond is him
      Mr Huntley's mother Janet Southwell, who arrived in Malaysia on Monday was pictured this morning outside Tengku Ampuan Afzan Hospital in Kuantan with his girlfriend Kit Natariga.
Shocking moment one-armed Russian motorist starts furious road rage punch-up with car behind... but then ends up getting badly beaten
       A one-armed Russian man (circled, top left) has been filmed starting a road rage fight in Moscow, but quickly has the tables turned on him as he is kicked in the head and has his false arm pulled off (bottom right). Nikita Korolev, 43, and Kiril Stepanov, 45, started punching and kicking the occupants of a car behind them through the open windows after the driver refused to back up, but ended up being beaten themselves.
          The Azzurri hit a hiccup ahead of the World Cup when they realised their plane was too small
          Aston Villa have sounded out Rio Ferdinand over a possible move to Villa Park - but the defender is thought to favour Spurs
          Rooney rage: England star raps Scholes for saying he faces axe... and Moyes insists his former player can light up World Cup in Brazil
          Luiz Felipe Scolari has projected that Argentina will be the most likely opponent if the hosts make it through
          Jose Mourinho has admitted Chelsea are interested in signing the former Arsenal captain from Barcelona 
          Countdown to World Cup hots up as brainbox Riley crunches the numbers to predict winning team
          NICO ROSBERG COLUMN: When there are awkward moments, Lewis and I discuss them and we move on...
=======================================================
Vin Diesel as born in New York City. His mother is Delora, an astrologer; he has never met his biological father and was raised by his stepfather Irving, an acting coach.
He started acting on stage when he was seven and appeared in the play Dinosaur Door. He landed the part after he and his friends broke into the theatre to vandalise it and was offered a part by the director instead of being reprimanded.
He changed his name to Vin Diesel when he was a bouncer at a club. Vin is short for Vincent and Diesel is a nickname referring to his endless energy.
He then made a semi-biographical short film called 'Multi-Facial' in 1994 in which he also starred. The first feature film he made was called 'Strays' in 1997 and it was selected to compete at the Sundance Festival.
In 1998, he landed a role in Stephen Spielberg's 'Saving Private Ryan' which also starred Tom Hanks. The following year, he played the voice of the title character in the animation 'The Iron Giant'.
In 2000, he appeared in 'Boiler Room' with Ben Affleck and 'Pitch Black' alongside Radha Mitchell and Cole Hauser.
In 2001, he was in 'The Fast and the Furious' and appeared in four of the sequels alongside Dwayne Johnson and Paul Walker.
In 2004, he had the lead role in 'The Chronicles of Riddick' with Thandie Newton and Judi Dench which did poorly at the box office. The following year he had a more humorous role in the comedy 'The Pacifier' with Brittany Snow and Max Thieriot.
In 2006, he played real-life gangster Jack DiNorscio in 'Find Me Guilty' alongside Alex Rocco and Peter Dinklage .
In 2008, he was in the sci-fi flick 'Babylon A.D.' which also starred Gerard Depardieu and Mark Strong.
He enjoys playing Dungeons & Dragons and wrote the foreword for the book '30 Years of Adventure: A Celebration of Dungeons & Dragons'.
Vin Diesel has claimed that “Guardians of the Galaxy” helped him to get over the death of his close friend and co-star, Paul Walker. Before you ask, Diesel didn’t turn to religion, “Guardians of the...
Peter Quill is a fearless Earthling pilot who rather proudly proclaims himself to be an outlaw, going by the nickname Star-Lord. As a child, he was taken from his home planet and forced to live...
Guardians of the Galaxy, the latest film based on Marvel’s comic books, is due to be released in July. With fans already speculating about the film’s plotline and special effects, the cast and crew were...
"It was very personal. It was the month after the accident happened with my brother Paul Walker and it was the first time I had worked since. Although it was challenging, just to get back...
Vin Diesel struggled to work following Paul Walker's death. The 46-year-actor found it ''challenging'' to return to the set of his new movie 'Guardians of the Galaxy' following his 'Fast and Furious' co-star's death last...
What’s in a name? Well for some celebrities things might have been very different if they hadn’t have changed theirs. Think Stefani Germanotta sounds like a star? What about Caryn Johnson? Things might have been...
"After spending time with his biological brothers, I must say to the parents, you raised some great kids." Actor Vin Diesel is full of praise for Paul Walker's family after working with his siblings Caleb...
A few days ago it was announced that Paul Walker’s siblings, Caleb and Cody, were to act as body doubles for the late actor, in order to complete his last installment of the Fast &...
Paul Walker’s tragic death following a high-speed car accident - which also claimed the life of Roger Rodas – threw his most high-profile movie to date into question; how would Fast & Furious 7 reach...
Ice Cube has felt compelled to respond publically after finding himself the centre of a heated internet furore over comments he made after Sunday's MTV Movie Awards. The rapper/actor allegedly hightailed it out of the...
Ice Cube insists he was a ''fan'' of Paul Walker.The rapper had blasted the MTV Movie Awards for overlooking him and his 'Ride Along' co-star in the Best Onscreen Duo category at Sunday's ceremony (13.04.14)...
Rapper/actor Ice Cube has accused fans of voting for Vin Diesel and the late Paul Walker as the Mtv Movie Awards' Best On-Screen Duo out of "sympathy", after losing out to the Fast & Furious...
Ice Cube has blasted the MTV Movie Awards for giving the Best Onscreen Duo trophy to Paul Walker posthumously.The rapper believes the 'Fast & Furious 6' star, who died in a car crash in November,...
Jordana Brewster will find it ''difficult'' filming 'Fast & Furious 7' without Paul Walker.The 33-year-old actress opened up about reprising work on the action franchise for the first time since the late star was killed...
The MTV Movie Awards are usually a time for fun, blockbusters and shirtless Zefron, but last night’s ceremony included a solemn moment, as co-stars and colleagues paid tribute to the late Paul Walker. The actor...
The 'Hunger Games: Catching Fire' won big at the MTV Movie Awards last night (13.04.14). The sci-fi adventure film came out on top at the event, which was hosted by Conan O'Brien and held at...
The 'Hunger Games: Catching Fire' won big at the MTV Movie Awards last night (13.04.14). The sci-fi adventure film came out on top at the event, which was hosted by Conan O'Brien and held at...
Actor Vin Diesel has suffered a minor concussion while filming Fast & Furious 7.The Riddick star posted a picture of himself and director James Wan on Facebook.com on Tuesday (01Apr14) and detailed how he got...
Actor Vin Diesel has written a new tribute to his tragic Fast & Furious co-star Paul Walker.Walker died in a fiery car crash in November (13) and Diesel has spoken of the bond he and...
Paul Walker will appear in 'Fast and Furious 7' through Computer Generated Imagery (CGI).The movie's lead actor died in a tragic car crash last November halfway through completing the latest instalment of the car racing...
Fast & Furious 7 is due to resume filming, although sadly without veteran cast member, Paul Walker. 40 year old Walker died tragically in a car crash in November 2013, midway through filming the upcoming...
One week into promotion, it’s becoming clear that no one with any internet access will be safe from Guardians of the Galaxy until August 1st, when the new Marvel flick is due to come out....
By now nobody is questioning Disney and Marvel’s decision to invest in the Avengers franchise. It started out a bit rough - 2008’s The Incredible Hulk is still a mostly ignored part of the cinematic...
It’s finally time for you to take a look at Guardians of The Galaxy – the highly anticipated movie from Marvel starring Chris Pratt, Bradley Cooper, Vin Diesel, Zoe Saldana, Karen Gillan, Dave Batista and...
Peter Quill is a tenacious pilot who was taken away from his home planet Earth as a child to grow up around alien races. Arrogantly nicknaming himself Star-Lord, he finds himself captured by the evil...
A 15 second teaser trailer has been released for Guardians of the Galaxy, Marvel's upcoming action epic, as fans wait patiently for a full-length trailer. The new teaser may be finished in virtually the blink...
Kurt Russell won't appear in any of 'The Expendables' films.The 51-year-old actor admits, although he admires Sylvester Stallone's work on the film series, he won't be appearing in any future installments alongside stars such as...
Yesterday Vin Diesel announced that a fourth instalment of the ‘Riddick’ series is on its way. In a video posted on his Facebook page he told his fans: ''Universal just called me and told me...
Vin Diesel has confirmed plans for a 'Riddick' sequel.The 46-year-old actor plays the anti-hero who the latest film is named after in 2000's 'Pitch Black', 2004's 'The Chronicles of Riddick' and 2013's 'Riddick', and thanked...
Vin Diesel is one of Hollywood's top action stars, known for playing bad ass character's on the big screen.So it came to a surprise when the 44 year-old revealed to be a fan of pop...
The 'Fast and Furious' franchise stars Vin Diesel and Michelle Rodriguez are interviewed about the...
The second season of the prison comedy-drama will premiere on Netflix this week. here are some preview clips!
Oscar-winning actor Kevin Spacey turned the air blue on respected Bbc current affairs show Newsnight.
50 Cent has defended Justin Bieber in light of his N-word shame, insisting the 20-year-old star is not racist and is ''still a baby''.
All you really need to do for the next 10 minutes is relax, grab a coffee, and flick through the gallery.
A documentary focussing on the brotherly relationship between renowned rock star Matt Berninger and his metal head brother Tom.
Vin Diesel- when you look at his life & listen to him deliver acknowledgement and encouragement to others, one must conclude him to be inspirational. Aside from the entertainer, he has sacrificed personal freedom of movement, freedom of saying & doing as he pleases and denying any spontaneity in his life. To know every step taken for the remainder of your life has to be preplanned/premeditated & guarded is an expense few would accept. It's not all glam & glory. His movies continue to entertain me. His biography is unique. I wish him well as he continues his endeavors.
I think Vin Diesel is a talented actor, director, writer, and producer. He appears personable, direct, and never crude. He has set goals and is working at making those goals a reality -- something to be admired and emulated.He is well read and chooses his words carefully during interviews -- perhaps knowing they will be picked apart later.He also is very comlimentary of those he works with -- always giving credit to others. When he accepts accolades on his own behalf, critics are quick to say he is "vain". I notice the same monicker is not attached to the likes of Tom Cruise or Tom Hanks! Aside from talent and an actual brain, he has the sexiest body in Hollywood. So why do critics and writers ignore or be-little him? Jealousy? Intimidation? Pleasure at other people's expense? A little bit of all three?
ya well i kinda have to love vin cuz he is playin my grandpa in the movie "find me guilty"  he is a very nice man and even came to my grandpas funeral **tear**  his movies are all very good and i hope to see the same in his new moviexoxoxovienna
I hope that Vin Diesel reads these comments.  I am dying to meet him and I wouldn't mind if he gets my e-mail address.  I live in miami and anytime he is going to be down here I would love to set something up just to meet him, whether if it is for five minutes I want to be able to meet him in person.
Hey"Mad" is it?,I have a question for you. For someone that doesn't think very highly of an actor, why is it you comment as much as you have and try so hard to bring everyone else down because they genuinely like the man? You sound like some one that was shot down for a good reason and now you're bitter about it. Me thinks you doth protest too much. Ok ladies how many of you have seen this attitude before? Com'on I wanna here it! Mad? You've been turned down by the man haven't you? Haven't you. Either that or you are so jealous of the fact that he has a great following and what? You Don't. Are you a disgruntled actor? Actress? What's up with the negative attitude. You just woke up one morning and decided to trash talk someone like Vin? You don't even know him! Do you? If you don't have anything good to say about someone (as I was taught) don't say anything at all. It's that simple. Have a simple life and let us have ours.
I just have to post this SOMEWHERE. This article about Vin's "woman trouble in the Dominican" is a crock of sh**! Maybe, as a fan I just don't WANT to believe that he would be such a meatheaded oaf of a soulless asshole! but TRUTHFULLY, it doesn't add up AT ALL with ANYTHING I've ever seen or heard from him, in interviews, MSN celeb-chats, television interviews, etc.... There's definately more to that ridiculous story, and he may have very well had her removed from the club, but I STRONGLY DOUBT that it was b/c she "refused to go anywhere with him". The whole scenario just doesn't even make any sense. anyway, i'm sure most reasonably intelligent fans of Vin wouldn't believe this garbage to start with, but i guess it's just a little irritating to me to see that someone would go to those links to try to ruin someone's reputation, and speaking as someone who has been around clubs and musicians and such my whole life, i think i have a pretty good idea what REALLY happened. lol, pretty pathetic if you ask me.... her, that is... if i'm right in my assumption. well, that's all i have to say about that.
Vin is a very great actor! Always! I cann't wait to see more movies with him in them. I do have to say the best part of the movies he's in is HIM. Regardless, he is a very talented actor. Love that bod Vin!!!!!!! Maybe you should come teach me to workout??!!
Hey HousieMousieYou need glasses.  Vin Diesel is a wonderful actor and a wonderful person.  All of films are great.  I don't know what movies you were watching, but they weren't Vin Diesel's movies.  I could watch his movies everyday and never tire of them.  You need to realize how hard it is escape stereotypes once you do so many action movies.  I think Vin did a wonderful job in The Pacifier. He needs to keep making movies and being his wonderful self.Traci
Well, Well. The critics don't much nice to say about Mark, but then again, I suppose that they are all men. Perhaps jealousy is a major factor! Oh well girls, we are the ones who watch/purchase Vin's movies, so basically we are the critics. I agree with Erica, he is a lovely person. He is not arrogant or stupid. He has a magnetic mysterious air about him, I could sit and watch him for hours. Well Vin, I sincerely hope that we will be seeing more of you (mmm, will keep mind out of gutter. Oh so hard, ha ha). That is their problem you have it all - sex appeal, brains, ability to act, sing, dance. What more could a girl want. Love you heaps Vin.
Featured ArticlesLate Night Renaissance - How This Winter's Changes Are Paying Off For Fallon, Kimmel, Leno And The Networks
 "Why Is Hugh Bouncing?": Hugh Jackman Jumps For Joy Ahead Of Tony AwardsJohn Lennon's Doodles Sell For $27k And Other Crazy Music Auction Prices [Pictures]Game Of Thrones Vs. The Sopranos: Is Popularity Indicative Of Quality? "Game Of Thrones" Topples "The Sopranos" As Hbo's Most Watched ShowGwar's Dave Brockie And Entertainment's Dangerous Relationship With HeroinShould Metallica Be Removed From Glastonbury Headline Slot?Hayden Panettiere Pregnant With Wladimir Klitschko's Baby: A Look At Their Love StoryAll You Need To Know About The Newest Additions To 'Homeland''True Detective': Our Top 10 Rust Cohle QuotesJohnny Knoxville Glad Bad Grandpa Store Staffers Returned To Work
Evan Rachel Wood's Representative Slams 'Preposterous' LawsuitJennifer Lopez Splits From Boyfriend - ReportFight For Your Right: Beastie Boys Collect $1.7M In Monster Copyright BattleLa Toya Jackson wants 'huge' weddingChris Brown's Celebrity Pals Gather For Post-prison PartyLupita Nyong'o To Reteam With Brad Pitt For New Movie 
Pharrell Williams - Full Show - #AmexUNSTAGED VideoJack White - Lazaretto VideoSharlto Copley - Maleficent Video Interview Sam Riley - Maleficent Video Interview Elle Fanning - Maleficent Video Interview  
Sharlto Copley - Maleficent Video InterviewSam Riley - Maleficent Video InterviewElle Fanning - Maleficent Video InterviewAngelina Jolie - Maleficent Video InterviewBlair Jollands - Interview 
Christopher Hall - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, United Kingdom -Jerry Lewis and Larry King - Jerry Lewis attends the Friars Club celebration ofWanda Sykes and Alex Sykes - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life AchievementSyd Wilder - American Film Institute's (AFI) 42nd Annual Life Achievement Award honoring JaneMatthew Davies and Emma Willis - Big Brother Power Trip live launch - Borehamwood, 
=======================================================
                BUY TICKETS, GET MUSIC. Buy any ticket on Fandango this month and get a free Amazon Music code for two songs!
            Within 48 hours of your ticket purchase, you’ll receive an email from Fandango with your Amazon Music promotional code. You’ll receive one promotional code per ticket transaction, limit one per Amazon account. Offer is valid through 9:00 AM PDT 6/30/2014, while supplies last. Amazon.com account required. Amazon Music promotional code expires 11:59pm PDT, 7/30/14. This is a promotional code and is not to be shared, is not for resale, has no cash value, and will not be replaced if lost or stolen. Terms and conditions apply. See www.amazon.com/fandangoMP3 for details.
                                                        News Bites: Disney is making a live-action 'Beauty and the Beast'
                                                        Watch how Emily Blunt almost killed Tom Cruise on the set of 'Edge of Tomorrow'
                                                        J.J. Abrams tweets 'Star Wars' photo from onboard the Millennium Falcon
Actor, producer, writer, and director Vin Diesel had a charmed entry into the world of screen acting: after seeing Multi-Facial, a short that Diesel wrote, produced, financed, directed, and starred in, Steven Spielberg created the role of Private Caparzo specifically for the talented young newcomer in his Saving Private Ryan (1998). Born in New York City on July 18, 1967, Diesel made his stage debut at the age of seven in "Theatre for the New City," which was produced in Greenwich Village. He continued to be involved with the theatre throughout his adolescence, and he went on to attend the city's Hunter College, where his studies in creative writing led him to begin writing screenplays. Diesel became active in filmmaking in the early '90s, first earning notice for the short Multi-Facial, which was selected for screening at the 1995 Cannes Festival. He followed up Multi-Facial with his first feature-length film, 1997's Strays, an urban drama in which he cast himself as a gang boss whose love for a woman inspires him to try to change his ways. Written, directed, and produced by Diesel, the film was selected for competition at the 1997 Sundance Festival, which led to a deal with MTV to turn it into a series. Following the success of Saving Private Ryan, Diesel could be heard voicing the title character of the animated The Iron Giant (1999), another critically praised feature. He then starred with fellow young actors Giovanni Ribisi, Ben Affleck, Jamie Kennedy, and Nicky Katt in Boiler Room, an off-Wall Street drama that cast him as one of the members of a shady brokerage firm. He also flexed his sci-fi muscles in Pitch Black (2000), an interplanetary thriller that featured him and fellow Earthlings doing battle with a host of nasty alien mutants.  Diesel jumped genres yet again as a devious, determined hot-rodder in The Fast and the Furious (2001), a cheeky, action-packed street racing picture in the vein of '50s exploitation flicks. The low-profile, star-free summer release left skid marks at the box office as it grossed over $40 million dollars in its first weekend alone -- more than enough to cover its production costs, and enough to lead many to believe that Diesel had finally arrived as a bankable leading man. Indeed Diesel was growing increasingly comfortable in his role as a tough guy action icon, though the ex-NYC club bouncer's prominant smirky scowl (usually accompanied by a hearty smile and laugh) proved almost a wink to his fans that while it worked well for him, he didn't take the image altogether seriously. The following year found Diesel teetering on the edge of mega-stardom with the release of his eagerly anticipated reteaming with The Fast and the Furious director Rob Cohen, XXX. With images of a bulky Diesel adorning movie theaters nationwide and an advertising campaign that left almost no viable stone unturned, the duo were undoubtably aiming to repeat the success of the muscle-car extravaganza. This time setting their sights on breathing life into the ailing secret agent action adventure genre, XXX's protagonist, a former extreme sports athlete recruited by the government to take on a dangerous mission, would prove a large-scale  attempt at bringing James Bond style thrills into the 21st century.    With his reputation set in stone, Diesel would spend the 2010's enjoying a steady stream of similar work, starring in action adventure films like The Chronicles of Riddick and Babylon A.D., as well as occasional commedic turns, like The Pacifier. ~ Rebecca Flint Marx, Rovi
						and authorize Fandango and its service providers to deliver FanTexts and other promotional texts to your mobile phone. 
                    You can unsubscribe at any time by texting "STOP" or seek help by texting "HELP" to "FNDGO" (36346).
=======================================================
Birth Name: Mark Sinclair VincentBirth Place: New York, NYDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 07/18/1967, CancerProfession: Actor; producer
Chosen for a role in Saving Private Ryan (1998) by Steven Spielberg after he saw Diesel's short film Multi-Facial. 
Breakout role was 2001's The Fast and the Furious, for which he and costar Paul Walker received an MTV Movie Award for Best On-Screen Team. 
Declined to appear in the first sequel to The Fast and the Furious, but did reunite with the original cast in the fourth film, 2009's Fast & Furious. 
Founded the One Race Global Film Foundation, a non-profit that provides education and training in entertainment-based industries for low-income students in the U.S. and abroad.Vin Diesel Relationships: Paloma Jimenez - Significant OtherDelora Vincent - MotherIrving Vincent - StepfatherPaul Vincent - BrotherHania Riley - DaughterVin Diesel Awards: 1998 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture - NomineeCollege: Attended City University of New York, Hunter College, New York, NY
Buy XXX Widescreen Special Edition - DVD - Rated PG-13 - Starring Vin Diesel from Amazon.com ()Usually ships in 1-2 business daysBuy New: $0.43 (as of 06/05/14 8:25 PM EST - more info)
