=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
“As was the case with Miles Davis in jazz, Bowie has come not just to represent his innovations but to symbolize modern rock as an idiom in which literacy, art, fashion, style, sexual exploration and social commentary can be rolled into one.” Rolling Stone magazine
Driven by an entirely deeper dynamic than most pop artists, David Bowie inhabits a very special world of extraordinary sounds and endless vision. Unwilling to stay on the treadmill of rock legend and avoiding the descent into ever demeaning and decreasing circles of cliché, Bowie writes and performs what he wants, when he wants. His absence from the endless list of “important events” has just fuelled interest. Constant speculation about what the guy was up to has even led some to wonder if this is his greatest reinvention ever. David Jones!
David Robert Jones was born in Brixton on January 8, 1947. At age thirteen, inspired by the jazz of the London West End, he picked up the saxophone and called up Ronnie Ross for lessons. Early bands he played with – The Kon-Rads, The King Bees, the Mannish Boys and the Lower Third –provided him with an introduction into the showy world of pop and mod, and by 1966 he was David Bowie, with long hair and aspirations of stardom rustling about his head. Kenneth Pitt signed on as his manager, and his career began with a handful of mostly forgotten singles but a head full of ideas. It was not until 1969 that the splash onto the charts would begin, with the legendary Space Oddity (which peaked at No. 5 in the UK). Amidst his musical wanderings in the late 60s, he experimented with mixed media, cinema, mime, Tibetan Buddhism, acting and love. The album, originally titled David Bowie then subsequently Man of Words, Man of Music, pays homage to all the influences of the London artistic scene. It shows the early song-writing talent that was yet to yield some of rock-n-roll’s finest work, even if it would take the rest of the world a few years to catch up with him.
Bowie’s first album, The Man Who Sold The World, was recorded as an entity in itself and marks the first definitive creative stretch for the listener. Mick Ronson’s guitars are often referred to as the birth point of heavy metal, and certainly the auspicious beginnings of glam rock can be traced here. The album was released by Mercury in April 1971 to minimal fanfare and Bowie took his first trip to the United States to promote it that spring. In May of the same year, Duncan Zowie Haywood Bowie was born to David and his then wife Angela.RCA was the next label to sign Bowie, and after a trip to America to complete the legalities, he returned to London to record two albums nearly back to back. Hunky Dory was built from a six-song demo that had enticed the label to sign him and features Changes and Life On Mars. Almost immediately, it was followed up by the instant classic The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and The Spiders from Mars.
1972 was certainly the year that Bowie began to get a glimpse of the power of pop. GQ editor Dylan Jones said of the landmark 1972 Top of The Pops appearance on 6th July “This is the performance that turned Bowie into a star, embedding his Ziggy Stardust persona into the nations consciousness.” The sound of the suburbs suddenly got a whole lot louder. Previewed in London that spring, his rock-n-roll creation Ziggy Stardust staged one of the most spectacular and innovative live shows to date, and the craze that followed was the beginning of his superstar myth. The summer of 1972 was also a busy one for him in the studio, as he produced albums for Lou Reed (Transformer) – a seminal record that to this day enthuses critics the world over and spawned the surprise leftfield hit, Walk on the Wild Side, a fairytale of the dark side of New York. The fact that David had also co-produced the terrifying and vastly influential Raw Power by Iggy and The Stooges that year, only added to his growing reputation as an artist to be taken most seriously. Bowie later went on to produce further Iggy albums – The Idiot and Lust for Life and co-wrote China Girl from Let’s Dance with the Detroit demon. He also produced Mott the Hoople (All The Young Dudes, for which he wrote the hit title track).
The US “Ziggy” tour began in September, with sold-out shows full of theatrically inspired Japanese costumes, snarling guitars courtesy of Mick Ronson, and a bold, daring approach to performance that propelled the audience into a rock-n-roll fervor. He abruptly put his own creation to rest on June 3, 1973 with the pronouncement: “Of all the shows on the tour, this one will stay with us the longest because not only is this the last show of the tour, but it is the last show we will ever do.” This surprised everyone in the house – not least the members of his band. Amidst the Ziggy fever, Aladdin Sane was released in April 1973, inspired by his experiences in America while touring. After putting the “Stardust” show to bed, he travelled to France to begin work on his next albums. Pin-Ups was the last time that Bowie would record an album with Mick Ronson on guitar and Ken Scott at the production helm. His tribute to the artists that he admired in the London years of 1964-67 was released in October 1973. In April of 1973, his proto-Bladerunner project Diamond Dogs debuted full of tension and angst standing in stark contrast to the disco music that was beginning to crowd the airwaves. In the summer of 1974, he undertook his greatest US tour yet, with an enormous set and choreographed tableaus. The double album David Live was recorded in Philadelphia’s Tower Theatre, and serves as a souvenir of this tour.
The two previous albums showed hints of Bowie's interest in the music he heard in America. Authentic soul with a unique UK perspective meant this was far from being a homage. The most direct result of this fascination is the rhythmic, soul-laden Young Americans, released in 1975. A collaboration with John Lennon on Fame came out of an impromptu session at Electric Ladyland in New York and was a last-minute addition to the LP. It resulted in Bowie's first ever No. 1 single in the US. The album also featured another David discovery soon to be better known as R&B singer Luther Vandross. He contributed backing vocals alongside the other legendary young American musicians such as Willie Weeks, Andy Newmark, David Sanborn and Mike Garson. Not long after the album came out, he moved to Los Angeles and starred in the cult classic Nic Roeg science fiction film The Man Who Fell To Earth. After completion of filming, he almost immediately returned to the studio for the recording of Station to Station, a travelogue of sorts. The White Light tour followed, this time with an electronic-driven line-up, played out with Brecht- inspired theatricality. A compilation of hits, ChangesOneBowie, was released by RCA in May 1976. Never one to stay in one place too long, shortly after his tour finished, David relocated to the Schonenberg section of Berlin.
Whether Bowie was where the action was or the action was where David Bowie was, sometimes it was hard to assess, but for sure the seismic plates of history were shifting under the studio during the next recording. The iron curtain still firmly divided Europe and nowhere more so than in Berlin where David and Iggy were famously holed up. The subsequent music provided an atmosphere backdrop to the emerging punk scene in London. A suitably mysterious return to the UK stage playing keyboards with Iggy in 77 cemented the myth. The stark black and white stage lights highlighted the unseen all persuasive Bowie influence and fitted the mood of the times perfectly. He was soon to step back out of the shadows. Low and “Heroes” were recorded with collaborators Brian Eno, Tony Visconti and he adopted new approaches to the songwriting process. In an interview for French radio, Bowie said, “Berlin has the strange ability to make you write only the important things. Anything else you don’t mention… and in the end you produce Low.” Surrealism and experimentation were the themes of the day, and the incorporation of cut-and-paste techniques into unique instrumentation birthed what are now heralded as luminary ambient soundscapes. Released in 1977, Low confused RCA and though the masses were not quite sure what to make of the effort, the single Sound and Vision eventually hit No. 2 on the British charts. The second in his three-album triptych, “Heroes” prominently features Robert Fripp on guitar and a more optimistic outlook overall. One of his greatest singles, the title track from this album recounts a romantic liaison between lovers near the Berlin Wall. His next foray into film occurred in Just A Gigolo, which he described as “all my thirty-two Elvis Presley movies rolled into one.” March of 1978 found him on tour again, and during a May break he narrated Peter and the Wolf with the Philadelphia Orchestra, the first of many children's projects he would consistently support over the years (now out of print, the result was a collectible green-vinyl album). Stage was released in September 1978, culled from his recent tour of the States, and features live material from his “Berlin” period. A relocation to Switzerland was to follow, abandoned frequently due to his ever developing love affair with the exotic Indonesia, Africa and the Far East. Recorded in France, Lodger was released in May 1979, and by the end of the year he was again in the studio. Rehearsals also began for his Broadway debut, in the part of the The Elephant Man, which opened in September 1980 to rave reviews.
In the same month, Scary Monsters was released and Bowie also recorded Under Pressure in 1981 in Switzerland and the song appeared on Queen's album Hot Space the following year. The song reached No. 1 in the UK. After this period, he dropped out of the public eye, while remaining involved with various film projects. 1982 saw him playing the male lead in The Hunger, the role of Celliers in the captivating World War 2 drama Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence, alongside Tom Conti and Ryuichi Sakamoto …writing the theme song for the movie Cat People. Another greatest hits compilation, ChangesTwoBowie, came out in 1982. In October 83, RCA released Ziggy Stardust: The Motion Picture Album, capturing the energy of Ziggy and the Spiders during their last show. Shortly thereafter, the movie, originally filmed in 1973, was also released. Officially signed to EMI in 1983, the album Let’s Dance followed along with the world-encompassing Serious Moonlight tour. Bowie had brilliantly reinvented himself once again. This time as the ultimate rock star, just in time to be at the forefront of stadium rock and a new era of mass media fuelled mega stardom. Selling at least 7 million copies, Let’s Dance became the most commercially successful album of his career and massively influenced a whole host of artists, including Duran Duran, Spandau Ballet and Boy George.
The album, produced by Chic mastermind Nile Rodgers, was perhaps the most straightforward album of his career. It was a collection of elegantly produced, impeccably sung dance floor numbers including the Motown-styled Modern Love, the darkly romantic China Girl (first cut with Iggy Pop in Berlin) and a remake of the movie theme Cat People. All of the above were substantial radio hits, as was the glossy and romantic title track. The upbeat romantic theme extended to his next album Tonight (1984), though the single Loving the Alien drew a prophetic scenario on the Islam/Christian tensions. A moving appearance at Live Aid (where he dedicated “Heroes” to his young son), a duet single with Mick Jagger, and the heavily theatrical Glass Spider tour (with lead guitar by Peter Frampton) all kept up Bowie's popularity. In 1988 brought the biggest surprise of all. Another sharp left turn: he had formed a new band, Tin Machine, with the Sales Brothers (Hunt and Tony, sons of Soupy) and a hot guitar find from Boston, Reeves Gabrels. He was adamant that this would be a full-time band, not a superstar solo project. On their two million-selling albums (plus a limited edition live disc), Tin Machine proved their mettle as a modern alternative live act, with a stripped-down guitar sound, all-new material and a few real surprises (a Pixies cover!). Some fans loved it, others were confused by it and Tin Machine was on hiatus by 1992. Meanwhile, Bowie set out on Sound and Vision with his first full-fledged greatest hits tour, recruiting long-time collaborator Adrian Belew to play lead guitar. In an innovative move, fans were allowed to pick the songs via phone poll. An album of the same name accompanied the tour on Rykodisc.
1993 brought the long-awaited return to solo projects Black Tie White Noise and one of rock’s first CD–ROMs entitled Jump. With Nile Rodgers again producing, the album came close to summing up every period of Bowie: with the opening instrumental The Wedding (inspired by Bowie's own marriage to model Iman) offering a dance-and-house-inspired, brighter-toned return to the sound of Low; the single Jump They Say harking back to funkier times; and the old Cream tune I Feel Free marking a long-awaited reunion with Ziggy-era partner Mick Ronson (sadly, Ronson passed away soon after). Reaching No. 1 in the UK album charts, Black Tie White Noise reassured fans that Bowie's creative curiosity was by no means exhausted.
By 1994, Bowie and Eno were again collaborating in the studio. The result was the concept album Outside released as part of a new deal with Virgin Records. This complex project touches on the increasing obsession with the human body as art and the paganization of western society. With its package-arts broken-down style, its haunted sound of ruin and its non-linear story-line of art, murder and technology, Outside predates the new sensibility of movies such as Seven, Copycat and the TV shows The X-Files and Millennium. As befits the multiphrenic nature of outsider art and emotion, Bowie sings in any number of voices: one minute the melodramatic crooner, another the stylized Londoner, another the quiet, intimate recluse of the Berlin years. Or, he is vari-speeded among the album’s seven characters. The song The Hearts Filthy Lesson, made the soundtrack of one of the biggest and darkest movie hits of that year in David Fincher’s Seven. 1996 was an extraordinarily active year even by David’s own feverish standards, switching styles and moods effortlessly, embarking on a confrontational tour around the US with Nine Inch Nails and performing acoustically with Neil Young and Pearl Jam at the Bridge Benefit Concert in San Francisco. He had a triumphant summer headlining Roskilde and the Phoenix Festival, and his electric performance at the VH-1 Fashion Awards on October 25, where he debuted his new single Little Wonder. Then there was the new album Earthling, all very direct, hard-hitting. The dramatic cover art featured David in an Alexander McQueen designed Union Jack coat in a slightly surreal British pastoral setting. The album arose out of the dynamic achieved and harnessed by the end of that summer's tour. The band working on the projects featured Gail Ann Dorsey on bass and vocals, Mike Garson on keyboards, Reeves Gabrels on guitar and synths, and Zachary Alford on drums, the nucleus of the touring outfit. The record features the avant-garde drum-n-bass extravaganza and top 20 UK hit Little Wonder and the crushing Dead Man Walking, a reflection on getting older.
As always Bowie was at the cutting the edge with the first ever download of a song distributed through the internet in 1996, Telling Lies. 350 thousand young Americans downloaded a copy. A new age had begun and hardly anybody realised the ramifications, especially the luddite record company bosses of the time. Not for the last time, David was at least ten years ahead of the madding crowd. The next year 1997 was to see a controversial collaboration with Eno in the shape of the I’m Afraid Of Americans single (“Not as hostile about Americans as Born In The USA” – Bowie).
This track, complete with the spontaneous Dom & Nic video that found Trent Reznor chasing David through the streets of Greenwich Village, hung around the US charts for three months, finishing the project on a real high. Despite the title, Bowie's American influence seemed to be growing. He has been cited as a guiding star by The Smashing Pumpkins, Marilyn Manson and Nine Inch Nails, among others. He even reached into American film: the movie Basquiat, co-starring Gary Oldman, Christopher Walken and Dennis Hopper, saw him playing the character he immortalized in his 1972 song Andy Warhol. The film’s director was pre-eminent American painter, Julian Schnabel.
In January 1997, he celebrated his fiftieth birthday with an all-star performance at New York’s Madison Square Garden. He was joined on stage by old friends Lou Reed, Sonic Youth, Robert Smith, Billy Corgan, Foo Fighters and Frank Black, all of whom played and sang with David to make it one of his most memorable shows. Then he was off once again on a world tour that stormed over fifteen headlining festivals, countless theaters and clubs, and finished with a stadium tour of South America with Nine Inch Nails and No Doubt. Already highly acclaimed in the fields of art and music, David has been turning his hand to mastering the information superhighway. 1998 saw the launch of BowieNet (www.davidbowie.com). BowieNet is the world's first artist-created Internet service provider. 1999 was as busy a year as ever for Bowie. With his continuing work on his now highly acclaimed BowieNet website (a nominee for the 1999 WIRED Award for Best Entertainment Site of the Year), David has found time to work on a film Exhuming Mr. Rice, in which he plays the title role. The year also saw the launch of the David Bowie Radio Network on the Rolling Stone Radio website; this station runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The station's playlist includes 54 tracks, all personally picked and introduced by David. In May, David received an honorary doctorate in music from Berklee College of Music, Boston. In the past, this prestigious doctorate has also been received by BB King, Sting, James Taylor, Dizzy Gillespie and Quincy Jones. David also made a well publicised and successful foray in the art world with an acclaimed exhibition at the Cork Street Gallery in London. As well as finding time to pick up the Legion d’honneur Award in France.
1999 also saw the growing relationship between David and Placebo flourish. At the annual BRIT Awards ceremony, David joined the band for a performance of the Marc Bolan classic Twentieth Century Boy. The performance went down so well with the public that the Mirror newspaper began a mini-campaign for the track to be released as a single and it was not long before the two artists were to team again.
July saw David voted as the biggest music star of the 20th century, beating Mick Jagger and Noel Gallagher, by readers of The Sun newspaper. In the same month David was voted the sixth Greatest Star of The Century by Q Magazine and its readers. In this poll David was the third highest-ranking star who is still alive.
Most importantly October 1999 saw the release of a brand new studio album. Hours... which was David’s twenty-third solo album, harkening a return to the sounds of the Hunky Dory days. Written solely with long-time collaborator Reeves Gabrels over the last year, Hours… could be described as one of David's most autobiographical records to date. Tracks include Thursday’s Child, Survive and The Dreamers. The themes of loss and regret throughout the album are likely to strike hearts universally. With such personal lyrics as “Sometimes I cry my heart to sleep,” David is evoking emotions recognizable to us all. This album deals more with real life opposed to imagery and fantasy. The Hours... touring schedule ended in spectacular style with David headlining the closing night of the 2000 Glastonbury festival in front of an estimated 150,000 people. Reportedly the largest attendance at the event ever and a far cry from an earlier appearance at the inaugural Glastonbury with Hawkwind in front of a couple of thousand people. Backstage catering consisted of milk and cheese in Michael Eavis kitchen then. This time, the banners fluttered in the wind and the crowd stretched as far as the eye could see. A 21 song set saw David open with Wild is the Wind and finished with the ambiguously titled I’m afraid of Americans. A fitting close to what was a spectacular year.
Following the end of the Hours... campaign David enjoyed a period out of the public eye lightly peppered with some key spectacular live performances. For two consecutive years, he has pledged his support to the Tibet Freedom House shows at New York’s Carnegie Hall alongside luminaries such as Philip Glass, Patti Smith, Moby and Beastie Boy Adam Yauch to aid the campaign for a free Tibet. Each year has seen a very different performance from David, one year had Moby on guitar delivering a rocking version of “Heroes” and the next saw a string driven rendition of the rarely performed Space Oddity with Adam Yauch on bass. There is never a “quiet” time in the life of David Bowie and during this period, David was bestowed the honor of being voted the most influential artist of all time by the UK’s tastemaker tome the NME. In addition, another life changing event took place, the birth of David and Iman’s first child Alexandria Zahra Jones. Bowie took this time to savor fatherhood but also used the time to write a series of new songs which would form the basis for a new album.
David was in New York on September 11th, and in the aftermath David showed support for his adopted city by performing a short but emotional set at The Concert for New York City at Madison Square Garden. He opened the show with a raw rendition of the Simon and Garfunkel classic America and followed with an uplifting and barnstorming rendition of his own “Heroes”. All of those whom attended the show and the millions of folk whom saw the show broadcast live on TV can’t help but to have been moved by the sentiments expressed in both of the songs David performed. Following on from that emotional night, the series of new songs that David had started work on led to a much heralded reunion with Tony Visconti which in turn resulted in a new album Heathen and a change of outlook towards the music industry and the setting up of his own label Iso Records which has now linked up with Columbia Records to release what is probably the most eagerly awaited album of his career.
“Tony and I had been wanting to work together again for a few years now,”says David. “Both of us had fairly large commitments and for a long time we couldn't see a space in which we could get anything together. As spring came around, last year, things began to ease up. I told Mark Plati and my band that I was going to disappear for a while and put this thing together with Tony. They were very understanding, they’ve worked with me long enough to know that we would be back together again before long.” So, diaries cleared, Bowie and Visconti set about compiling what you might call a location report, just outside of Woodstock in New York State. “I’d been told by guitarist David Torn of a new studio that was near completion called Allaire. Tony and I [took] a trip up a few weeks before we started work there, just to suss it out. In fact, T-Bone Burnett was working there with Natalie Merchant at the time. It’s remote, silent and inspirational. We couldn't believe what a find it was.” So taken was he with the setting, David didn’t come back to New York again until the record was complete, living in the grounds with his family and eating in a communal dining room. A famously early riser, he put that to good use as Heathen began to come sharply into focus. “I’d get up around six most mornings and spend them in the studio putting together my chord structures and melodies and words, finding sounds that I wanted to use. Then around ten, Tony would get in and we’d go to work.” Bowie’s old friend Pete Townshend’s contribution to the album, playing lead guitar on Slow Burn, was not his first with Bowie, as listeners to Scary Monsters (And Super Creeps) will remember. Foo Fighters Dave Grohl took the lead on the Neil Young cover I’ve Been Waiting.
For a further surprise, there’s more Bowie instrumentation on Heathen than anything in memory. “I was delighted that so much of what I played remained on the finished work. That’s me playing drums over my own loop on the Pixies cover Cactus. In fact the only thing I didn’t play on that track was bass. That was Tony Visconti. Nearly all the synth work on Heathen is mine and some of the piano.” And the title? “Heathenism is a state of mind”, says Bowie. “You can take it that I’m referring to one who does not see his world. He has no mental light. He destroys almost unwittingly. He cannot feel any God’s presence in his life. He is the 21st Century man. There’s no theme or concept behind Heathen, just a number of songs, but somehow there is a thread that runs through it that is quite as strong as any of my thematic type albums.” Some of the new songs such as Slow Burn and Afraid from Heathen got their first public airing in early May of 2002 at the Robert De Niro organized Tribeca Film Festival in New York which was put together to help revitalize the spirits of the downtown area. The release of Heathen was accompanied by a series of concerts across Europe and the USA most notably David’s curatorship of the prestigious two week long British Meltdown arts festival involving acts as diverse as The Legendary Stardust Cowboy, Suede, comedian Harry Hill, Coldplay, Television and The Dandy Warhols. David performed Low in its entirety alongside Heathen as part of the festival. A year later the Reality album was launched with the world’s largest interactive ‘live by satellite’ event and was followed by the rapturously received and critically acclaimed A Reality Tour of the world.
Apart from the odd rare sighting at a charity function and one or two snatched paparazzi shots, David has kept an extremely low profile, popping up for two stunning performances with Arcade Fire in Central Park 2005 and again in September 2006 at New Yorks Radio City Hall. That certainly woke everyone up! In 2006 he joined Pink Floyd legend Dave Gilmour on two of Floyd’s best-known songs – Arnold Layne and Comfortably Numb at the Royal Albert Hall. 2006 also saw Bowie return to acting with the Chris Nolan-directed The Prestige (#1 at the box office). In May 2007, Bowie was the curator of the highly successful 10-day High Line arts and music festival in New York. In June, he was honored at the 11th Annual Webby Awards (known as the “Oscars of the Internet”) with the Webby Lifetime Achievement Award for pushing the boundaries between art and technology. Later in 2007, Bowie starred as himself in an acclaimed episode of Extras, Ricky Gervais’ series on HBO.2012 saw the erection of a plaque in Heddon Street, London to commemorate the extraordinary influence of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars and of course David himself. A large group of media and fans assembled for the occasion; were treated to a moving speech from Gary Kemp who said, “Ziggy was the ultimate messianic rock star, and with him David Bowie successfully blurred the lines not just between boys and girls, but himself and his creation. Bowie was Ziggy come to save us – and I bought him hook, eyeliner and haircut. It seems right that it should be the job of a fan boy and I am very honored.” Further excitement accompanied the announcement in 2012, that the David Bowie Archive had given unprecedented access to the prestigious Victoria and Albert museum for an exhibition to be curated solely by the V&A. It is the first time a museum has been given access to the David Bowie Archive.
On January 8, 2013, quite without fanfare and out of the blue, David Bowie did something nobody really expected.  He released a new single entitled 'Where Are We Now' and announced the release of a new album in March.  The album, 'The Next Day' is Bowie's 30th studio album and his first new album in 10 years.
=======================================================
Vocals, guitar, keyboards, harmonica, stylophone, saxophone, viola, cello, koto, drums, percussion, mouth-harp, piano, kalimba, organ
Carlos Alomar, The Riot Squad, Arnold Corns, Tin Machine, The Hype, The Lower Third, The Konrads, The Buzz, Manish Boys, Iggy Pop, Brian Eno, Lou Reed
David Robert Jones (born 8 January 1947), known by his stage name David Bowie (/ˈboʊ.i/),[1] is an English musician, singer-songwriter, record producer, actor and arranger. Bowie has been a major figure in the world of popular music for over four decades, and is renowned as an innovator, particularly for his work in the 1970s. He is known for his distinctive voice as well as the intellectual depth and eclecticism of his work.
Bowie first caught the eye and ear of the public in July 1969 when his song "Space Oddity" reached the top five of the UK Singles Chart. After a three-year period of experimentation he re-emerged in 1972 during the glam rock era with the flamboyant, androgynous alter ego Ziggy Stardust, spearheaded by the hit single "Starman" and the album The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars. Bowie's impact at that time, as described by biographer David Buckley, "challenged the core belief of the rock music of its day" and "created perhaps the biggest cult in popular culture."[2] The relatively short-lived Ziggy persona proved merely one facet of a career marked by continual reinvention, musical innovation and striking visual presentation.
In 1975, Bowie achieved his first major American crossover success with the number-one single "Fame" and the hit album Young Americans, which the singer characterised as "plastic soul". The sound constituted a radical shift in style that initially alienated many of his UK devotees. He then confounded the expectations of both his record label and his American audiences by recording the minimalist album Low (1977)—the first of three collaborations with Brian Eno over the next two years. These so-called "Berlin Trilogy" albums all reached the UK top five and received lasting critical praise. After uneven commercial success in the late 1970s, Bowie had UK number ones with the 1980 single "Ashes to Ashes", its parent album Scary Monsters (and Super Creeps), and "Under Pressure", a 1981 collaboration with Queen. He then reached a new commercial peak in 1983 with Let's Dance, which yielded several hit singles. Throughout the 1990s and 2000s, Bowie continued to experiment with musical styles, including blue-eyed soul, industrial, adult contemporary, and jungle. He has not toured since the 2003–04 Reality Tour and has not performed live since 2006. Bowie's latest studio album The Next Day was released in March 2013.
Buckley says of Bowie: "His influence has been unique in popular culture—he has permeated and altered more lives than any comparable figure."[2] In the BBC's 2002 poll of the 100 Greatest Britons, Bowie was placed at number 29. Throughout his career, he has sold an estimated 140 million albums.[3] In the UK, he has been awarded nine Platinum album certifications, 11 Gold and eight Silver, and in the US, five Platinum and seven Gold certifications. In 2004, Rolling Stone ranked him 39th on their list of the "100 Greatest Artists of All Time", and 23rd on their list of the best singers of all time.
David Bowie was born David Robert Jones in Brixton, London, on 8 January 1947. His mother, Margaret Mary "Peggy" (née Burns), from Kent,[4] worked as a waitress,[5] while his father, Haywood Stenton "John" Jones, from Yorkshire,[6] was a promotions officer for Barnardo's. The family lived at 40 Stansfield Road, located near the border of the south London areas of Brixton and Stockwell. Bowie attended Stockwell Infants School until he was six years old, acquiring a reputation as a gifted and single-minded child—and a defiant brawler.[7]
In 1953 the family moved to the suburb of Bromley, where, two years later, Bowie progressed to Burnt Ash Junior School. His voice was considered "adequate" by the school choir, and his recorder playing judged to demonstrate above-average musical ability.[8] At the age of nine, his dancing during the newly introduced music and movement classes was strikingly imaginative: teachers called his interpretations "vividly artistic" and his poise "astonishing" for a child.[8] The same year, his interest in music was further stimulated when his father brought home a collection of American 45s by artists including Frankie Lymon and the Teenagers, the Platters, Fats Domino, Elvis Presley and Little Richard.[9][10] Upon listening to "Tutti Frutti", Bowie would later say, "I had heard God".[11] Presley's impact on him was likewise emphatic: "I saw a cousin of mine dance to ... 'Hound Dog' and I had never seen her get up and be moved so much by anything. It really impressed me, the power of the music. I started getting records immediately after that."[10] By the end of the following year he had taken up the ukulele and tea-chest bass and begun to participate in skiffle sessions with friends, and had started to play the piano; meanwhile his stage presentation of numbers by both Presley and Chuck Berry—complete with gyrations in tribute to the original artists—to his local Wolf Cub group was described as "mesmerizing ... like someone from another planet."[10] Failing his eleven plus exam at the conclusion of his Burnt Ash Junior education, Bowie joined Bromley Technical High School.[12]
Despite its status it was, by the time David arrived in 1958, as rich in arcane ritual as any [English] public school. There were houses, named after eighteenth-century statesmen like Pitt and Wilberforce. There was a uniform, and an elaborate system of rewards and punishments. There was also an accent on languages, science and particularly design, where a collegiate atmosphere flourished under the tutorship of Owen Frampton. In David's account, Frampton led through force of personality, not intellect; his colleagues at Bromley Tech were famous for neither, and yielded the school's most gifted pupils to the arts, a regime so liberal that Frampton actively encouraged his own son, Peter, to pursue a musical career with David, a partnership briefly intact thirty years later.[12]
Bowie studied art, music and design, including layout and typesetting. After Terry Burns, his half-brother, introduced him to modern jazz, his enthusiasm for players like Charles Mingus and John Coltrane led his mother to give him a plastic alto saxophone in 1961; he was soon receiving lessons from a local musician.[13] Bowie received a serious injury at school in 1962 when his friend George Underwood punched him in the left eye during a fight over a girl. Doctors feared he would become blind in that eye. After a series of operations during a four-month hospitalisation,[14] his doctors determined that the damage could not be fully repaired and Bowie was left with faulty depth perception and a permanently dilated pupil. Despite their altercation, Underwood and Bowie remained good friends, and Underwood went on to create the artwork for Bowie's early albums.[15]
Graduating from his plastic saxophone to a real instrument in 1962, Bowie formed his first band at the age of 15. Playing guitar-based rock and roll at local youth gatherings and weddings, the Konrads had a varying line-up of between four and eight members, Underwood among them.[16] When Bowie left the technical school the following year, he informed his parents of his intention to become a pop star. His mother promptly arranged his employment as an electrician's mate. Frustrated by his band-mates' limited aspirations, Bowie left the Konrads and joined another band, the King Bees. He wrote to the newly successful washing-machine entrepreneur John Bloom inviting him to "do for us what Brian Epstein has done for the Beatles—and make another million." Bloom did not respond to the offer, but his referral to Dick James's partner Leslie Conn led to Bowie's first personal management contract.[17]
Conn quickly began to promote Bowie. The singer's debut single, "Liza Jane", credited to Davie Jones and the King Bees, had no commercial success. Dissatisfied with the King Bees and their repertoire of Howlin' Wolf and Willie Dixon blues numbers, Bowie quit the band less than a month later to join the Manish Boys, another blues outfit, who incorporated folk and soul — "I used to dream of being their Mick Jagger", Bowie was to recall.[17] "I Pity the Fool" was no more successful than "Liza Jane", and Bowie soon moved on again to join the Lower Third, a blues trio strongly influenced by the Who. "You've Got a Habit of Leaving" fared no better, signalling the end of Conn's contract. Declaring that he would exit the pop world "to study mime at Sadler's Wells", Bowie nevertheless remained with the Lower Third. His new manager, Ralph Horton, later instrumental in his transition to solo artist, soon witnessed Bowie's move to yet another group, the Buzz, yielding the singer's fifth unsuccessful single release, "Do Anything You Say". While with the Buzz, Bowie also joined the Riot Squad; their recordings, which included a Bowie number and Velvet Underground material, went unreleased. Ken Pitt, introduced by Horton, took over as Bowie's manager.[18]
Dissatisfied with his stage name as Davy (and Davie) Jones, which in the mid-1960s invited confusion with Davy Jones of the Monkees, Bowie renamed himself after the 19th-century American frontiersman Jim Bowie and the knife he had popularised.[19] His April 1967 solo single, "The Laughing Gnome", using speeded-up thus high-pitched vocals, failed to chart. Released six weeks later, his album debut, David Bowie, an amalgam of pop, psychedelia, and music hall, met the same fate. It was his last release for two years.[20]
Bowie's fascination with the bizarre was fuelled when he met dancer Lindsay Kemp: "He lived on his emotions, he was a wonderful influence. His day-to-day life was the most theatrical thing I had ever seen, ever. It was everything I thought Bohemia probably was. I joined the circus."[21] Kemp, for his part, recalled, "I didn't really teach him to be a mime artiste but to be more of himself on the outside, ... I enabled him to free the angel and demon that he is on the inside."[21] Studying the dramatic arts under Kemp, from avant-garde theatre and mime to commedia dell'arte, Bowie became immersed in the creation of personae to present to the world. Satirising life in a British prison, meanwhile, the Bowie-penned "Over the Wall We Go" became a 1967 single for Oscar; another Bowie composition, "Silly Boy Blue", was released by Billy Fury the following year.[22] After Kemp cast Bowie with Hermione Farthingale for a poetic minuet, the pair began dating; they soon moved into a London flat together. Playing acoustic guitar, she formed a group with Bowie and bassist John Hutchinson; between September 1968 and early 1969, when Bowie and Farthingale broke up, the trio gave a small number of concerts combining folk, Merseybeat, poetry and mime.[23]
Because of his lack of commercial success, Bowie was forced to try to earn a living in different ways. He featured in a Lyons Maid ice cream commercial, but was rejected for another by Kit Kat.[24] Love You till Tuesday was a 30-minute film featuring performances from his repertoire and was intended as a vehicle to promote the singer. Although the film was not released until 1984, the filming sessions in January 1969 led to unexpected success when Bowie told the producers, "That film of yours—I've got a new song for it." He then demoed the song that provided his commercial breakthrough. "Space Oddity" was released on 11 July, five days ahead of the Apollo 11 launch, to become a UK top five hit.[24] Breaking up with Farthingale shortly after completion of the film, Bowie moved in with Mary Finnigan as her lodger.[25] Continuing the divergence from rock and roll and blues begun by his work with Farthingale, Bowie joined forces with Finnigan, Christina Ostrom and Barrie Jackson to run a folk club on Sunday nights at the Three Tuns pub in Beckenham High Street.[25] This soon morphed into the Beckenham Arts Lab, and became extremely popular. The Arts Lab hosted a free festival in a local park, later immortalised by Bowie in his song "Memory of a Free Festival".[26] Bowie's second album, Space Oddity, followed in November; originally issued in the UK as David Bowie, it caused some confusion with its predecessor of the same name, and the early US release was instead titled Man of Words/Man of Music. Featuring philosophical post-hippie lyrics on peace, love and morality, its acoustic folk rock occasionally fortified by harder rock, the album was not a commercial success at the time of its release.[27]
Bowie met Angela Barnett in April 1969. They married within a year. Her impact on him was immediate, and her involvement in his career far-reaching, leaving manager Ken Pitt with limited influence which he found frustrating.[28] Having established himself as a solo artist with "Space Oddity", Bowie began to sense a lacking: "a full-time band for gigs and recording—people he could relate to personally".[29] The shortcoming was underlined by his artistic rivalry with Marc Bolan, who was at the time acting as his session guitarist.[29] A band was duly assembled. John Cambridge, a drummer Bowie met at the Arts Lab, was joined by Tony Visconti on bass and Mick Ronson on electric guitar. Known as the Hype, the bandmates created characters for themselves and wore elaborate costumes that prefigured the glam style of the Spiders From Mars. After a disastrous opening gig at the London Roundhouse, they reverted to a configuration presenting Bowie as a solo artist.[29][30] Their initial studio work was marred by a heated disagreement between Bowie and Cambridge over the latter's drumming style; matters came to a head when Bowie, enraged, accused, "You're fucking up my album." Cambridge summarily quit and was replaced by Mick Woodmansey.[31] Not long after, in a move that resulted in years of litigation, at the conclusion of which Bowie was forced to pay Pitt compensation, the singer fired his manager, replacing him with Tony Defries.[31]
The studio sessions continued and resulted in Bowie's third album, The Man Who Sold the World (1970). Characterised by the heavy rock sound of his new backing band, it was a marked departure from the acoustic guitar and folk rock style established by Space Oddity. To promote it in the US, Mercury Records financed a coast-to-coast publicity tour in which Bowie, between January and February 1971, was interviewed by radio stations and the media. Exploiting his androgynous appearance, the original cover of the UK version unveiled two months later depicted the singer wearing a dress: taking the garment with him, he wore it during interviews—to the approval of critics, including Rolling Stone's John Mendelsohn who described him as "ravishing, almost disconcertingly reminiscent of Lauren Bacall"—and in the street, to mixed reaction including laughter and, in the case of one male pedestrian, producing a gun and telling Bowie to "kiss my ass".[32][33] During the tour Bowie's observation of two seminal American proto-punk artists led him to develop a concept that eventually found form in the Ziggy Stardust character: a melding of the persona of Iggy Pop with the music of Lou Reed, producing "the ultimate pop idol".[32] A girlfriend recalled his "scrawling notes on a cocktail napkin about a crazy rock star named Iggy or Ziggy", and on his return to England he declared his intention to create a character "who looks like he's landed from Mars".[32]
Hunky Dory (1971) found Visconti, Bowie's producer and bassist, supplanted in both roles, by Ken Scott and Trevor Bolder respectively. The album saw the partial return of the fey pop singer of "Space Oddity", with light fare such as "Kooks", a song written for his son, Duncan Zowie Haywood Jones, born on 30 May.[34] (His parents chose "his kooky name"—he was known as Zowie for the next 12 years—after the Greek word zoe, life.)[35] Elsewhere, the album explored more serious themes, and found Bowie paying unusually direct homage to his influences with "Song for Bob Dylan", "Andy Warhol", and "Queen Bitch", a Velvet Underground pastiche. It was not a significant commercial success at the time[36] but was ranked number 58 by voters on the All Time Top 1000 Albums list.
With his next venture, Bowie, in the words of biographer David Buckley, "challenged the core belief of the rock music of its day" and "created perhaps the biggest cult in popular culture".[2] Dressed in a striking costume, his hair dyed red, Bowie launched his Ziggy Stardust stage show with the Spiders from Mars—Ronson, Bolder and Woodmansey—at the Toby Jug pub in Tolworth on 10 February 1972.[37] The show was hugely popular, catapulting him to stardom as he toured the UK over the course of the next six months and creating, as described by Buckley, a "cult of Bowie" that was "unique—its influence lasted longer and has been more creative than perhaps almost any other force within pop fandom."[37] The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars (1972), combining the hard rock elements of The Man Who Sold the World with the lighter experimental rock and pop of Hunky Dory, was released in June. "Starman", issued as an April single ahead of the album, was to cement Bowie's UK breakthrough: both single and album charted rapidly following his July Top of the Pops performance of the song. The album, which remained in the chart for two years, was soon joined there by the 6-month-old Hunky Dory. At the same time the non-album single "John, I'm Only Dancing", and "All the Young Dudes", a song he wrote and produced for Mott the Hoople, became UK hits. The Ziggy Stardust Tour continued to the United States.[38]
Bowie contributed backing vocals to Lou Reed's 1972 solo breakthrough Transformer, co-producing the album with Mick Ronson.[39] His own Aladdin Sane (1973) topped the UK chart, his first number one album. Described by Bowie as "Ziggy goes to America", it contained songs he wrote while travelling to and across the US during the earlier part of the Ziggy tour, which now continued to Japan to promote the new album. Aladdin Sane spawned the UK top five singles "The Jean Genie" and "Drive-In Saturday".[40][41]
Bowie's love of acting led his total immersion in the characters he created for his music. "Offstage I'm a robot. Onstage I achieve emotion. It's probably why I prefer dressing up as Ziggy to being David." With satisfaction came severe personal difficulties: acting the same role over an extended period, it became impossible for him to separate Ziggy Stardust—and, later, the Thin White Duke—from his own character offstage. Ziggy, Bowie said, "wouldn't leave me alone for years. That was when it all started to go sour ... My whole personality was affected. It became very dangerous. I really did have doubts about my sanity."[42] His later Ziggy shows, which included songs from both Ziggy Stardust and Aladdin Sane, were ultra-theatrical affairs filled with shocking stage moments, such as Bowie stripping down to a sumo wrestling loincloth or simulating oral sex with Ronson's guitar.[43] Bowie toured and gave press conferences as Ziggy before a dramatic and abrupt on-stage "retirement" at London's Hammersmith Odeon on 3 July 1973. Footage from the final show was released the same year for the film Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars.[44]
Sample of "Ziggy Stardust" (1972). A pioneer of glam rock, Bowie performed as the character Ziggy Stardust, backed by the Spiders from Mars.
After breaking up the Spiders from Mars, Bowie attempted to move on from his Ziggy persona. His back catalogue was now highly sought: The Man Who Sold the World had been re-released in 1972 along with Space Oddity. "Life on Mars?", from Hunky Dory, was released in June 1973 and made number three in the UK singles chart. Entering the same chart in September, Bowie's novelty record from 1967, "The Laughing Gnome", reached number six.[45] Pin Ups, a collection of covers of his 1960s favourites, followed in October, producing a UK number three hit in "Sorrow" and itself peaking at number one, making David Bowie the best-selling act of 1973 in the UK. It brought the total number of Bowie albums concurrently in the UK chart to six.[46]
Bowie moved to the US in 1974, initially staying in New York City before settling in Los Angeles.[47] Diamond Dogs (1974), parts of which found him heading towards soul and funk, was the product of two distinct ideas: a musical based on a wild future in a post-apocalyptic city, and setting George Orwell's 1984 to music.[48] The album went to number one in the UK, spawning the hits "Rebel Rebel" and "Diamond Dogs", and number five in the US. To promote it, Bowie launched the Diamond Dogs Tour, visiting cities in North America between June and December 1974. Choreographed by Toni Basil, and lavishly produced with theatrical special effects, the high-budget stage production was filmed by Alan Yentob. The resulting documentary, Cracked Actor, featured a pasty and emaciated Bowie: the tour coincided with the singer's slide from heavy cocaine use into addiction, producing severe physical debilitation, paranoia and emotional problems.[49] He later commented that the accompanying live album, David Live, ought to have been titled "David Bowie Is Alive and Well and Living Only in Theory". David Live nevertheless solidified Bowie's status as a superstar, charting at number two in the UK and number eight in the US. It also spawned a UK number ten hit in Bowie's cover of "Knock on Wood". After a break in Philadelphia, where Bowie recorded new material, the tour resumed with a new emphasis on soul.[50]
The fruit of the Philadelphia recording sessions was Young Americans (1975). Biographer Christopher Sandford writes, "Over the years, most British rockers had tried, one way or another, to become black-by-extension. Few had succeeded as Bowie did now."[51] The album's sound, which the singer identified as "plastic soul", constituted a radical shift in style that initially alienated many of his UK devotees.[52] Young Americans yielded Bowie's first US number one, "Fame", co-written with John Lennon, who contributed backing vocals, and Carlos Alomar. Lennon called Bowie's work "great, but it's just rock'n'roll with lipstick on".[53] Earning the distinction of being one of the first white artists to appear on the US variety show Soul Train, Bowie mimed "Fame", as well as "Golden Years", his November single,[54] which was originally offered to Elvis Presley, who declined it.[54] Young Americans was a commercial success in both the US and the UK, and a re-issue of the 1969 single "Space Oddity" became Bowie's first number one hit in the UK a few months after "Fame" achieved the same in the US.[55] Despite his by now well established superstardom, Bowie, in the words of biographer Christopher Sandford, "for all his record sales (over a million copies of Ziggy Stardust alone), existed essentially on loose change."[56] In 1975, in a move echoing Ken Pitt's acrimonious dismissal five years earlier, Bowie fired his manager. At the culmination of the ensuing months-long legal dispute, he watched, as described by Sandford, "millions of dollars of his future earnings being surrendered" in what were "uniquely generous terms for Defries", then "shut himself up in West 20th Street, where for a week his howls could be heard through the locked attic door."[56] Michael Lippman, Bowie's lawyer during the negotiations, became his new manager; Lippman in turn was awarded substantial compensation when Bowie fired him the following year.[57]
Station to Station (1976) introduced a new Bowie persona, the "Thin White Duke" of its title track. Visually, the character was an extension of Thomas Jerome Newton, the extraterrestrial being he portrayed in the film The Man Who Fell to Earth the same year.[58] Developing the funk and soul of Young Americans, Station to Station also prefigured the Krautrock and synthesiser music of his next releases. The extent to which drug addiction was now affecting Bowie was made public when Russell Harty interviewed the singer for his London Weekend Television talk show in anticipation of the album's supporting tour. Shortly before the satellite-linked interview was scheduled to commence, the death of the Spanish dictator General Franco was announced. Bowie was asked to relinquish the satellite booking, to allow the Spanish Government to put out a live newsfeed. This he refused to do, and his interview went ahead. In the ensuing conversation with Harty, as described by biographer David Buckley, "the singer made hardly any sense at all throughout what was quite an extensive interview. ... Bowie looked completely disconnected and was hardly able to utter a coherent sentence."[59] His sanity—by his own later admission—had become twisted from cocaine; he overdosed several times during the year, and was withering physically to an alarming degree.[49][60]
Station to Station's January 1976 release was followed in February by a 3-and-a-half-month concert tour of Europe and North America. Featuring a starkly lit set, the Isolar – 1976 Tour highlighted songs from the album, including the dramatic and lengthy title track, the ballads "Wild Is the Wind" and "Word on a Wing", and the funkier "TVC 15" and "Stay". The core band that coalesced around this album and tour—rhythm guitarist Alomar, bassist George Murray, and drummer Dennis Davis—continued as a stable unit for the remainder of the 1970s. The tour was highly successful but mired in political controversy. Bowie was quoted in Stockholm as saying that "Britain could benefit from a Fascist leader", and was detained by customs on the Russian/Polish border for possessing Nazi paraphernalia.[61] Matters came to a head in London in May in what became known as the "Victoria Station incident". Arriving in an open-top Mercedes convertible, the singer waved to the crowd in a gesture that some alleged was a Nazi salute, which was captured on camera and published in NME. Bowie said the photographer simply caught him in mid-wave.[62] He later blamed his pro-Fascism comments and his behaviour during the period on his addictions and the character of the Thin White Duke.[63] "I was out of my mind, totally crazed. The main thing I was functioning on was mythology ... that whole thing about Hitler and Rightism ... I'd discovered King Arthur".[60] According to playwright Alan Franks, writing later in The Times, "he was indeed 'deranged'. He had some very bad experiences with hard drugs."[64]
Bowie moved to Switzerland in 1976, purchasing a chalet in the hills to the north of Lake Geneva. In the new environment, his cocaine use increased; so too did his interest in pursuits outside his musical career. He took up painting, and produced a number of post-modernist pieces. When on tour, he took to sketching in a notebook, and photographing scenes for later reference. Visiting galleries in Geneva and the Brücke Museum in Berlin, Bowie became, in the words of biographer Christopher Sandford, "a prolific producer and collector of contemporary art. ... Not only did he become a well-known patron of expressionist art: locked in Clos des Mésanges he began an intensive self-improvement course in classical music and literature, and started work on an autobiography".[65]
Before the end of 1976, Bowie's interest in the burgeoning German music scene, as well as his drug addiction, prompted him to move to West Berlin to clean up and revitalise his career. Working with Brian Eno while sharing an apartment in Schöneberg with Iggy Pop, he began to focus on minimalist, ambient music for the first of three albums, co-produced with Tony Visconti, that became known as his Berlin Trilogy.[66] During the same period, Iggy Pop, with Bowie as a co-writer and musician, completed his solo album debut The Idiot and its follow-up Lust for Life, touring the UK, Europe, and the US in March and April 1977.[67] Low (1977), partly influenced by the Krautrock sound of Kraftwerk and Neu!, evidenced a move away from narration in Bowie's songwriting to a more abstract musical form in which lyrics were sporadic and optional. It received considerable negative criticism upon its release—a release which RCA, anxious to maintain the established commercial momentum, did not welcome, and which Bowie's ex-manager, Tony Defries, who still maintained a significant financial interest in the singer's affairs, tried to prevent. Despite these forebodings, Low yielded the UK number three single "Sound and Vision", and its own performance surpassed that of Station to Station in the UK chart, where it reached number two. Leading contemporary composer Philip Glass described Low as "a work of genius" in 1992, when he used it as the basis for his Symphony No. 1 "Low"; subsequently, Glass used Bowie's next album as the basis for his 1996 Symphony No. 4 "Heroes".[68][69] Glass has praised Bowie's gift for creating "fairly complex pieces of music, masquerading as simple pieces".[70]
Sample of "Heroes" (1977). One of the ambient rock songs to emerge from Bowie's Berlin Trilogy era, "Heroes" gained lasting popularity.
Echoing Low's minimalist, instrumental approach, the second of the trilogy, "Heroes" (1977), incorporated pop and rock to a greater extent, seeing Bowie joined by guitarist Robert Fripp. Like Low, "Heroes" evinced the zeitgeist of the Cold War, symbolised by the divided city of Berlin.[71] Incorporating ambient sounds from a variety of sources including white noise generators, synthesisers and koto, the album was another hit, reaching number three in the UK. Its title track, though only reaching number 24 in the UK singles chart, gained lasting popularity, and within months had been released in both German and French.[72] Towards the end of the year, Bowie performed the song for Marc Bolan's television show Marc, and again two days later for Bing Crosby's televised Christmas special, when he joined Crosby in "Peace on Earth/Little Drummer Boy", a version of "The Little Drummer Boy" with a new, contrapuntal verse. Five years later, the duet proved a worldwide seasonal hit, charting in the UK at number three on Christmas Day, 1982.[73]
After completing Low and "Heroes", Bowie spent much of 1978 on the Isolar II world tour, bringing the music of the first two Berlin Trilogy albums to almost a million people during 70 concerts in 12 countries. By now he had broken his drug addiction; biographer David Buckley writes that Isolar II was "Bowie's first tour for five years in which he had probably not anaesthetised himself with copious quantities of cocaine before taking the stage. ... Without the oblivion that drugs had brought, he was now in a healthy enough mental condition to want to make friends."[74] Recordings from the tour made up the live album Stage, released the same year.[75]
The final piece in what Bowie called his "triptych", Lodger (1979), eschewed the minimalist, ambient nature of the other two, making a partial return to the drum- and guitar-based rock and pop of his pre-Berlin era. The result was a complex mixture of new wave and world music, in places incorporating Hijaz non-Western scales. Some tracks were composed using Eno and Peter Schmidt's Oblique Strategies cards: "Boys Keep Swinging" entailed band members swapping instruments, "Move On" used the chords from Bowie's early composition "All the Young Dudes" played backwards, and "Red Money" took backing tracks from "Sister Midnight", a piece previously composed with Iggy Pop.[76] The album was recorded in Switzerland. Ahead of its release, RCA's Mel Ilberman stated, "It would be fair to call it Bowie's Sergeant Pepper ... a concept album that portrays the Lodger as a homeless wanderer, shunned and victimized by life's pressures and technology." As described by biographer Christopher Sandford, "The record dashed such high hopes with dubious choices, and production that spelt the end—for fifteen years—of Bowie's partnership with Eno." Lodger reached number 4 in the UK and number 20 in the US, and yielded the UK hit singles "Boys Keep Swinging" and "DJ".[77][78] Towards the end of the year, Bowie and Angela initiated divorce proceedings, and after months of court battles the marriage was ended in early 1980.[79]
Scary Monsters (and Super Creeps) (1980) produced the number one hit "Ashes to Ashes", featuring the textural work of guitar-synthesist Chuck Hammer and revisiting the character of Major Tom from "Space Oddity". The song gave international exposure to the underground New Romantic movement when Bowie visited the London club "Blitz"—the main New Romantic hangout—to recruit several of the regulars (including Steve Strange of the band Visage) to act in the accompanying video, renowned as one of the most innovative of all time.[80] While Scary Monsters utilised principles established by the Berlin albums, it was considered by critics to be far more direct musically and lyrically. The album's hard rock edge included conspicuous guitar contributions from Robert Fripp, Pete Townshend, Chuck Hammer and Tom Verlaine.[81] As "Ashes to Ashes" hit number one on the UK charts, Bowie opened a three-month run on Broadway on 24 September, starring in The Elephant Man.[82] The same year, he made a cameo appearance in the German film Christiane F., a real-life story of teenage drug addiction in 1970s Berlin. The Christiane F. soundtrack album, which featured Bowie's music prominently, was released a few months later.
Bowie paired with Queen in 1981 for a one-off single release, "Under Pressure". The duet was a hit, becoming Bowie's third UK number one single. Bowie was given the lead role in the BBC's 1982 televised adaptation of Bertolt Brecht's play Baal. Coinciding with its transmission, a five-track EP of songs from the play, recorded earlier in Berlin, was released as David Bowie in Bertolt Brecht's Baal. In March 1982, the month before Paul Schrader's film Cat People came out, Bowie's title song, "Cat People (Putting Out Fire)", was released as a single, becoming a minor US hit and entering the UK top 30.[83]
Bowie reached a new peak of popularity and commercial success in 1983 with Let's Dance. Co-produced by Chic's Nile Rodgers, the album went platinum in both the UK and the US. Its three singles became top twenty hits in both countries, where its title track reached number one. "Modern Love" and "China Girl" made number two in the UK, accompanied by a pair of acclaimed promotional videos that, as described by biographer David Buckley, "were totally absorbing and activated key archetypes in the pop world. 'Let's Dance', with its little narrative surrounding the young Aborigine couple, targeted 'youth', and 'China Girl', with its bare-bummed (and later partially censored) beach lovemaking scene (a homage to the film From Here to Eternity), was sufficiently sexually provocative to guarantee heavy rotation on MTV. By 1983, Bowie had emerged as one of the most important video artists of the day. Let's Dance was followed by the Serious Moonlight Tour, during which Bowie was accompanied by guitarist Earl Slick and backing vocalists Frank and George Simms. The world tour lasted six months and was extremely popular."[84] Stevie Ray Vaughan was guest guitarist playing solo on "Let's Dance".
Tonight (1984), another dance-oriented album, found Bowie collaborating with Tina Turner and, once again, Iggy Pop. It included a number of cover songs, among them the 1966 Beach Boys hit "God Only Knows". The album bore the transatlantic top ten hit "Blue Jean", itself the inspiration for a short film that won Bowie a Grammy Award for Best Short Form Music Video, "Jazzin' for Blue Jean". Bowie performed at Wembley in 1985 for Live Aid, a multi-venue benefit concert for Ethiopian famine relief. During the event, the video for a fundraising single was premièred, Bowie's duet with Mick Jagger. "Dancing in the Street" quickly went to number one on release. The same year, Bowie worked with the Pat Metheny Group to record "This Is Not America" for the soundtrack of The Falcon and the Snowman. Released as a single, the song became a top 40 hit in the UK and US.[85]
Bowie was given a role in the 1986 film Absolute Beginners. It was poorly received by critics, but Bowie's theme song rose to number two in the UK charts. He also appeared as Jareth, the Goblin King, in the 1986 Jim Henson film Labyrinth, for which he wrote five songs. His final solo album of the decade was 1987's Never Let Me Down, where he ditched the light sound of his previous two albums, instead offering harder rock with an industrial/techno dance edge. Peaking at number six in the UK, the album yielded the hits "Day-In, Day-Out" (his 60th single), "Time Will Crawl", and "Never Let Me Down". Bowie later described it as his "nadir", calling it "an awful album".[86] Supporting Never Let Me Down, and preceded by nine promotional press shows, the 86-concert Glass Spider Tour commenced on 30 May. Bowie's backing band included Peter Frampton on lead guitar. Critics maligned the tour as overproduced, saying it pandered to the current stadium rock trends in its special effects and dancing.[87]
Bowie shelved his solo career in 1989, retreating to the relative anonymity of band membership for the first time since the early 1970s. A hard-rocking quartet, Tin Machine came into being after Bowie began to work experimentally with guitarist Reeves Gabrels. The line-up was completed by Tony and Hunt Sales, whom Bowie had known since the late 1970s for their contribution, on drums and bass respectively, to Iggy Pop's 1977 album Lust For Life.[88]
Though he intended Tin Machine to operate as a democracy, Bowie dominated, both in songwriting and in decision-making.[89] The band's album debut, Tin Machine (1989), was initially popular, though its politicised lyrics did not find universal approval: Bowie described one song as "a simplistic, naive, radical, laying-it-down about the emergence of neo-Nazis"; in the view of biographer Christopher Sandford, "It took nerve to denounce drugs, fascism and TV ... in terms that reached the literary level of a comic book."[90] EMI complained of "lyrics that preach" as well as "repetitive tunes" and "minimalist or no production".[91] The album nevertheless reached number three in the UK.[90] Tin Machine's first world tour was a commercial success, but there was growing reluctance—among fans and critics alike—to accept Bowie's presentation as merely a band member.[92] A series of Tin Machine singles failed to chart, and Bowie, after a disagreement with EMI, left the label.[93] Like his audience and his critics, Bowie himself became increasingly disaffected with his role as just one member of a band.[94] Tin Machine began work on a second album, but Bowie put the venture on hold and made a return to solo work. Performing his early hits during the seven-month Sound+Vision Tour, he found commercial success and acclaim once again.[95]
In October 1990, a decade after his divorce from Angela, Bowie and Somali-born supermodel Iman were introduced by a mutual friend. Bowie recalled, "I was naming the children the night we met ... it was absolutely immediate." They married in 1992.[96] Tin Machine resumed work the same month, but their audience and critics, ultimately left disappointed by the first album, showed little interest in a second. Tin Machine II's arrival was marked by a widely publicised and ill-timed conflict over the cover art: after production had begun, the new record label, Victory, deemed the depiction of four ancient nude Kouroi statues, judged by Bowie to be "in exquisite taste", "a show of wrong, obscene images", requiring air-brushing and patching to render the figures sexless.[97] Tin Machine toured again, but after the live album Tin Machine Live: Oy Vey, Baby failed commercially, the band drifted apart, and Bowie, though he continued to collaborate with Gabrels, resumed his solo career.[98]
In April 1992 Bowie appeared at the Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert, following the Queen frontman's death the previous year. As well as performing "Heroes" and "All the Young Dudes", he was joined on "Under Pressure" by Annie Lennox, who took Mercury's vocal part.[99] Four days later, Bowie and Iman were married in Switzerland. Intending to move to Los Angeles, they flew in to search for a suitable property, but found themselves confined to their hotel, under curfew: the 1992 Los Angeles riots began the day they arrived. They settled in New York instead.[100]
1993 saw the release of Bowie's first solo offering since his Tin Machine departure, the soul, jazz and hip-hop influenced Black Tie White Noise. Making prominent use of electronic instruments, the album, which reunited Bowie with Let's Dance producer Nile Rodgers, confirmed Bowie's return to popularity, hitting the number one spot on the UK charts and spawning three top 40 hits, including the top 10 song "Jump They Say".[101] Bowie explored new directions on The Buddha of Suburbia (1993), a soundtrack album of incidental music composed for the TV series adaptation of Hanif Kureishi's novel. It contained some of the new elements introduced in Black Tie White Noise, and also signalled a move towards alternative rock. The album was a critical success but received a low-key release and only made number 87 in the UK charts.[102]
Reuniting Bowie with Eno, the quasi-industrial Outside (1995) was originally conceived as the first volume in a non-linear narrative of art and murder. Featuring characters from a short story written by Bowie, the album achieved US and UK chart success, and yielded three top 40 UK singles.[103] In a move that provoked mixed reaction from both fans and critics, Bowie chose Nine Inch Nails as his tour partner for the Outside Tour. Visiting cities in Europe and North America between September 1995 and February the following year, the tour saw the return of Gabrels as Bowie's guitarist.[104]
Bowie was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame on 17 January 1996.[105] Incorporating experiments in British jungle and drum 'n' bass, Earthling (1997) was a critical and commercial success in the UK and the US, and two singles from the album became UK top 40 hits. Bowie's song "I'm Afraid of Americans" from the Paul Verhoeven film Showgirls was re-recorded for the album, and remixed by Trent Reznor for a single release. The heavy rotation of the accompanying video, also featuring Reznor, contributed to the song's 16-week stay in the US Billboard Hot 100. The Earthling Tour took in Europe and North America between June and November 1997.[106] Bowie reunited with Visconti in 1998 to record "(Safe in This) Sky Life" for The Rugrats Movie. Although the track was edited out of the final cut, it was later re-recorded and released as "Safe" on the B-side of Bowie's 2002 single "Everyone Says 'Hi'".[107] The reunion led to other collaborations including a limited-edition single release version of Placebo's track "Without You I'm Nothing", co-produced by Visconti, with Bowie's harmonised vocal added to the original recording.[108]
Bowie created the soundtrack for Omikron, a 1999 computer game in which he and Iman also appeared as characters. Released the same year and containing re-recorded tracks from Omikron, his album 'Hours...' featured a song with lyrics by the winner of his "Cyber Song Contest" Internet competition, Alex Grant.[109] Making extensive use of live instruments, the album was Bowie's exit from heavy electronica.[110] Sessions for the planned album Toy, intended to feature new versions of some of Bowie's earliest pieces as well as three new songs, commenced in 2000, but the album was never released. Bowie and Visconti continued their collaboration, producing a new album of completely original songs instead: the result of the sessions was the 2002 album Heathen.[111] Alexandria Zahra Jones, Bowie and Iman's daughter, was born on 15 August.[112]
In October 2001, Bowie opened the Concert for New York City, a charity event to benefit the victims of the 11 September attacks, with a minimalist performance of Simon & Garfunkel's "America", followed by a full band performance of "Heroes".[113] 2002 saw the release of Heathen, and, during the second half of the year, the Heathen Tour. Taking in Europe and North America, the tour opened at London's annual Meltdown festival, for which Bowie was that year appointed artistic director. Among the acts he selected for the festival were Philip Glass, Television and the Dandy Warhols. As well as songs from the new album, the tour featured material from Bowie's Low era.[114] Reality (2003) followed, and its accompanying world tour, the A Reality Tour, with an estimated attendance of 722,000, grossed more than any other in 2004. Onstage in Oslo, Norway, on 18 June, Bowie was hit in the eye with a lollipop thrown by a fan; a week later he suffered chest pain while performing at the Hurricane Festival in Scheeßel, Germany. Originally thought to be a pinched nerve in his shoulder, the pain was later diagnosed as an acutely blocked coronary artery, requiring an emergency angioplasty in Hamburg. The remaining 14 dates of the tour were cancelled.[115]
Following recuperation from the heart attack, Bowie has reduced his musical output, making only one-off appearances on stage and in the studio. He sang in a duet of his 1972 song "Changes" with Butterfly Boucher for the 2004 animated film Shrek 2.[116] During a relatively quiet 2005, he recorded the vocals for the song "(She Can) Do That", co-written with Brian Transeau, for the film Stealth.[117] He returned to the stage on 8 September 2005, appearing with Arcade Fire for the US nationally televised event Fashion Rocks, and performed with the Canadian band for the second time a week later during the CMJ Music Marathon.[118] He contributed backing vocals on TV on the Radio's song "Province" for their album Return to Cookie Mountain,[119] made a commercial with Snoop Dogg for XM Satellite Radio,[120] and joined with Lou Reed on Danish alt-rockers Kashmir's 2005 album No Balance Palace.[121]
Bowie was awarded the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award on 8 February 2006.[122] In April, he announced, "I'm taking a year off—no touring, no albums."[123] He made a surprise guest appearance at David Gilmour's 29 May concert at the Royal Albert Hall in London. The event was recorded, and a selection of songs on which he had contributed joint vocals were subsequently released.[124] He performed again in November, alongside Alicia Keys, at the Black Ball, a New York benefit event for Keep a Child Alive,[125] a performance that marks the last time Bowie performed his music on stage.[126]
Bowie was chosen to curate the 2007 High Line Festival, selecting musicians and artists for the Manhattan event,[127] and performed on Scarlett Johansson's 2008 album of Tom Waits covers, Anywhere I Lay My Head.[128] On the 40th anniversary of the July 1969 moon landing—and Bowie's accompanying commercial breakthrough with "Space Oddity"—EMI released the individual tracks from the original eight-track studio recording of the song, in a 2009 contest inviting members of the public to create a remix.[129] A Reality Tour, a double album of live material from the 2003 concert tour, was released in January 2010.[130]
In late March 2011, Toy, Bowie's previously unreleased album from 2001, was leaked onto the internet, containing material used for Heathen and most of its single B-sides, as well as unheard new versions of his early back catalogue.[131][132]
On 8 January 2013 (his 66th birthday), his website announced a new album, to be titled The Next Day and scheduled for release 8 March for Australia, 12 March for the United States and 11 March for the rest of the world.[133] Bowie's first studio album in a decade, The Next Day contains 14 songs plus 3 bonus tracks.[134][135] His website acknowledged the length of his hiatus, saying "In recent years radio silence has been broken only by endless speculation, rumour and wishful thinking ... a new record ... who would have ever thought it, who'd have ever dreamed it! After all David is the kind of artist who writes and performs what he wants when he wants ... when he has something to say as opposed to something to sell. Today he definitely has something to say."[136] Record producer Tony Visconti said 29 tracks were recorded for the album, some of which could appear on Bowie's next record, which he might start work on later in 2013. The announcement was accompanied by the immediate release of a single, "Where Are We Now?", written and recorded by Bowie in New York and produced by longtime collaborator Tony Visconti.[136] A music video for the single was released onto Vimeo the same day, directed by New York artist Tony Oursler.[136] The single topped the UK iTunes Chart within hours of its release,[137] and debuted in the UK Singles Chart at No. 6,[138] his first single to enter the top 10 for two decades, (since "Jump They Say" in 1993). A second video, "The Stars (Are Out Tonight)", was released 25 February. Directed by Floria Sigismondi, it stars Bowie and Tilda Swinton as a married couple.[139] On 1 March, the album was made available to stream for free through iTunes.[140] The Next Day debuted at No. 1 on the UK Albums Chart, his first since Black Tie White Noise (1993), and was the fastest-selling album of 2013 at the time.[141]
The music video for the song "The Next Day" has created some controversy, initially being removed from YouTube for terms-of-service violation, then restored with a warning recommending viewing only by those 18 or over.[142]
According to The Times, Bowie has ruled out ever giving an interview again, with producer Visconti agreeing with the interviewer's suggestion that he is now Bowie's "voice on earth". Visconti also revealed to The Times that Bowie has no intention of going on tour, noting that all "he wants to do is make records."[143] An exhibition of Bowie artifacts was shown at the Victoria and Albert Museum in 2013.[144]
Bowie was featured in a cameo vocal in the Arcade Fire song "Reflektor".[145] A poll carried out by BBC History Magazine, in October 2013, named Bowie as the best-dressed Briton in history.[146] At the 2014 Brit Awards on 19 February, Bowie became the oldest recipient of a Brit Award in the ceremony's history when he won the award for Best British Male, which was collected on his behalf by Kate Moss. His speech read: "I'm completely delighted to have a Brit for being the best male - but I am, aren't I Kate? Yes. I think it's a great way to end the day. Thank you very, very much and Scotland stay with us."[147] This was a reference to the forthcoming Scottish independence referendum.[148][149]
Biographer David Buckley writes, "The essence of Bowie's contribution to popular music can be found in his outstanding ability to analyse and select ideas from outside the mainstream—from art, literature, theatre and film—and to bring them inside, so that the currency of pop is constantly being changed."[150] Buckley says, "Just one person took glam rock to new rarefied heights and invented character-playing in pop, marrying theatre and popular music in one seamless, powerful whole."[151] Bowie's career has also been punctuated by various roles in film and theatre productions, earning him some acclaim as an actor in his own right.
The beginnings of his acting career predate his commercial breakthrough as a musician. Studying avant-garde theatre and mime under Lindsay Kemp, he was given the role of Cloud in Kemp's 1967 theatrical production Pierrot in Turquoise (later made into the 1970 television film The Looking Glass Murders).[152] In the black-and-white short The Image (1969), he played a ghostly boy who emerges from a troubled artist's painting to haunt him.[153] The same year, the film of Leslie Thomas's 1966 comic novel The Virgin Soldiers saw Bowie make a brief appearance as an extra.[153] In 1976 he earned acclaim for his first major film role, portraying Thomas Jerome Newton, an alien from a dying planet, in The Man Who Fell to Earth, directed by Nicolas Roeg. Just a Gigolo (1979), an Anglo-German co-production directed by David Hemmings, saw Bowie in the lead role as Prussian officer Paul von Przygodski, who, returning from World War I, is discovered by a Baroness (Marlene Dietrich) and put into her Gigolo Stable.
Bowie took the title role in the Broadway theatre production The Elephant Man, which he undertook wearing no stage make-up, and which earned high praise for his expressive performance. He played the part 157 times between 1980 and 1981.[82] Christiane F. – Wir Kinder vom Bahnhof Zoo, a 1981 biographical film focusing on a young girl's drug addiction in West Berlin, featured Bowie in a cameo appearance as himself at a concert in Germany. Its soundtrack album, Christiane F. (1981), featured much material from his Berlin Trilogy albums.[154] Bowie starred in The Hunger (1983), a revisionist vampire film, with Catherine Deneuve and Susan Sarandon. In Nagisa Oshima's film the same year, Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence, based on Laurens van der Post's novel The Seed and the Sower, Bowie played Major Jack Celliers, a prisoner of war in a Japanese internment camp. Bowie had a cameo in Yellowbeard, a 1983 pirate comedy created by Monty Python members, and a small part as Colin, the hitman in the 1985 film Into the Night. He declined to play the villain Max Zorin in the James Bond film A View to a Kill (1985).[155]
Absolute Beginners (1986), a rock musical based on Colin MacInnes's 1959 novel about London life, featured Bowie's music and presented him with a minor acting role. The same year, Jim Henson's dark fantasy Labyrinth found him with the part of Jareth, the king of the goblins.[156] Two years later he played Pontius Pilate in Martin Scorsese's 1988 film The Last Temptation of Christ. Bowie portrayed a disgruntled restaurant employee opposite Rosanna Arquette in The Linguini Incident (1991), and the mysterious FBI agent Phillip Jeffries in David Lynch's Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me (1992). He took a small but pivotal role as Andy Warhol in Basquiat, artist/director Julian Schnabel's 1996 biopic of Jean-Michel Basquiat, and co-starred in Giovanni Veronesi's Spaghetti Western Il Mio West (1998, released as Gunslinger's Revenge in the US in 2005) as the most feared gunfighter in the region.[157] He played the ageing gangster Bernie in Andrew Goth's Everybody Loves Sunshine (1999), and appeared in the TV horror serial of The Hunger. In Mr. Rice's Secret (2000), he played the title role as the neighbour of a terminally ill 12-year-old, and the following year appeared as himself in Zoolander.
Bowie portrayed physicist Nikola Tesla in the Christopher Nolan film, The Prestige (2006), which was about the bitter rivalry between two magicians in the late 19th century. He voice-acted in the animated film Arthur and the Invisibles as the powerful villain Maltazard, and lent his voice to the character Lord Royal Highness in the SpongeBob's Atlantis SquarePantis television film. In the 2008 film August, directed by Austin Chick, he played a supporting role as Ogilvie, alongside Josh Hartnett and Rip Torn, with whom he had worked in 1976 for The Man Who Fell to Earth (1976).[158][159]
Buckley writes, "If Ziggy confused both his creator and his audience, a big part of that confusion centred on the topic of sexuality."[160] Bowie declared himself gay in an interview with Michael Watts in 22 January 1972 issue of Melody Maker,[161] a move which coincided with the first shots in his campaign for stardom as Ziggy Stardust.[43] In a September 1976 interview with Playboy, Bowie said: "It's true—I am a bisexual. But I can't deny that I've used that fact very well. I suppose it's the best thing that ever happened to me."[162] According to his first wife Angie, Bowie had a relationship with Mick Jagger.[163]
In a 1983 interview with Rolling Stone, Bowie said his public declaration of bisexuality was "the biggest mistake I ever made" and "I was always a closet heterosexual".[164] On other occasions, he said his interest in homosexual and bisexual culture had been more a product of the times and the situation in which he found himself than his own feelings; as described by Buckley, he said he had been driven more by "a compulsion to flout moral codes than a real biological and psychological state of being".[165][166]
Asked in 2002 by Blender whether he still believed his public declaration was the biggest mistake he ever made, he replied:
Interesting. [Long pause] I don't think it was a mistake in Europe, but it was a lot tougher in America. I had no problem with people knowing I was bisexual. But I had no inclination to hold any banners nor be a representative of any group of people. I knew what I wanted to be, which was a songwriter and a performer, and I felt that bisexuality became my headline over here for so long. America is a very puritanical place, and I think it stood in the way of so much I wanted to do.[167]
Buckley's view of the period is that Bowie, "a taboo-breaker and a dabbler ... mined sexual intrigue for its ability to shock",[168] and that "it is probably true that Bowie was never gay, nor even consistently actively bisexual ... he did, from time to time, experiment, even if only out of a sense of curiosity and a genuine allegiance with the 'transgressional'."[169] Biographer Christopher Sandford says that according to Mary Finnigan, with whom Bowie had an affair in 1969, the singer and his first wife Angie "lived in a fantasy world ... and they created their bisexual fantasy."[170] Sandford tells how, during the marriage, Bowie "made a positive fetish of repeating the quip that he and his wife had met while 'fucking the same bloke' ... Gay sex was always an anecdotal and laughing matter. That Bowie's actual tastes swung the other way is clear from even a partial tally of his affairs with women."[170]
From the time of his earliest recordings in the 1960s, Bowie has employed a wide variety of musical styles. His early compositions and performances were strongly influenced by not only rock and rollers like Little Richard and Elvis Presley but also the wider world of show business. He particularly strove to emulate the British musical theatre singer-songwriter and actor Anthony Newley, whose vocal style he frequently adopted, and made prominent use of for his 1967 debut release, David Bowie (to the disgust of Newley himself, who destroyed the copy he received from Bowie's publisher).[20][171] Bowie's music hall fascination continued to surface sporadically alongside such diverse styles as hard rock and heavy metal, soul, psychedelic folk and pop.[172]
Musicologist James Perone observes Bowie's use of octave switches for different repetitions of the same melody, exemplified in his commercial breakthrough single, "Space Oddity", and later in the song "Heroes", to dramatic effect; Perone notes that "in the lowest part of his vocal register ... his voice has an almost crooner-like richness."[173]
Voice instructor Jo Thompson describes Bowie's vocal vibrato technique as "particularly deliberate and distinctive".[174] Schinder and Schwartz call him "a vocalist of extraordinary technical ability, able to pitch his singing to particular effect."[175] Here, too, as in his stagecraft and songwriting, the singer's chamaeleon-like nature is evident: historiographer Michael Campbell says that Bowie's lyrics "arrest our ear, without question. But Bowie continually shifts from person to person as he delivers them ... His voice changes dramatically from section to section."[176] In a 2014 analysis of 77 "top" artists' vocal ranges, Bowie was 8th, just behind Christina Aguilera and just ahead of Paul McCartney.[177]
Bowie plays various instruments, among them electric and acoustic (6 and 12-string) guitars; alto, tenor and baritone saxophone; keyboards including piano, synthesizers and Mellotron; harmonica, stylophone, xylophone, vibraphone, koto, drums and percussion, and strings including viola and cello.[178][179][180][181]
Bowie's innovative songs and stagecraft brought a new dimension to popular music in the early 1970s, strongly influencing both its immediate forms and its subsequent development. A pioneer of glam rock, Bowie, according to music historians Schinder and Schwartz, has joint responsibility with Marc Bolan for creating the genre.[182] At the same time, he inspired the innovators of the punk rock music movement—historian Michael Campbell calls him "one of punk's seminal influences". While punk musicians trashed the conventions of pop stardom, Bowie moved on again—into a more abstract style of music making that in turn became a transforming influence. Biographer David Buckley writes, "At a time when punk rock was noisily reclaiming the three-minute pop song in a show of public defiance, Bowie almost completely abandoned traditional rock instrumentation."[183][184] Bowie's record company sought to convey his unique status in popular music with the slogan, "There is old wave, there is new wave, and there is Bowie ..."[185] Musicologist James Perone credits him with having "brought sophistication to rock music", and critical reviews frequently acknowledge the intellectual depth of his work and influence.[182][186][187]
Buckley writes that, in an early 1970s pop world that was "Bloated, self-important, leather-clad, self-satisfied, ... Bowie challenged the core belief of the rock music of its day." As described by John Peel, "The one distinguishing feature about early-70s progressive rock was that it didn't progress. Before Bowie came along, people didn't want too much change." Buckley says that Bowie "subverted the whole notion of what it was to be a rock star", with the result that "After Bowie there has been no other pop icon of his stature, because the pop world that produces these rock gods doesn't exist any more. ... The fierce partisanship of the cult of Bowie was also unique—its influence lasted longer and has been more creative than perhaps almost any other force within pop fandom." Buckley concludes that "Bowie is both star and icon. The vast body of work he has produced ... has created perhaps the biggest cult in popular culture. ... His influence has been unique in popular culture—he has permeated and altered more lives than any comparable figure."[2]
Bowie was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1996.[105] Through perpetual reinvention, he has seen his influence continue to broaden and extend: music reviewer Brad Filicky writes that over the decades, "Bowie has become known as a musical chameleon, changing and dictating trends as much as he has altered his style to fit, influencing fashion and pop culture."[188] Biographer Thomas Forget adds, "Because he has succeeded in so many different styles of music, it is almost impossible to find a popular artist today that has not been influenced by David Bowie."[189]
Bowie married Mary Angela Barnett (also known as Angie Bowie) on 19 March 1970 at Bromley Register Office on Beckenham Lane, Bromley, London. They had a son together, Zowie Bowie (now known as Duncan Jones, film director), and divorced on 8 February 1980 in Switzerland.[190]
On 24 April 1992, David Bowie married Somali-American model Iman in a private ceremony in Lausanne. The wedding was later solemnized on 6 June in Florence.[191] They have one daughter, Alexandria "Lexi" Zahra Jones, born in August 2000.[192] The couple reside primarily in New York City and London.[193]
Regarding his religion, in 2005 he said, "Questioning my spiritual life has always been germane to what I was writing. Always." He added that he is bothered by being "not quite an atheist".[194] In the Esquire interview "What I've Learned", he stated, "I'm in awe of the universe, but I don't necessarily believe there's an intelligence or agent behind it. I do have a passion for the visual in religious rituals, though, even though they may be completely empty and bereft of substance. The incense is powerful and provocative, whether Buddhist or Catholic."[195]
Bowie has shown an interest in Buddhism since 1967. He frequently studied in London under the Tibetan Lama Chime Rinpoche before becoming a solo artist. During a 2001 interview, Bowie claimed that "after a few months of study, he told me, 'You don't want to be Buddhist ... You should follow music.'"[196]
Bowie later wrote the song 'Silly Boy Blue' and repeatedly sang Chime's name at the end of the track on his 1967 album David Bowie. Bowie also became a student of the Crazy wisdom Tulku Chögyam Trungpa.[197]
Bowie's 1969 commercial breakthrough, the song "Space Oddity", won him an Ivor Novello Special Award For Originality.[198] For his performance in the 1976 science fiction film The Man Who Fell to Earth, he won a Saturn Award for Best Actor.[199] In the ensuing decades he has been honoured with numerous awards for his music and its accompanying videos, receiving, among others, two Grammy Awards[200][201] and three BRIT Awards.[202]
In 1999, Bowie was made a Commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by the French government.[203] He received an honorary doctorate from Berklee College of Music the same year.[204] He declined the royal honour of Commander of the British Empire in 2000, and turned down a knighthood in 2003.[205]
Throughout his career he has sold an estimated 140 million albums. In the United Kingdom, he has been awarded 9 Platinum, 11 Gold and 8 Silver albums, and in the United States, 5 Platinum and 7 Gold.[206][207] In the BBC's 2002 poll of the 100 Greatest Britons, he was ranked 29. In 2004, Rolling Stone magazine ranked him 39th on their list of the 100 Greatest Rock Artists of All Time[208] and the 23rd best singer of all time.[209] Bowie was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame on 17 January 1996[105] and named a member of the Science Fiction and Fantasy Hall of Fame in June 2013.[210]
 "David Bowie: Shape-shifting musician and movie star". EMP Museum (empmuseum.org). Retrieved 11 September 2013.
Buckley, David (2000) [First published 1999]. Strange Fascination — David Bowie: The Definitive Story. London: Virgin. ISBN 0-7535-0457-X. 
Buckley, David (2004). David Bowie: The Complete Guide To His Music. Omnibus Press. ISBN 978-1-84449-423-1. 
Buckley, David (2005) [First published 1999]. Strange Fascination — David Bowie: The Definitive Story. London: Virgin. ISBN 978-0-7535-1002-5. 
Campbell, Michael (2008). Popular Music in America: And The Beat Goes On. Schirmer. ISBN 978-0-495-50530-3. 
Carr, Roy; Murray, Charles Shaar (1981). Bowie: An Illustrated Record. New York: Avon. ISBN 0-380-77966-8.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help)
Cole, Shaun (2000). 'Don we now our gay apparel': gay men's dress in the twentieth century. London: Berg. ISBN 1-85973-415-4. 
Ditmore, Melissa Hope (2006). Encyclopedia of Prostitution and Sex Work, Volume 2. Greenwood Publishing Group. ISBN 0-313-32970-2. 
Doggett, Peter (2011). The Man Who Sold the World: David Bowie and the 1970s. The Bodley Head. ISBN 978-1-84792-145-1. 
Gillman, Peter; Gillman, Leni (1987) [1986]. Alias David Bowie. New English Library. ISBN 0-450-41346-2. 
Pegg, Nicholas (2004) [First published 2000]. The Complete David Bowie. London: Reynolds & Hearn. ISBN 1-903111-73-0. 
Sandford, Christopher (1997) [First published 1996]. Bowie: Loving the Alien. Time Warner. ISBN 0-306-80854-4. 
Schinder, Scott; Schwartz, Andy (2007). Icons of Rock: An Encyclopedia of the Legends Who Changed Music Forever. Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Press. ISBN 978-0-313-33845-8. 
Thompson, Dave (2006). Hallo Spaceboy: The Rebirth of David Bowie. Ecw Press. ISBN 978-1-55022-733-8. 
Trynka, Paul, Starman: David Bowie – The Definitive Biography, Little, Brown Book Group Limited, 2011
Waldrep, Shelton, "Phenomenology of Performance", The Aesthetics of Self-Invention: Oscar Wilde to David Bowie, University of Minnesota Press, 2004.'
Welch, Chris, David Bowie: We Could Be Heroes: The Stories Behind Every David Bowie Song, Da Capo Press, 1999.
Categories: David Bowie1947 birthsLiving people20th-century English male actors21st-century English male actorsMale actors from LondonAndrogynyArt rock musiciansBrit Award winnersColumbia Records artistsCommandeurs of the Ordre des Arts et des LettresDecca Records artistsDeram Records artistsEMI Records artistsEnglish baritonesEnglish male film actorsEnglish male singersEnglish multi-instrumentalistsEnglish record producersEnglish rock saxophonistsEnglish rock guitaristsEnglish rock musiciansEnglish singer-songwritersGlam rockGrammy Award-winning artistsGrammy Lifetime Achievement Award winnersIvor Novello Award winnersMercury Records artistsPeople from BrixtonPhilips Records artistsPye Records artistsLGBT musicians from EnglandLGBT people from EnglandBisexual musiciansEnglish expatriates in SwitzerlandEnglish expatriates in the United StatesBisexual menBisexual actorsRCA Records artistsRock and Roll Hall of Fame inducteesScience Fiction Hall of Fame inducteesSingers from LondonTin Machine membersVirgin Records artistsWarner Bros. Records artistsHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from March 2012Use British English from January 2014Use dmy dates from January 2014Wikipedia pending changes protected pages (level 1)Wikipedia protected pages without expiryWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesArticles with hCardsArticles with hAudio microformatsPages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersCommons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with MusicBrainz identifiersFeatured articles 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
More:Peter Travers•Yahoo Music•RS Dance•RS on Spotify•RS Soundtrack•My Favorite Music•Young Guns 
A consummate musical chameleon, David Bowie has been a folksinger, androgyne, alien, decadent, blue-eyed soul man, art-rocker and a modern pop star, with each persona spawning a new league of imitators. His late-Seventies collaborations with Brian Eno made Bowie one of the few older stars to be taken seriously by the new wave. In the Eighties Bowie followed the mainstream pop smash Let's Dance (Number One, 1983) with numerous attempts to keep up with current trends. In the Nineties, that meant embracing grunge, industrial rock, rap and dance music, to varying degrees of success. But by then Bowie's place in history was secure: This is a man who did for pretensions what Jimi Hendrix did for electric guitar.
Bowie — born David Jones on January 8th, 1947 in London — took up the saxophone at age 13, and when he left Bromley Technical High School (where a friend permanently paralyzed his left pupil in a fight) to work as a commercial artist three years later, he had started playing in bands (the Konrads, the King Bees, David Jones and the Buzz). Three of Jones' early bands — the King Bees, the Manish Boys (featuring session guitarist Jimmy Page), and Davey Jones and the Lower Third — each recorded a single. He changed his name to David Bowie (after the knife) to avoid confusion with the Monkees' Davy Jones, and in 1966 recorded three singles for Pye Records; the following year he signed with Deram, issuing several singles and The World of David Bowie (most of the songs from that album, and others from that time, were collected on Images 1966-67).
On those early records, Bowie appears in the singer-songwriter mold. In 1967 he spent a few weeks at a Buddhist monastery in Scotland, then apprenticed in Lindsay Kemp's avant-garde theater and mime troupe and in 1968 started his own troupe, Feathers. American-born Angela Barnett met Bowie in London's Speakeasy and married him on March 20, 1970. (Son Zowie, now Joey, was born in June 1971; the couple divorced acrimoniously in 1980.) After Feathers broke up, Bowie helped start the experimental Beckenham Arts Lab in 1969. To finance the project, he signed with Mercury. Man of Words, Man of Music included "Space Oddity," which the album would later be re-titled after the single's release was timed to coincide with the U.S. moon landing. It became a European hit that year but did not make the U.S. charts until its rerelease in 1973, when it reached Number 15.
Marc Bolan, an old friend, was beginning his rise as a glitter-rock star in T. Rex and introduced Bowie to his producer, Tony Visconti. Bowie mimed at some T. Rex concerts, and Bolan played guitar on Bowie's "Karma Man" and "The Prettiest Star." Bowie, Visconti, guitarist Mick Ronson and drummer John Cambridge toured briefly as Hype. Ronson eventually recruited drummer Michael "Woody" Woodmansey, and with Visconti on bass they recorded The Man Who Sold the World, which included "All the Madmen," inspired by Bowie's institutionalized brother, Terry. Hunky Dory (Number 93, 1972), Bowie's tribute to the New York City pop-art scene of Andy Warhol, the Velvet Underground and Bob Dylan, included the song that would become Bowie's  theme, "Changes" (Number 66, 1972, rereleased 1974, Number 41).
Bowie started changing his image in late 1971. He told Melody Maker he was gay in January 1972 and started work on a new theatrical production. Enter Ziggy Stardust, Bowie's projection of a doomed messianic rock star. Bowie became Ziggy; Ronson, Woodmansey and bassist Trevor Bolder became Ziggy's band, the Spiders From Mars. The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders From Mars (Number 75, 1972) and the rerelease of Man of Words as Space Oddity (Number 16, 1972) made Bowie the star he was portraying. The live show, with Bowie wearing futuristic costumes, makeup and bright orange hair (at a time when the rock-star uniform was jeans), was a sensation in London and New York. It took Aladdin Sane (Number 17, 1973) to break Bowie in the U.S. Bolan and other British glitter-rock performers barely made the Atlantic crossing, but Bowie emerged a star. He produced albums for Lou Reed (Transformer and its hit "Walk on the Wild Side") and Iggy and the Stooges (Raw Power) and wrote and produced Mott the Hoople's glitter anthem "All the Young Dudes."
In 1973 Bowie announced his retirement from live performing, disbanded the Spiders and sailed to Paris to record Pin Ups (Number 23, 1973), a mix of covers of mid-Sixties pop and deep-cut rock songs including the Easybeats "Friday on My Mind" and Pink Floyd's "See Emily Play." That same year, the 1980 Floor Show, an invitation-only concert with Bowie and guests Marianne Faithfull and the Troggs, was taped for broadcast on the TV program The Midnight Special. Meanwhile, Bowie worked on a musical adaptation of George Orwell's 1984 but was denied the rights by Orwell's widow. He rewrote the material as Diamond Dogs (Number Five, 1974) and returned to the stage with an extravagant American tour.
Midway though the tour, Bowie entered Philadelphia's Sigma Sound Studios (then the capital of black music) and recorded the tracks that would become Young Americans (Number Nine, 1975). The session had a major effect on Bowie, as his sound and show were revised. Bowie scrapped the dancers, sets and costumes for a spare stage and baggy Oxford trousers; he cut his hair and colored it a more natural blond. His new band, led by former James Brown sideman Carlos Alomar, added soul standards (like Eddie Floyd's "Knock on Wood") to his repertoire, and included a young Luther Vandross (who cowrote "Fascination" with Bowie) on back-up vocals. David Live (Number Eight, 1974), also recorded in Philadelphia, chronicles this incarnation.
"Fame," cowritten by Bowie, Almoar and John Lennon, was Bowie's first American Number One single (1975). Bowie moved to L.A. and became a fixture of American pop culture. He played the title role in Nicolas Roeg's The Man Who Fell to Earth in 1976; the same year, he released Station to Station (Number Three, 1976), another album of "plastic soul" recorded with the Young Americans band, portrayed Bowie as the Thin White Duke (also the title of his unpublished autobiography). His highest charting album, Station to Station contained his second Top 10 single, "Golden Years" (Number 10, 1975). Bowie complained life had become predictable and left L.A. He returned to the U.K. for the first time in three years before settling in Berlin, where he lived in semiseclusion, painting, studying art and recording with Brian Eno.
Bowie's work with Eno — Low (Number 11, 1977), "Heroes" (Number 35, 1977) and Lodger (Number 20, 1979) — was distinguished by its appropriation of avant-garde electronic music and the "cut-up" technique, a concept made famous by author William Burroughs. (Composer Philip Glass wrote a symphony incorporating music from Low in 1993.) Bowie revitalized Iggy Pop's career by producing The Idiot and Lust for Life (both 1977) and toured Europe and America with Pop unannounced as the singer's pianist. Bowie narrated Eugene Ormandy and the Philadelphia Orchestra's recording of Prokofiev's Peter and the Wolf and spent the rest of 1977 acting with Marlene Dietrich and Kim Novak in Just a Gigolo. The next year, he embarked on a massive world tour. A second live album, Stage (Number 44, 1978), was recorded on the U.S. leg of the tour. Work on Lodger was begun in New York, continued in Switzerland and completed in Berlin.
Bowie settled in New York to record the paranoiac Scary Monsters (Number 12, 1980), updating "Space Oddity" in "Ashes to Ashes." One of the first stars to understand the potential of video, he produced some innovative clips for songs from Lodger and Scary Monsters. After that album, Bowie turned his attention away from his recording career. In 1980 he played the title role in The Elephant Man, appearing in Denver, in Chicago and on Broadway. He collaborated with Queen on 1981's "Under Pressure" and provided lyrics and vocals for "Cat People (Putting Out Fire)" (Number 67, 1982), Giorgio Moroder's title tune for the soundtrack of Paul Schrader's remake of Cat People. His music was used on the soundtrack of Christiane F (1982), and he also appeared in the film. That year, Bowie also starred in the BBC-TV production of Brecht's Baal, and as a 150-year-old vampire in the movie The Hunger.
In 1983 Bowie signed one of the most lucrative contracts in history and moved from RCA to EMI. Let's Dance (Number Four, 1983), his first album in three years, returned him to the top of the charts. Produced by Nile Rodgers with Stevie Ray Vaughan on guitar, the album was a slick revision of Bowie's soul-man posture. It contained three Top 20 singles — "Let's Dance" (Number One, 1983), "China Girl" (Number 10, 1983) and "Modern Love" (Number 14, 1983) — which were supported with another set of innovative videos, all staples of early MTV; the sold-out Serious Moonlight Tour followed. Bowie's music career was revitalized.
But what first seemed like a return to form actually ushered in a period of mediocrity. Without Rodgers' production savvy, Bowie's material sounded increasingly forced and hollow; his attention alternated between albums and film roles. Tonight (Number 11, 1984) had only one hit, "Blue Jean" (Number Eight, 1984). Bowie and Mick Jagger dueted on a lame cover of Martha and the Vandellas' "Dancing in the Street" (Number Seven, 1985) for Live Aid. Although Never Let Me Down (Number 34, 1987), with Peter Frampton on guitar, was roundly criticized, it made the charts with "Day In, Day Out" (Number 21, 1987) and the title song (Number 27, 1987). Bowie hit the road with another stadium extravaganza, the Glass Spiders Tour; it was recorded for an ABC-TV special. He had scarcely better luck in his acting career: Into the Night (1985), Absolute Beginners (1986) — a Julien Temple musical featuring some Bowie songs — Labyrinth (1986), The Linguini Incident (1992) and Twin Peaks - Fire Walk With Me (1992) were neither critical nor commercial successes.
Bowie set about reissuing his earlier albums on CD. Sound + Vision (Number 97, 1989), a box-set overview, and ChangesBowie (Number 39, 1990), a revamped version of an earlier greatest hits album on a single disc, revived interest in Bowie's career. The set list for the accompanying tour was partially based on fan response to special phone lines requesting favorite Bowie songs. Bowie claimed it would be the last time he performed those songs live. Later reissues, with previously unreleased bonus tracks, brought the Ziggy-era Bowie back into popularity.
Bowie formed Tin Machine in 1989. The band included Bowie discovery Reeves Gabrels on guitar and Hunt and Tony Sales (sons of comedian Soupy Sales), who had worked with Bowie on Iggy Pop's Lust for Life album and tour in the Seventies. Although Bowie claimed the band was a democracy, Tin Machine was perceived as Bowie's next project. The group debuted with a series of club dates in New York and L.A., followed by an album, Tin Machine (Number 28, 1989), which was a rougher, more guitar-oriented collection than any of Bowie's previous albums. Tin Machine II (Number 126, 1991), lacked the novelty of the debut and was quickly forgotten.
In 1992 Bowie married Somalian supermodel Iman. Black Tie White Noise (Number 39, 1993), which Bowie called his wedding present to his wife, received decent reviews but failed to excite the public. For a follow-up, Bowie reunited with Brian Eno to create Outside - The Nathan Adler Diaries: A Hyper Cycle, a concept album of sorts that did not create much in the way of sales, although Bowie did tour the States with Trent Reznor's Nine Inch Nails opening. The Buddha in Suburbia is the music from the British television show of the same name; Lenny Kravitz appears on guitar.
Bowie celebrated his 50th birthday in January 1997 with a sold-out gig at Madison Square Garden, where he was joined onstage by Lou Reed, the Cure's Robert Smith, Smashing Pumpkins' Billy Corgan, Frank Black, the Foo Fighters and Sonic Youth.
In early 1997 Bowie was again on the cutting edge — this time in the financial world. In a complicated transaction that was a first, something called Bowie Bonds were offered for sale. These asset-backed bonds (in this case the assets are the royalties on Bowie's songs recorded prior to 1990) allowed Bowie to collect $55 million. The sale of the bonds came on the eve of the release of Earthling, which incorporated the electronic-dance style drum-and-bass into a basically rock sound and received mixed reviews. By the end of the year a Reznor remix of the track "I'm Afraid of Americans" was receiving video and Modern Rock radio airplay. Reznor had inserted some keyboard and guitar textures into the edgy song (cowritten with Eno), and a rap by Ice Cube. Hours . . . (1999) was not a particularly well-received album but was notable for expanding Bowie's early and enthusiastic advocacy of the Internet; the entire album was available for download weeks before its official release and contained a song available only online. That year Bowie also appeared in, and contributed a soundtrack to, the videogame Omikron: The Nomad Soul.
In 2002, Bowie reunited with Tony Visconti to record Heathen, featuring a cover of the Pixies' "Cactus." He also put together an annual edition of London's Meltdown Festival, at which Bowie performed 1977's Low in its entirety. A year later, he released Reality, and while touring behind it had a minor heart attack onstage in Germany, brought on by heavy smoking; Bowie fully recuperated. Some of his more famous songs appeared on the soundtrack for The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou in 2004, both in Bowie's original versions and in updated renditions by Brazilian singer Seu Jorge, who translated the lyrics to Portuguese.
Bowie curried favor with the new generation of indie rockers by appearing onstage with the Arcade Fire and singing on TV on the Radio's 2006 album Return to Cookie Mountain; that year he also received a Grammy Award for Lifetime Achievement. In 2008 he contributed vocals to actor Scarlett Johansson's Anywhere I Lay My Head, her album of Tom Waits covers. The following year he released iSELECT, a random collection of his favorite songs from his own albums that included only one well-known hit, "Life on Mars."
Portions of this biography appeared in The Rolling Stone Encyclopedia of Rock & Roll (Simon & Schuster, 2001). Mark Kemp contributed to this article.
We may use your e-mail address to send you the newsletter and offers that may interest you, on behalf of Rolling Stone and its partners. For more information please read our Privacy Policy.
100 Greatest Guitarists100 Greatest Singers500 Greatest Albums of All Time500 Greatest Songs100 Best Albums of the 2000s100 Greatest Beatles Songs 
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          David Bowie is widely regarded as one of the most influential writers of pop music. Born David Jones, he changed his name to Bowie in the 1960s, to avoid confusion with the then well-known Davy Jones (lead singer of The Monkees).The 1960s were not a happy period for Bowie, who remained a struggling artist, awaiting his breakthrough. He dabbled in many different styles of music (without commercial success), and other art forms such as acting, mime, painting, and playwriting. He finally achieved his commercial breakthrough in 1969 with the song "Space Oddity," which was released at the time of the moon landing. Despite the fact that the literal meaning of the lyrics relates to an astronaut who is lost in space, this song was used by the BBC in their coverage of the moon landing, and this helped it become such a success. The album, which followed "Space Oddity," and the two, which followed (one of which included the song "The Man Who Sold The World," covered by Lulu and Nirvana) failed to produce another hit single, and Bowie's career appeared to be in decline. However, he made the first of many successful "comebacks" in 1972 with "Ziggy Stardust," a concept album about a space-age rock star. This album was followed by others in a similar vein, rock albums built around a central character and concerned with futuristic themes of Armageddon, gender dysfunction/confusion, as well as more contemporary themes such as the destructiveness of success and fame, and the dangers inherent in star worship. In the mid 1970s, Bowie was a heavy cocaine abuser and sometime heroin user. In 1975, he changed tack. Musically, he released "Young Americans," a soul (or plastic soul as he later referred to it) album. This produced his first number one hit in the US, "Fame." He also appeared in his first major film, The Man Who Fell to Earth (1976). With his different-colored eyes and skeletal frame, he certainly looked the part of an alien. The following year, he released "Station to Station," containing some of the material he had written for the soundtrack to this film (which was not used). As his drug problem heightened, his behavior became more erratic. Reports of his insanity started to appear, and he continued to waste away physically. He fled back to Europe, finally settling in Berlin, where he changed musical direction again and recorded three of the most influential albums of all time, an electronic trilogy with Brian Eno "Low, Heroes and Lodger." Towards the end of the 1970s, he finally kicked his drug habit, and recorded the album many of his fans consider his best, the Japanese-influenced "Scary Monsters." Around this time, he played the Elephant Man on Broadway, to considerable acclaim.The next few years saw something of a drop-off in his musical output as his acting career flourished, culminating in his acclaimed performance in Merry Christmas Mr. Lawrence (1983). In 1983, he recorded "Let's Dance," an album which proved an unexpected massive commercial success, and produced his second number 1 hit single in the US. The tour which followed, "Serious Moonlight," was his most successful ever. Faced with this success on a massive scale, Bowie apparently attempted to "repeat the formula" in the next two albums, with less success (and to critical scorn). Finally, in the late 1980s, he turned his back on commercial success and his solo career, forming the hard rock band, Tin Machine, who had a deliberate limited appeal. By now, his acting career was in decline. After the comparative failure of Labyrinth (1986), the movie industry appears to have decided that Bowie was not a sufficient name to be a lead actor in a major movie, and since that date, most of his roles have been cameos or glorified cameos. He himself also seems to have lost interest in movie acting. Tin Machine toured extensively and released two albums, with little critical or commercial success.In 1992, Bowie again changed direction and re-launched his solo career with "Black Tie White Noise," a "wedding" album inspired by his recent marriage to Iman. To date, the 1990s have been kinder to Bowie than the late 1980s. He has released three albums to considerable critical acclaim and reasonable commercial success. In 1995, he renewed his working relationship with Brian Eno to record "Outside." After an initial hostile reaction from the critics, this album has now taken its place with his classic albums.In 2003, Bowie released an album entitled 'Reality.' The Reality Tour began in November 2003 and, after great commercial success, was extended into July 2004. In June 2004, Bowie suffered a heart attack and the tour did not finish it's scheduled run.After recovering, bowie did not release any new music, but did a little acting. In 2006, he played Tesla in The Prestige (2006) and had a small cameo in the series Extras (2005). In 2007, he did a cartoon voice in SpongeBob SquarePants (1999) playing Lord Royal Highness. He has not appeared in anything since 2008; however, after a ten year hiatus from recording, he released a new album called 'The Next Day.'Bowie has influenced the course of popular music several times and influenced several generations of musicians. His promotional videos in the 1970s and 80s are regarded as ground-breaking, and as a live concert act, he is regarded as the most theatrical of them all.
      His eyes are both blue. However, one pupil is permanently dilated due to a fight, and as a result, one eye looks darker than the other.
      In 1968 while he was still a struggling artist, Bowie wrote some English lyrics to a French song titled "Comme d'Habitude" ("As Usual"). His version, "Even a Fool Learns to Love", never did get recorded, but when the French melody caught the attention of Paul Anka, he reworked the lyrics and the song became "My Way". Of course, when Frank Sinatra recorded "My Way" his way, it turned to gold.
      Has one son in 1971 with his then-wife Angie Bowie, originally named Zowie - who later changed it to Joe and who is now known as Duncan Jones.
      In a magazine interview, he stated that he met his first wife when they were dating the same man.
      In his composition "Slip Away", on his album "Heathen", he makes cryptic references to The Uncle Floyd Show (1974), a program popular in the late 1970s and 1980s in the New York City area. Broadcast on a local television station, it featured two puppets, "Oogie" and "Bones Boy", mentioned in the song, as well as the host, "Uncle" Floyd Vivino.
      Inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1996 and the American Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2005.
      His 1972 album "The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars" came 8th in Classic Rock Magazine's list of the 30 greatest concept albums of all time. [March 2003]
      Has performed with (on separate occasions) Queen, Mick Jagger, Iggy Pop, Al B. Sure!, Tina Turner, Annie Lennox, Nine Inch Nails and Bing Crosby.
      Something that he and actor John Hurt have in common is that they have both played the Elephant Man.
      Consistently listed as one of the richest British born pop stars in the world. Heat magazine listed his earnings for the year 2001 at over $30 million.
      Turned down the role of Max Zorin for the James Bond film A View to a Kill (1985), citing his lack of enthusiasm for recent Bond villains.
      His song "Life on Mars" was covered by Marillion frontman Steve Hogarth and the H Band on the album "Live Spirit: Live Body" (released 2002).
      He declined the royal honor of Commander of the British Empire (CBE) in 2000, and turned down a knighthood in 2003.
      His song "Five Years" was covered by former Marillion singer Fish on his 1993 album "Songs from the Mirror".
      In a 1983 interview with Rolling Stone, he revealed that his bisexuality was really a sham. He claimed he made the story up to create more mystery about himself.
      Took the pseudonym "David Bowie" to keep himself from being confused with Davy Jones of The Monkees.
      (June 25, 2004) Had an emergency angioplasty in Germany while on his current tour. The remainder of the tour was obviously cancelled.
      He can play basically any kind of instrument, even performing the excellent sax solo at the end of "Heroes". Although a talented rhythm guitarist, the one aspect of music Bowie finds himself lacking in is as a lead guitarist.
      Sang a duet with Kasper Eistrup on the album "No Balance Palace" by the Danish rock band Kashmir.
      Is credited as himself in Zoolander (2001). He is the judge of the fashion "walk-off" between Owen Wilson and Ben Stiller.
      Winner of the British Phonographic Industry Award for British Male Solo Artist in 1984 following the success of his multi-million selling album "Let's Dance".
      In November 1997, Business Age magazine reported his net worth as being over $900 million, surpassing even that of fellow British musician Paul McCartney, making him Britain's richest rock star. In 1999, Reuters placed his net worth at roughly $917 million. In 2003, the Sunday Express claimed his net worth was still in the $900 million (£510 million) range but that this placed him second to Paul McCartney. However, in 2005, the Sunday Times Rich List pegged his fortunes at roughly $185 million (£100 million).
      He was originally supposed to play Max Zorin in A View to a Kill (1985), but the role went to Christopher Walken instead. Many years later he admitted, "It was simply a terrible script and I saw little reason for spending so long on something that bad, that workmanlike. And I told them so. I don't think anyone had turned down a major role in a Bond before. It really didn't go down too well at all. They were very tetchy about it.".
      Considers "Tonight" (released in 1984) and "Never Let Me Down" (released in 1987) to be his weakest albums.
      Has appeared in Bing Crosby's last television show before his death, a Christmas special taped in London that aired after Crosby's death in December 1977. It is memorable for Crosby and Bowie singing a duet of "The Little Drummer Boy": Bing Crosby's Merrie Olde Christmas (1977).
      He was awarded a Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for Recording at 7021 Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, California on February 12, 1997.
      Asked Stevie Ray Vaughan to play guitar on the album "Let's Dance" after seeing Double Trouble perform at the Montreux Jazz Festival.
      His song "Heroes" was recorded by Peter Gabriel on his album "Scratch My Back", released in 2010. It was a very different arrangement from Bowie's original, with Gabriel's voice accompanied only by orchestral instruments.
      In 1969, he starred in a black-and-white Lyons Maid ice cream commercial directed by Ridley Scott. (The slogan was: "The pop ice cream. Nine pence.") In 1983, Bowie starred in The Hunger (1983) directed by Ridley's brother Tony Scott.
      He went through a heroin addiction, which resulted in him blacking out and unable to account for his own behavior for much of the mid-1970s. His song "Ashes to Ashes" documents his struggles with drugs.
      Was good friends with the late Freddie Mercury and remains friends with Elton John, both of whom were his big chart rivals in the 1970s and 1980s.
      He was awarded Commander of the Order of Arts and Letters by French culture minister Catherine Trautmann in 1999.
      [during an interview about his new album in 1999] I have nothing to say about the new album. Can I go now?
      I rate Morrissey as one of the best lyricists in Britain. For me, he's up there with Bryan Ferry.
      [on receiving an honorary degree from Boston's Berklee College of Music] Any list of advice I have to offer to a musician always ends with, "If it itches, go and see a doctor.".
      I know about Kylie [Kylie Minogue] and Robbie [Robbie Williams] and Pop Idol (2001) and stuff like that. You can't get away from that when you hit the [British] shore, so I know all about the cruise ship entertainment aspect of British pop.
      [from 1992] It would be my guess that Madonna is not a very happy woman. From my own experience, having gone through persona changes like that, that kind of clawing need to be the center of attention is not a pleasant place to be.
      I'm looking for backing for an unauthorized autobiography that I am writing. Hopefully, this will sell in such huge numbers that I will be able to sue myself for an extraordinary amount of money and finance the film version in which I will play everybody.
      [in 1976 interview with Playboy] It's true - I am a bisexual. But I can't deny that I've used that fact very well. I suppose it's the best thing that ever happened to me. Fun, too.
      You would think that a rock star being married to a supermodel would be one of the greatest things in the world. It is.
      I don't know how many times someone has come up to me and said, "Hey, Lets dance!". I hate dancing. God, it's stupid.
      I reinvented my image so many times that I'm in denial that I was originally an overweight Korean woman.
      [on being 50] Fab. But, you know, I don't feel fifty. I feel not a day over forty-nine. It's incredible. I'm bouncy, I feel bouncy.
      I once asked [John Lennon] what he thought of what I do. He said, "It's great, but its just rock and roll with lipstick on.".
      I gave up smoking six months before I had the heart attack - so that was worth it, wasn't it! I started to give up when my daughter was born because I wouldn't smoke in the house with her there so I had to go outside. It's bloody cold in winter in New York, so I just quit.
      [on Syd Barrett] The few times I saw him perform in London at UFO and the Marquee clubs during the '60s will forever be etched in my mind. He was so charismatic and such a startlingly original songwriter. Also, along with Anthony Newley, he was the first guy I'd heard to sing pop or rock with a British accent. His impact on my thinking was enormous. A major regret is that I never got to know him. A diamond indeed.
      [on his pop sound during the 1980s] When I performed I was thinking, "You all look like you should be seeing Phil Collins.". Then I thought, "Hang on, I sound like Phil Collins.". So I've changed. I'm not comfortable with the mainstream thing.
      [from 1983] I get offered so many bad movies. And they're all raging queens or transvestites or Martians.
      [in 2002] I had no problem with people knowing I was bisexual. But I had no inclination to hold any banners or be a representative of any group of people. I knew what I wanted to be, which was a songwriter and a performer, and I felt that bisexuality became my headline over here for so long. America is a very puritanical place, and I think it stood in the way of so much I wanted to do.
      [on Elvis Presley] I saw a cousin of mine when I was young. She was dancing to "Hound Dog" and I had never seen her get up and be moved so much by anything. It really impressed me, the power of the music. I started getting records immediately after that.
      The whole animal of rock keeps changing itself so fast and so furiously that you just can't plan ahead.
      The only thing I ever got out of fame was a better table in a restaurant. And for that I gave up being able to relate to people.
      I think Mick Jagger would be astounded and amazed if he realized to many people he is not a sex symbol, but a mother image.
      I like crazy art and, most of the time, out-there music. Rather than having a hit song these days, I like the idea that I'm in there changing the plan of what society and culture look like, sound like. I did change things; I knew I would. It feels great, and very rewarding.
      "Hunky Dory" gave me a fabulous groundswell. I guess it provided me, for the first time in my life, with an actual audience - I mean, people actually coming up to me and saying,"'Good album, good songs.". That hadn't happened to me before. It was like, "Ah, I'm getting it, I'm finding my feet. I'm starting to communicate what I want to do. Now: what is it I want to do?" There was always a double whammy there.
      aking in 2002] Of the 26 albums I've made I think there were two when I really wasn't involved and that was "Tonight" and "Never Let Me Down", the two follow-ups to "Let's Dance". That period was my Phil Collins years.
      aking in 2002] It seems to be traditional now that every album since "Black Tie White Noise" is the best album I've put out since "Scary Monsters".
      [on the song "Dance Magic" from Labyrinth (1986)] In a recording studio, a baby I'd picked from one of the backup singers . . . couldn't put two gurgles together. And it wouldn't work for me, it wouldn't go, I kicked it, I did everything to make it scream but it wouldn't, it really buttoned its lips so I ended up doing the gurgles, so I'm the baby on that track as well. I thought "What the hell? I've done "Laughing Gnome", I might as well go all the way with that.". I never thought in 20 years I'd come back to working with gnomes.
      [on Freddie Mercury] Of all the more theatrical rock performers, Freddie took it further than the rest. He took it over the edge. And of course, I always admired a man who wears tights. I only saw him in concert once and as they say, he was definitely a man who could hold an audience in the palm of his hand.
      [in 1972] Sometimes I don't feel as if I'm a person at all. I'm just a collection of other people's ideas.
      [in 1980] I have a lot of reservations about what I've done, inasmuch as I don't feel much of it has any import at all.
      [on declining the royal honor of Commander of the British Empire in 2000, and turning down a knighthood in 2003] I would never have any intention of accepting anything like that. I seriously don't know what it's for. It's not what I spent my life working for.
      [in 1973] Offstage, I'm a robot. Onstage, I achieve emotion. It's probably why I prefer dressing up as Ziggy to being David.
      The lowest point in my life was in 1975, when I was 28, living in Los Angeles. I really did think that my thoughts about not making 30 would come true. Drugs had taken my life away from me. I felt as though I would probably die and it was going to be all over. My assistant, Coco, got me out of it. Thanks to her, I got myself out of America to Berlin. Best advice, which I wish I had known at 18? Don't do drugs.
      [in 2014] I'm completely delighted to have a Brit for being the best male but I am, aren't I Kate [Kate Moss]? I think it's a great way to end the day. Thank you very very much - and Scotland, stay with us.
=======================================================
                David Bowie was born David Robert Jones in Brixton, South London. He developed an interest in music early on and began playing the saxophone aged 13. At 16, he started a career as a commercial artist, singing and playing with rock bands in his spare time. By 1966, Jones had recorded singles with three different groups and decided to set out on his own as a solo act. He decided on the stage name, David Bowie, to avoid confusion with Davy Jones (of pop group 'The Monkees').After recording an unsuccessful solo album, Bowie dropped out of the music business for a spell, and began to study mime. In 1969, he formed his own mime troupe, Feathers, as well as an experimental art ensemble.  Neither was commercially successful, so Bowie signed a deal to record another album, which included the offbeat 'Space Odyssey'.  Bowie's next album, 1970s 'The Man Who Sold the World', represented a move toward a harder rock sound and, in 1972, he scored his breakthrough with 'The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust' and 'The Spiders From Mars', a concept album about a sexually ambiguous rock star from outer space.  Released as the glam rock scene was beginning to peak, Ziggy Stardust made Bowie a full-fledged superstar, in both England and the United States. Bowie was to become as famous for his campy cross-dressing and different coloured eyes, (the result of a schoolyard fight that left one pupil permanently enlarged) as for his dramatic sound.  In 1976, director Nicolas Roeg cast Bowie in his first leading role, as an unhappy alien who becomes a famous industrialist and pop star, as he tries to find a way home in 'The Man Who Fell to Earth'. The story seemed made-to-order for Bowie's public persona, and he gave a fine performance, which helped the film become a modest box-office success.  In 1983, Bowie's album 'Let's Dance' brought him to new heights of commercial success and his next major film, Nagisa Oshima's 'Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence', found him receiving top billing for what was essentially a supporting role. He also recorded music for 'Hero' and 'The Falcon' and ‘The Snowman'.  In 1986, Bowie scored one of his rare leading roles in a mainstream film, when he starred in the big-budget fantasy 'Labyrinth'. He also appeared as Pontius Pilate in Martin Scorsese's 'The Last Temptation of Christ'.  In 1997, David Bowie broke new ground, yet again, with the Internet-only release of his single 'Telling Lies.'  Having completed a world tour in 1997, David Bowie has proven himself to be a true music industry survivor.  In 1999, he recorded a duet with Brian Molko on the Placebo track 'Without You I'm Nothing' before he returned back to the studio to record an album.  On 15 August 2001, Alexandria Zahra Jones was born. She was the first child of Bowie's with his second wife Iman Abdulmajid, who he married in 1992.  In October that year, he opened the 'Concert for New York City', which was held to benefit the victims of the 11 September attacks in the US. In 2002, he released the album 'Heathen', which was followed,  Another album and tour called 'Reality' followed, which became the best-selling tour of 2003. In 2004, he was performing in Oslo when a lollipop hit him in the eye and a week later he suffered chest pains, which was later diagnosed as a blocked artery, leading Bowie to need heart surgery. He cancelled the last 15 dates of his tour.  Following his heart surgery, Bowie has slowed down and only makes one-off appearances on stage. He took part in a duet of 'Changes' for the 2004 film 'Shrek 2'.  He also performed on stage with Arcade Fire in 2005 and made a radio commercial with Snoop Dogg the same year.  Bowie was awarded the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award on 8 February 2006 before announcing in April that he would be taking a year break from making music and from touring. However, on 29 May he made a surprise appearance at David Gilmour's concert at the Royal Albert Hall. His performances were recorded and released as a CD.  In 2008, he performed on Scarlett Johansson's album of Tom Waits covers called 'Anywhere I Lay My Head'. A double album of performances from Bowie's 2003 tour was released in January 2010.
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
'I look at that beach and I can tell you where each one was lying...   I can still see their faces': Tears of D-Day veterans as they make emotional return to Normandy to honour their fallen comrades
A royal salute for the fallen heroes of D-Day: Prince Charles and an elegant Duchess of Cornwall join the Queen to pay their respects
        70 years after they stormed Normandy's beaches as young soldiers amid the hell of battle, veterans willing to die for freedom in 1944 have made an emotional return to France. Harold Baumgarten, 89, has described how he could still look out at the beaches of northern France and point to where the bodies lay. Other men like Peter Smooth, 89, left, went to the British War Cemetery in Bayeux to salute fallen comrades. Other told their stories to dignitaries like Prime Minister David Cameron, top right. Across the Channel Douglas Turtle, 91, bottom right, sobbed on the seafront in Portsmouth as he remembered June 6 1944 at dawn.
Still sulking, Mr Putin? Just weeks after Charles accused him of acting like Hitler, the Russian president stands by as Obama plays the gentleman for the Queen
       World leaders gathered in Normandy to mark the 70th anniversary of D-Day amid growing tensions over Russian aggression towards Ukraine. Mr Putin is due to come face-to-face with the Prince of Wales later. As heads of state gathered for a group photo to mark  D-Day at Benouville Castle, Mr Putin cut a solitary figure while Barack Obama and New Zealand's Governor-General Jerry Mateparae fussed around the Queen.
      Surrounded by thousands of war graves Her Majesty bowed as she laid a wreath during a poignant service of remembrance in Bayeux, the first town in Normandy to be freed from Hitler's grip on June 6 1944.
                  Australian war vets return to Normandy to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the D-Day...
                  When the warship HMS Belfast fired the shot that launched the D-Day landings, it was...
                  World War Two veteran Jim Martin parachutes into the fields of Normandy on the eve of the...
                  The Queen paid her respects to the 4,500 men who died fighting the Nazis on D-Day, as she...
                  United States President Barack Obama and French President Francois Hollande gather on the...
                  The Queen laid a wreath during a ceremony at the Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery in...
                  France's Hollande hosts world leaders for a commemorative D-Day group photo and lunch,...
                  Prime Minister David Cameron and his wife Samantha attended a British D-Day commemoration...
                  Imperial War Museum archive footage of British troops landing on the Normandy beaches
                  Normandy veterans are returning to the shores of France to pay their respects to lost...
                  As the sun rose over a gusty Omaha Beach in France on D-Day veterans from the United...
                  On June 6, 1944, the world's largest seaborne invasion was launched against the occupying...
                  Queen Elizabeth II lays a wreath at the tomb on the unknown soldier at the Arc de...
                  As the sun rose on the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings, people gathered on...
                  Britain's Prince Charles, accompanied by his wife the Duchess of Cornwall, meets glider...
                  Australian war vets return to Normandy to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the D-Day...
                  When the warship HMS Belfast fired the shot that launched the D-Day landings, it was...
Flood warnings issued as Britain faces a weekend soaking with a fortnight's rain forecast to fall in just an hour (so enjoy today's sunshine while you can)
      The Met Office said thundery rain is expected to start falling across Britain early tomorrow morning, with showers unlikely to ease off until the evening. Some places could see between 20mm and 30mm of rain fall in an hour - almost half of the UK monthly average for the whole of June. It comes as people across the country enjoy temperatures of up to 25C today. Families and teenagers celebrating the end of their exams took to South Shields beach today (right) to soak up the sunshine, while horses enjoyed grazing in buttercup fields in the warm weather in Biggin Hill, Kent (left).
Eight suspects including three drug dealers to be quizzed by British police in hunt for Madeleine McCann as officers are granted permission to question them
      Portuguese officials are reported to have finally given the go-ahead for British officers to quiz eight local men who they believe could be crucial to solving the mystery
Mother left in tears after two customers called her a 'slut' for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
      Rhea Holley, of Faversham in Kent, was at Costa Coffee in Purley, south London, when two customers in their 60s started verbally abusing her for breast-feeding.
Mother in tears after being called a 'slut' by two customers for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
Parents held after son, 11, reaches 15 STONE: Couple arrested on suspicion of child cruelty after 'doctors became concerned about boy's wellbeing
      The parents, from King’s Lynn, Norfolk, claim their son's weight gain is genetic and they have tried to keep his size under control.
      Studies show the optimum amount is 3-4mg of caffeine per kilogram of bodyweight one hour prior to exercise.
Destitute slum mother, 25, sells newborn boy to childless couple for £130 after husband abandoned her while pregnant
      Gauri Shah, 32, who lives in a slum near railway tracks in in Jalpaiguri, West Bengal was abandoned by her husband eight months ago expecting her fourth child.
'The job isn't finished... let's stick at it': Cameron admits Tories must do more to defeat UKIP despite triumph over Farage in Newark by-election
      The Prime Minister warned the Conservatives had to keep hammering home key messages on the economy, tax cuts and jobs, after Robert Jenrick beat UKIP's Roger Helmer by 7,000 votes.
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of a tryst
Mexican Kim Kardashian lookalike 'takes over as boss of drug cartel hit squad' and uses a personalised pink AK47
       Claudia Ochoa Felix, 27, is thought to be the new head of an elite kill squad used by one of Mexico's most powerful drug cartels, the Sinaloas, to carry out executions. She regularly posts pictures on social media posing like her idol Kim Kardashian while holding her signature pink AK (right). She has also uploaded images of her bodyguards (inset) and her three children surrounded by piles of cash.
Forget the helmets - you'll only need a flat cap: Hilarious video warns Tour de France riders what to expect in Yorkshire (and says avoid bright clothing... it scares the sheep)
      Ditch helmets for flat caps and switch bright jackets for grey cardigans so you don't scare the sheep - a Yorkshire man's advice ahead of the Tour de France.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
      Researchers from London's University of Westminster asked 124 men - half of whom were hungry and half well-fed - to rate different women by attractiveness.
Why a hungry man loves a curvy woman: They have evolved to prefer people who seem to have better access to food
'Fraudsters hijacked our phone line and then stole tens of thousands when we called the bank': Customers scammed and then left stranded by their banks
      In two separate cases that we investigated customers with Lloyds Bank and Nationwide Building Society lost a total of almost £60,000 to the scam.
Most rapists don't lurk down dark alleys wearing balaclavas, say prosecutors in move to boost conviction rates
      The country’s top prosecutor warned that ‘out-of-date myths’ had to be tackled to persuade victims to have confidence in the criminal justice system.
Dying for a tan: Man, 32, diagnosed with terminal skin cancer after spending £7,000 on sunbed sessions over eight years
       Damien Platt, from Greater Manchester, was diagnosed with melanoma after using a sunbed up to four times a week for nine minutes at a time 'to make hi self feel good'. He said: 'To find out I had melanoma was the worst feeling in the world. I felt completely numb and found it very hard to function properly for days, people would try talking to me but nothing would register. Now I'm just trying to be as happy as possible with the time I've got left.' Image ( bottom right) shows the scar on his leg where the mole was removed and (top right) shows him with a tan.
Fears government agencies can listen in to private mobile phone calls at the ‘flick of a switch’ after Vodafone reveals authorities use secret wires across its entire network which stretches to 29 countries
      Vodafone said direct-access wires were connected to its network, allowing authorities in 29 countries - including Italy, Malta and Spain - to monitor conversations.
‘Rape? Sometimes it's RIGHT': Indian state minister says offence is only a crime if the woman reports it to police - days after murderous gang-rape of two sisters
      'This is a social crime which depends on men and women. Sometimes it's right, sometimes it's wrong,' said Babulal Gaur, minister for Madhya Pradesh.
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left three Canadian Mounties dead and put city on day-long lock-down
      Justin Bourque, 24, was taken into custody early Friday morning after a deadly shootout in Moncton, New Brunswick, that left three police officers dead.
Suffocated baby's twin returned to parents after judge clears father of accidentally killing her as they slept on sofa, saying the couple 'deserve to be believed'
      The middle class father came under suspicion from Lancashire County Council following the death of his daughter, but judge Mr Justice Peter Jackson (pictured) cleared him of blame.
And they're off! Fillies in fascinators and fancy frocks descend on a sunny Epsom Downs for Ladies Day at the Derby
       Colourfully dressed racegoers basked in the sunshine as they arrived at the Epsom Downs racecourse in Surrey for the first day of the Derby Festival. Highlights on Ladies Day include the Oaks and the Princess Elizabeth Stakes but the big hitters, including the hot favourite Australia, will arrive tomorrow ahead of the Derby.
Use leftover Melba toast... and other money-saving tips by aristocratic politician who lives in a 13-bed manor
      Tory peer Baroness Rawlings, who is married to a multi-millionaire, suggested people reuse their linen and use a bath to warm the room.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
      Julie Matthias, 49, of Chatham, Kent, has been diagnosed with Foreign Accent Syndrome - which affects just 60 people worldwide.
Hairdresser loses her 'chav' accent after suffering a severe migraine... and now only speaks in foreign accents
      As 94-year old grandmother Bertha Guymer, pictured, lay dying on a hospital bed in Essex, a thief stole her wedding rings, her family has claimed.
'Can't catch me': Fugitive, 20, who taunted police on Facebook weeps in the dock as he is jailed for stealing thousands from his grandparents and assaulting his mother
      Joe Barlow, from Laindon, Essex, was jailed for five separate offences at Basildon Crown Court, including stealing £8,500 from his grandparents’ savings to pay for drugs.
'I wasn't even hungry': Russian cannibal is FREED from court despite admitting he ate his fisherman friend - as victim's distraught wife says all she is left with is his foot
       Her husband, Andrei Kurochkin was eaten by his close friends who were fishermen after they were lost for months during an expedition in frozen Siberia. Olga Korochkin, 38, spoke out after hearing confirmation that cannibalised human remains found were those of her husband.
'Everything is proceeding according to plan. And what a plan!' How Churchill told MPs of the most ambitious operation ever launched as the D-Day landings were still underway
      MPs applauded after the wartime Prime Minister described the start of the 'most complicated and difficult' operation ever launched.
Putin shakes hands with Ukraine's new president for tense 15 minutes (with German Chancellor Angela Merkel acting as referee)
      With Merkel in close attendance the two men spoke after a photocall of leaders attending the Normandy commemoration.
'I was a product of rape': Miss USA 2014 hopeful reveals she was conceived when her mother was attacked at knifepoint
      Valerie Gatto's mother was attacked when she was 19. Rather than let the tragic story define her, Valerie uses it to help educate young women about sexual assault.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
      Vincent Walsh, professor of human brain research at University College London, also proposed they should be allowed to set their own work times, arriving whenever they want.
Bosses should let workers take naps, says sleep expert: Professor says 30 to 90 minutes 'brain downtime' per day could increase productivity
       The 'barbaric' act of cruelty in Pendle, Lancashire was filmed by one of the men, while the other two tried to clamber up towards the terrified animal. Joshua Varey, 24, filmed the act while Shaun Mullens, 22, and Paul Ashworth, 49, shook branches trying to dislodge the animal. All three defendants, from Colne, have pleaded guilty to what Burnley magistrates described as 'deliberate and serious' acts of cruelty that the defendants 'appear to derive pleasure from'.
One Direction's Louis Tomlinson to become co-chairman of Doncaster Rovers Football Club after 'finalising multi-million pound takeover deal'
      The One Direction singer is believed to have finalised a deal to takeover the football club, who he has supported his whole life.
Why Tetris is so addictive: Playing the game is like 'scratching an itch' and appeals to our brain's desire to tidy up
      A psychologist from the University of Sheffield has revealed that Tetris appeals to our brain's desire to solve mini tasks, while being tantalised by more problems.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
      Scientists secretly gave 2,051 babies and children in homes thought to include Sean Ross Abbey, Co. Tipperary, pictured, a diphtheria vaccine without their consent.
Thousands of children in Irish care homes at centre of 'baby graves scandal' were used in secret vaccine trials in the 1930s
Advertising executive 'was sacked from her £160,000-a-year job when she returned from maternity leave because firm's sexist Mad Men culture'
      Mrs A, a single mother in her late 30s, was originally employed by Ogilvy before the company was taken over by Hogarth World Wide Ltd, in central London.
Four generations of depravity: Court orders 'incest family' who lived in remote Australian bush to provide DNA samples to help police unravel decades of sexual abuse
       Two members of a NSW family accused of mass incest have been DNA swabbed following a court order. 'Raylene Colt' and 'Betty Colt' (the legal pseudonyms given to them) were ordered to report to a Sydney police station on Friday to provide samples. The family was discovered in regional NSW in 2012 living in squalid conditions and have been the subject of a child abuse investigation since.
      Researchers at the University of Rochester, in the U.S., say male brains are affected more significantly than female brains.
Give me my pocket money or I'll jump: Chinese boy, 10, holds parents to ransom over late payment of his 50p
      When ten-year-old Xiao Wei's father was late in paying him his weekly 50p stipend in Shangsi, China, the stubborn youngster took matters into his own hands.
Father jailed for stabbing his partner six times during vicious attack in front of their children after she called police to report him
      Nicholas Robinson, pictured, broke down in tears at Leeds Crown Court after he received the 11-year sentence for the attempted murder of Claire Chambers.
Jurassic Park actor arrested and charged with kidnap and rape of 13-year-old girl he met for acting classes
      Cameron Thor, 54, is accused of sexually assaulting the girl over the course of a year by police in Los Angeles, California, who say he took her to a secluded area.
'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honor': Man V. Food host Adam Richman poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
       Former Man V. Food host Adam Richman is celebrating is 70lb weight loss with a naked spread in Cosmopolitan UK's July issue. Mr Richman, 40, poses lying down with a soccer ball precariously covering his genitals. He wears soccer cleats and knee socks and is surrounded by a smattering of soccer balls that read 'USA', in reference to this summer's World Cup.
School at centre of Islamist 'Trojan Horse' takeover plot rejects Ofsted report saying it is failing to protect pupils from extremism
      The report - made public yesterday but leaked to the Mail on Monday - said Golden Hillock school in Birmingham (pictured), was doing too little to keep students safe from extremist views.
Is this the street in which Jack the Ripper lived? Geographic profiling pinpoints exact address of Victorian serial killer
      A former Canadian police officer combined geographical profiling and computer models to pinpoint Ripper's address in Whitechapel, East London (pictured in 1902).
Still clutching their rosaries after hundreds of years, eerie photographs show mummies buried in a Czech underground crypt
       A monastery in the Czech Republic has a ghoulish secret for those willing to venture underground - two dozen corpses clutching rosaries are on display. The bodies in the Capuchin Crypt of the Holy Cross Church, in Brno, date back hundreds of years, but they were only recently rediscovered and opened to public viewing.
Google reveals 3D scanning sensors for tablets that will map your home and give you directions INSIDE a building
      California-based Google has revealed the next step in their 'Project Tango'. The ambitious 3D mapping technology is being brought to tablets (pictured).
Build more homes in the countryside to stop property boom, says Lagarde (as IMF abandons warnings on Osborne's austerity)
      IMF chief Christine Lagarde, said the Bank of England should start to put up interest rates and take measures to clamp down on risky mortgages.
      People who match with each other on the app can now send pictures visible for 24 hours to each other.
      The mums in Krasnoyarsk Krai, a city in central Russia, were among thousands who offered up their children in the races which have taken place across the country.
It's one in a mill-ion! Stunning riverside home with its own working water mill and vintage car museum could be yours (for £700,000)
       The secluded estate is set in 67 acres of woodland near South Molton, between the picturesque Dartmoor and Exmoor national parks in Devon, and features a water mill with exposed mechanics and a huge millstone. The magnificent building also features a spectacular 13,000 sq ft vintage car museum, riverside terrace and floodlit weir.
'Chaos and mass delays' as power failure grounds flights at Bristol Airport and passengers are told to wait outside terminal
      Passengers have taken to Twitter to voice their frustration as flights are delayed and the terminal fills with grounded passengers.
Air passengers delayed and 'forced to fly without luggage' from Heathrow due to Europe-wide computer problem
      The luggage system that manages baggage across Europe has experienced an IT failure which is affecting flight out of the UK.
Does the amount of make-up you wear affect how people treat you? Student tries three different looks to find out
       Brinton Parker, a 21-year-old student at the University of California, was inspired to conduct her experiment after noticing how her peers critiqued people's looks. So during a single week, she went to school wearing three very different make-up looks - bare-faced, moderate and heavy - in a bid to measure the ways it altered how people treated her.
          Katherine Jenkins ditches her usual glamorous make-up for a more natural look as she showcases her slim frame in navy mini dress
          Lucy and Lydia Mecklenburgh show off the results of their first training session together (but can't take a selfie without covering their faces)
          A look that will take you places! Michelle Keegan wears bright playsuit at photocall for holiday company
          Is that you, Cher? Lady Gaga tries to Turn Back Time in crazy curly '80s wig and retro robe suit as she apes iconic singer
          Keeping Upside Down With The Kardashians! Kris Jenner, 58, shows Kim how it's done at pole dancing class
          EXCLUSIVE: Abbey ever after! Robin Windsor and Marcus Collins reveal plans for Downton-themed wedding... eight months after Clancy set them up
          Pregnant Claire Sweeney displays growing bump in two tone mini dress as she treats herself to restaurant meal
          Handle with care! Nigella Lawson steps out looking pale and fragile... the morning after her dazed appearance at charity fundraiser
          One Direction's Louis Tomlinson to become co-chairman of Doncaster Rovers Football Club after 'finalising multi-million pound takeover deal'
          Jake Gyllenhaal and Rachel McAdams spotted sharing intimate meal in Pittsburgh as they prepare to start shooting new film Southpaw
          'That was like extreme incarceration!': Big Brother's Matthew Davies is let out of his glass box after 12 hours suspended above the garden
          'Some people hate it but I love getting up and going to the gym': Cheryl Cole reveals secrets behind music comeback physique
          BGT 2014's final will be a huge TV event... and a mindless, cynical circus: JIM SHELLEY's 12 reasons for hating Britain's Got Talent
          Rihanna cuts a forlorn figure as she parties in Hollywood wearing satin kimono jacket...  after jetting in from Paris earlier that day
          Barefaced Snooki bares her pregnant belly in skimpy bikini as she poses in series of selfies
          'Get witch or die tryin': Rapper 50 Cent sends up Angelina Jolie's evil queen character in hilarious spoof trailer MaleFiftyCent
          Cara Delevingne shows off her supermodel style in plunging printed silk jumpsuit as she attends Stella McCartney party with pal Jourdan Dunn
          It's over: Jennifer Lopez and dancer boyfriend Casper Smart 'call it quits'... amid transsexual sexting scandal
          Samantha Cameron walks hand-in-hand with veteran's family member at service to mark the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings
          She's still got it! Elle Macpherson, 50, is on trend in skinny jeans and casual sweater as she makes her way to Manchester photo-shoot
          Earning her fashion stripes: Pregnant Holly Willoughby wears comfortable T-shirt and jeans as she leaves Soho restaurant
          Now where did I put those Daisy Dukes? Jessica Simpson parades her slimmer figure in semi-sheer dress as she prepares for summer wedding
          'I had to leave my ego at the door with this' Behind the scenes with Kelly and Sharon Osbourne as they unveil new MAC range
          Only the best for his wife-to-be! George Clooney 'on the hunt for French love nest' with fiancee Amal Alamuddin... as he 'plans move into politics'
          Happy National Day, Sweden! As the Swedish Royal family embrace festivities, even three-month-old Princess Leonore is dressed to tradition
          Lara Stone shows off her cleavage and slim pins as she is joined by husband David Walliams at Terrence Higgins Trust event
          Amber Rose flashes her toned midriff in crop top as she leaves husband and son at home for dinner out
          Simply bellissimo! Chloe Green opts for effortless Italian glamour in pale pink tie- up shirt and leather skirt as she kicks off charity road trip in Venice
          Fit for Hollywood royalty! Sandra Bullock looks regal in side-split blue gown as she speaks at Jane Fonda Tribute
          They could be sisters! Sarah Michelle Gellar links arms with lookalike Isla Fisher in cute snap for Throwback Thursday
          Adam Levine 'transforming Beverly Hills bachelor pad into a lavish family home' as he prepares to marry model Behati Prinsloo
          And they're off! Fillies in fascinators and fancy frocks descend on a sunny Epsom Downs for Ladies Day at the Derby
          Girl power! Robin Wright, Jodie Foster and Taylor Schilling celebrate their huge success at Netflix Women Ruling TV event
          That looks familiar! Cindy Crawford's lookalike 14-year-old son Presley shows off the iconic mole he inherited from her
          Prison food went down well then! Chris Brown displays fuller physique as he arrives at his get out of jail free party thrown by girlfriend Karrueche Tran
          Sienna Miller and fiancé Tom Sturridge lead the way during ANOTHER celebrity-packed night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Lo(han) and behold... she's out again! Flame-haired Lindsay rocks a grungy leather jacket and skirt combo as she enjoys another night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Moss be having fun! Kate looks worse for wear in clashing prints as she hits Prince gig and Chiltern Firehouse with Nick Grimshaw
          Don't mind us! Michael Sheen and Sarah Silverman make a discreet exit after late night out at celebrity haunt Chiltern Firehouse
          Plus size label Simply Be showcases fashion-forward festival collection on leading bloggers who wear sizes 12-22
          Millie Mackintosh highlights her slender frame in snakeskin jumpsuit at Smirnoff Mix It campaign launch
          Another celebrity convert: Amber Le Bon models the world's first in-flight onesie (but don't expect to look as good as her at 30,000ft)
          It's perpetual bliss! Tim McGraw and Faith Evans put rocky marriage rumours to rest with a movie worthy on stage kiss
          'Fake boobs, sex and spirituality need to be addressed in opera!' The rugby WAG and Gary Barlow protégée who wants to shake up the classical music world
          Lovely in lace! Kate Beckinsale steals the show in strapless white dress at Macbeth opening night bash
          She must've Heard it was a fashion event! Amber steals the limelight as she displays her pins in fetching red minidress at Stella McCartney presentation
          Jesse Metcalfe takes girlfriend Cara Santana shopping in first sighting since Courtney Robertson labelled him 'pretty average' in bed
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney enters the Big Brother house... and claims she has been celibate for a year
          Girls star Gaby Hoffmann pregnant with her first baby and showing a bump at screening for her new film Obvious Child
          Now that's Fancy! Shipshape Iggy Azalea slips into green bikini for luxury yacht holiday to celebrate 24th birthday
          'She isn't waiting for a man': Dancing With The Stars pro Karina Smirnoff, 36, has frozen her eggs and 'may have a child on her own'
          Team green! Brooke Vincent's 22nd birthday celebrations continue as she hits Manchester in sexy jumpsuit flanked by pals
          Fancy meeting you here! Kim Kardashian and Hilary Duff bring their children to same parenting class in Beverly Hills
          'He's struggling!' Kris Jenner opens up about Rob Kardashian's issues, but does not deny daughter Kourtney is pregnant with third child
          Maggie Gyllenhaal wows in colourful boho chic as she holds her own at Stella McCartney's Spring 2015 presentation
          Crazy Stupid Stomach! Cheryl Cole reveals her washboard abs in low- cut crop top in stills from video for new single
          Meet first 10 Big Brother 2014 contestants: A former prostitute, a strict catholic and a one-hit wonder amongst those first in house
          Here come the girls! Daisy Lowe sports cropped blouse and flared dress trousers for night out at Scott's with fellow fashionista Alexa Chung
          Nigella Lawson lets her hair down at charity dinner... as her production company makes £2.5 million profit in a year
          Emma Roberts cuts a striking figure in a fetching red dress as she receives Maui Film Festival Shining Star Award alongside fiance Evan Peters
          When in Ibiza! TOWIE's Mario Falcone puts his washboard abs on display as he greets topless fans during stag do holiday
          They love the nightlife! Aussie star Guy Pearce plays tour guide as he takes actor  Robert Pattinson and his blonde lady friend on a trip to Sydney's top hotspots
          Doesn't she get a day off? Alesha Dixon shows off her super flat stomach as she dresses up again for UK premiere of Belle
          Kourtney Kardashian covers up 'baby bump' in baggy black sweater as she and Scott Disick grab lunch in The Hamptons
          That's better! Bradley Cooper trades questionably tight shorts for baggy cargo pants as he takes a break from the set of American Sniper
          TOWIE's Gemma Collins wears white skinny jeans with confidence after losing nearly two stone ahead of Marbella special
          'He's lost... but he's no racist': Rapper 50 Cent defends Justin Bieber following N-word storm... as singer 'takes responsibility for his actions'
          Still selfie obsessed! Kendall and Kylie Jenner pucker up for picture... despite being mobbed by fans at book signing
          'She has the perfect body!' Kris Jenner says daughter Kendall's topless modelling shots 'comes with the territory'
          Jumping into action! Emma Willis wins the viewers votes as she kicks off Big Brother 2014 in flattering white all-in-one
          Big Brother 2014 Launch: Pauline Bennet goes on a 'power trip' as a playboy bunny and devout Catholic are amongst first stars to enter the house
          Big Brother reveals first twist of the series as Pauline Bennet is told to pick who wins £5,000 and which housemate is excluded on first night
          He's scored! Phil Neville can't resist kissing bikini-clad wife Julie as family holiday in Barbados continues
          You gotta fight for your copyright! Beastie Boys awarded $1.7million after suing drink firm which used their music in commercials
          George RR Martin makes fundraising appeal to Game Of Thrones fans to name a character he will kill in upcoming novel
          Time to update the wardrobe! Chantelle Houghton wears her favourite white blazer as she goes shopping with Dolly
          Together again! Eva Longoria reunites with Desperate Housewives co-star Felicity Huffman at Jane Fonda Tribute
          Orange is the new black: Ashley Tisdale shows off her tanned and toned legs in tiny bright shorts as she enjoys shopping trip
          The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
          Rolling Stones stars Mick Jagger, Ronnie Wood and Charlie Watts visit Jerusalem's Western Wall before first ever Israel concert
          Look, I can do streetwise too! J-Lo is just Jenny From The Block as she steps out in denim after being branded a 'sell out' at Bronx homecoming 
          Diary of BGT's ditziest finalist: Lettice on auditioning hungover, her outrageous stage costumes and being loaned a £1.5million violin to perform
          The Queen lights up the Champs-Élysées: Her Majesty - in her FOURTH chic outfit of the day - has red carpet rolled out for her in Paris ahead of D-Day
          Pastel perfection: Lindsay Lohan reveals very slim pins in pale blue skinny jeans and jumper as she steps out to lunch
          Catherine Zeta-Jones and Morgan Freeman share a friendly kiss gone wrong... as she and Michael Douglas arrive at Hollywood event together
          Pins on parade! Jessica Seinfeld and Liv Tyler wear revealing short summer dresses at Stella McCartney presentation
          'She's celestial... I was born into her': Keith Urban on his divine connection with Nicole Kidman... and how her drug intervention saved him
          She's still got it! Jane Fonda, 76, wows as she accepts lifetime achievement award... days after giving sex tips on Conan O'Brien
          Return Of The Jedi! Mark Hamill, 62, shows he can still handle a Lightsaber during visit to Disney World 37 years after first playing Luke Skywalker
          'You don't always have to be naked!' TLC slam Rihanna for using sex to sell records saying it's the easy way to get to the top in the music industry
          Justin Bieber has been 'non-stop crying' after two videos surface showing him singing vile racial slurs at the age of 14
          Escorted by her Goodfella! Robert De Niro's wife Grace Hightower shines in blue dress at documentary premiere in New York
          A cause close to her heart: Demi Lovato speaks about her own personal struggles during mental health event
          Pregnant Jessica-Jane Clement shows off her growing baby bump as she takes her dogs for a leisurely walk
          'People don't want them here': Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian continue to annoy Hamptons locals with 'outrageous filming demands'
          Lupita Nyong'o to star in and produce big screen adaptation of award-winning novel Americanah
          I'll be back... after my cigar break: Arnold Schwarzenegger takes things slowly as he has a sly puff on set of Terminator: Genesis
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she had been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida - ending a 20-year scam in which she stole £144,000
       Janet Curtis, 64, top right, from Clacton, Essex, said her rheumatoid arthritis meant she could barely walk more than a few yards, and left her needing 24-hour live-in care. But fraud investigators found video footage showing her water-skiing on holiday in Florida, left, walking round theme parks and swimming. Curtis, pictured outside Ipswich Crown Court yesterday, bottom right, admitted nine benefits fraud charges and was ordered to repay the money, and given a curfew and 18-month suspended prison sentence.
Moment benefits cheat who claimed she'd been left wheelchair-bound by arthritis was filmed water-skiing in Florida ending 20 year scam in which she stole £144,000
Germans complain British tourists are too loud and all too often drunk (but at least we're not as bad as the Russians)
      British tourists are second only to Russians when it comes to nationalities Germans dislike most when on holiday.
Sales of widescreen TVs boom ahead of World Cup as Tesco gears up for the big event by getting extra nuts in
      Tesco said TV sales have almost doubled ahead of the event, while John Lewis reported a 47 per cent jump in sales in its vision department.
      Labour MP Stella Creasy says women will have to ‘breed for Britain’ if immigration is restricted - and she has a point, writes RICHARD LITTLEJOHN.
Father who has been hiccupping for three years is devastated to be told he could have condition for LIFE
      Daniel Clavin (pictured with his wife, Susan), 38, from County Roscommon, has been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and believes the condition is responsible for his hiccups.
Father who has been hiccupping for three years is devastated to be told he could have condition for LIFE
Fancy hosting the next Olympics? Ultimate sporting mansion comes with golf course, climbing wall, tennis and badminton courts, pool, shooting range and even a lake (but it'll cost you £7million)
       The country estate near Exeter, Devon is set in 30 acres that include a golf course, tennis courts, beach volleyball court, archery and hockey facilities and a lake. And with a badminton court, squash court, climbing walls, 10-metre swimming pool, gymnasium and table tennis and snooker rooms inside, some have suggested its new owner could host their own mini-Olympics.
Customers at Coutts in line for compensation as Queen's bank launches probe into 'unsuitable' investment advice
      The review will conclude next year and could result in investors seeing the value of their portfolios adjusted or receiving compensation for any financial loss.
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
      The Jet 2 flight LS516 started to rapidly descend just an hour after departing from Paphos, Cyprus, to Newcastle last night.
'I thought we were crash landing': Terror for British passengers as Jet 2 flight from Cyprus makes emergency landing after loss of cabin pressure
From Londoners praying to New Yorkers using smartphones on the loo: Ikea survey reveals morning habits of major cities
      The Swedish furniture giant has published a new study called Life At Home which looks at the morning habits of residents in Berlin, London, Moscow, Mumbai, New York, Shanghai and Stockholm.
'It's time for the people to speak': Aunt of Spain’s new Queen Letizia tweets her followers calling for a Republic
      Henar Ortiz Alvarez, the aunt of future queen Letizia Ortiz, made her feelings known on Twitter tweeting: It's time for the people to speak...'
The Apple(by) doesn't fall far from the tree! Thousands of travellers soak up the sun during day two of annual horse fair in Cumbria
       Travellers and tourists made the most of the sun at the traditional Appleby Horse Fair in Cumbria's Eden Valley today, where 10,000 gipsies and 30,000 visitors flocked to enjoy the event, the largest of its kind in Europe. Today a father and son stripped off to enjoy the festivities, right, while a young woman drove a pony and trap, left. Travellers come from all over the world to meet friends, do business, and most importantly, trade horses.
      But researchers at the University of Pittsburgh found a man's consumption of alcohol had no influence on their daughter's drinking habits.
Talking about alcohol can make you as aggressive as drinking it: Words such as 'beer' and 'wine' cause people to be hostile
      University of Kent conducted a study in which students were exposed to either alcohol, or non-alcohol-related words. Those in the first group were more aggressive when given feedback on an essay.
Restaurant rage: Living in an area with lots of fast food stores can make you impatient and unable to savour things, researchers warn
      Toronto researchers say just the presence of the chains was enough to cause people to struggle to slow down and savour things.
The transforming desk that moves up and down to keep you fit - and can even track how much exercise you get at the office
      The $3,900 Stir Kinect desk has a motor to raise and lower itself, converting it into a standing desk or a traditional desk.
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: How unconventional 25-year marriage to first wife inspired world's greatest living scientist... and a movie
      Eddie Redmayne had books on Albert Einstein in his dressing room when he took on the part of Professor Stephen Hawking for a film about the physicist's 25-year love affair with his first wife, writes BAZ BAMIGBOYE.
The love story that helped Hawking reach for the stars: Eddie Redmayne to star in provocative film about physicist's 25-year marriage to first wife
'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die': New book reveals Roman Polanski's private memories of wife Sharon Tate, slaughtered by Charles Manson's 'Family' when she was pregnant
      Sharon Tate's sister Debra has compiled a book of exclusive photographs and memories dedicated to the actress from her husband Roman Polanski.
Sword-wielding Sikhs clash at India's Golden Temple during prayers to mark the deadly 1984 military assault at Amritsar
       At least six people were injured as dozens of Sikh radicals clashed with supporters of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC) at the Golden Temple, in Amritsar. It is understood the scuffle erupted over who would speak first at the service, held to remember victims of government offensive Operation Blue Star that left hundreds dead on June 6, 1984.
'Stabby, stab, stab': Two US girls, 12, who knifed schoolmate 19 times used code words to plan horrific 'Slender Man' attack
      A police document compiled soon after the stabbing in Waukesha, Wisconsin, revealed that when Morgan Geyser and Anissa Weier discussed the attack, they would use the word 'cracker' to describe a knife or killing.
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at US university, killing one and wounding three
      Students at Seattle Pacific University say Jon Meis saved countless lives when he sprang into action as the shooter stopped to reload his weapon.
Extravagant hen dos now cost guests so much they rival the amount spent on attending the actual wedding!
      Gone are the days of a knees-up down the pub as the average cost of attending a hen do has rocketed and often involves a trip abroad.
New obesity jab could be available within two years after scientists discover hormone that helps the body burn fat
      Researchers at Havard Medical School and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in the U.S. have found a new hormone, they believe could provide the key to treating obesity and diabetes.
Shot twice, stuffed in a sack and dumped in a canal... but Pakistani girl, 18, SURVIVES botched 'honour killing' carried out by her own family for marrying the man she loved
       Saba Maqsood (pictured) was attacked by her father, uncle, brother and aunt before she was tossed into the canal, said Ali Akbar, a spokesman for police in Hafizabad, Punjab province. It comes just a week-and-a-half after the broad daylight 'honour killing' of another woman in a city centre drew worldwide condemnation. Mr Akbar told Reuters that the most recent case was also 'an honour-related incident'. 'The victim, Saba ... married her neighbour Muhammad Qaiser for love five days ago against the wishes of her family,' he said.
Woman, 50, who set up the rape of underage teenage girl by landlord to pay off debts is jailed for eight years
      Muriel Coleman, of Stanley, Durham, organised meetings between the vulnerable youngster and Akhtar Hassan whose family owned the house she lived in after she fell just over £1,000 behind on her rent.
Now that's a randy rodent! Male guinea pig at animal sanctuary breaks free from his cage and makes 100 females pregnant
      The two-year-old rodent - nicknamed Randy - managed to get all of the female guinea pigs at Hatton Country World, Warwickshire, pregnant before staff cottoned on to his antics.
Weak pound and high cost of living: Why retiring abroad is now branded 'a luxury' with some popular destinations even pricier than UK
      Experts warned moving abroad is 'no longer an option for the average British person' according to experts, due to rising prices in Europe.
Britons' favourite drive is the A470 through Snowdonia National Park and the Brecon Beacons (and everyone hates the M25)
      Wales and Scotland topped the poll for the best UK roads, followed by the north of England, but the south has most of the worst roads in Britain.
Don't look down! World's tallest tower will feature an elevator that travels at 32 feet a SECOND when it opens in 2018
The Kingdom Tower in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia will feature the world's fastest double-decker elevator which will let visitors travel over 2,165ft (660metres) in one go. It will ascend the mighty skyscraper at 32ft (10 metres) a second. The lift will use high-tech carbon fibre cables, and this UltraRope technology is lighter than conventional steel cable.
Masked rapist, 67, who attacked 100 women over 30 years is finally caught after woman fights him off in Moscow park
      Valery Makarenkov prowled the streets and parks of capital Moscow preying on women in a reign of terror that spanned more than 30 years.
Would YOU eat it? Seaside parlour creates battered fish and chip flavoured ice cream - complete with mushy peas
      Teare Wood's Ice Cream Parlour, in Whitby, North Yorkshire, has combined the traditional holiday tastes to tempt tourists.
      Research published in the journal The Obstetrician and Gynaecologist shows a small percentage of headaches were caused by potentially life-threatening neurological conditions.
Supermarkets cut 2p off a litre of diesel as wholesale price drops finally filter through to motorists
      Three of Britain’s biggest supermarkets are chopping 2p a litre off diesel prices at the pumps tomorrow morning, days after criticism from a motoring organisation.
China outrage after toddler, 2, is pictured smoking in the street like an 'old pro' as people stand back and laugh
      The footage appears to show the child in a street in China puffing on the cigarette and despite passing adults, nobody attempts to take the cigarette away. Passers-by can be heard laughing as the little boy smoke the cigarette and it has sparked fresh debate about the scale of China's tobacco problem, with around 30 per cent of the country's population having the habit.
Ex-boyfriend murdered hairdresser by stabbing her 14 times at salon in front of horrified colleagues after they split up
       Asher Maslin, left, 22, stabbed 20-year-old Hollie Gazzard, right, 14 times as she worked at Fringe Benefits and La Bella Beauty salon, inset, in front of horrified bystanders in Gloucester city centre. Maslin purchased a knife before heading to the salon after the pair had separated. He pleaded guilty to the killing during a hearing at Bristol Crown Court and he has been told to expect a life sentence later this month.
Ex-boyfriend murdered hairdresser stabbing her 14 times at salon in front of horrified colleagues after they split up
Flight of a lifetime! 130 tickets go on sale to fly alongside Lancaster bomber that's in UK for last time - but it will set you back £2,150
      The Lancaster will be in the UK, flying from Canada to England, for four days, arriving on August 8, making the 18-hour trip for the first and final time.
The Best Night Ever! Woman, 28, goes into labour at One Direction concert - and nearly names him Harry in honour of Mr. Styles
      Sarah Turnbull, 28, from Glebe in Washington, County Durham, was 39 weeks pregnant when her waters broke during One Direction's gig in Sunderland.
Two people rescued by police after barricading themselves in a bedroom because they were scared of their dog Fluffy
      The dog owners blocked themselves in their home in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, after becoming frightened of their Staffordshire bull terrier, Fluffy (pictured).
Motorcyclist rushed to hospital and bystanders injured by flying debris after crash with a police car
      The motorcyclist suffered left head and leg injuries in the crash at around 1.20pm on the Cotton Street junction with Poplar High Street, in Poplar, east London.
Submarines on Titan and giant nets to capture asteroids: Nasa unveils futuristic designs that could help explore new worlds
       Nasa has unveiled 12 proposals for next-gen exploration technologies in Washington, including a mission to bag an asteroid (illustration left), a submarine in Titan's largest sea (top right) and a spacecraft that could travel from the sun to Neptune in a year (bottom right). These will each receive $100,000 of funding for study over 18 months.
World's biggest tumour weighing 30lbs and the size of a watermelon is removed from the uterus of Indian woman
      WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT: Surgeons in the city of Chennai spent three-and-a-half hours removing the giant uterine tumour, which could have been growing for two years.
      When hungry, people were found to find a wider range of body shapes attractive and were more likely to be attracted to bigger people.
      Researchers from the National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA) in the U.S. say the damaging effects remain even if a person stops smoking cannabis in adulthood.
      The footage, captured on the cyclist's GoPro helmet camera shows the confrontation in a Dublin street, which sees the driver threaten to 'run over' the cyclist.
This is how you catfight, son! Father teaches his kittens the best way to pack a punch when he sees how terrible they are at brawling
       A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video shot in an unknown location that proves boys will be boys no matter the species. The YouTube clip from user kamzer opens with two very young kitten siblings wrestling on a kitchen counter. Suddenly their papa cat peeps up from the floor below and before they can purr 'TKO,' their dad is in the mix teaching them a proper left hook.
So you think you can dance? Two kittens wow with their perfectly synchronized groove to hip hop track
      The cats were filmed at the home of Hayley Markham and Andrew Kerr in Virginia, as they danced to DJ Snake and Lil Jon's 2013 club sensation Turn Down For What.
Killed by a single punch: Thug admits killing pensioner with a single blow after 'scuffle' outside pub
      Sean Sillet, 20, pictured, pleaded guilty the manslaughter of Kenneth Brough, 65, outside the Beehive in Newcastle's Bigg Market on January 28.
Girlfriend of Camilla's tragic brother Mark Shand leads tributes to him at fundraiser for endangered elephants held in his memory
      More than 600 guests attended the evening in London hosted by Mr Shand's nephew Ben Elliot, Elephant Family’s CEO and Mr Shand's former girlfriend Ruth Powys as well as Sotheby’s Chairman Henry Wyndham.
Terrifying moment motorist gets mobbed by dozens of drunk Frenchmen who jump up and down on her car after spilling out of BMX festival
      Dozens of drunk and overexcited extreme sports fans brought an area of central Montpellier, France, to a standstill last night after spilling out of the city's famous FISE festival and attacking cars that stood in their way.
Filthy fish and chip shop shut down after dead mice were found rotting while staff cooked meals and droppings were found in spice mix
       Health inspectors investigating an Oldham takeaway discovered rotting mice decaying on a glue trap, left, with a deep fat frying covered in grease and fat, top right, and work surfaces used for preparing food covered in mouse droppings, a court has heard. Owner Sarfaz Rouf told magistrates that he did not have a 'vast knowledge' of food hygiene. Him and Iram Bibi were fined just £250 each and the business has now closed.
      One man gets through the front door to find his Old English Sheepdog reared on its back legs and happily plants a kiss on its head.
How the moon was made: Researchers reveal new evidence Earth was hit by giant object as big as Mars 4.5 billion years ago
      German researchers say their analysis of Apollo moon rocks rocks show Earth was hit by a huge object called 'Theta' which led to the moon's formation.
Did HUMANS wipe out the woolly mammoth? Study finds a direct link between hunting and the extinction of large Ice Age animals
      Researchers at Aarhus University in Denmark came to the conclusion after looking at the pattern of extinctions for 177 species between 132,000 years and 1,000 years ago.
Sky-high WiFi will soon be available across Europe: Passengers on British Airways flights to get internet within three years
      Internet will be soon be available on British Airways flights (pictured) across Europe. The service will be provided by London-based satellite operator Inmarsat.
At last - something to get pedestrians out of the way when you're running: Couple design a 'run bell' to clear the path ahead
       The Runbell is a small brass bell that can be worn on the fingers and rung when slow-paced walkers get in your way. It weighs just 30g and will be sold for about £12. The creators say the design was based on other items of popular jewellery and that it comes in different styles for men and women.
My Big Fat Gypsy horse fair: Traditional gathering begins in Appleby - and is already hit by row over 'invasion'
      A large number of traveller families have pitched cars, caravans and horse buggies on a privately owned golf course in the small market town of Appleby, Cumbria.
Tasty Terracotta Army! Food artist makes China's iconic warriors with PIZZA dough (but they won't last thousands of years)
      Annabel de Vetten created the scaled-down warriors to celebrate the opening of Pizza Express' 500th restaurant... in Beijing.
You appear to have an ad-blocker running which will prevent this page from functioning as intended. Please disable your ad-blocker or set an exception for this page.Today's hottestfashion findsSee moreRihannaWow like Rihanna in an embellished sheer dressRead more ›KarruecheWork a simple white dress into your summer wardrobeRead more ›KourtneyGo back to black in monochrome Nike trainersRead more ›MichellePut a playful spin on your wardrobe with Michelle's playsuitRead more ›
          Jaime King parades her pins in sporty cardigan and matching mini-skirt at the McDonald's World Cup party in NYC
          'I am not an opportunist!' Fan who bought Whitney Houston's mansion for $1.5m insists he will NOT open it to the public
          Christie Brinkley, 60, proves you're never too old for leather trousers as she stuns on lunch date with her son Jack
          Showing off her street style! Emmy Rossum awaits Stella McCartney presentation on the sidewalk in chic fringe dress
          Orange Is The New White! Taylor Schilling shows off toned pins in pearl-coloured dress at TheWrap's Emmy Celebration
          'Ready to rumble!' Pretty Little Liars star Tammin Sursok puckers up for the camera as she celebrates returning to work after giving birth seven months ago
          Did she use those scissors on her skirt? LeAnn Rimes sizzles in slinky white dress with thigh-high slit as she cuts ribbon to kick off CMA Music Festival
          Over already? Jennifer Lopez parties in NY with handsome rapper T.I.... as 'cheating' toy boy Casper Smart is nowhere to be seen
          Carey Mulligan and Helena Bonham Carter chant at a Votes for Women rally in first still from upcoming film Suffragette
          Are those clothes from the Thrift Shop? Macklemore and Ryan Lewis make a cool arrival in dapper attire to Sin City nightclub
          Happy to get his kit off! Robbie Williams gets help to change into his football top during preparations for SoccerAid
          One big happy family! Hilary Swank shows her maternal side as she gives her boyfriend's little girl a kiss at French Open
          'I've had a lot of therapy': Katy Perry talks about getting over exes John Mayer and Russell Brand... and how long she's gone without sex in new interview
          Ricky Gervais and longtime partner Jane Fallon attend Derek event after visiting their Muppet pals on Sesame Street
          Date night! Twilight star Ashley Greene stuns in tiny black playsuit at she takes boyfriend Paul Khoury to glitzy event in West Hollywood
          While they were teaching! Sandra Bullock makes a surprise visit to her son Louis' school as she donates goodies to the faculty
          What will Rita think? Calvin Harris parties with ANOTHER mystery woman on a night out as girlfriend Ora enjoys Mexican getaway
          Evan Rachel Wood sued for $30M after bailing on film 10 Things I Hate About Life... as rep slams lawsuit as 'preposterous' and a 'bullying tactic'
          'With you I will go': Kanye West beams as Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli serenades Kim Kardashian at their lavish Florence wedding
          Newlywed Kim Kardashian to spend up to a month shooting KUWTK spin-off in The Hamptons... but Kanye West isn't sure if he wants to join her
          Deja blue: Rosario Dawson is back in her favorite colour after wowing in that revealing gown at the Cannes Film Festival
          'I'm Sporty Spice!' Gisele Bundchen shows off washboard stomach in a bikini for cover shoot as she admits she loves to exercise
          That's her secret! Jordana Brewster shows off svelte arms pushing her son Julian along in his stroller
          The fight for $50m: Bowling For Columbine filmmaker Michael Moore claims wife of 22 years spent recklessly as they prepare for divorce trial
          Third time's the charm! Tegan Martin finally wins Miss Universe Australia - and she's from the same home town as Jennifer Hawkins!
          She's no shrinking violet! Lorde wears purple lipstick from her new Mac collection during bewitching performance in London
          Looking scarily good! Camilla Belle wears a skull print T-shirt as she arrives at LAX after South America trip
          You'll never take King's Landing with THAT! Game Of Thrones star Kit Harington poses with plastic dragon at Universal Studios
          'To go from hating the way I look to a centerfold is a profound honour': Man V. Food host Adam Richmand poses NAKED following 70lb weightloss
          Shane Warne caught kissing and sharing intimate embrace with Playboy cover girl Emily Scott... but he STILL insists he's single
          Boho babe: Alessandra Ambrosio forgoes make-up as she runs errands in LA clad in a pretty lilac tie-dye maxi-dress
          King Kevin rules supreme: Spacey is magnificent in one-man show Clarence Darrow, writes QUENTIN LETTS
          BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Let's hear it for the Scottsboro Boys! Brandon Victor Dixon to star in West End production of extraordinary show
          Poetic, haunting... these D-Day letters moved me to tears: CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV
          A hit and miss comedy: There are funny moments, but Jump Street's daft cops fail to reach the hilarious heights of their first film
          This won't do Grace any favours: BRIAN VINER reviews Nicole Kidman's latest film Grace of Monaco
          'I shall remain faithful to her until the day I die:' Roman Polanski shares private memories of wife Sharon Tate in new book on pregnant beauty's tragic life
          Hollywood's $800 facial: The secret to Angelina Jolie's glowing skin combines microdermabrasion, laser and a peel
          It's DJ Delta! The Voice Kids coach Goodrem jets home from Hollywood with an edgy new look complete with ripped jeans and shiny headphones
          She's certainly a good advertisement! US TV presenter Maria Menounos promotes her diet and fitness book in shiny black shorts in New York City
          'I gave him every bit of advice but now it's up to him': Usher opens up about his friend Justin Bieber's spiral out of control
          It's ON Again! Spring Breakers star Ashley Benson steps out with her beau Ryan Good wearing a bright playsuit
          Put away the bowl! Cindy Crawford reveals her stunning mane of hair was not always her crowning glory in cute flashback photo
          'I almost killed Tom Cruise!' Emily Blunt recalls terrifying moment she nearly crashed a car while shooting scenes for Edge Of Tomorrow
          Still a sex symbol! Raquel Welch, 73, looks decades younger in white jeans and yellow jacket while out to dinner
          Her own best ad! Kate Hudson displays her washboard abs as she models for fitness line... and shares her workout motivation
          Angela Simmons displays toned physique in sexy summery outfit as she hints at new venture following power lunch with her 'fitness gurus'
          The Devil Wears...white! Meryl Streep goes sinister as the Chief Elder of a dystopian society in The Giver
          Nature girl! Vanessa Hudgens shows off her toned tummy in black crop top and shorts during a vigorous hillside hike
          'I'd be open to doing more True Detective': Matthew McConaughey expresses interest in reprising Rust Cohle TV role
          Pretty as a picture! Jessica Alba shows her passion for prints while leaving the studio with takeout lunch
          That's where she gets it from! Leggy Gigi Hadid is chic in short metallic frock while out with her stylish mother Yolanda Foster
          Natalie Portman is fresh-faced and flawless as she touches down at LAX with husband Benjamin Millepied and their adorable son Aleph
          Good news for Miley Cyrus as police 'arrest two people in their 20s' in connection with star's stolen $100k Maserati
          Hot mama! Country singer Jessie James shows off her trim post-baby body at CMT Awards... just three months after giving birth
          Don't mention the outfit! Even Lena Dunham has 'no comment' over her unflattering ensemble as she enjoys a stroll in New York
          'Superhero workout!' Arrow's Stephen Amell shows off his impressive 'parkour' skills on military inspired obstacle course
          Strong sensitive types! Insurgent's Theo James brings Fault In Their Stars book to the gym while Miles Teller pumps some iron
          Farrah Abraham reveals she's writing a Christian parenting book... despite admitting she needs 'space' from her four-year-old and waxes child's eyebrows
          She's glowing: Holly Willoughby shows off growing bump in navy skater dress as she films This Morning segment
          She's anything but PLANE! Carol Vorderman shows off her pins in hot pink and black dress at photocall after jetting herself back from awards show
          'We've got a Christmas bun in the oven! Coronation Street's Paula Lane announces first pregnancy with childhood sweetheart Tom Shaw on Twitter
          'I'm going to get stick for this': Amy Willerton posts bikini selfie... but worries about how her fans will react
          'Squats are the key! Even 10 make me feel better': Victoria's Secret Angel Candice Swanepoel reveals secrets behind that body
          The lady is a vamp! Rihanna unleashes her rock chick side in a skimpy leather two-piece and fierce lace-up heels for Paris charity event
          Explicit content! Lindsay Lohan can't even manage a supporting role in sheer logo top... but at least gives parental advisory warning
          A leggy Lily Allen makes rare appearance with husband Sam Cooper for date night at Chiltern Firehouse
          Think pink! Alex Gerrard shows off her toned figure and glowing tan in bubblegum-hued workout gear
          She's well-heeled: BGT star Lettice Rowbotham whips off her shoes as she heads to BBC studios
          Russell Brand DEFENDS Justin Bieber for making vile racial slurs at the age of 14... claiming he should be 'let off' because it was 'ages ago'
          Whatever the leather: New mum Caprice shows off her post-pregnancy figure in skin-tight leather skirt and top
          Welcome to the strip: Danielle Lloyd and husband Jamie O'Hara jet into Vegas for a holiday with friends
          Not a bad consolation prize! Michael Carrick puts World Cup woes behind him as he and wife Lisa strip to their swimwear to top up their tans in Ibiza
          Graham Norton saves Amanda Holden from revealing more than she intended while doing a handstand in LBD
          It's a very Vogue birthday: Model Bambi Norwood-Blyth celebrates by shooting for fashion magazine with designer husband Dan Single
          J-Wow! Jennifer Lopez doesn't leave much to the imagination as she strips down to sexy latex stockings and suspenders to play first-ever hometown gig
          J.Lo revisits the Bronx and THAT Versace dress for homecoming show... after transsexual bikini model linked to Casper Smart speaks out
          Feeling like a million dollars! Matchmaker Patti Stanger, 53, wears plunging swimsuit as she celebrates her birthday with toyboy fiancé
          Do Ya Thang! Rihanna is sexy in a silky black miniskirt and matching tuxedo jacket as she goes for dinner in Paris
          Here comes the bride! Adam Levine to marry model Behati Prinsloo in 'intimate Mexican ceremony' on July 19
          Politics is the new black: AnnaLynne McCord votes for her spiritual guru as congressional candidate... but she comes in fourth
          She can't resist her man in uniform! Suki Waterhouse gets to grips with Bradley Cooper on set of American Sniper
          Million dollar smile! Victoria Justice beams in an unusual wrap dress at the Spent: Looking For Change premiere
          Strong after 22 years! Woody Allen strolls through Central Park with Soon-Yi Previn... as he prepares to shoot Emma Stone movie in Rhode Island
          Mama June doesn't let her 'forklift foot' get in the way of a family pool day as she goes swimming in socks
          Ramona Singer holds hands with husband Mario on romantic movie date... after firing off legal warning to his mistress over 'lewd messages'
          'Millie Mackintosh and Abbey Clancy already have their eyes on a few pieces': Julien Macdonald unveils glamorous beachwear range for Matalan
          She's stopping traffic: Elsa Pataky wears striking lime green reptilian dress to take over the streets of Madrid for fashion shoot
          Ivana Trump sells her Palm Beach mansion for $18 million - more than FOUR TIMES what she paid for it in 1994
          Table for three! Pregnant Julia Carey displays subtle baby bump as she steps out for dinner with James Corden at Chiltern Firehouse
          Beyonce shows off her amazing legs in pink mini dress as she has a date night with Jay Z in New York
          Former prostitute Helen Wood who had threesome with Wayne Rooney set to reveal sex secrets in Big Brother house
          Watch your tan-line! Abbey Clancy wows in a daring cut-out panel swimsuit as she holidays in Hawaii with Peter Crouch
          Now that's a game plan! Gisele Bundchen and Tom Brady's sprawling new Boston mansion takes shape
          Your slip is showing! Leggy Chrissy Teigen heats up New York in black lace lingerie and white knit sweater while heading to dinner
          Looking slinky! Casey Batchelor struts in shiny snakeskin leggings and low-cut top as she models her new fashion collection
          She's got it! Eliza Doolittle is a triumph in plunging leather crop-top and sporty silk trousers at The Other Ball
          'There's quite a bit of blood': The 911 call made after The Brady Bunch housekeeper Ann B Davis has fatal fall is released
          Does she EVER stay in? As Princess Beatrice dines at Roka, we bring you the hotspot-hopping royal's guide to London's smartest restaurants
          From Iceland to ice cool: Sexiest Woman of All Time Rachel Stevens swaps supermarket chic for a semi-sheer top and smart tailoring
          Hawaii-five-WHOAH!! Emma Roberts bares her toned tum in daring crop top... while Lupita Nyong'o is a vision in green at the Maui Film Festival opening 
          Is this Jen 2.0? Meet the 2014 Miss Universe Australia finalist who works as Jennifer Hawkins' body double - and she's from her home town!
Thor, god of the lie-in! 'Talking' puppy growls 'no' at his owner as he's told to get out of bed at 3:30am
       Thor the dog from Birmingham, Michigan, is seen in a video peacefully lying in bed before being woken up at 3.30am. But showing that it's not just humans who struggle in the morning, the little pup repeatedly growls what sounds like 'no' as he refuses to get up.
Is that an Old Master painting - or Beyonce’s Master Cleanse? Photographer recreates celebrity diets as still lifes
      Italian Dan Bannino reproduced the diets of Gwyneth Paltrow, Kate Moss, Beyonce Knowles, Simon Cowell, and even King Henry VIII.
Fizzy drinks 'loaded with harmful sugars could increase the risk of developing diabetes, cardiovascular and liver disease'
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say the drinks contain more fructose, which is converted to fat in the liver, than people realise.
       The rhino was part of a relocation programme in the Zululand region of South Africa, which aims to keep the animals safe. The images of its dramatic airlift, which was carried out by KZN Wildlife Game Capture, were taken by photographer Em Gatland, who described witnessing the transfer as surreal and a mixture of emotion.
China may have banned Tiananmen Square memorial but the rest of Asia remembers: From Hong Kong to Taiwan thousands hold vigil on 25th anniversary of Beijing massacre
Dont come back, next time you wont get out alive: Talibans taunt as they released deserter POW Bowe revealed in propaganda video
Pictured: Grinning father of famous model moments after he executed his neighbour and minutes before he 'swallowed the gun' in dramatic standoff with Chinese SAS
Suicidal Chinese mother leaps from third floor balcony after her daughter refused to break up with 'lazy' boyfriend (but miraculously survives)
Hundreds of pro-Russian rebels killed in fierce attack by Ukrainian forces as Obama tells Nato allies 'you'll never be alone'
Thousands of anti-monarchist protesters take to streets of Spain calling for a republic after King Juan Carlos abdicates after 39 years
Woolly jumpers, wide collared jackets and unflattering skirts ... the medal for worst Commonwealth Games uniforms goes to Australia
King Juan Carlos of Spain in shock abdication after 40 years as his son and glamourous ex-newsreader wife take on challenge of leading Spain out of the doldrums
Spain harbours highest number of expat benefit cheats with more than 700 believed to be scamming the system while soaking up the sun
Mother of British backpacker missing in Malaysian jungle for six days arrives in country 'to be here when they find him'
Come here you big BULLy! Chinese wrestlers get to grips with giant calves in man over beast competition
China disgust at woman who beheads cat and posts image online - and then blames 'alcohol and domestic misfortune'
Bodies of five French soldiers from WWI found alongside their wallets, rifles and a figurine of the Virgin Mary in French wood 100 years after they were killed
Mother in tears after being called a 'slut' by two customers for breastfeeding her son in Costa coffee
Farage, hand in hand with a blonde travel rep at 3.42am in Malta: But married Ukip leader dismisses claims of...
Obama pleads with Scotland to vote 'No' to independence AND for Britain to stay in the European Union
Brother of Sudanese woman facing death penalty for ‘abandoning her Islamic faith’ by marrying a Christian says...
Home of the free! Father paints his house with stars and stripes in protest at local officials who tried to...
Pictured: The 'hero student' who stopped a shotgun-wielding killer after he opened fire at Seattle Pacific...
'I'm done': 'Rambo' killer finally SURRENDERS in woman's front yard after going on shooting rampage that left...
'This tiny sliver of land… changed the course of human history': Obama leads tributes to D-Day heroes as world...
A cat dad eager to teach his two kittens how to fight appears in an hysterical video, that proves boys will be boys no...
Emotional moment US marine is reunited with bomb-sniffing dog who kept him safe in Afghanistan after they were separated four years ago without saying goodbye
       U.S. Marine Corps veteran Corporal Jeff DeYoung of Muskegon, Michigan worked with bomb-sniffing black Lab Cena until April 2010. That's when DeYoung went home to Michigan and he's since started a family but never forgot about his best canine friend. Their emotional reunion took place Thursday at the Detroit airport thanks to a non-profit group called Mission K9 Rescue.
      Researchers at the University of Southern California say fasting could be particularly beneficial for people whose immune systems have been damaged by chemotherapy.
Couples that sleep together, stay together: Spouses are more likely to slumber in sync if the wife is satisfied with their marriage
      New study showS that overall synchrony in sleep-wake schedules among couples was higher when the woman was happier in the relationship.
Who left the hand-brake off? Investigation under way after Ryanair plane rolls backwards and crashes into airport building, destroying tail wing
      The force of the impact tore apart the rear stabiliser of the £72m Boeing 737 at Rome Ciampino Airport yesterday.
Malaysian police refuse to rule out foul play in case of missing backpacker Gareth Huntley as his family await autopsy to determine whether shirtless body found in Malaysian jungle pond is him
      Mr Huntley's mother Janet Southwell, who arrived in Malaysia on Monday was pictured this morning outside Tengku Ampuan Afzan Hospital in Kuantan with his girlfriend Kit Natariga.
Shocking moment one-armed Russian motorist starts furious road rage punch-up with car behind... but then ends up getting badly beaten
       A one-armed Russian man (circled, top left) has been filmed starting a road rage fight in Moscow, but quickly has the tables turned on him as he is kicked in the head and has his false arm pulled off (bottom right). Nikita Korolev, 43, and Kiril Stepanov, 45, started punching and kicking the occupants of a car behind them through the open windows after the driver refused to back up, but ended up being beaten themselves.
          Follow Sportsmail's coverage of the French Open, as Andy Murray takes on Rafael Nadal in the semi-finals
          Stuart Pearce insists Everton midfielder Ross Barkley should not be in Brazil this summer at all
          Robin van Persie has declared himself 100 per cent fit for the World Cup as the Dutch squad arrived in Rio
          The Azzurri hit a hiccup ahead of the World Cup when they realised their plane was too small
          Aston Villa have sounded out Rio Ferdinand over a possible move to Villa Park - but the defender is thought to favour Spurs
          Jose Mourinho has admitted Chelsea are interested in signing the former Arsenal captain from Barcelona 
=======================================================
David Bowie is rock’s foremost futurist and a genre-bending pioneer, chameleon, and transformer. Throughout his solo career and in his alliances with other artists - including Lou Reed, Iggy Pop, Brian Eno and Nine Inch Nails - Bowie has positioned himself on the cutting edge of rock and roll. His innovations have created or furthered several major trends in rock and roll, including glam-rock, art-rock and the very notion of the self-mythologized, larger-than-life rock star.
The London-born Bowie entered the music scene via a series of short-lived British bands in the mid-Sixties – among them, the Manish Boys and the Lower Third - before embarking on a solo career in 1966. He released the moody, existential “Space Oddity” in 1969 – the year America landed a man on the moon. On the strength of such early albums as Man of Words, Man of Music and The Man Who Sold the World, Bowie became a cult figure to rock fans looking for something new and challenging to fill the post-Sixties void. A driven, polymorphic artist who breaks all the molds, Bowie has attracted attention from the beginning for his frequent, fascinating changes of guise and the high quality of his unpredictable music. “I’m the last one to understand the material I write,” Bowie once protested. But it surely has always had something to do with imagining and moving forward into the future.
Bowie’s breakthrough came with The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars (1972), a thoroughly modern album that promulgated the notion of rock star as space alien. Bowie melded rock with theater, creating the provocative character and alter ego “Ziggy Stardust.” Flirting with decadence and embracing theatricality like no rock and roller before him, Bowie erupted from cult figure to rock icon in Ziggy’s wake. He dressed the part of the flamboyant “starman,” affecting costumes that fused British mod and Japanese kabuki styles. Rainbow-hued knit body suits, metallic bomber jackets, space-samurai outfits, white satin kimonos, and see-through mesh tops were among the fanciful threads worn by Bowie in the guise of Ziggy Stardust and his successor, the paranoid androgyne Aladdin Sane. Boasting sharp, propulsive music from the Spiders from Mars – which included the late guitarist Mick Ronson –The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars and its followup, Aladdin Sane, heralded a paradigm shift in the early Seventies. Bowie also displayed his affection for the mod “London underground” of the mid-to-late Sixties with Pin-Ups, an album of cover songs by the Pretty Things, Pink Floyd, Them and other hitmakers of the day.
During the Seventies, Bowie pioneered and embodied the notion of rock style. For much of the decade he projected a calculating aloofness, and many wondered where the characters ended and the “real Bowie” began. “Bowie’s conceit is to treat human feeling as technology and technology as feeling,” wrote music critic Tom Carson. In the mid-to-late Seventies, however, Bowie took refuge from fame – and a drug problem – in Berlin, where he embarked on a fruitful union with producer Brian Eno (though the albums were produced by Tony Visconti) that resulted in the celebrated “Berlin trilogy”: three largely experimental, atmospheric albums on which Bowie reinvented himself yet again. With Low, “Heroes” and Lodger, Bowie peeled away his masks while creating music that anticipated the ambient and industrial soundscapes of the coming decades.
In 1980, Bowie released Scary Monsters, which summed up and closed the door on the previous decade. The album even cast a final nod to Bowie’s “Major Tom” character from “Space Oddity” with the sequel “Ashes to Ashes.” Moving into theater, Bowie worked on Broadway for four months in 1980, garnering rave reviews for his portrayal of John Merrick in the lead role of The Elephant Man. Musically, Bowie’s commercial masterstroke came in 1983 with Let’s Dance, an accessible set of modern-minded dance music that gave Bowie his second #1 hit with the brassy, swaggering title track, as well as “China Girl” (#10) and “Modern Love” (#14). That same year, the D.A. Pennebaker-produced film documentary of Bowie’s final tour from the Ziggy days, entitled Ziggy Stardust/The Motion Picture, was released.
Admittedly, Bowie didn’t dominate and define the Eighties as he did the Seventies. However, he released intermittent albums (Tonight in 1984, Never Let Me Down in 1987) and collaborated with the varied likes of Queen, Mick Jagger, Bing Crosby and the Pat Metheny Band while further pursuing his lifelong interest in alternate media, including film, theater and painting. In 1989, the Ryko label reissued Bowie’s back catalog – from Space Oddity through Scary Monsters, as well as singles compilations and a spectacular box set, Sound + Vision. Bowie supported the reissue program with the Sound + Vision Tour, during which he performed a largely retrospective repertoire for what he claimed would be the last time. He also formed a band, Tin Machine, submerging his ego as an equal member of this edgy, hard-rocking entity. Tin Machine didn’t enjoy the commercial or critical acclaim of Bowie’s solo works, but the very idea of Bowie as a bandmate spoke intriguingly of his more human-scaled prerogatives at middle age.
During the Nineties, Bowie returned to pushing the envelope as never before while also moving into the most settled phase of his personal life. On April 24th 1992, Bowie married the Somalian model Iman at a civil ceremony in Lausanne, Switzerland. He commemorated the event with “The Wedding,” from the 1993 album Black Tie White Noise. Subsequently, Bowie embarked on a startlingly ambitious and uncompromising series of albums. The unsettling Outside (1995) was a self-described “non-linear Gothic Drama Hyper-cycle” based on characters from a Bowie short story.  The accompanying tour found him joined by the extremist electronic act Nine Inch Nails. In 1997, Bowie released Earthling, an album that showed the influence of the underground dance-music scene on Bowie (and vice versa). A year later, he was the first rock star to become Internet Service Provider (ISP). The autobiographical, angst-filled ‘hours...’ appeared in 1999, providing mortal musings from Bowie on the eve of the new millennium.
Bowie has remained an important, cutting-edge artist into the 21st Century. In October 2001, he opened the Concert for New York City, a tribute to the victims of the September 11 attacks. The following year, he released the album Heathen. In 2006, he received a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. On January 8, 2013, Bowie released his first single in a decade, "Where Are We Now?," coinciding with his 66th birthday. 
As critic Brad Filicky wrote, “Bowie has become known as a musical chameleon, changing and dictating trends as much as he has altered his style to fit, influencing fashion and pop culture.”
