=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Nicole Mary Kidman, AC (born 20 June 1967) is an American born Australian actress, singer and film producer.[2] Kidman's breakthrough film role was in the 1989 thriller Dead Calm. Following several films in the early 1990s, she came to worldwide recognition for her performances in Days of Thunder (1990), Far and Away (1992), and Batman Forever (1995). She followed these with other successful films in the late 1990s. Her performance in the musical Moulin Rouge! (2001) earned her second Golden Globe Award and first Academy Award nomination for Best Actress. Her performance as Virginia Woolf in the drama film The Hours (2002) received critical acclaim and earned Kidman the Academy Award for Best Actress and Silver Bear for Best Actress at Berlin film festival.
Kidman's other notable films include To Die For (1995), Eyes Wide Shut (1999), The Others (2001), Cold Mountain (2003), Dogville (2003), The Interpreter (2005) and Australia (2008). Her performances in Birth (2004) and The Paperboy (2012) earned her Golden Globe nominations for best actress and supporting actress, respectively. Her performance in 2010's Rabbit Hole (which she also produced) earned Kidman further accolades, including a third Academy Award nomination for Best Actress. In 2012, she earned her first Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie for her role in Hemingway & Gellhorn. Kidman has been a Goodwill Ambassador for UNICEF since 1994[3] and for UNIFEM since 2006.[4] In 2006, Kidman was made a Companion of the Order of Australia,[5] and was also the highest-paid actress in the motion picture industry.[6] As a result of being born to Australian parents in Hawaii, Kidman has dual citizenship in Australia and the United States.[7] Kidman founded and owns the production company Blossom Films.
Nicole Kidman was born in Honolulu, Hawaii, while her Australian parents were temporarily in the United States on educational visas. Kidman can therefore claim citizenship in Australia and the United States.[8] Her father, Antony David Kidman, is a biochemist, clinical psychologist, and author.[9][10] Her mother, Janelle Ann (née Glenny), is a nursing instructor who edits her husband's books and was a member of the Women's Electoral Lobby. Kidman's ancestry includes Scottish and Irish.[11] At the time of Kidman's birth, her father was a graduate student at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. He soon became a visiting fellow at the National Institute of Mental Health of the United States. Opposed to the war in Vietnam, which was causing social unrest in both Australia and the United States, Kidman's parents participated in anti-war protests while they were living in Washington, D.C.[12] The family returned to Australia when Kidman was four and her parents now live on Sydney's North Shore. Kidman has a younger sister, Antonia Kidman, a journalist and TV presenter.[13]
Kidman attended Lane Cove Public School and North Sydney Girls' High School. She was enrolled in ballet at three and showed her natural talent for acting in her primary and high school years.[14] Kidman revealed she was timid as a child, saying, "I am very shy – really shy – I even had a stutter as a kid, which I slowly got over, but I still regress into that shyness. So I don't like walking into a crowded restaurant by myself; I don't like going to a party by myself."[15] In 1984, her mother was diagnosed with breast cancer, which caused Kidman to temporarily halt her education and help provide for the family by working as a massage therapist at age seventeen.[14] She studied at the Victorian College of the Arts in Melbourne, Victoria, and at the Phillip Street Theatre in Sydney, with actress and friend Naomi Watts who had attended the same high school.[14] This was followed by attending the Australian Theatre for Young People.[14] Here she took up drama, mime and performing in her teens, finding acting to be a refuge. Due to her fair skin and naturally red hair, the Australian sun forced the young Kidman to rehearse in halls of the theatre. A regular at the Phillip Street Theatre, she received both encouragement and praise to pursue acting full-time.[16]
In 1983, aged 16, Kidman made her film debut in a remake of the Australian holiday season favourite Bush Christmas.[16] By the end of 1983, she had a supporting role in the television series Five Mile Creek and began gaining popularity in the mid-1980s after appearing in several film roles, including BMX Bandits, Watch the Shadows Dance, and the romantic comedy Windrider (1986), which earned Kidman attention due to her racy scenes. Also during the decade, she appeared in several Australian productions, including the soap opera A Country Practice[17] and the miniseries Vietnam (1986).[18] She also made guest appearances on Australian television programs and TV movies. She also appeared in Sesame Street.
In 1988, Kidman appeared in Emerald City, based on the play of the same name. The Australian film earned her an Australian Film Institute for Best Supporting Actress. Kidman next starred in Dead Calm (1989) as Rae Ingram, playing the wife of a naval officer. The thriller garnered strong reviews and brought Kidman to international recognition; Variety commented: "Throughout the film, Kidman is excellent. She gives the character of Rae real tenacity and energy."[19] Meanwhile, critic Roger Ebert noted the excellent chemistry between the leads, stating, "Kidman and Zane do generate real, palpable hatred in their scenes together."[20] She followed that up with the Australian miniseries Bangkok Hilton. She next moved on to star alongside her then-boyfriend and future husband, Tom Cruise, in the 1990 auto racing film Days of Thunder, playing a young doctor who falls in love with a NASCAR driver. This was Kidman's American debut and was among the highest-grossing films of the year.[21]
In 1991, she co-starred with former classmate and friend Naomi Watts and Thandie Newton in the Australian independent film Flirting. Kidman and Watts portrayed two high school girls in this coming of age story, which won the Australian Film Institute Award for Best Film.[22] That same year, her work in the film Billy Bathgate earned Kidman her first Golden Globe Award nomination, for Best Supporting Actress. The New York Times, in its film review, called her "a beauty with, it seems, a sense of humor".[23] The following year, she and Cruise re-teamed for Ron Howard's Irish epic Far and Away (1992), which was a modest critical[24][25] and commercial[26] success. In 1993, she starred in My Life opposite Michael Keaton[27] and the thriller, Malice opposite Alec Baldwin.[28]
In 1995, Kidman appeared in her highest-grossing live-action film (as of 2011),[29] playing Dr. Chase Meridian, the damsel in distress, in the superhero film Batman Forever, opposite Val Kilmer as the film's title character. That same year Kidman appeared in Gus Van Sant's critically acclaimed To Die For, earning praise, including winning her first Golden Globe for her portrayal of murderous newscaster Suzanne Stone Maretto.[30][31] Kidman next appeared in The Portrait of a Lady (1996), based on the novel the same name, alongside, Barbara Hershey, John Malkovich and Mary-Louise Parker. The following year she appeared in the action-thriller The Peacemaker (1997) as White House nuclear expert Dr. Julia Kelly, opposite George Clooney. The film received mixed reviews but grossed some $110,000,000 worldwide.[32][33] That same year she appeared opposite Sandra Bullock in the poorly received fantasy Practical Magic as a modern-day witch.[34] Kidman returned to her work on stage the same year in the David Hare play The Blue Room, which opened in London.[35]
In 1999, Kidman reunited with then husband, Tom Cruise, to portray a married couple in Eyes Wide Shut, the final film of Stanley Kubrick. The film opened to generally positive reviews but was subject to censorship controversies due to the explicit nature of its sex scenes.[36] The film received further attention following Kubrick's death shortly before its release. After brief hiatus and a highly publicized divorce from Cruise,[37] Kidman returned to the screen to play a mail-order bride in the British-American drama Birthday Girl.[38] In 2001, Kidman appeared in two of her most critically and commercially successful films. In the first she played the cabaret actress and courtesan Satine in Baz Luhrmann's musical Moulin Rouge!, opposite Ewan McGregor. Subsequently, Kidman received her second Golden Globe Award, for Best Actress in a Motion Picture Musical or Comedy, as well as other acting awards. She also received her first Academy Award nomination, for Best Actress. Also in 2001, she had a well-received starring role in Alejandro Amenábar's Spanish horror film The Others as Grace Stewart. Grossing over $210,947,037 worldwide, the film also earned several Goya Awards award nominations, including a Best Actress nomination for Kidman. Additionally she received her second BAFTA and fifth Golden Globe nominations.[39]
In 2003, Kidman won critical praise for her portrayal of Virginia Woolf in Stephen Daldry's The Hours, which also featured Meryl Streep and Julianne Moore. Kidman wore prosthetics that were applied to her nose making her almost unrecognisable playing the author during her time in 1920s England, and her bouts with depression and mental illness while trying to write her novel, Mrs. Dalloway. The film earned positive notices and several nominations, including for an Academy Award for Best Picture. The New York Times wrote that, "Kidman tunnels like a ferret into the soul of a woman besieged by excruciating bouts of mental illness. As you watch her wrestle with the demon of depression, it is as if its torment has never been shown on the screen before. Directing her desperate, furious stare into the void, her eyes not really focusing, Ms. Kidman, in a performance of astounding bravery, evokes the savage inner war waged by a brilliant mind against a system of faulty wiring that transmits a searing, crazy static into her brain".[40]
Kidman won numerous critics' awards, including her first BAFTA, third Golden Globe, and the Academy Award for Best Actress. As the first Australian actress to win an Academy Award, Kidman made a teary acceptance speech about the importance of art, even during times of war, saying, "Why do you come to the Academy Awards when the world is in such turmoil? Because art is important. And because you believe in what you do and you want to honour that, and it is a tradition that needs to be upheld."[41] Following her Oscar win, Kidman appeared in three very different films in 2003. The first, a leading role in Dogville, by Danish director Lars von Trier, was an experimental film set on a bare soundstage. The second was an adaptation of Philip Roth's novel The Human Stain, opposite Anthony Hopkins. Her third film, Anthony Minghella's war drama Cold Mountain, was a critical and commercial success. Kidman appeared opposite Jude Law and Renée Zellweger, playing Southerner Ada Monroe, who is in love with Law's character and separated by the Civil War. TIME magazine wrote, "Kidman takes strength from Ada's plight and grows steadily, literally luminous. Her sculptural pallor gives way to warm radiance in the firelight".[42] The film garnered several award nominations and wins for its actors; Kidman received her sixth Golden Globe nomination at the 61st Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress.[43]
In 2004 she appeared in the film, Birth, which received controversy over a scene in which Kidman shares a bath with her co-star, 10-year-old Cameron Bright. At a press conference at the Venice Film Festival, Kidman addressed the controversy saying, "It wasn't that I wanted to make a film where I kiss a 10-year-old boy. I wanted to make a film where you understand love".[44] Though the film received negative to mixed reviews, Kidman earned her seventh Golden Globe nomination, for Best Actress – Motion Picture. That same year she appeared in the black comedy-science-fiction film The Stepford Wives, a remake of the 1975 film of the same name. Kidman appeared in the lead role as Joanna Eberhart, a successful producer. The film, directed by Frank Oz, was critically panned and a commercial failure. The following year, Kidman appeared opposite Sean Penn in the Sydney Pollack thriller The Interpreter, playing UN translator Silvia Broome. Also that year she starred in Bewitched, based on the 1960s TV sitcom of the same name, opposite Will Ferrell. Both Kidman and Ferrell earned that year's Razzie Award for "Worst Screen Couple". Neither film fared well in the United States, with box office sales falling well short of the production costs, but both films fared well internationally.[45][46]
In conjunction with her success in the film industry, Kidman became the face of the Chanel No. 5 perfume brand. She starred in a campaign of television and print ads with Rodrigo Santoro, directed by Moulin Rouge! director Baz Luhrmann, to promote the fragrance during the holiday seasons of 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2008. The three-minute commercial produced for Chanel No. 5 made Kidman the record holder for the most money paid per minute to an actor after she reportedly earned US$12million for the three-minute advert.[47] During this time, Kidman was also listed as the 45th Most Powerful Celebrity on the 2005 Forbes Celebrity 100 List. She made a reported US$14.5 million in 2004–2005. On People magazine's list of 2005's highest paid actresses, Kidman was second behind Julia Roberts, with US$16–17 million per-film price tag.[48] Nintendo in 2007 announced that Kidman would be the new face of Nintendo's advertising campaign for the Nintendo DS game More Brain Training in its European market.[49]
Kidman portrayed photographer Diane Arbus in the biography Fur (2006), opposite Robert Downey, Jr.. Though the film was released to mixed reviews, both Kidman and Downey Jr. received praise for their performances. She also lent her voice to the animated film Happy Feet (2006), which grossed over US$384 million worldwide. In 2007, she starred in the science-fiction movie The Invasion directed by Oliver Hirschbiegel, a remake of the 1956 Invasion of the Body Snatchers that proved a critical and commercial failure. She also played opposite Jennifer Jason Leigh and Jack Black in Noah Baumbach's comedy-drama Margot at the Wedding, released to positive reviews and earning Kidman a Satellite Award nomination for Best Actress – Musical or Comedy. She then starred in the commercially successful fantasy-adventure, The Golden Compass (2007), playing the villainous Marisa Coulter.
In 2008, she reunited with Moulin Rouge! director Baz Luhrmann in the Australian period film Australia, set in the remote Northern Territory during the Japanese attack on Darwin during World War II. Kidman played opposite Hugh Jackman as an Englishwoman feeling overwhelmed by the continent. Despite the film's mixed reviews, the acting was praised and the movie was a box office success worldwide.[50] Kidman was originally set to star in the post-World War II German drama, The Reader, working with previous collaborators Sydney Pollack and Anthony Minghella, but due to her pregnancy prior to filming she had to back out.[51] The role went to Kate Winslet, who ultimately won the Oscar for Best Actress, which Kidman presented to her during the 81st Academy Awards.[52] Kidman appeared in the 2009 Rob Marshall musical Nine, portraying the Federico Fellini-like character's muse, Claudia Jenssen. She was featured alongside fellow Oscar winners Daniel Day-Lewis, Judi Dench, Marion Cotillard, Penélope Cruz and Sophia Loren. Kidman's, whose screen time was brief compared to the other actresses, performed the musical number "Unusual Way" alongside Day-Lewis. Although the film was released to mixed reviews, it received several Golden Globe and Academy Award nominations, and earned Kidman a fourth Screen Actors Guild Award nomination, as part of the Outstanding Cast.
In 2010, she starred with Aaron Eckhart in the film adaptation of the Pulitzer Prize-winning play Rabbit Hole, for which she vacated her role in the Woody Allen picture You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger.[53] Her work on Rabbit Hole earned her critical acclaim, and received nominations for the Academy Awards, Golden Globe Awards and Screen Actors Guild Awards. She lent her voice to a promotional video that Australia used to support its bid to host the 2018 World Cup.[54] TV Guide reported in 2008 that Kidman will star in The Danish Girl, a film adaptation of the novel of the same name, playing Lili Elbe, the world's first postoperative transsexual.[55] Screen Daily reported that shooting would begin in Germany in July 2011.[56] However the project has been delayed following the exit of the director, Lasse Hallström and Kidman's co-star Rachel Weisz.[57] In 2009, Variety said that she would produce and star in a film adaptation of the Chris Cleave novel Little Bee, in association with BBC Films.[58]
In June 2010, TV Guide announced that Kidman and Clive Owen will star in an HBO film about Ernest Hemingway and his relationship with Martha Gellhorn. entitled Hemingway & Gellhorn. The film, directed by Philip Kaufman,[59] began shooting in March 2011, with an air date scheduled for 2012.[60] She also starred alongside Nicolas Cage in director Joel Schumacher's action-thriller Trespass, with the stars playing a married couple taken hostage.[61] On 17 September 2010, ContactMusic. com said Kidman would return to Broadway to portray Alexandra Del Lago in David Cromer's revival of Tennessee Williams' Sweet Bird of Youth, with Scott Rudin producing.[62] On 30 August 2011, Cromer spoke to The New York Times and explained that the production would not meet its original fall 2011 revival date but that it remains an active project.[63]
In June 2011, Kidman was cast in Lee Daniels' adaptation of the Pete Dexter novel, The Paperboy;[64] she began filming on the thriller on 1 August 2011, and The Paperboy was released in 2012. In the film, she portrayed death row groupie Charlotte Bless, and performed sex scenes that she claims not to have remembered until seeing the finished film. "I was like okay, so that's what I did," she said.[65] Kidman co-starred in Park Chan-wook's Stoker (2013).[66] In April 2012, various sources, including Variety, announced that Kidman was in talks to star in upcoming Grace Kelly biopic Grace of Monaco. The film will focus on the 1962 crisis, in which Charles de Gaulle blockaded the tiny principality, angered by Monaco's status as a tax haven for wealthy French subjects.[67] In 2012, Kidman's audiobook recording of Virginia Woolf's To the Lighthouse was released at Audible.com.[68] In April 2013 she was selected as a member of the main competition jury at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival.[69]
Her collaboration with Ewan McGregor on "Come What May" peaked at No.27 in the UK Singles Chart.[70] Later she collaborated with Robbie Williams on "Somethin' Stupid", a cover version for Williams' swing covers album Swing When You're Winning. It peaked at No.8 in the Australian ARIAnet Singles Chart, and at No.1 for three weeks in the UK.[71] In 2006, while voicing a role in the animated movie Happy Feet, she provided vocals for Norma Jean's "heartsong," a slightly altered version of "Kiss" by Prince.[72] Kidman sang in Rob Marshall's movie musical Nine.[73]
Kidman has been married twice: first to actor Tom Cruise, and now to country singer Keith Urban. She has an adopted son and daughter with Cruise as well as two biological daughters with Urban. Kidman met Cruise in November 1989 on the set of their 1990 movie Days of Thunder. She and Cruise were married on Christmas Eve 1990 in Telluride, Colorado. The couple adopted a daughter, Isabella Jane (born 1992),[74] and a son, Connor Anthony (born 1995).[74] On 5 February 2001, the couple's spokesperson announced their separation.[75] Cruise filed for divorce two days later, and the marriage was dissolved in August of that year, with Cruise citing irreconcilable differences.[76] In her 2007 interview with Marie Claire, Kidman noted the incorrect reporting of the ectopic pregnancy early in her marriage. "It was wrongly reported [as miscarriage], by everyone who picked up the story." "So it's huge news, and it didn't happen."[77] In the June 2006 issue of Ladies' Home Journal, she said she still loved Cruise: "He was huge; still is. To me, he was just Tom, but to everybody else, he is huge. But he was lovely to me and I loved him. I still love him." In addition, she has expressed shock about their divorce.[78]
Prior to marrying Cruise, Kidman lived with Australian stage actor Marcus Graham in the late 1980s.[79] In the mid-1980s, she dated her Windrider co-star Tom Burlinson,[80][81] whom she lived with on and off for three years, according to biographer Andrew Morton.[82] Robbie Williams stated that he had a short romance with Kidman on her yacht in 2004. Kidman met her second husband, Australian country singer Keith Urban, at G'Day LA, an event honouring Australians, in January 2005. They married on 25 June 2006, at Cardinal Cerretti Memorial Chapel in the grounds of St Patrick's Estate, Manly in Sydney.[83][84] They maintain homes in Sydney, Sutton Forest (New South Wales, Australia), Los Angeles,[85] and Nashville (Tennessee, USA).[86] The couple's first daughter, Sunday Rose Kidman Urban, was born in 2008, in Nashville.[87] Kidman's father said the daughter's middle name was after Urban's late grandmother, Rose.[88] In 2010, Kidman and Urban had their second daughter, Faith Margaret Kidman Urban, via surrogacy[89] at Nashville's Centennial Women's Hospital. Faith's middle name is after Kidman's late grandmother.[90][91]
Kidman is a Roman Catholic.[92] She attended Mary Mackillop Chapel in North Sydney. Following criticism of The Golden Compass by Catholic leaders[93] as anti-Catholic,[94] Kidman told Entertainment Weekly that "the Catholic Church is part of her 'essence'", and that her religious beliefs would prevent her from taking a role in a film she perceived was anti-Catholic.[95] During her divorce from Tom Cruise, she stated that she did not want their children raised as Scientologists.[96] She has been reluctant to discuss Scientology since her divorce.[97] Kidman's name was in an advertisement in the Los Angeles Times in August 2006 that condemned Hamas and Hezbollah and supported Israel in the 2006 Israel-Lebanon war.[98] Kidman has donated to U.S. Democratic party candidates.[99]
In 2002, Kidman first appeared on the Australian rich list published annually in the Business Review Weekly with an estimated net worth of A$122 million.[100] In the 2011 published list, Kidman's wealth was estimated at A$304 million, down from A$329 million in 2010.[101] Kidman has raised money for, and drawn attention to, disadvantaged children around the world. In 1994, she was appointed a goodwill ambassador for UNICEF,[3] and in 2004, she was honoured as a "Citizen of the World" by the United Nations.[102] Kidman joined the Little Tee Campaign for breast cancer care to design T-shirts or vests to raise money to fight the disease;[103] motivated by her mother's own battle with breast cancer in 1984.[104]
In the 2006 Australia Day Honours, Kidman was made a Companion of the Order of Australia (AC) for "service to the performing arts as an acclaimed motion picture performer, to health care through contributions to improve medical treatment for women and children and advocacy for cancer research, to youth as a principal supporter of young performing artists, and to humanitarian causes in Australia and internationally."[105] However, due to film commitments and her wedding to Urban, it was 13 April 2007 that she was presented with the honour.[106] It was presented by the Governor-General of Australia, Major General Michael Jeffery, in a ceremony at Government House, Canberra.[107] Kidman was appointed goodwill ambassador of the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM) in 2006.[3] In this capacity, Kidman has addressed international audiences at UN events, raised awareness through the media and testified before the United States House of Representatives Committee on Foreign Affairs to support the International Violence against Women Act. Kidman visited Kosovo in 2006 to learn about women's experiences of conflict and UNIFEM's support efforts. She is the international spokesperson for UNIFEM's Say NO – UNiTE to End Violence against Women initiative.[108] Kidman and the UNIFEM executive director presented over five million signatures collected during the first phase of this to the UN Secretary-General on 25 November 2008.[109]
In the beginning of 2009, Kidman appeared in a series of postage stamps featuring Australian actors. She, Geoffrey Rush, Russell Crowe and Cate Blanchett each appear twice in the series: once as themselves and once as their Academy Award-winning character.[110] On 8 January 2010, alongside Nancy Pelosi, Joan Chen and Joe Torre, Kidman attended the ceremony to help Family Violence Prevention Fund break ground on a new international center located in the Presidio of San Francisco.[111][112]
As of April 2013[update], Kidman's movies have grossed more than US$3 billion, with 17 movies making more than US$100 million.[113]
In 2003, Kidman received a Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. In addition to her 2003 Academy Award for Best Actress, Kidman has received Best Actress awards from the following critics' groups or award-granting organisations: the Hollywood Foreign Press (Golden Globes), the Australian Film Institute, Blockbuster Entertainment Awards, Empire Awards, Golden Satellite Awards, Hollywood Film Festival, London Critics Circle, Russian Guild of Film Critics, and the Southeastern Film Critics Association. In 2003, Kidman was given the American Cinematheque Award. She also received recognition from the National Association of Theatre Owners at the ShoWest Convention in 1992 as the Female Star of Tomorrow and in 2002 for a Distinguished Decade of Achievement in Film.
"Kiss" / "Heartbreak Hotel" – Nicole Kidman / Hugh Jackman – November 2006 (Happy Feet soundtrack)
Categories: 1967 birthsLiving people20th-century Australian actresses21st-century Australian actressesActresses from SydneyAustralian child actressesAustralian female singersAustralian film actressesAustralian people of Irish descentAustralian people of Scottish descentAustralian television actressesAustralian Roman CatholicsAmerican child actressesAmerican female singersAmerican film actressesAmerican people of Irish descentAmerican people of Scottish descentAmerican television actressesAmerican Roman CatholicsAmerican people of Australian descentBAFTA winners (people)Best Actress Academy Award winnersBest Actress Empire Award winnersBest Drama Actress Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Musical or Comedy Actress Golden Globe (film) winnersCompanions of the Order of AustraliaPeople from Honolulu, HawaiiUNICEF peopleAustralian Living TreasuresTom CruiseBest Actress BAFTA Award winnersSilver Bear for Best Actress winnersPeople educated at North Sydney Girls High School20th-century American actresses21st-century American actressesActresses from HawaiiKeith UrbanAmerican voice actressesAustralian voice actressesHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2010Articles with dead external links from November 2010Use Australian English from January 2012All Wikipedia articles written in Australian EnglishUse dmy dates from July 2012Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesArticles with hCardsArticles containing potentially dated statements from April 2013All articles containing potentially dated statementsArticles with DMOZ linksWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Elegant redhead Nicole Kidman, known as one of Hollywood's top Australian imports, was actually born in Honolulu, Hawaii, to Australian parents Anthony (a biochemist and clinical psychologist) and Janelle (a nursing instructor) Kidman. The family moved almost immediately to Washington, D.C., where Nicole's father pursued his research on breast cancer, and then, three years later, made the pilgrimage to her parents' native Sydney. Young Nicole's first love was ballet, but she eventually took up mime and drama as well (her first stage role was a bleating sheep in an elementary school Christmas pageant). In her adolescent years, acting edged out the other arts and became a kind of refuge -- as her classmates sought out fun in the sun, the fair-skinned Kidman retreated to dark rehearsal halls to practice her craft. She worked regularly at the Philip Street Theater, where she once received a personal letter of praise and encouragement from audience member Jane Campion (then a film student). Kidman eventually dropped out of high school to pursue acting full-time. She broke into movies at age 16, landing a role in the Australian holiday favorite Bush Christmas (1983). That appearance touched off a flurry of film and television offers, including a lead in BMX Bandits (1983) and a turn as a schoolgirl-turned-protester in the miniseries Vietnam (1987) (for which she won her first Australian Film Institute Award). With the help of an American agent, she eventually made her US debut opposite Sam Neill in the at-sea thriller Dead Calm (1989).Kidman's next casting coup scored her more than exposure. While starring as Tom Cruise's doctor/love interest in the racetrack romance Days of Thunder (1990), she won over the Hollywood hunk hook, line and sinker. After a whirlwind courtship (and decent box office returns), the couple wed on December 24, 1990. Determined not to let her new marital status overshadow her fledgling career, the actress pressed on. She appeared as a catty high school senior in the Australian film Flirting (1991), then as Dustin Hoffman's moll in the gangster flick Billy Bathgate (1991). She reunited with Cruise for Far and Away (1992), the story of young Irish lovers who flee to America in the late 1800s, and starred opposite Michael Keaton in the tear-tugger My Life (1993). Despite her steady employment, critics and moviegoers still had not quite warmed to Kidman as a leading lady. She tried to spice up her image by seducing Val Kilmer in Batman Forever (1995), but achieved her real breakthrough with Gus Van Sant's To Die For (1995). As a fame-crazed housewife determined to eliminate any obstacle in her path, Kidman proved that she had an impressive range and deadly comic timing. She took home a Golden Globe and several critics' awards for the performance. In 1996, Kidman stepped into a corset to work with her countrywoman and onetime admirer, Jane Campion, on the adaptation of Henry James's The Portrait of a Lady (1996). A few months later, she tore across the screen as a nuclear weapons expert in The Peacemaker (1997), adding "action star" to her professional repertoire.She and Cruise then disappeared into a notoriously long, secretive shoot for Stanley Kubrick's sexual thriller Eyes Wide Shut (1999). The couple's on-screen shenanigans prompted an increase in public speculation about their sex life (rumors had long been circulating that their marriage was a cover-up for Cruise's homosexuality); tired of denying tabloid attacks, they successfully sued The Star for a story alleging that they needed a sex therapist to coach them through love scenes. Family life has always been a priority for Kidman. Born to social activists (mother was a feminist; father, a labor advocate), Nicole and her little sister, Antonia Kidman, discussed current events around the dinner table and participated in their parents' campaigns by passing out pamphlets on street corners. When her mother was diagnosed with breast cancer, 17-year-old Nicole stopped working and took a massage course so that she could provide physical therapy (her mother eventually beat the cancer). She and Cruise adopted two children: Isabella Jane (born 1993) and Connor Antony (born 1995). Despite their rock-solid image, the couple announced in early 2001 that they were separating due to career conflicts. Her marriage to Cruise ended mid-summer of 2001.
      Listed in "People Weekly"s "Most Intriguing People" list. (December 25 1995/January 1 1996 issue)
      2000: She and her husband Tom Cruise donated to Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign for a seat in the U.S. Senate representing New York state.
      Suffered a broken rib while rehearsing a dance routine for the movie Moulin Rouge! (2001). Production was halted while she recovered.
      Spent two weeks in bed after filming of The Portrait of a Lady (1996) - diagnosed as suffering from "emotional stress".
      10/99: Crusader against child abuse. "Children should be allowed to grow up without fear of cruelty.".
      Played a young girl named Grace on a sketch on Saturday Night Live (1975) with Mike Myers, the next time she played a character named Grace was her movie The Others (2001). She played a character named Grace for the third time in Dogville (2003) and for the fourth time as the protagonist in Grace of Monaco (2014).
      She was supposed to be the star of Panic Room (2002), but she hurt herself in a stunt for Moulin Rouge! (2001). So, she played the voice of Jodie Foster's divorced husband's wife.
      Although naturally left-handed, she taught herself to write right-handed for her role in The Hours (2002), where she played the right-handed author Virginia Woolf.
      Received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6801 Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, California on January 13, 2003.
      Found out about her first Academy Award nomination, for Moulin Rouge! (2001), while shooting Dogville (2003) in Sweden. She was in the middle of shooting a scene when someone held up a sign with the announcement.
      August 2008: She was voted the fifth Sexiest Female Movie Star in the Australian Empire Magazine.
      Prior to the release of Australia (2008), she was elected alongside fellow Aussie Hugh Jackman as one of the favorite upcoming romantic couples on screen.
      Has appeared in My Life (1993) with Michael Keaton, Batman Forever (1995) with Val Kilmer, The Peacemaker (1997) with George Clooney and The Portrait of a Lady (1996) with Christian Bale. All four actors have played Batman in a movie.
      She was nominated for a Laurence Olivier Theatre Award in 1999 (1998 season) for Best Actress for her performance in "The Blue Room".
      1998: She was awarded the Special Award at the London Evening Standard Theatre Awards for her special and significant contributions to London Theatre for her performance in "The Blue Room".
      A very tall woman at nearly 5' 11", she actually stood about 4 inches taller than ex-husband Tom Cruise, and rarely wore heels when seen publicly with him so that they could appear similar in height. Since their divorce, she is rarely seen on the red carpet without high heels, and she often meets 6' 4" actors in the eye.
      While she usually commands $10 million+ for a movie, she was willing to receive only $500,000 for her role in "Eucalyptus" (2006), that eventually was scrapped. Produced by "Fox Searchlight", its financing guideline showed that each actor signed on to the project could receive no more than $500,000, in order to keep costs low. This movie was set to be produced in Australia, another reason she decided to accept it. She was slated to star alongside Russell Crowe in the movie, but the project was ultimately dropped.
      Replaced Rene Russo as Dr. Chase Meridian in Batman Forever (1995) when Val Kilmer replaced Michael Keaton.
      Is in the 50th-anniversary edition of the Guinness Book Of Records as the highest-paid actress in a commercial. She netted $3.71 million for her part in a four-minute Baz Luhrmann-directed Chanel No. 5 movie ad. The ad, costing $11 million a minute, is a short film titled "No 5: The Film". Guinness book editors noted the actress earned $928,800 per minute. Costumes designed by Karl Lagerfeld and score by Debussy.
      Was considered for the role of Catwoman in Batman Returns (1992), which went to Michelle Pfeiffer.
      2005: Premiere Magazine ranked her as #48 on a list of the Greatest Movie Stars of All Time in their Stars in Our Constellation feature.
      Is highly conscious of avoiding excessive sun exposure, and is rarely seen during her downtime without a hat, sunglasses and wearing sunscreen. In fact, best friend Naomi Watts has said that "Nicole won't cross the street without a hat."
      In addition to having worked with all four of the most recent Batmans, she has also worked with both of the most recent actors to play Alfred Pennyworth. In Batman Forever (1995), she appears with Michael Gough. In Bewitched (2005), her father is played by Michael Caine.
      August 2004: Australian business magazine Business Review Weekly listed Kidman as the richest Australian woman under age 40, estimated at a worth of $155 million (Australian).
      Is childhood friends with Peter Overton, a reporter for the Australian 60 Minutes (1979) program. Both lived in the same suburb of Sydney when they were children.
      She and ex-husband Tom Cruise made three movies together: Days of Thunder (1990), Eyes Wide Shut (1999) and Far and Away (1992). They met on the set of Days of Thunder (1990).
      Attended the same high school attended by Catherine Martin (two time Oscar winner for costume design and direction on Moulin Rouge! (2001) and wife of Baz Luhrmann) and legendary Australian actress Ruth Cracknell.
      Godmother of Harry (b. 19 September 2001), the son of Simon Baker and Rebecca Rigg. Riggs and Kidman are close friends.
      Was listed as a potential nominee on both the 2006 and 2008 Razzie Award nominating ballots. She was suggested in the Worst Actress category on the 2006 ballot for her performance in Bewitched (2005). And she was suggested again two years later on the 2007 ballot in the Worst Actress category again for her performance in The Invasion (2007). She failed to receive either nominations.
      2006: Her performance as Suzanne Stone Maretto in To Die For (1995) is ranked #40 on Premiere Magazine's 100 Greatest Performances of All Time.
      2006: Accompanied her boyfriend Keith Urban to the Grammy Awards. It was their first public appearance together.
      230 guests attended her wedding to Keith Urban. Among them were her best friend Naomi Watts, Russell Crowe, Baz Luhrmann, Hugh Jackman and Nicole's two children Isabella and Conor. Jim Carrey was invited and greatly wanted to come, in fact he booked plane tickets to Australia, but last minute scheduling conflicts stopped him from going.
      She asked her wedding guests not to buy any presents for her and Keith Urban but to donate the money instead to some humanitarian organization.
      She and Keith Urban honeymooned in Tahiti -- more precisely the St. Regis in Bora Bora. Eva Longoria and her boyfriend Tony Parker were also coincidentally staying there at the time (So much for "getting away from it all".).
Baz Luhrmann read a love Psalm by New Zealand writer Joy Cowley (a nod to Urban's birth place) at her wedding to Keith Urban.
      Three star performers sang at her wedding reception to Keith Urban. Hugh Jackman sang "Tenterfield Saddler", a favorite of Urban's. Keith Urban sang his hit song "Making Memories of Us" to her. Neil Finn sang "Fall At Your Feet".
      Dropped out of the role of Katharine Hepburn in The Aviator (2004) due to scheduling conflicts.
      Author Philip Pullman requested her specifically to play the role of Marisa Coulter in the movie adaptation of his book "His Dark Materials: The Golden Compass".
Keith Urban's brother, Shane Urban, was best man at their wedding. His friend, Marlon Holden, was the groomsman.
Keith Urban gave Nicole a first edition of Emily Brontë's novel, "Wuthering Heights", purchased from Sotherby's for $200,000 as a wedding present.
      Wrote the introduction to the book "Truth: Personas, Needs, and Flaws in the Art of Building Actors and Creating Characters" by her friend and acting consultant Susan Batson.
      9/01: Attended the Royal Premiere of Moulin Rouge! (2001) alongside Kylie Minogue, 'Prince Charles' and Ewan McGregor.
      Is a fan of actress Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, and her film Bride & Prejudice (2004). Nicole got to meet Aishwarya for the first time at the 2005 Time Magazine's 100 most influential people in the world dinner held in New York City.
      The bridesmaids at her wedding were her adopted daughter Isabella Jane Cruise, her sister Antonia Kidman and her niece Lucia.
      In honor of her June 2006 wedding to singer Keith Urban, Australian TV presenters Simon Reeve and Nelson Aspen teamed up to sing Nicole a live rendition of the theme song "Bewitched" on the morning news program Sunrise (2003).
      On April 13, 2007, she was awarded the Companion of the Order of Australia, which is Australia's top civil honor, at a ceremony in Canberra. She was honored for her contribution to cinema as well as her charity work with women, children and cancer research.
      2006: Presented her The Peacemaker (1997) co-star George Clooney his Best Supporting Actor Oscar.
      December 2007: According to Forbes, her movies averaged $8 of gross income for every dollar the actress got paid.
      Earns $4 million per year endorsing Chanel No. 5 perfume. Her three year contract was up for renewal in 2007 and was extended to 2009, where it was concluded. She was replaced by Audrey Tatou.
      Turned down the lead role of Roxie Hart in Chicago (2002) because she had just completed Moulin Rouge! (2001) and did not want to do two musicals in a row. Her friend, Renée Zellweger, won the role of Roxie and an Oscar nomination for her efforts.
      She and husband Keith Urban, purchased a farm near Leipers Fork, Tennessee, which they are now renovating. (November 2007).
      Moved in together with Jack Black and Jennifer Jason Leigh during filming Margot at the Wedding (2007), because they wanted to perfect their roles as a dysfunctional family.
      To prepare for her role in The Human Stain (2003) she visited women's shelters and talked to former victims of abuse for inspiration.
      Her and Tom Cruise's high profile divorce was finalized the same week that her horror movie The Others (2001) was released.
      When she went to Sweden to shoot Dogville (2003), it was the first time in 15 years that she had flown on a public plane.
      For her role in Birthday Girl (2001) she went to the Russian Embassy in Australia for help in speaking Russian. She didn't work with any other coach on the set except the woman from the embassy.
      Got the role as Diane Arbus in Fur: An Imaginary Portrait of Diane Arbus (2006) after Samantha Morton backed out.
      To make the character 'Marisa Coulter' in The Golden Compass (2007) so good as possible, she read the whole His Dark Materials trilogy, and wrote small notes, whenever she found something personal about the character.
      While filming The Invasion (2007) she was involved in an accident while riding with others in a picture car mounted on trailer being towed by a camera truck rig. While filming a stunt in downtown Los Angeles, the truck took a turn too wide, slid on wet pavement, and collided with a light standard. Several stunt artists on the picture car were injured in the accident. Ms. Kidman was brought to the hospital as a precaution, but was able to return to the set the next day.
      With a beautiful letter, Philip Pullman convinced her to take the role as Marisa Coulter in The Golden Compass (2007).
      Just like Brittany Murphy, Hugh Jackman and Robin Williams, she did her own singing for Happy Feet (2006).
      Her friend Naomi Watts turned down the female lead in The Interpreter (2005) because she knew Nicole wanted the role.
      Likes to work with costume designer Ann Roth, with whom she worked on Margot at the Wedding (2007), Cold Mountain (2003) and The Hours (2002).
      Some of her favorite movies are Gone with the Wind (1939), Breaking the Waves (1996), Grease (1978), Rear Window (1954) and The Way We Were (1973).
      Became good friends with Daniel Craig after working with him on The Invasion (2007) and The Golden Compass (2007).
      She loved wearing the prosthetic nose, that she originally used in The Hours (2002) and wore it in private too, mainly as she was undergoing a divorce from Tom Cruise at the time and was attracting a lot of paparazzi interest. Much to her delight, by wearing her fake nose out and about, she found she could easily evade the paparazzi as they didn't recognize her.
      She decided not to imitate Virginia Woolf's actual tone and voice because she feared people thought it would be comic.
      Return to work two months after giving birth to her daughter Sunday in order to begin filming Nine (2009).
      Replaced Catherine Zeta-Jones in the role of Claudia in Nine (2009) after she quit due to scheduling conflicts.
      Became pregnant twice by Tom Cruise during their marriage. In 1991, she suffered an ectopic pregnancy, resulting in their decision to adopt, and then in 2000, prior to their separation, she suffered a miscarriage.
      Auditioned for the role of Molly Jensen in Ghost (1990). Director Jerry Zucker said in the DVD commentary that he was very impressed with Kidman, but ultimately cast Demi Moore because she was a bigger name. The film's writer, Bruce Joel Rubin, was equally impressed and later cast Kidman as the lead in My Life (1993).
      Was two months pregnant with her daughter Sunday when she completed filming on Australia (2008).
      With her performance as Virginia Wolf in The Hours (2002) lasting around 25 minutes, she has one of the shortest Best Actress Oscar wins in history.
      Returned to work two months after the birth of her daughter Faith in order to begin filming Hemingway & Gellhorn (2012).
      Owns a massive 3-bedroom, 2-bath river-view apartment in renowned glass tower designed by Richard Meier on Greenwich Village's Perry Street by Hudson River in Manhattan.
      She studied at St. Martin's Youth Theatre, Melbourne, Australia; Australian Theatre for Young People, Sydney, Australia and Philip Street Theatre, Sydney, Australia; majored in voice, production and theater history.
      When Stanley Kubrick died, she went to St. Patrick church in New York and lit a candle in his memory.
      When she married Tom Cruise, part of their promise was that they would never be separated for more than two weeks.
      Had a three year relationship with actor Tom Burlinson, with whom she co-starred in Windrider (1986).
      Has two adopted children with her first husband Tom Cruise - a daughter Isabella Jane Kidman-Cruise (aka Isabella Cruise, born on December 22, 1992) and a son Connor Anthony Kidman-Cruise (aka Connor Cruise, born on January 17, 1995).
      When she separated from husband Tom Cruise in February 2001, she was 3 months pregnant with what would have been their first biological child, but had a miscarriage.
      Gave birth to her third child at age 41, a daughter Sunday Rose Kidman-Urban on July 7, 2008. Child's father is her second husband, Keith Urban.
      Became the mother for the fourth time at age 43, when her daughter Faith Margaret Kidman-Urban was born on December 28, 2010 via surrogate. Child's father is her second husband, Keith Urban.
      Nominated in the outstanding actress in a made For Television Movie at The Women's Image Network Awards 14, (aka The WIN Awards) for her role in the HBO movie Hemingway & Gellhorn (2012).
      The longest she has gone without an Oscar nomination is 8 years, between The Hours (2002) and Rabbit Hole (2010).
      Was considered for roles in Nymphomaniac: Vol. I (2013) and Bel Ami (2012). Both roles eventually went to Uma Thurman.
      She serves as an Ambassador of the Sydney Children's Hospital, Randwick, and have hosted events for the children, including special screenings of The Golden Compass (2007) and Happy Feet (2006).
      Originally turned down her part in Stoker (2013), because she wished to spend time with her kids. However, director Chan-wook Park was eager to have her play the part of Evelyn that he choose to place setting in Nashville. The movie was filmed five minutes from her home.
      On set of Cold Mountain (2003) she gave co-star Natalie Portman the advice to "Always choose a film by its director. You're never certain how the movie will turn out, but you are always guaranteed an interesting experience". In 2010, Portman said that she always had that in mind, during her career.
Zac Efron said that shooting the improvised dance scene with her in The Paperboy (2012), was "the day he became a man".
      She saved Hugh Jackman from a poisonous scorpion on the set of Australia (2008). While she was about to join Hugh in the bag, she noticed the poisonous scorpion crawling up his leg. She calmly told him not to move and squatted down, scooped the arachnid into her hat and walked over to the woods and released it. Everyone applauded but was asked why she hadn't just stomped on it. She said, 'I would never kill an animal. Every creature here has its purpose. This one just didn't belong in Hugh's bag!'".
      Has starred in two movies that have been nominated for Best Picture Academy Awards: Moulin Rouge! (2001) and The Hours (2002).
      In both Dead Calm (1989) and Rabbit Hole (2010) Nicole played the mother of a boy named Danny. Danny was killed in car accidents in both films.
      Developed shortsightedness in 1998 and had laser treatment to rectify the problem. Usually wears contact lenses but wears glasses on occasions.
      Godmother of Simon Baker and Rebecca Riggs' children Henry and Claude and of Rupert Murdoch's daughters Grace and Chloe.
      London, England: Filming The Golden Compass (2007) and promoting Happy Feet (2006). [November 2006]
      Flemington, Melbourne, Australia: Attending The Swisse Marquee at Flemington Racecourse. [November 2012]
      Udaipur, India: Filming a Schweppes commercial at the Lake Palace. The commercial is being directed by Shekhar Kapur and co-stars Rubina Ali. [March 2009]
      Tokyo, Japan: Attending the Asian premiere of The Golden Compass (2007) with co-star Dakota Blue Richards. [March 2008]
      She attended the opening ceremony of the London Summer Olympics, with husband 'Keith Urban' (II), due to her status of spokeswoman for Omega Watches, the official time keeper for the Olympic Games.
      In September 2013, she attended the announcement of Qingdao Oriental Movie Metropolis in Qingdao, China. She was honored as "Best Global Film Actress" at the same event.
      Cannes, Grasse, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur, France: At the World Premiere of Moulin Rouge! (2001). [May 2001]
      Salt Lake City, UT, US: Premiering her first film at the Sundance Film Festival; Birthday Girl (2001). [January 2002]
      Kununurra, Western Australia: Filming Australia (2008) with temperatures soaring to 109 °F. [June 2007]
      Salt Lake City, UT, US: At the Sundance Film Festival to promote Stoker (2013) with co-star Mia Wasikowska. [January 2013]
      Westwood, CA, US: With Naomi Watts and Heath Ledger at the World Premiere of The Ring (2002) at the Mann Bruin Theatre. [October 2002]
      Cannes, Grasse, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur, France: Serving as a member of the main competition jury at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival [May 2013]
      United Nations Headquarters, Manhattan, NY, USA: Filming The Interpreter (2005) at the authentic estate of The United Nations. [June 2004]
      Has starred in two films that were selected as the opening film at the Cannes Film Festival: Moulin Rouge! (2001) and Grace of Monaco (2014).
      The Valentino dress she wore at the red carpet event of Nebraska (2013) at Cannes Film Festival, was the dress that Anne Hathaway originally was meant to wear at the The 85th Annual Academy Awards. Hathaway discarded the dress at the last minute, because it was too similar to Amanda Seyfried's dress.
      Her Hawaiian name is Hokulani, which means "heavenly star". She was named after a baby elephant, that lived at the local zoo of her childhood home, as her mother loves elephants.
Sofía Vergara was originally cast as Charlotte Bless in The Paperboy (2012), the role that Kidman eventually assumed. Vergara herself has said Kidman was a better fit for the part.
      Often teaches herself various skills for different roles. She is experienced with castrating bulls, due to the preparation she went through for her part in Australia (2008), and she knows how to twirl and throw knives, due to her role in Paddington (2014).
Frank Ocean sampled one of her monologues from Eyes Wide Shut (1999) into his song "Love Crimes", released on his debut album "Nostalgia, Ultra" from 2011.
      Both of her blockbusters from 2007, The Invasion (2007) and The Golden Compass (2007), went through massive creative changes during post-production, due to demand from the studios. The interference left both the directors publicly unsatisfied with the final result of their respective films. A director's cut edition has never been released of either of the films.
      Was the 123rd actress to receive an Academy Award; she won the Best Actress Oscar for The Hours (2002) at The 75th Annual Academy Awards (2003) on March 23, 2003.
      Producer Harvey Weinstein suggested her and Judi Dench to play Barbara and Violet in August: Osage County (2013), during the initial casting process of the film. However, the screenwriter of the film, Tracy Letts, voted against the idea, saying that the two roles should be played by American actors.
      [August 2000, on her marriage to Tom Cruise] Every day there is a compromise. Living with somebody requires a lot of understanding. But I love being married. I really love it. Sometimes I try to downplay it a bit because people are like, "God you guys!" I just feel so fortunate that I have found someone who will put up with me and stay with me.
      It's so bizarre, I'm not scared of snakes or spiders. But I'm scared of butterflies. There is something eerie about them. Something weird!
      [on winning the Academy Award for The Hours (2002)] And I am standing in front of my mother, and my whole life I have wanted to make my mother proud. And now I'm going to make my daughter proud.
      When I heard about the Suzanne role in To Die For (1995), I thought, "I'll never get it - it'll be offered to someone else." So I called Gus [Gus Van Sant] at home, and he took my call, thank God. I told him I'd seen Drugstore Cowboy (1989), and I really wanted to work with him. I said I was destined to work with him.
      I think it's important that we don't all have to hold our heads high all the time saying everything's fine.
      I would love to have boobs and a butt like Jennifer Lopez but I'm not having surgery so there it is.
      [on receiving her star on the Walk of Fame] I've never been so excited to have people walk all over me for the rest of my life.
      You want to take some responsibility in your choices so that it sets the groundwork for that next generation of actresses - so for me working with Lars von Trier, I would hope that says to another generation: "go and seek out those directors, it's ok"
      [on Dogville (2003)] One day it would be a fairy tale, the next it was a nightmare. Lars [Lars von Trier] was gentle with me - he was gentle and soft, then he would beat me up emotionally when he felt he needed that. I did not always register what was happening until afterwards but you shouldn't have too much awareness as an actor, I don't think.
      I have a boy's body. I would prefer to have more curves because I think that's more beautiful. I would much rather have J. Lo's [Jennifer Lopez] body than mine.
      [on filming The Interpreter (2005) at UN headquarters in New York] As a backdrop for a thriller, it's fantastic, but also since I'm Australian and I've always worked internationally and this is an international place in New York, I really like the kind of communication it represents. I know I sound very much like my character now, but I do believe in this place.
      [on Cold Mountain (2003), The Human Stain (2003) and Dogville (2003) being released within months of each other] It's weird because they're all coming out at once. But I made them over 2-1/2 years.
      You look at somebody's work as an actor and you can see their emotional life being fed into it and you can kind of feel them through it. That's far more interesting than anything I could say about where I'm at or who I'm with. It's good to have a little distance. If you discuss your love too much, it just damages it.
      Even from a very early age I knew I didn't want to miss out on anything life had to offer just because it might be considered dangerous.
      Cinema is a director's medium, so you're saying, "What do you want?" Being an actor is about adapting - physically and emotionally. If that means you have to look great for it and they can make you look great, then thank you. And if you have to have everything washed away, then I'm willing to do that too.
      [on Birth (2004)] This is a film about love. What is a great love? Is there a love of our life? Do you ever recover from the loss of somebody that was so important to you?
Stanley Kubrick taught me to believe in myself artistically. I spent my 20s raising my children, and wanting to, and being married. That was my driving force. And then he said to me, "No, you have to respect your talent, and give it some space, and give it some time. Which was a lovely thing to be given. And my children were a little older then.
      It was by chance that The Hours (2002) came along. Was I in a place where I could say, "I'm going to go to England and make this?" Yes. Could I do that earlier, when I was married? No, I couldn't travel like that. We had a thing where we couldn't be separated for more than two weeks. So that made a lot of work just not possible. Which was fine by me.
      I have moments where I've said, "Don't tread on that crack in the pavement, don't have a black cat walk in front of you." Deep down am I superstitious? No. Do I believe in trying to be as kind as possible and as compassionate as possible because ultimately you're alone with yourself and your own conscience, and you want that to be as clear as possible? That's not superstition. You have to just try and stay pure and know what you value.
      Usually, a young actress can't deliver because she doesn't have the emotional baggage, really, to play those things. That's something that's very beautiful about becoming a woman, and becoming a woman in your 30s. If you've lived your life, and lived it where you've said, "I want to be a participator and not a voyeur", then you have an enormous amount to pull on.
      I'm still just finding my way through. I don't actually see a path in front of me. I can see not ever doing it again, and I can also see other things pulling me away from this. It's strange, because I know it's in my blood in terms of having to somehow act or express myself creatively, but I'm willing to do it different ways if need be. And I think that's partly because when I went through my divorce I dealt with the idea of never ever working again, and never being here and never able to be an actress, and went through an enormous amount of soul searching, and at that time, I was very ready to give it all up, and dealt with that emotionally. I was going, "Well, I'll never be able to do this again." And that was OK. And, strangely, as life is so strange, that was when everything exploded.
      I never feel like I'm in control. There's a certain type of actor that relinquishes control when they act, and then there's another type who ends up being a producer and director and they're more someone that likes to take control. I fall in the first category, where I like to relinquish control, and fit into somebody else's world. And that's just lately, but you never feel like you are making choices. You feel like they're finding you in a strange way. That's why when people say, "What role do you want to play next?", I say, "I don't know". I never know. It's about responding to things rather than planning.
      I think someone said my career defies all logic [laughs]. Because I choose the sort of strange little films, and somehow they're the things that make my career.
      So if you talk about a box-office career, then I'm a disaster. But somehow, you know, I still manage to find my way to work.
      I think actors are getting so much more power these days, but I'm not. I stay very much away from the decisions, the way in which things are orchestrated, what's been changed. I just try to stay completely in the role as the actor and as the character.
      I'm at a time of my life now where, for me to want to go back and work, it'd have to be something that I really feel passionately about.
      [talking about her character from Batman Forever (1995)] Chase is attracted to the darker side of life. Batman is very appealing to her.
      To be an actor you have to have a certain amount of madness in you. That's why, when people meet you and you seem very together, they are quite surprised--they don't see you behind closed doors.
      aking of her father Antony Kidman] He's a great father, I can call him at three in the morning and he's there for me.
      By the time I was a teenager, I had developed skills as a writer, and my father encouraged me to think about a career in journalism. I began keeping a diary, which I maintain to this day. I used to fill whole notebooks with my writings.
      My parents thought it was nice to develop my imagination, but they never seriously thought that anything would ever come of it. They said that I couldn't be an actress because I would be taller than all my leading men, so I thought I would be a writer instead.
      It was very natural for me to want to disappear into dark theater, I am really very shy. That is something that people never seem to fully grasp because, when you are an actor, you are meant to be an exhibitionist.
      Do you know I'm always scared that one day I'll look back and say "God they were the best years of my life and now what?" There are moments when you feel as if you have been blessed for a while, moments when you think this is perfect, moments when you start to believe that even for an hour, even for a year, it might all happen. So I'm determined to keep making it get better and better.
      It's a very brave thing to fall in love. You have to be willing to trust somebody else with your whole being, and that's very difficult, really difficult and very brave.
      [about her first role at the age of five] I was one of those terrible kids who said everyone's lines.
      Since I have fair skin, I have to stay out of the sun. I can't stand the sun. I dyed my hair red for a while during the 1990s but I'm actually a natural blonde.
      I'm very close to my sister, Antonia [Antonia Kidman]. Every day we swim together. I love my sister.
      When I was a child, I was a natural towhead. Now my hair is naturally a darker shade of blonde.
      I'd like to be wise. You have to go through a lot to get there, but I'm willing to go through a lot.
      Even from a very early age, I knew I didn't want to miss out on anything life had to offer just because it might be considered dangerous.
      I believe that as much as you take, you have to give back. It's important not to focus on yourself too much.
      I love acting but I don't like all of the other stuff associated with it. The interest in celebrities, the press, the Internet, when your identity becomes mixed up in the way people are perceiving you.
      I have a little bit of a belly, a tiny bit of pooch. It's the one thing I don't want to lose. I just like having some softness. If I lose that, then Tom [husband Tom Cruise] might leave me.
      Having gone through all of this, I feel in some ways calmer now. It's strange, but sad. I think I'll always be sad.
      [on her split with Tom Cruise] My life collapsed. People ran from me because suddenly it was, "Oh my God! It's over for her now!"
      As a child my hair was naturally red, but since I was 13 my hair turned light blonde naturally. It's really strange but it happened. Ever since Chase through the night, the directors made me dye my hair red, as they all thought it suited me at the time. Even for Dead Calm (1989), Phillip Noyce made me dye my hair red. Now the directors and studios just let me keep my natural blonde hair.
      For an actor, facial expressions and emotions are really important. That's why I'll never have Botox. I've always been against that and seeing Botox on TV with all the swelling and pain put me off it anyway. The directors always allow actors with Botox but I just say. "No way, not for me". Drinking lots of water, eating fruit and doing yoga is what keeps me looking young naturally. I swear by it. I also use creams with natural ingredients to make wrinkles less visible. Everybody should try these things rather than going the plastic route, which I just hate.
      I'm a person that carries everything that happened to me in my past, with me into the future. I refuse to let it make me bitter. I still completely believe in love and I remain open to anything that will happen to me.
      If I packaged toothpaste and told you you were gonna get half the toothpaste in the tube, you probably wouldn't buy it.
      It would be far easier to go, "Oh, I wish I loved women," but I don't. I love the way a man thinks. I love the way a man smells. I love the way men look. And I'm hooked on the male physique - hooked on it.
      You're either going to walk through life and experience it fully or you're going to be a voyeur. And I'm not a voyeur.
      On living in Nashville: It's the warmest, loveliest community I've ever set foot in. For me, it's the perfect place to live. To me, it's the best part of America...It's the easiest place to live. Keith's lived there for 20 years. The country music community is very tight. I like the polite nature of it. No traffic. I'm a big Southern girl now. It's just suits me.
      [on Hemingway & Gellhorn (2012)] I knew nothing about Martha, but I've always been drawn to unique women who are willing to take on the world. The exciting thing about this film is that you see her discovering her nature. At the beginning, she's a lot of talk. She knows that she's either got to get her hands dirty and become what she pretends to be or she's a fraud. In the end, Gellhorn out-Hemingways Hemingway.
      [on music] I'm so eclectic and I use it in my work all the time. What I used a lot with Lee on The Paperboy (2012) was Al Green. Lee has never listened to anything past 1970!
      [on The Golden Compass (2007)] I'm not a huge fan of fantasy. I've always been drawn to more - in terms of filmmaking - I've been drawn to more psychological dramas but I think what drew me to this was it had the intricacies of the characters allow strong performances and that's what I found compelling about it.
      I know the feeling of polarizing films, that make people angry and uncomfortable and I'm very comfortable with that.
      [on Birth (2004)] It created a lot of controversy because of a bathtub scene [with me] and a 10-year-old boy. But I never saw the film that way. It's fascinating when choose roles how you perceive them and how they're perceived on the outside.
      I'll never forget sort of "DJ-ing" after [the Cannes screening of] Moulin Rouge! (2001). I think there is a photo of me with headphones on, it was with Fat Boy Slim and the place was going crazy. I hold that dear to my heart.
      I remember having really mixed reactions to different films I brought to [Cannes Film Festival]. One of them was the Von Trier film, one of them was To Die For (1995). It was actually an extraordinary reaction for To Die For (1995). We were not in competition, and I remember being terribly scared that people were gonna hate it, but people loved it. That was very, very instrumentally beginning my career in terms of serious film-making. The critics got behind me on that film and that kind of took me from being Tom Cruise's wife into being something different, which artistically was such a joy for me.
      My ability to escape myself probably comes from the riskier the role. It took me a while to learn that and to understand that. I've tried to comfort and play the girl-next-door and the less complicated supporting roles. And for whatever reason I can not latch on, I don't quite know how to do it. So the more complicated, the better for me. I don't know what that says about me.
      [on not being Oscar-nominated for To Die For (1995)] I got a telegram from Sean Penn for that, and it said "You were robbed". That was all he sent me. And it was as good as an Academy Award nomination.
      [on The Golden Compass (2007)]: I love that it's a little girl who's the protagonist, the hero of the piece, and also that it is about friendship, loyalty and honesty.
      [on filming Nine (2009)] My favorite memories are Sophia Loren holding my four week-old baby, because that is something that goes down for me in the great memories, and also becomes part of Sunday Rose's infant picture book. I mean, you can't do better than that.
      [on acting] It's the desire to study the human condition, the desire for collaboration, to learn and absorb, and to lead a well-examined life.
      [on Lars Von Trier] He does things cinematically that nobody else does. And whether you love him or hate him, the filmmaking is incredibly strong.
      [on Stanley Kubrick and working with him on 'Eyes Wide Shut'] Stanley wanted six months of rehearsal. He didn't want to start, and then he didn't want to finish. Stanley taught Tom [Cruise] and I, 'Never say no.' When someone proposes an idea, you never shut it down. And that's a good lesson that goes far beyond work. That's a life lesson.
      [on considering saying no to projects that take her away from her kids and husband for too long] I've worked hard to get to this place personally. I don't take any of it for granted. I cherish it. I'm more than willing to make those sacrifices because, when I'm 70 and 80, I want my family around me. I know other things can come into play about that, but it's certainly not going to be because I didn't show up.
      I think love is the core emotion. Without that, and I've certainly existed without that, it's a very empty life. When I won the Oscar [for "The Hours"], I went home and I didn't have that in my life. That was the most intensely lonely moment in my life. [During] my professional highs, I've often had personal lows. It's always aggravated me that it's gone that way.
      There was that whole time from when we took Moulin Rouge! (2001) to the Cannes Film Festival and then all the way through to winning the Oscar for The Hours (2002), that was a very strange time in my life because it was the collision of professional success and personal failure and that's just a very strange thing. When I won the Oscar it was kind of a mix of popping open a bottle of champagne but at the same time feeling incredibly lonely. It's been professional highs and personal lows and they collide. I'm hoping one day that ­won't happen. Now is a good time personally but it's not a professional high. The highs are pretty extreme and they don't happen that often, do they? I much prefer the personal high anyway. I'd never give that up.
      I've turned things down, definitely. I was pregnant and I was going to do The Reader (2008) and I had to call and say, 'I've spent my whole life wanting to be pregnant and I'm finally pregnant and I won't be able to do it.' And they were like, 'You could work pregnant.' No. That's not what I wanted to do. "I didn't want to be working while I was pregnant. Some women could, maybe if they'd already had a lot of children, but for me it was such a huge place to be and I wanted to carry my baby and keep her healthy and peaceful. I was like, 'I'm going to do everything I can to just bring this baby into the world.
      [on the beginning of her career] I had huge expectations. You start out with big dreams and I mean, big dreams artistically. You want to work with the greatest living directors, make a great movie. I wanted to make a great love story, I wanted to make a great epic and then you realize that the truth of it is that it's so hard to make a great film. It's hard to get a great role. Those big expectations change to realism pretty quickly. But what's never changed is my desire to work with great directors and to find projects that push me out of my comfort zone and keep me alive. I still don't think I've done my best work
      [on her preparation for Paddington (2014)] I'm about to go down to the museum and do a taxidermy class on Saturday night. And I love animals! I also have to throw knives, so I'll be doing that in the backyard. I've got a guy coming over to teach me how to throw a knife. I want to be able to just do it with a bit of a flourish. I believe this is my path, so I'll go down in fire if I have to.
      I think when you go into the orbit of a director, they bring certain things out in you. The greatest thing you can offer is abandonment, in terms of a performance, and also deep loyalty. Because when there is enormous loyalty to them, then it's a very safe place. It's like, O.K., so she'll stand by me no matter what, no matter if the film even succeeds or fails. We're in it together, and this is ours, together, forever. Which is why I probably stay very, very close to a lot of the directors that I've worked with, whether the outcome is successful or not. Because I get deeply sort of connected and close to them. Jane, Alejandro, Stephen, Lars - all of them. That's important to me, and the longevity of it.
      [on choosing Aaron Eckhart]: I've known Aaron for a long time and he has a side of him which is very raw and emotional, which he doesn't show on screen very often.
=======================================================
circa 1970Aussie LoveKidman moves to Sydney with her parents, Dr. Anthony Kidman, a biologist and psychologist, and Janelle, a nurse. She delights in her new surroundings. "There's something about the place," she later says in a Time article. "It's the smell of the gum leaves. Australia's in my blood, it's in my humor ...I love [Sydney's] zest for life and the openness of us Aussies."  
1980sBest MatesThe aspiring actress meets Naomi Watts at an open call for a bikini ad, and Watts becomes a close friend and confidante. "We had to sit and wait, both in swimsuits, feeling incredibly embarrassed," Watts recalls to PEOPLE. "And neither of us got the job!" In 1990, they appear together in Flirting, also starring Thandie Newton. 1983DecemberBig and Small ScreensLocal theater gigs help Kidman land a role in the 1983 teen crime caper movie, BMX Bandits. At the same time, Kidman appears in the movie, Bush Christmas, which becomes a holiday classic in Australia, airing every December. Kidman becomes one of the most famous faces in Australia. 1989April 07Calm Before the TomKidman lands the lead role in the sea thriller Dead Calm, also starring Sam Neill and Billy Zane. The film is a modest hit but wins her recognition in the U.S. After seeing Kidman in Dead Calm, Tom Cruise creates a role for her in Days of Thunder as his love interest. When she meets him, "He took my breath away," Kidman later tells Rolling Stone. 1990December 24Nic & Tom Say I Do!Kidman marries Cruise in Telluride, Colo., with self-written marital vows. Emilio Estevez is the best man and Kidman's sister Antonia is a bridesmaid. "We have so much in common that it's almost as it we are the same person," Kidman says. "We know what it takes to make each other happy."1992May 22Labor of LoveFive months after getting married, the newlyweds begin work on Far and Away, a critically acclaimed film but a box office failure. For Kidman, acting alongside her superstar husband entangles her public persona with Cruise's. "I didn't realize when I made Far and Away how much I would then be defined and judged in relation to him," she tells the Boston Globe.1993January 22Welcoming Isabella & Connor!Cruise, 30, and Kidman, 25, announce the adoption of a baby they name Isabella Jane Kidman Cruise. Two years later, in February 1995, Kidman and Cruise adopt son Connor Antony Kidman Cruise.1995September 27Golden GirlIn Gus Van Sant's To Die For, Kidman shines as murderous TV weatherwoman Suzanne Maretto. "Even though Suzanne's totally wild and has a completely different moral code from the rest of us, I think there was something really cool about her," Kidman tells Time. She gets rave reviews and wins her first Golden Globe award.1996NovemberThe Eyes Have ItKidman and Cruise begin a 19-month shoot (November 1996 to June 1998) on Stanley Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut. Although success eluded them the last time they worked together, they find this script irresistible.  "In your life there are certain times when it's the right time to work together," Kidman later tells PEOPLE at the film's L.A. premiere in 1999.  "Who knows when the next time will be?"1998SeptemberTruly BlueKidman makes headlines around the world with her London stage debut in The Blue Room, with one British theater critic dubbing her brief nudity "pure theatrical Viagra."  
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): COURTESY NICOLE KIDMAN; Samuel Goldwyn/Everett; Headpress/Retna; Warner Bros./Everett; Kevin mazur/London Features; Everett Collection; NEWSPIX AUSTRALIA; Mirek Towski/DMIPhoto; Everett Collection; Joan Marcus 
Keith Urban, husband (2005 to present) Lenny Kravitz, ex-boyfriend (July 2003 to Dec. 2003) Tom Cruise, ex-husband (1990 to 2001)  
									Isabella Jane Kidman Cruise, adopted daughter (12/22/1992)Connor Antony Kidman Cruise, adopted son (2/6/1995) Sunday Rose Kidman Urban, daughter (7/7/2008)Faith Margaret Kidman Urban, daughter (12/28/10)  
   Sep 13, 2013 NOW ARRIVING  Also at NYFW: Nicole Kidman, who is simply chic in a classic dress for the Calvin Klein Collection show… See Photo   Aug 14, 2013 FANCY FEAST  Nicole Kidman cuts a slim figure while attending the Hollywood Foreign Press Association's installation… See Photo
=======================================================
After a tumultuous two years that brought her divorce, career success and Oscar glory, Kidman is the undisputed queen of the silver screen. A look back at a sterling career.
Nicole Mary Kidman was born in Honolulu, Hawaii, to father Anthony, a clinical psychologist and biochemist of Scottish descent, and mother Janelle, a nursing instructor of Irish descent.Shortly after Kidman's birth, the family moved to Washington DC in order for her father to pursue his research on breast cancer. When Kidman was only three-years-old, the family moved again, this time to her parents' native Sydney, Australia.Beginning with ballet lessons at age four, Kidman went on to study at the Australian Theatre for Young People in Sydney (of which she is now a patron). Here she took up drama and mime and, in her teens, found acting to be a refuge. With her fair skin and naturally red hair, the Australian sunshine proved too much for the young Kidman and she sought solace in the cool, dark rehearsal halls of her beloved theatre. Working regularly at the Philip Street Theatre, she received both encouragement and praise, giving her the drive to pursue acting full-time.In 1983, aged 16, Kidman dropped out of high school and made her film debut in the Australian holiday season favourite, 'Bush Christmas' (1983). This led to a number of both television and film offers in Australia, throughout the rest of the 1980s. Her film roles include the lead in 'BMX Bandits' (1983), 'Windrider' (1986), 'Watch the Shadows Dance' (1987), and 'Emerald City' (1988), a drama with fellow Australian actor, John Hargreaves.Her stints in television series include 'Five Mile Creek' (1983-1985), 'Winners' (1985), 'Vietnam' (1987) in which she played a schoolgirl-turned-protester and for which she won her first Australian Film Institute Award, and 'Bangkok Hilton' (1989). She was also in made-for-television movies such as 'Skin Deep' (1983), 'Chase Through the Night' (1983), 'Matthew and Son' (1984), 'Room to Move' (1987) and 'An Australian in Rome' (1987).Determined to break into the US market, and with the help of an American agent, Kidman made her US debut, opposite Sam Neil and Billy Zane, in the at-sea thriller 'Dead Calm' (1989). It certainly was a turning point in her life, both professionally and personally, as the following year, she starred in the racetrack romance 'Days of Thunder' (1990), opposite Tom Cruise, the man who would become her husband.After a whirlwind courtship, they enjoyed a romantic marriage on Christmas Eve in 1990. Next up for Kidman was another Australian film 'Flirting' (1991) in which she played a bitchy high school senior, followed by starring opposite Dustin Hoffman in the gangster movie 'Billy Bathgate' (1991). She starred with Cruise in Ron Howard's 'Far and Away' (1992), a story of young Irish lovers who flee to America in the late 1880s, and with Michael Keaton in 'My Life' (1993). Cruise and Kidman adopted two children, Isabella Jane (born 22 December 1993) and Connor Anthony (born 17 January 1995).Kidman's box office ratings really began to climb in the mid 1990s. She played Dr Chase Meridian in Joel Schumacher's 'Batman Forever' (1995) with Val Kilmer, Jim Carrey, Tommy Lee Jones and Chris O'Donnell. However, it was her role in 'To Die For' (1995), with Matt Dillon and Joaquin Phoenix, which proved her real breakthrough.It showcased her range of talents, as well as her brilliant comic timing, and gained her a Golden Globe Award and critical approval for her performance. She went on to make 'The Leading Man' (1996) and to play the lead role of Isabel Archer in the critically acclaimed 'The Portrait of a Lady' (1996), with John Malkovich and Barbara Hershey. She was in the action thriller, 'The Peacemaker' (1997), with George Clooney, and the amusing 'Practical Magic' (1998) with Sandra Bullock, Stockard Channing and Dianne West.In a strange twist of fate, Kidman and Cruise played a married couple in Stanley Kubrick's sexual thriller, his final film, 'Eyes Wide Shut' (1999), shortly before their own marriage came to an end. Kidman was three months pregnant when Cruise left her and she subsequently had a miscarriage.They announced their separation in 2001, citing career conflicts and their marriage was dissolved. Kidman did not allow this to interfere with her career and that same year she played the spellbinding Satine, opposite Ewan McGregor's Christian, in the musical 'Moulin Rouge!' (2001), for which she won her second Golden Globe for Best Actress in a Musical or Comedy and also received an Academy Award nomination.Prior to this, Kidman had not been known for her ability to sing. She starred in films, 'The Others' (2001), a mystery/thriller about photosensitive children in a haunted house, and Jez Butterworth's 'Birthday Girl' (2001). She also teamed up with Robbie Williams to record a remake of the Frank and Nancy Sinatra duet 'Something Stupid' (2001), which became the Christmas number one in the UK.Donning a prosthetic nose, she played an Academy Award-winning role for Best Actress, as Virginia Woolf in 'The Hours' (2002). Then came 'Dogville' (2003) and 'The Human Stain' (2003), a romantic thriller with Anthony Hopkins, Ed Harris and Gary Sinese. The 'Cold Mountain' (2003) set was plagued by rumours of an affair with her co-star Jude Law. Both denied the allegations and Kidman won an undisclosed sum from the British tabloids that had printed the story.She then donated the money to an orphanage in the Romanian town where the movie was filmed. Kidman won a Golden Globe Award nomination for her performance with Law.She was then romantically linked to Lenny Kravitz, whom she met in 2003 and dated into 2004. Her next film, 'The Stepford Wives' (2004), with a star cast including Matthew Broderick, Bette Midler, Christopher Walken and Glenn Close, was not very well met by critics. Then followed 'Birth' (2004) a thriller with Lauren Bacall which gained mixed reviews due to its controversial content; Sydney Pollack's 'The Interpreter' (2005) in which she played opposite Sean Penn; and fantasy/romance 'Bewitched' (2005) with Will Ferrell, Shirley MacLaine and Michael Caine, which failed in the box office and with critics.
In 2006, she played Dianne Arbus in the biography 'Fur', which was released to mixed reviews although Kidman's and her co-star Robert Downey JR's performances were highly praised. She also lent her voice to the animated film 'Happy Feet' in the same year.Her next film 'Invasion' which was a remake of 'Invasion of the Body Snatches' (1956) was a failure but she soon returned to form in 'Margot at the Wedding' and in 'The Golden Compass' in which she played the villain in 2007.Kidman teamed up with director Baz Luhrmann's 'Australia' in 2008. She played an aristocratic English woman frustrated by the continent who falls in love with Hugh Jackman's character.She returned to musicals in 2009, starring in 'Nine'. Despite being on the screen for less time than her co-stars, she earned her third Screen Actor Guild's award nomination.In 2010, she appeared in 'Rabbit Hole', which was followed by 'Just Go With It' and 'Trespass' in 2011. She will next be starring in 'Stoker', 'The Paperboy' and TV movie 'Hemmingway and Gelhorn' with Clive Owen in 2012. She will also appear in 'The Danish Girl' about the world's first postoperative transsexual.Kidman met handsome country singer Keith Urban, 38, from New Zealand at a gala for Australians, held in Los Angeles in January 2005. After being together 11 months, they married on 25 June 2006. Kidman's 'hen party' was a low-key gathering of a few close friends and family, at her sister Antonia's Sydney home, a few days before the wedding.The 39-year-old, slightly tearful bride looked radiant in her vintage ivory dress designed by Nicolas Ghesquiere for Balenciaga. She was accompanied by her father, Dr Anthony Kidman, to the Cardinal Carretti Memorial Chapel, in Manly, Sydney, arriving 15 minutes late for the traditional Roman Catholic ceremony, in a 1948 Rolls Royce. The church overlooks the Pacific Ocean and Kidman was greeted by thousands of excited fans, waiting outside to catch a glimpse of her on her special day.The groom cried when he saw his ethereal bride, lit by 1,000 candles, walking up the aisle and the wedding party was made up of family and close friends. Matron of honour was her sister Antonia and Isabella, her adopted daughter with ex-husband, Tom Cruise, was her bridesmaid. Her adopted son with Cruise, Connor, was the usher.Urban's best man was his brother Shane and his groomsmen were nephew, Blake, and old friend, Marlon Holden. Antonia's eldest daughter, seven-year-old Lucia, was flower girl. The church bells rang 100 times to mark the end of the service.At the reception were actors Hugh Jackman, Naomi Watts, Russell Crowe and his pregnant wife Danielle Spenser; director Baz Luhrmann; and Crowded House singer Neil Finn. Urban surprised Kidman by singing her a specially written love song and then the guests were treated to songs performed by Neil Finn and Hugh Jackman.The couple completed their family with the birth of Sunday Rose Kidman Urban on 7 July 2008 and they welcomed their second daughter together Faith Margaret on 10 December 2010, who was born through a surrogate.Kidman supports a variety of charities and causes, including being the Goodwill Ambassador for UNICEF Australia since 1994 and focussing on disadvantaged children around the world. She was honoured as a Citizen of the World by the United Nations in 2004 and made a Companion of the Order of Australia, for both her work with charities and for her service to the performing arts.She is also involved in the Little Tee Campaign for Breast Cancer Care, promoting cancer awareness.Now in her 40s, Kidman certainly seems to have everything under control and this happy, successful woman, who started life a shy little redhead, is now standing tall and strong, with love in her heart and the world at her feet.
=======================================================
Astrology: Nicole Kidman, birth date 20 June 1967, born in Honolulu, horoscope and Astrodatabank biography
a:lang(ar),a:lang(ckb),a:lang(fa),a:lang(kk-arab),a:lang(mzn),a:lang(ps),a:lang(ur){text-decoration:none}
American actress known for her spirited roles and for her marriage to heartthrob Tom Cruise.  Kidman's films include "To Die For" and "Batman Forever," both in 1995, the surreal "Eyes Wide Shut," with her husband, and "Birthday Girl," 2001.
The elder of two daughters of a psychologist-biochemist dad and a nursing teaching mom, both political activists, she was raised in Australia from age six.  She made her TV debut in 1983 and soon became an Australian star.
Kidman is a fan of extreme sports such as skydiving, acrobatic flying and mountain climbing.  She also had the nerve to appear naked in a London West End play.
The 5' 10" Nicole married Tom Cruise in 1990.  An inch  shorter than Tom, she appears taller in heels  but they nonetheless made one of the "power couples" in Hollywood, both immensely successful in their careers.
After 11 years of marriage, they separated in December 2000, making the announcement on 2/05/2001, "because of difficulties inherent in divergent careers, which constantly keep them apart," reported their spokesman.
By the end of September 2003, after months of saying they were "just friends," Kidman and her new love, musician Lenny Kravitz, admitted  that they were in a serious relationship. Kravitz is the ex-husband of Lisa Bonet, who played one of the kids on "The Cosby Show."  However, they split up in December 2003.
On June 25, 2006, reportedly a little past sundown, Kidman married Keith Urban in Manly, Australia. Kidman gave birth to a daughter named Sunday Rose Kidman Urban on the morning of July 7, 2008 in Nashville, TN. On December 28,  2010 their biological child was born to a surrogate mother in Nashville, TN. Their daughter is named Faith.
 Relationship : Difficult period  December 2000   (Separated from Cruise)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
 Family : Change in family responsibilities  7 July 2008   (Daughter Sunday Rose)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
 Family : Change in family responsibilities  28 December 2010   (Daughter named Faith born via surrogate mother)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
In 2003, Sy Scholfield writes:  Data from the story "The Future" on Australian current affairs television show, "Today Tonight" Channel Seven, 7 October 2003, 6:30pm) in which astrologer Alison Moroney [www.users.bigpond.com/astrology/] displays a sidereal chart for Kidman with the following data: "20 June 1967, 3:15PM AHST, 21N19, 57W51," ascendant of 12 Libra 04, and MC of 12 Cancer 46. In an email Moroney explains to Sy Scholfield: "Nicole's birth data is: 3.15pm June 20, 1967.  This information was obtained from an internet database and confirmed by [astrologer] Milton Black."  NB: According to Scholfield's search of the internet in October 2003 no such info on Kidman's time of birth was found. Scholfield cites newspaper birth notice confirming Kidman's date and place of birth, but no time: "KIDMAN -- June 20, at Honolulu, to Antony and Janelle--a daughter (Nicole Mary)" (Sydney Morning Herald, 28 June 1967, p. 44). "  Original source notes are: LMR quotes media for date; time unknown.  Adam D. Hatzimanolis writes (2/2002), "I've  seen two birthdates either 21st or 22nd Jun 1967.  An actor who worked with her says she told him her birthday was: 26 Jun?? "
In February 2006, PT changed the Rodden Rating to A from C when Milton Black wrote to clarify: 20 June 1967
I did a TV show with her father Dr Anthony Kidman and after the show we sent some time together talking about Nicole. He remembers her time of birth vividly, as he was attending the University in Honolulu at the time and left that Tuesday afternoon to see his new born Nicole.
Retrieved from "http://www.astro.com/wiki/astro-databank/index.php?title=Kidman,_Nicole&oldid=130968"
Categories: 1967 birthsBirthday 20 JuneBirthplace Honolulu, HI (US)Sun 29 GeminiMoon 13 SagittariusAsc 6 ScorpioFamily : Parenting : Birthing - UnusualFamily : Parenting : Foster, Step, or Adopted KidsLifestyle : Financial : Gain - Financial success in fieldVocation : Entertainment : Actor/ Actress 
=======================================================
    .menu       { font-family: verdana, arial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: regular; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
    .page       { font-family: verdana, arial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: regular; text-decoration: none; color: #6BBDFF; }
    .tab        { font-family: verdana, arial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: regular; text-decoration: none; color: #FFFFFF; }
=======================================================
                BUY TICKETS, GET MUSIC. Buy any ticket on Fandango this month and get a free Amazon Music code for two songs!
            Within 48 hours of your ticket purchase, you’ll receive an email from Fandango with your Amazon Music promotional code. You’ll receive one promotional code per ticket transaction, limit one per Amazon account. Offer is valid through 9:00 AM PDT 6/30/2014, while supplies last. Amazon.com account required. Amazon Music promotional code expires 11:59pm PDT, 7/30/14. This is a promotional code and is not to be shared, is not for resale, has no cash value, and will not be replaced if lost or stolen. Terms and conditions apply. See www.amazon.com/fandangoMP3 for details.
                                                        News Bites: Disney is making a live-action 'Beauty and the Beast'
                                                        Watch how Emily Blunt almost killed Tom Cruise on the set of 'Edge of Tomorrow'
                                                        J.J. Abrams tweets 'Star Wars' photo from onboard the Millennium Falcon
Once relegated to decorative parts for years and long acknowledged as the wife of Tom Cruise, Nicole Kidman spent the latter half of the 1990s and the first decade of the new millennium earning much-deserved critical respect. Standing a willowy 5'11" and sporting one of Hollywood's most distinctive heads of frizzy red hair, the Australian actress first entered the American mindset with her role opposite Cruise in Days of Thunder (1990), but it wasn't until she starred as a homicidal weather girl in Gus Van Sant's 1995 To Die For that she achieved recognition as a thespian of considerable range and talent.  Though many assume that the heavily-accented Kidman hails from down under, she was actually born in Honolulu, Hawaii, on June 20, 1967, to Australian parents. Her family, who lived on the island because of a research project that employed Kidman's biochemist father, then moved to Washington, D.C. for the next three years. After her father's project reached completion, Nicole and her family returned to Australia. Raised in the upper-middle-class Sydney suburb of Longueville for the remainder of the 1970s and well into the eighties, Kidman grew up infused with a love of the arts, particularly dance and theatre. Kidman took refuge in the theater, and landed her first professional role at the age of 14, when she starred in Bush Christmas (1983), a TV movie about a group of kids who band together with an Aborigine to find their stolen horse. Brian Trenchard-Smith's BMX Bandits (1983) -- an adventure film/teen movie -- followed , with Kidman as the lead character, Judy; it opened to solid reviews. Kidman then worked for the gifted John Duigan (The Winter of Our Dreams, Romero) twice, first as one of the two adolescent leads of the Duigan-directed "Room to Move" episode of the Australian TV series Winners (1985) and, more prestigiously, as the star of Duigan's acclaimed miniseries Vietnam (1987).In 1988, Kidman got another major break when she was tapped to star in Phillip Noyce's Dead Calm (1989). A psychological thriller about a couple (Kidman and Sam Neill) who are terrorized by a young man they rescue from a sinking ship (Billy Zane), the film helped to establish the then-21-year-old Kidman as an actress of considerable mettle. That same year, her starring performance in the made-for-TV Bangkok Hilton further bolstered her reputation.  By now a rising star in Australia, Kidman began to earn recognition across the Pacific. In 1989, Tom Cruise picked her for a starring role in her first American feature, Tony Scott's Days of Thunder (1990). The film, a testosterone-saturated drama about a racecar driver (Cruise), cast Kidman as the neurologist who falls in love with him. A sizable hit, it had the added advantage of introducing Kidman to Cruise, whom she married in December of 1990. Following a role as Dustin Hoffman's moll in Robert Benton's Billy Bathgate (1991), and a supporting turn as a snotty boarding school senior in the masterful Flirting (1991), which teamed her with Duigan a third time, Kidman collaborated with Cruise on their second film together, Far and Away (1992). Despite their joint star quality, gorgeous cinematography, and adequate direction by Ron Howard, critics panned the lackluster film. Kidman's subsequent projects, My Life and Malice ( both 1993), were similarly disappointing, despite scattered favorable reviews. Batman Forever (1995), in which she played the hero's love interest, Dr. Chase Meridian, fared somewhat better, but did little in the way of establishing Kidman as a serious actress even as it raked in mile-high returns at the summer box office.  Kidman finally broke out of her window-dressing typecasting when Gus Van Sant enlisted her to portray the ruthless protagonist of To Die For (1995). Directed from a Buck Henry script, this uber-dark comedy casts Kidman as Suzanne Stone, a television broadcaster ready and eager to commit one homicide after another to propel herself to the top.  Displaying a gift for impeccable comic timing, she earned  Golden Globe and National Broadcast Critics Circle Awards for Best Actress. Further critical praise greeted Kidman's performance as Isabel Archer in Jane Campion's 1996 adaptation of Henry James' The Portrait of a Lady. Now regarded as one of the hottest actresses in Hollywood, Kidman starred opposite George Clooney in the big-budget action extravaganza The Peacemaker (1997) and opposite Sandra Bullock in the frothy Practical Magic (1998). In 1999, Kidman starred in one of her most controversial films to date, Stanley Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut. Adapted from Arthur Schnitzler's Traumnovelle and cloaked in secrecy from the beginning of its production, the film also stars Cruise as Kidman's physician husband. During the spring and summer of 1999, the media unsurprisingly hyped the couple's onscreen pairing as the two major selling points. However, despite an added measure of intrigue from Kubrick's death only weeks after shooting wrapped, Eyes Wide Shut repeated the performance of prior Kubrick efforts by opening to a radically mixed reaction.As the new millennium arrived, problems began to erupt between Kidman and Tom Cruise; divorce followed soon after, and the tabloids swirled with talk of new relationships for the both of them. She concurrently plunged into a string of daring, eccentric film roles much edgier than what she had done before. The trend began with a role in Jez Butterworth's Birthday Girl (2001) as a Russian mail order bride, and Baz Luhrmann's Moulin Rouge (2001), which cast her, in the lead, as a courtesan in a 19th century Paris hopped up with late 20th century pop songs. The picture dazzled some and alienated others, but once again, journalists flocked to Kidman's side. Following this success (the picture gleaned a Best Picture nod but failed to win), Kidman gained even more positive notice for her turn as an icy mother after the key to a dark mystery in Alejandro Amenabar's spooky throwback, The Others. When the 59th Annual Golden Globe Awards finally arrived, Kidman received nominations for her memorable performances in both films.  Though it couldn't have been any further from her flamboyant turn in Moulin Rouge, Kidman's camouflaged role as Virginia Woolf in the following year's The Hours (2002) (she wears little makeup and a prosthetic nose), for which she delivered a mesmerizing and haunting performance, kept the Oscar and Golden Globe nominations steadily flowing in for the acclaimed actress. The fair-haired beauty finally snagged the Best Actress Oscar that had been so elusive the year before. Post-Oscar, Kidman continued to take on challenging work. She played the lead role in Lars von Trier's Dogville, although she declined to continue in Von Trier's planned trilogy of films about that character. She swung for the Oscar fences again in 2003 as the female lead in Cold Mountain, but it was co-star Renee Zellweger who won the statuette that year. Kidman did solid work for Jonathan Glazer in the Jean-Claude Carriere-penned Birth, as a woman revisited by the incarnation of her dead husband in a small child's body, but stumbled with a pair of empty-headed comedies, Frank Oz's The Stepford Wives and Nora Ephron's Bewitched (both 2005), that her skills could not save. She worked with Sean Penn in the political thriller The Interpreter in 2005.  For the most part, Kidman continued to stretch herself with increasingly demanding and arty roles throughout 2006. In Steven Shainberg's Fur: An Imaginary Portrait of Diane Arbus, Kidman plays controversial housewife-cum-photographer Diane Arbus. Meanwhile, Kidman returned to popcorn pictures by playing Mrs. Coulter in Chris Weitz's massive, $150-million fantasy adventure The Golden Compass (2007), adapted from Philip Pullman's His Dark Materials series of books. She also headlined the sci-fi thriller The Invasion, a loose remake of the classic Invasion of the Body Snatchers. Also in 2007, Kidman teamed up with Noah Baumbach for a starring role as a supremely dysfunctional mother in Margot at the Wedding (2007). The actress then set out to recapture her Moulin Rouge musical success with a turn in director Rob Marshall's 8 1/2 remake Nine (2009), teamed up with indie cause-célèbre John Cameron Mitchell and Aaron Eckhart for the psychologically-charged domestic drama Rabbit Hole (2010), and starred opposite Jennifer Aniston and Adam Sandler in the Dennis Dugan-helmed comedy Go With It (2011). Kidman would spend the next few years continuing her high level of activity, appearing in movies like Trespass and The Paperboy. ~ Rebecca Flint Marx, Rovi
						and authorize Fandango and its service providers to deliver FanTexts and other promotional texts to your mobile phone. 
                    You can unsubscribe at any time by texting "STOP" or seek help by texting "HELP" to "FNDGO" (36346).
