=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
This article is about the president of the United States.  For others with the same name, see Ulysses S. Grant (disambiguation).
Ulysses S. Grant (born Hiram Ulysses Grant; April 27, 1822 – July 23, 1885) was the 18th President of the United States (1869–1877) following his success as military commander in the American Civil War. Under Grant, the Union Army defeated the Confederate military; the war, and secession, ended with the surrender of Robert E. Lee's army at Appomattox Court House. As president, Grant led the Radical Republicans in their effort to remove the vestiges of Confederate nationalism and slavery, protect African-American citizenship, and defeat the Ku Klux Klan. In foreign policy, Grant sought to increase American trade and influence, while remaining at peace with the world. Although his Republican Party had split in 1872 as reformers denounced him, Grant was easily reelected. During his second term the Panic of 1873 devastated the national economy, while investigations exposed corruption scandals in the administration. The conservative white Southerners regained control of Southern state governments and Democrats took control of the federal House of Representatives. By the time Grant left the White House in 1877, his Reconstruction policies were being undone.
A career soldier, Grant graduated in 1843 from the United States Military Academy at West Point and served in the Mexican–American War. When the Civil War began in 1861, he rejoined the Union army. Promoted to major-general in 1862, Grant took control of Kentucky and most of Tennessee. He then led Union forces to victory after initial setbacks in the Battle of Shiloh, earning a reputation as an aggressive commander. In July 1863, Grant defeated Confederate armies and seized Vicksburg, giving the Union control of the Mississippi River and dividing the Confederacy in two. After the Battle of Chattanooga in late 1863, President Abraham Lincoln promoted Grant to lieutenant-general and commander of all the Union armies. As commander, Grant confronted Robert E. Lee in a series of bloody battles in 1864, which ended with Grant trapping Lee at Petersburg, Virginia. During the siege, Grant coordinated a series of devastating campaigns launched by generals William Tecumseh Sherman, Philip Sheridan, and George Henry Thomas in other theaters. Finally, breaking through Lee's trenches, the Union Army captured Richmond in April 1865. Lee surrendered his depleted forces to Grant at Appomattox as the Confederacy collapsed. Most historians have hailed Grant's military genius, despite losses of men.[1]
After the Civil War, Grant served two terms as president and worked to stabilize the nation during the turbulent Reconstruction period that followed. He enforced civil rights laws and fought Ku Klux Klan violence. Grant encouraged passage of the Fifteenth Amendment, giving protection for African-American voting rights. He used the army to build the Republican Party in the South, based on black voters, Northern newcomers ("Carpetbaggers"), and native Southern white supporters ("Scalawags"). As a result, for the first time in American history African-Americans represented themselves in Congress. Although there were some gains in political and civil rights by African-Americans in the early 1870s, by the time Grant left office in 1877, Democrats in the South had regained control of state governments, while most blacks lost their political power for nearly a century. Although Grant's Indian peace policy reduced Indian violence and created the Board of Indian Commissioners, conflict continued that culminated in the Battle of the Little Big Horn. In the long run, even his supporters agreed that his policies were unsuccessful. Grant's reputation fell as the economy plunged into the United States' first industrial depression, beginning with the Panic of 1873. In his second term, Grant had to respond to a series of Congressional investigations into financial corruption in the government, including bribery charges against two cabinet members.
Grant's foreign policy, led by Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, settled the Alabama Claims with Britain and avoided war with Spain over the Virginius Affair, but his attempted annexation of the Dominican Republic failed. Grant's response to the Panic of 1873 gave some financial relief to New York banking houses, but was ineffective in stopping the five-year industrial depression that followed. After leaving office, Grant embarked on a two-year world tour that included many enthusiastic receptions. In 1880, he made an unsuccessful bid for a third presidential term. However, his memoirs, written as he was dying, were a critical and popular success, and his death prompted an outpouring of national mourning. Historians have, until recently, ranked Grant as nearly the worst president; Grant's reputation having been marred by his defense of corrupt appointees and by his conservative deflationary policy during the Panic of 1873.[2] While still ranked below average, his reputation among scholars has much improved in recent years because of greater appreciation for his commitment to civil rights, moral courage in his prosecution of the Ku Klux Klan, and enforcement of voting rights.[3]
Hiram Ulysses Grant was born in Point Pleasant, Ohio, on April 27, 1822, to Jesse Root Grant, a tanner and businessman, and Hannah (Simpson) Grant.[4] Jesse Grant was a Whig with abolitionist sentiments.[5] In the fall of 1823, the family moved to the village of Georgetown in Brown County, Ohio. Raised in a Methodist family devoid of religious pretension, Grant prayed privately and was not an official member of the church.[6] Unlike his younger siblings, Grant was neither disciplined, baptized, nor forced to attend church by his parents.[7] One of his biographers suggests that Grant inherited a degree of introversion from his reserved, even "uncommonly detached" mother. (She never took occasion to visit the White House during her son's presidency.) Grant developed an unusual ability to work with, and control, horses in his charge, and became known as a capable horseman.[8]
When Grant was 17, Congressman Thomas L. Hamer nominated him for a position at the United States Military Academy (USMA) at West Point, New York. Hamer mistakenly wrote down the name as "Ulysses S. Grant of Ohio." At West Point, he adopted this name with a middle initial only. His nickname became "Sam" among army colleagues at the academy since the initials "U.S." also stood for "Uncle Sam". According to Grant, the S did not stand for anything, though Hamer had used it to abbreviate his mother's maiden name.[9] Grant's appointment to West Point was facilitated by his family's influence, while Grant himself later recalled "a military life had no charms for me".[10] Grant stood 5 feet 1 inch (1.55 m) and weighed 117 pounds (53 kg) when he entered West Point.[11] Grant later said that he was lax in his studies, but he achieved above-average grades in mathematics and geology.[12] Although Grant had a quiet nature, he established a few intimate friends at West Point, including Frederick Tracy Dent and Rufus Ingalls.[13] While not excelling scholastically, Grant studied under Romantic artist Robert Walter Weir and produced nine surviving artworks. He also established a reputation as a fearless and expert horseman, setting an equestrian high-jump record that stood for almost 25 years. He graduated in 1843, ranking 21st in a class of 39. Grant was glad to leave West Point and planned to resign his commission after serving the minimum term of obligated duty.[14] Despite his excellent horsemanship, he was not assigned to the cavalry, as assignments were determined by class rank, not aptitude. Grant was instead assigned as a regimental quartermaster, managing supplies and equipment in the 4th Infantry Regiment, with the rank of brevet second lieutenant.[15]
Grant's first assignment after graduation took him to the Jefferson Barracks near St. Louis, Missouri, in September 1843.[16] It was the nation's largest military bastion in the West, commanded by Colonel Stephen W. Kearny. Grant was happy with his new commander, but still looked forward to the end of his military service and a possible teaching career.[17] Grant spent some of his time in Missouri visiting the family of his West Point classmate, Frederick Dent, and getting to know Dent's sister, Julia; the two became secretly engaged in 1844.[17]
Rising tensions with Mexico saw Grant's unit shifted to Louisiana that year as a part of the Army of Observation under Major General Zachary Taylor.[18] When the Mexican–American War broke out in 1846, the Army entered Mexico. Not content with his responsibilities as a quartermaster, Grant made his way to the front lines to engage in the battle, and participated as a cavalryman at the Battle of Resaca de la Palma.[19] The army continued its advance into Mexico. At Monterrey, Grant demonstrated his equestrian ability, carrying a dispatch through sniper-lined streets on horseback while mounted in one stirrup.[20] President James K. Polk, wary of Taylor's growing popularity, divided his army, sending some troops (including Grant's unit) to form a new army under Major General Winfield Scott.[21] Scott's army landed at Veracruz and advanced toward Mexico City. The army met the Mexican forces at the battles of Molino del Rey and Chapultepec outside Mexico City. At Chapultepec, Grant dragged a howitzer into a church steeple to bombard nearby Mexican troops.[22] Scott's army entered the city, and the Mexicans agreed to peace not long after.
In his Memoirs, Grant wrote that he had learned about military leadership by observing the decisions and actions of his commanding officers, and in retrospect he identified himself with Taylor's style. At the time, he felt that the war was a wrongful one and believed that territorial gains were designed to spread slavery throughout the nation; writing in 1883, Grant said "I was bitterly opposed to the measure, and to this day, regard the war, which resulted, as one of the most unjust ever waged by a stronger against a weaker nation." He also opined that the Civil War was punishment inflicted on the nation for its aggression in Mexico.[23]
On August 22, 1848, Grant and Julia married after a four-year engagement.[24] In all, they had four children: Frederick, Ulysses Jr. ("Buck"), Ellen ("Nellie"), and Jesse.[25] Grant received assignments to several different posts over the ensuing six years. His first post-war assignments took him and Julia to Detroit and Sackets Harbor, New York, the location that made them the happiest.[26] In the spring of 1852, Grant traveled in to Washington, D.C., in a failed attempt to prevail upon the Congress to rescind an order that he in his capacity as quartermaster reimburse the military $1000 in losses incurred on his watch, for which he bore no personal guilt.[27] That same year Grant's new assignment sent him west to Fort Vancouver in the Oregon Territory, initially landing in San Francisco during the height of the California Gold Rush, continuing his service as quartermaster. Julia could not go with him as she was eight months pregnant with their second child.[28] The oceanic voyage to California was an ordeal due to transportation disruptions and an outbreak of cholera within the entourage while traveling overland through Panama. Grant made use of his organizational skills, arranging makeshift transportation and hospital facilities to take care of the sick; even so there were 150 fatalities.[29]
To supplement a military salary inadequate to support his family, Grant, assuming his work as quartermaster so equipped him, attempted but failed at several business ventures.[30] The business failures in the West confirmed Jesse Grant's belief that his son had no head for business, creating frustration for both father and son. In one case, Grant naïvely trusted a business partner who swindled him out of money.[31] Grant grew unhappy separated from his family and having financial troubles.[31] Rumors began to circulate that Grant was drinking to excess.[31]
Promoted to captain in the summer of 1853, Grant was one of only fifty on active duty, and assigned to command Company F, 4th Infantry, at Fort Humboldt, on the northwest California coast. Without explanation, he shortly afterwards resigned from the army effective July 31, 1854.[32] The commanding officer at Fort Humboldt, brevet Lieutenant Colonel Robert C. Buchanan, a strict disciplinarian, received reports that Grant became intoxicated off duty while seated at the pay officer's table. In lieu of a court-martial, Buchanan gave Grant an ultimatum to sign a drafted resignation letter. Grant resigned; the War Department stated on his record, "Nothing stands against his good name."[33] Rumors, however, persisted in the regular army of Grant's intemperance.[a] Years later, Grant said, "the vice of intemperance had not a little to do with my decision to resign."[35] Grant's father, again believing his son's only potential for success would be in the military, tried to get the Secretary of War, Jefferson Davis, to rescind the resignation, to no avail.[36]
At age 32, with no civilian vocation, Grant struggled through seven financially lean years. His father, Jesse, initially offered Grant a place in the Galena, Illinois, branch of the tannery business, on condition that Julia and the children stay with her parents in Missouri or the Grants in Kentucky, for economic reasons. Ulysses and Julia were adamantly opposed to another separation and declined the offer.[37] In 1854, Grant farmed on his brother-in-law's property near St. Louis, using slaves owned by Julia's father, but it did not succeed.[37] Two years later, Grant and his family moved to land sectioned on his father-in-law's farm and, to give his family a home, built a house he called "Hardscrabble".[37] Julia hated the rustic house, which she described as an "unattractive cabin".[37] During this time, Grant also acquired a slave from Julia's father, a thirty-five-year-old man named William Jones.[38] Having met with no success farming, the Grants left the farm when their fourth and last child was born in 1858. Grant freed his slave in 1859 instead of selling him, at a time when slaves commanded a high price and Grant needed money badly.[38] For the next year, the family took a small house in St. Louis where Grant worked with Julia's cousin Harry Boggs, again without success, as a bill collector.[39] In 1860, Jesse offered him the job in his tannery in Galena, without condition, and Grant accepted. The leather shop, "Grant & Perkins", sold harnesses, saddles, and other leather goods, and purchased hides from farmers in the prosperous Galena area. He moved his family to a rental house in Galena that year.[40]
Grant was not politically active and never endorsed any candidate before the Civil War.[41] His father-in-law was a prominent Democrat in Missouri, a reason that helped derail Grant's bid to become county engineer in 1859, while his father was an outspoken Republican in Galena.[42] In the 1856 election, Grant cast his first presidential vote for the Democrat, James Buchanan, saying he was really voting against John C. Frémont, the Republican.[41] In 1860, he favored the Democratic presidential candidate Stephen A. Douglas over Abraham Lincoln, and Lincoln over the Southern Democrat, John C. Breckinridge. Lacking the residency requirements in Illinois at the time, he could not vote. By August 1863, after the fall of Vicksburg during the Civil War, Grant's political sympathies fully coincided with the Radical Republicans' aggressive prosecution of the war and promotion of abolishing slavery.[43]
On April 12, 1861, the American Civil War began as Confederate troops attacked Fort Sumter in Charleston, South Carolina, forcing its surrender. Two days later, Lincoln put out a call for 75,000 volunteers. A mass meeting was called in Galena to encourage recruitment. Recognized as the sole military professional in the area, Grant was asked to lead the meeting and ensuing effort. He proceeded to help recruit a company of volunteers and accompanied it to Springfield, the capital of Illinois. Illinois Governor Richard Yates offered Grant a position recruiting and training volunteer units, which he accepted, but Grant wanted a field command in the regular Army. He made multiple efforts with contacts (including Major General George B. McClellan) to acquire such a position with no success. Meanwhile, Grant continued serving at the training camps and made a positive impression on the volunteer Union recruits. With the aid of his advocate in Washington, Illinois congressman Elihu B. Washburne, Grant was promoted to Colonel by Governor Yates on June 14, 1861, and put in charge of the unruly 21st Illinois Volunteer Infantry Regiment. Transferred to northern Missouri, Grant was promoted by President Lincoln to Brigadier General, supported again by Washburne, backdated to May 17, 1861.[44] By the end of August 1861, Major General John C. Frémont assigned Grant to the District of Cairo in southern Illinois. Grant's demeanor had changed at the outset of the war, renewing his energy and confidence.[45] He later recalled with apparent satisfaction that after that first recruitment meeting in Galena "I never went into our leather store again."[46] During this time, Grant quickly perceived that the war would be fought for the most part by volunteers and not professional soldiers.[47]
Grant's troops first saw action in late 1861 by striking from their base at Cairo, Illinois, the strategic point where the Ohio River flows into the Mississippi River, near the Tennessee and Cumberland rivers.[48] Major General Leonidas Polk commanded the Confederate army stationed in Columbus, Kentucky. Frémont ordered Grant to make "demonstrations", not including an attack, against the Confederate Army at Belmont.[48] After Lincoln relieved Frémont from command, Grant attacked Fort Belmont taking 3,114 Union troops by boat on November 7, 1861. He initially took the fort, but his army was later pushed back to Cairo by the reinforced Confederates under Brigadier General Gideon J. Pillow. A tactical defeat, the battle nonetheless instilled much-needed confidence in Grant and his volunteers.[49] Following Belmont, Grant asked Major General Henry Halleck for permission to move against Fort Henry on the Tennessee River; Halleck agreed on condition that the attack be conducted with oversight by Union Navy Flag Officer Andrew H. Foote. Grant's troops, in close cooperation with Foote's naval forces, successfully captured Fort Henry, nearly submerged by flood waters, on February 6, 1862, and nearby Fort Donelson on the Cumberland River on February 16.[50] Confederate commander Brig. Gen. Lloyd Tilghman surrendered Fort Henry, after heavy bombardment from Foote's Union naval fleet. [51] At Fort Donelson, Grant and Foote met stiff resistance from the Confederate forces under Pillow. Reinforced by 10,000 troops Grant's Union army totaled 25,000 troops against 12,000 Confederate troops at Fort Donelson, whose guns repulsed Foote's first approach. Surrounded by Grant's Union army, the Confederates attempted a break out, pushing Grant's right flank into disorganized retreat eastward. [52] Grant rallied his troops, resumed the offensive, retook the Union right, and attacked Pillow's left. Pillow ordered Confederate troops back into the fort and relinquished command to Brigadier General Simon Bolivar Buckner, who surrendered to Grant the next day. The Northern press repeated Grant's terms, "No terms except an unconditional and immediate surrender." [52] Grant became a celebrity in the North, now nicknamed "Unconditional Surrender" Grant. With these victories, President Abraham Lincoln promoted Grant to major-general of volunteers.[53]
Grant's advance at Forts Henry and Donelson was the most significant advance into the Confederacy the North had yet seen. Encamped on the western side of the Tennessee River, Grant's Union army, known as the Army of the Tennessee, had increased to 48,894 troops. Grant met with Brigadier General William T. Sherman, and the two readied their troops to attack the Confederate stronghold of equal numbers at Corinth, Mississippi.[54] The Confederates organized for the same attack, and moved first at dawn on April 6, 1862, with a full preëmptive attack on the Union Army at the Battle of Shiloh. The goal was to annihilate the western Union offensive in one massive assault. Over 44,000 Confederate troops, led by Generals Albert Sidney Johnston and P.G.T. Beauregard, attacked the five divisions of Grant's army bivouacked nine miles south at Pittsburg Landing. Aware of the impending Confederate attack, Union troops sounded the alarm and readied for battle. The Confederates struck hard and pushed the Union Army back towards the Tennessee River. At the end of the day, the Union Army was vulnerable and on the verge of being destroyed, had Beauregard's troops not been too exhausted to continue the fight.[55] Avoiding panic, Grant and Sherman rallied their troops for a counterattack the next morning. With reinforcement troops from Major General Don Carlos Buell and Major General Lew Wallace's missing division, Grant succeeded in driving the Confederates back to the road from Corinth. Although he stopped short of capturing Beauregard's army, Grant was able to stabilize the Army of the Tennessee.[56]
The battle was the costliest of the war to date, with total Union and Confederate casualties of 23,746, and minimal strategic advantage gained by either side. Nevertheless, Grant received high praise from many corners. He later remarked that the carnage at Shiloh had made it clear to him that the Confederacy would only be defeated by complete annihilation of its armies. Grant, however, received criticism for his decision to keep the Union Army bivouacked and not entrenched.[57] Halleck transferred command of the Army of the Tennessee to Brigadier General George H. Thomas and promoted Grant to the hollow rank of second-in-command of the western armies, effectively removing him from an active field command. As a result, Grant was again on the verge of resigning, until Sherman paid a visit to his camp.[58] Sherman, whose experiences in the military had been similar to Grant's, convinced Grant to stay in the army. During Halleck's sluggish advance on Corinth—covering 19 miles in 30 days—the entire Confederate force there escaped; the 120,000-man Union Army was then broken up. Charles A. Dana, an investigative agent for Secretary of War Edwin Stanton then, interviewed Grant and related to Lincoln and Stanton that Grant appeared "self-possessed and eager to make war." Lincoln reinstated Grant to his command of the Army of the Tennessee.[59] Shiloh also marked the beginning of Grant's friendship with Sherman; the two would go on to develop a similar philosophy of total war against the Confederate armies and population.[60]
The Battle of Jackson, fought on 14 May 1863, in Jackson, Mississippi, was part of the Vicksburg Campaign.
Determined to take the strategic Confederate stronghold at Vicksburg, Mississippi, on the Mississippi River, Lincoln authorized Major General John A. McClernand to raise an army in his home state of Illinois for the purpose. Grant was very frustrated at the lack of direction he was receiving to move forward from his station in Memphis, and more aggravated to learn of this apparent effort to brush him aside. According to biographer William S. McFeely, this discontent may have been responsible for Grant's ill-considered issuance of General Orders No. 11 on December 17, 1862. This order expelled Jews, as a class, from Grant's military district, in reaction to illicit activities of overly aggressive cotton traders in the Union camps, who Grant believed were interfering with military operations.[61] Lincoln demanded the order be revoked, and Grant rescinded it twenty-one days after issuance. Without admitting fault, Grant believed he had only complied with the instructions sent from Washington. According to another Grant biographer, Jean E. Smith, it was "one of the most blatant examples of state-sponsored anti-Semitism in American history."[62] Grant believed that a gold and cotton trade existed through enemy lines and that Jews could pass freely into enemy camps.[63] Grant later expressed regret for this order in 1868; his attitude about Jews was otherwise undeclared.[63]
In December 1862, with Halleck's approval, Grant moved to take Vicksburg by an overland route, aided by Charles Hamilton and James McPherson, in a joint effort with a water expedition on the Mississippi led by Major General Sherman. Grant had thus preëmpted his rival McClernand's move. Confederate cavalry raiders Brigadier General Nathan Bedford Forrest and Major General Earl Van Dorn stalled Grant's advance by disrupting his communications, while the Confederate army led by Lieutenant General John C. Pemberton concentrated and repulsed Sherman's direct approach at Chickasaw Bayou. McClernand afterwards attempted to salvage Sherman's effort to no avail, so at the end of the first day neither Grant nor McClernand had succeeded.[64]
During the second attempt to capture Vicksburg, Grant made a series of unsuccessful movements along bayou and canal water routes. Finally, in April 1863, Grant marched Union troops down the west side of the Mississippi River and crossed east over at Bruinsburg using Rear Admiral David Porter's ships. Grant earlier had ordered two diversion battles that confused Pemberton and allowed Grant's army to cross the Mississippi. After a series of battles, including the capture of a railroad junction near Jackson, Grant went on to defeat Pemberton at the Battle of Champion Hill. Grant then assaulted the Vicksburg fortress twice and suffered serious losses. After the failed assault, Grant settled in for a siege lasting seven weeks. As the siege began, Grant lapsed into a two-day drinking episode.[65] Pemberton surrendered Vicksburg to Grant on July 4, 1863.[66] During the campaign, Grant assumed responsibility for refugee-contraband slaves displaced by the war and were vulnerable to Confederate marauders; Lincoln had authorized their recruitment into the Union Army. Grant put Brigadier General John Eaton in charge of the refugees, who authorized them to work on abandoned Confederate plantations to support the war effort.
The fall of Vicksburg gave the Union control over the entire Mississippi and split the Confederacy in two. Grant demonstrated that an indirect assault, coupled with diversionary tactics, was a highly effective strategy in defeating an entrenched army. Although the success at Vicksburg was a great morale boost for the Union war effort, Grant received much criticism for his decisions and his reported drunkenness. Lincoln again sent Dana to keep a watchful eye on Grant's alleged intemperance; Dana eventually became Grant's devoted ally, and made light of the drinking.[67] The personal rivalry between McClernand and Grant continued over Vicksburg, but ended when Grant removed McClernand from command after he contravened Grant by publishing a military order.
Lincoln put Grant in command of the newly formed Division of the Mississippi in October 1863, giving Grant charge of the entire western theater of war except for Louisiana. After the Battle of Chickamauga, Confederate General Braxton Bragg forced Major General William Rosecrans's Army of the Cumberland to retreat into Chattanooga (a central railway hub), surrounded the city, and trapped the Union army inside. Only Major General George H. Thomas and the XIV Corps kept the Army of the Cumberland from complete defeat at the Battle of Chickamauga. When informed of the ominous situation at Chattanooga, Grant relieved Rosecrans from duty and placed Thomas in charge of the besieged Army of the Cumberland. To stop the siege and go on the attack, Grant personally rode out to Chattanooga and took charge of the desperate situation. Lincoln sent Major General Joseph Hooker and two divisions of the Army of the Potomac to reinforce the Army of the Cumberland, but Confederate forces kept the two armies from meeting. Grant's first action was to open up a supply line to the Army of the Cumberland trapped in Chattanooga. Following a plan devised by Major General William F. Smith, that formed a "Cracker Line", Hooker's Army of the Potomac on Lookout Mountain supplied the Army of the Cumberland with food and weapons.[68]
On November 23, 1863, Grant organized three armies to attack Bragg's troops on Missionary Ridge and Lookout Mountain. The next day, Sherman and four divisions of the Army of the Tennessee assaulted Bragg's right flank. Thomas and the Army of the Cumberland overtook Confederate picket trenches at the base of Missionary Ridge. Hooker's forces took Lookout Mountain and captured 1,064 prisoners. On November 25, Sherman continued his attack on Bragg's right flank on the northern section of Missionary Ridge. In response to Sherman's assault, Bragg withdrew Confederate troops on the main ridge to reinforce the Confederate right flank. Seeing that Bragg was reinforcing his right flank, Grant ordered Thomas to make a general assault on Missionary Ridge. After a brief delay, the Army of the Cumberland, led by Major General Philip Sheridan and Brigadier General Thomas J. Wood, captured the first Confederate entrenchments. Without further orders, the Army of the Cumberland continued uphill and captured the Confederate's secondary entrenchments on top of Missionary Ridge, forcing the defeated Confederates into disorganized retreat. Although Bragg's army had not been captured, the decisive battle opened Georgia and the heartland of the Confederacy to Union invasion. Promoted to Lieutenant General, a rank before only held by George Washington and Winfield Scott, Grant's fame increased throughout the North.[69]
Disappointed with Major General George Meade's failure to pursue Lee after the Confederate defeat at the Battle of Gettysburg, Lincoln made Grant commander of all Union armies in March 1864.[70] Grant gave the Department of the Mississippi to Sherman, and went east to Washington, D.C., to devise a strategy with Lincoln. After settling Julia into a house in Georgetown, Grant established his headquarters fifty miles away, near Meade's Army of the Potomac in Culpeper, Virginia.[71] The Union strategy of a comprehensive effort to bring about a speedy victory consisted of coordinated Union offensives, attacking the rebel armies at the same time to keep the Confederates from shifting reinforcements within southern interior lines. Sherman would attack Atlanta and Georgia, while Meade would lead the Army of the Potomac, with Grant in camp, to attack Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia. Major General Benjamin Butler was to attack and advance towards Richmond from the south, going up the James River.[72] Depending on Lee's actions, Grant would join forces with Butler's armies and be fed supplies from the James River. Major General Franz Sigel was to capture the railroad line at Lynchburg, move east, and attack from the Blue Ridge Mountains.[73] Grant was riding a rising tide of popularity, and there were discussions in some corners that a Union victory early in the year could potentially open his candidacy for the presidency. Grant was aware of it, but had ruled it out in discussions with Lincoln; in any case, the possibility would soon vanish with delays on the battlefield.[74]
Sigel's and Butler's efforts sputtered, and Grant was left alone to fight Lee in a series of bloody battles of attrition known as the Overland Campaign. After taking the month of April 1864 to assemble and ready the Army of the Potomac, Grant crossed the Rapidan River on May 4 and attacked Lee in the Wilderness, a hard-fought three-day battle with many casualties. Rather than retreat as his predecessors had done, Grant flanked Lee's army to the southeast and attempted to wedge the Union Army between Lee and Richmond at Spotsylvania.[75] Lee's army got to Spotsylvania first, and a costly battle began that lasted thirteen days. During the battle, Grant attempted to break through Lee's line of defense at the Mule Shoe, which resulted in one of the bloodiest assaults during the Civil War, known as The Battle of the Bloody Angle. Unable to break Lee's line of defense after repeated attempts, Grant flanked Lee to the southeast east again at North Anna, a battle that lasted three days.[76] This time the Confederate Army had a superior defensive advantage on Grant. Grant then maneuvered the Union Army to Cold Harbor, a vital railroad hub that linked to Richmond, but Lee's men were able to entrench against the Union assault. During the third day of the thirteen-day battle, Grant led a costly assault on Lee's trenches. As news spread in the North, heavy criticism fell on Grant, castigated "the Butcher" by the Northern press, having taken 52,788 casualties in thirty days since crossing the Rapidan. Lee suffered 32,907 Confederate casualties, and was less able to replace them.[77] When the two armies had fought to a stalemate, the generals took three days to reach a truce, so that the dead and dying could be removed from the battlefield. The costly June 3 assault at Cold Harbor was the second of two battles in the war which Grant later distinctly regretted. Unknown to Lee, Grant pulled out of Cold Harbor and moved his army south of the James River, freed Major General Butler from the Bermuda Hundred, and attacked Petersburg, Richmond's central railroad hub.[73]
After Grant and the Army of the Potomac had crossed the James River undetected initially by Lee and rescued Butler's army from the Bermuda Hundred, Grant advanced the army southward to capture Petersburg. Confederate General P.G.T. Beauregard, in charge of Petersburg, was able to defend the city, and Lee's veteran reinforcements arrived. Grant forced Lee into a long nine-month siege of Petersburg, and the war effort stalled. Northern resentment grew as the war dragged on, but an indirect benefit of the Petersburg siege was found in preventing Lee from reinforcing armies to oppose Sherman and Sheridan. During the siege, Sherman was able to take Atlanta, a victory that advanced President Lincoln's reelection. Major General Sheridan was given command of the Union Army of the Shenandoah and directed by Grant to "follow the enemy to their death". Lee had sent General Jubal Early up the Shenandoah Valley to attack the federal capital and draw troops away from the Army of the Potomac, but Sheridan defeated Early, saving Washington from capture. Grant then ordered Sheridan's cavalry to destroy vital Confederate supply farms in the Shenandoah Valley. When Sheridan reported suffering attacks by irregular Confederate cavalry under John S. Mosby, Grant recommended rounding up their families for imprisonment as hostages at Ft. McHenry.[78]
Grant attempted to blow up part of Lee's Petersburg trenches from an underground tunnel, but the explosion created a crater from which Confederates could easily pick off Union troops below. The 3500 Union casualties outnumbered the Confederates' by three-to-one; Grant admitted the tactic had been a "stupendous failure."[79] On August 9, 1864, Grant, who had just arrived at his headquarters in City Point, narrowly escaped death when Confederate spies blew up an ammunition barge moored below the city's bluffs.[80] As the war slowly progressed, Grant continued to extend Lee's entrenchment defenses southwest of Petersburg, to capture vital railroad links. By August 21, the Union had captured the Wilmington and Weldon Railroad. As Grant continued to push the Union advance westward towards the South Side Railroad, Lee's entrenchment lines became overstretched and undermanned. After the Federal army rebuilt the City Point Railroad, Grant was able to use mortars to attack Lee's entrenchments.
Once Sherman reached the East Coast and Thomas dispatched Hood in Tennessee, Union victory appeared certain, and Lincoln resolved to attempt a negotiated end to the war with the Confederates. He enlisted Francis Preston Blair to carry a message to Confederate President Jefferson Davis. Davis and Lincoln each appointed commissioners, but the conference soon stalled. Grant contacted Lincoln, who agreed to personally meet with the commissioners at Fort Monroe. The peace conference was ultimately fruitless, but Grant had shown his willingness and ability to assume a diplomatic role beyond his normal military posture.[81]
In March 1865, while Lincoln met at City Point with Grant, Sherman, and Porter, Union forces finally took Petersburg and captured Richmond in April. Lee's troops began deserting in large numbers; disease and lack of supplies also weakened Lee's forces. Lee attempted to link up with the remnants of Confederate General Joseph E. Johnston's defeated army, but Union cavalry forces led by Sheridan were able to stop the two armies from converging. Lee and his army surrendered to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865. Grant gave generous terms; Confederate troops surrendered their weapons and allowed to return to their homes with their mounts, on the condition that they would not take up arms against the United States. Within a few weeks, the Civil War was over.[82]
On April 14, five days after Grant's victory at Appomattox, Lincoln was fatally shot by John Wilkes Booth and died the next morning. The assassination was part of a conspiracy that targeted a number of government leaders.[83] Grant attended a cabinet meeting that day, and Lincoln had invited Grant and his wife to the theater, but they declined as they had plans to travel to Philadelphia. Many, including Grant himself, thought that Grant had been a target in the plot.[84] Secretary of War Stanton, through Charles Dana, notified Grant of the President's death and summoned him to Washington. The following day, Grant hastily ordered the arrest of paroled Confederate officers. Major General Edward Ord, however, was able to narrow the existing threats in Washington by army intelligence and persuaded Grant to reverse his arrest orders. [85] Attending Lincoln's funeral on April 19, Grant stood alone and wept openly. He said of Lincoln, "He was incontestably the greatest man I have ever known."[86] Regarding the new President, Andrew Johnson, Grant commented to Julia that he dreaded the change in administrations; he judged Johnson's attitude toward white southerners as one that would "make them unwilling citizens", and initially thought that with Johnson, "Reconstruction has been set back no telling how far."[87]
Later in April, Sherman, without consulting Washington, concluded by agreement reached with Confederate General Joseph E. Johnston to effect the latter's surrender, believed by Sherman consistent with Lincoln's recent statements to him at City Point. Stanton and Grant quickly surmised the terms were much too lenient. Stanton even declared so publicly with scorn for Sherman; Grant, concerned that his lead commander's mistake not be mishandled, requested a cabinet meeting to discuss the problem, and offered to personally deliver the message of repudiation to Sherman. Grant handled the matter adroitly and made the most of their friendship, conveying the message to Sherman and ultimately getting his consent to renegotiate the agreement by the terms set at Appomattox. [87]
In May 1865, the Union League of Philadelphia purchased a house for the Grants in that city, but Grant's military work was in Washington. He attempted to commute for a time and return on the weekends, but he and Julia moved to Washington that October.[88] They secured a place in Georgetown Heights, while Grant instructed Elihu Washburne that for political purposes his legal residence remained in Galena, Illinois.[89] That year, Grant appeared at Cooper Union in New York where, as the New York Times described, "... the enhanced and bewildered multitude trembled with extraordinary delight."[90] Further travels that summer with repeated enthusiastic receptions took the Grants to Albany, back to Galena, and throughout Illinois and Ohio. On July 25, 1866, Congress promoted Grant to the newly created rank of General of the Army of the United States.[91]
Grant was the most popular man in the country. When President Johnson argued with Congress over Reconstruction, he took his case to the people with his "swing around the circle." Johnson sought to capitalize on Grant's popularity by having the general travel with him.[92] Grant, wishing to appear loyal, agreed to go with Johnson; however he confided in his wife that he thought Johnson's speeches were a "national disgrace". Grant continued his efforts to appear loyal while not alienating Republican legislators essential to his future. At the same time, Johnson also suspected Grant would be a potential candidate in the 1868 presidential election, and decided to replace Secretary of War Stanton with Grant or Sherman. Grant discussed the matter with Sherman and convinced him to avoid the politically troubled president.[93]
Clockwise from lower left: Graduated at West Point 1843; Chapultepec 1847; Drilling his Volunteers 1861; Fort Donelson 1862; Shiloh 1862; Vicksburg 1863; Chattanooga 1863; Commander-in-Chief 1864; Lee's Surrender 1865
After the speaking tour, Johnson sent Grant on a fact-finding mission to the South. Afterwards, Grant filed a report recommending continuation of a reformed Freedmen's Bureau, which Johnson opposed, but advising against the use of black troops in garrisons that he believed were encouraging an alternative to farm labor.[94] Grant did not believe the people of the devastated South were ready for self-rule, and thought they required further U.S. military occupation.[95] Grant stated that both whites and blacks in the South required protection by the U.S. federal government.[95] Grant also warned of threats by disaffected poor people, black and white, and recommended that local decision-making be entrusted only to "thinking men of the South" (i.e., men of property).[96] In this respect, Grant's first Reconstruction policy aligned with Johnson's policy of pardoning established southern leaders and restoring them to their positions of power.[97] He joined Johnson in arguing that Congress should allow representatives from the South seated recognition.[98]
In 1866, an intraparty fight arose in Maryland that threatened to devolve into a riot. John Lee Chapman, the Radical mayor of Baltimore, elected in 1862 in an election in which conservative voters claimed the police commissioners had turned them away from the polls.[99] Four years later, Maryland's governor, Thomas Swann, a Johnson supporter, threatened to remove the commissioners and appoint his own, which Radicals believed would result in their own disenfranchisement. Grant was reluctant to send federal troops into a loyal state; instead he traveled to the city himself as a private citizen and arranged a settlement that would allow both groups' poll watchers to make sure there would be fair elections.[99]
The Baltimore tumult was just the prelude to the conflict between Radicals and Conservatives over the Reconstruction of the South. Rejecting Johnson's vision for quick reconciliation with former Confederates, Congress passed the Reconstruction Acts which divided the southern states into five military districts run by the army to set up protection for the freedmen's constitutional and congressional rights. Military governors general were to lead transitional state governments in each district. Grant, who was to select the general to govern each district, preferred Congress's plan for enforcement of Reconstruction.[100] Grant was optimistic Reconstruction Acts would help pacify the South.[101] He carried out his duty under the Acts and instructed the generals to do likewise, further alienating Johnson; when Sheridan removed public officials in Louisiana who impeded Reconstruction, Johnson was especially displeased and sought Sheridan's removal.[102] Grant stayed the middle course and recommended a rebuke, but not a dismissal.[103] Throughout the Reconstruction period, Grant and the U.S. military protected the rights of more than 1,500 African-Americans elected to political office by overturning the first black codes in 1867. [104]
Grant, as commanding general, immediately had to contend with Maximilian of Mexico and the French army that had taken over Mexico with the help of Napoleon III. Most Americans, including Grant, felt this violated the Monroe Doctrine. Johnson told Grant to put military pressure on the French to leave Mexico by sending 50,000 troops to the Texas border under Sheridan. Grant told Sheridan to do whatever he could, within the bounds of neutrality, to force Maximilian's abdication and convince the French Army to leave Mexico. Sheridan sent 60,000 rifles to Benito Juárez, the ousted leader of Mexico.[105] In a cabinet meeting, Johnson suggested Grant be assigned to the Mexican frontier as a way of removing him from the political mainstream. Grant immediately recognized the nature of this proposal and refused. As a compromise, Grant sent Sherman (now promoted to Lieutenant General) in his place.[106] By 1866, the French Army completely withdrew from Mexico; Juárez executed Maximilian in 1867.[107]
After the Civil War, thousands of Irish veterans joined the Fenian Brotherhood whose intention was to invade and hold Canada hostage in exchange for Irish independence. In June 1866, Johnson sent Grant to Buffalo, New York, to assess the situation. He ordered the Canadian border closed to prevent Fenian soldiers from crossing over at Fort Erie and that more weapons be confiscated. In June 1866, the United States Army arrested 700 Fenian troops at Buffalo, and the Fenians gave up on their attempt to invade Canada.[108]
President Johnson had for some time wished to replace Secretary of War Stanton, who sympathized with Congressional Reconstruction. To keep Grant under his control as a potential political rival Johnson asked Grant to take the post. Grant's reply was a recommendation against the move, in light of the Tenure of Office Act, which required Senate approval of any removal of a cabinet appointment. Johnson forced the issue by making it an interim appointment during a Senate recess. Grant relented and agreed to accept the post temporarily, lest he be rendered politically irrelevant.[109]
Later, when the Senate reinstated Stanton, Johnson requested that Grant refuse to surrender the office to Stanton and let the courts resolve the matter. Instead, Grant stepped aside and incurred Johnson's wrath during a cabinet meeting immediately afterwards for allegedly breaking a promise not to do so. Grant disputed that he had ever made such a promise.[110] Johnson's true frustration was with Grant's taking the Radicals' side. On January 14, 1868, newspapers friendly to Johnson published a series of articles trying to discredit Grant over returning the War Department to Stanton, stating Grant had been deceptive in the matter.[110] Grant defended himself in a written response to the President, which became public; Grant thereby increased his national popularity and emerged from the controversy unscathed.[110] He also took no role in the later impeachment proceedings against Johnson which, in part, centered on Johnson's removal of Stanton. In contrast, none of the Republican leaders involved directly benefited politically in their unsuccessful attempt to impeach Johnson. [111]
Grant entered the 1868 campaign season with increased popularity among the Radical Republicans following his abandonment of Johnson. The Republicans chose Grant as their presidential candidate on the first ballot at the 1868 Republican National Convention in Chicago, he faced no significant opposition. In his letter of acceptance to the party, Grant concluded with "Let us have peace," which became his campaign slogan.[112] For vice president, the delegates nominated House Speaker Schuyler Colfax. Grant's General Orders No. 11 and antisemitism became an issue during the 1868 presidential campaign. Grant sought to distance himself from the order, saying "I have no prejudice against sect or race, but want each individual to be judged by his own merit."[113] As was common practice at the time, Grant remained at his home in Galena during the campaign,[b] and left most of the active campaigning and speaking on his behalf to his campaign manager William E. Chandler and others.[116]
The Democrats nominated former New York Governor Horatio Seymour. The Democrats' campaign focused mainly on ending Reconstruction and returning control of the South to the white planter class, which alienated many War Democrats in the North.[117] The Democrats attacked Reconstruction and the Republican Party's support of African-American rights, while deriding Grant having called him captain of the "Black Marines".[118] In the general election of that year, Grant won by 300,000 votes out of 5,716,082 votes cast. Grant received an electoral college landslide, getting 214 votes to Seymour's 80. When he assumed the presidency, Grant had never before held elected office and, at the age of forty-six, was the youngest person elected president to date. Grant was the first president elected after the nation had outlawed slavery and given citizenship to former slaves. Implementation of these new rights was slow to come; in the 1868 election, the black vote counted in only sixteen of the thirty-seven states, nearly all in the South.[119]
Grant's presidency began with a break from tradition, as Johnson declined to ride in Grant's carriage or attend the inauguration at the Capitol. In his Inaugural Address, Grant advocated the passage of the Fifteenth Amendment and said he would approach Reconstruction "calmly, without prejudice, hate or sectional pride."[120] Grant took an unorthodox approach to his cabinet choices, declining to consult with the Senate and keeping his choices secret until he submitted them for confirmation. [121] In his effort to create national harmony, Grant purposely avoided choosing Republican Party leaders.[122] Out of personal loyalty, Grant appointed his friends Elihu B. Washburne to the State Department and John A. Rawlins as Secretary of War. Washburne served only twelve days before resigning over claims of ill-health; the plan having been designed to give him greater diplomatic clout when Grant appointed him Minister to France. Grant then appointed Hamilton Fish, a conservative New York statesman, as Secretary of State. Fish would be Grant's most successful appointment. Grant promoted Sherman to his own former post as Commanding General. Rawlins, however, issued orders that reduced Sherman's authority; after Grant refused to overturn Rawlins's orders, his relationship with Sherman became strained. Rawlins died in office; Grant later appointed William W. Belknap as his replacement.[123] Belknap and Congress continued to restrict Sherman's military authority.[124]
Grant selected several non-politicians to his cabinet, including Adolph E. Borie and A.T. Stewart, with limited success. Borie served briefly as Secretary of Navy, replaced by George M. Robeson, while Stewart was lawfully prevented from becoming Secretary of Treasury by a 1789 statute and by Senator Charles Sumner's and Senator Roscoe Conkling's opposition to amend the law. In place of Stewart, Grant appointed George S. Boutwell, known for his integrity, as Secretary of Treasury. Grant's other cabinet appointments—Jacob D. Cox (Interior), John Creswell (Postmaster General), and Ebenezer Rockwood Hoar (Attorney General)—were well-received and uncontroversial.[125] To break from Washington, in 1869, Grant and his family, having been invited by wealthy backers, vacationed for the first time in what became known as the "summer capital" and "the resort of presidents", Long Branch, New Jersey, where Grant returned often throughout his life. [126] To ensure his family's privacy, at the request of Julia, Grant barred the general public from entering the White House grounds. [127]
Reconstruction of the South continued as Grant took office in 1869. By 1870, the four remaining former Confederate states were successfully restored into the United States. He lobbied Congress to pass the Fifteenth Amendment, guaranteeing that no state could prevent someone from voting based on race, and believed that its passage would secure freedmen's rights. To enforce the new amendment, Grant relied on the army and the newly created Justice Department. In 1870, Grant signed a bill proposed by Thomas Jenckes of Rhode Island establishing the Department of Justice, to make sure federal laws would be enforced in the South when state courts and prosecutors were reluctant to do so. Where the attorney general had once been only a legal adviser to the president, he now led a cabinet department dedicated to enforcing federal law, including a solicitor general to help him.[128] Under Grant's first attorney general, Ebenezer R. Hoar, the administration was not especially aggressive in prosecuting white Southerners who terrorized their black neighbors, but Hoar's successor, Amos T. Akerman, was more zealous. Alarmed by this rise in terror by the Ku Klux Klan and other groups, Congress investigated. With Grant's encouragement, Congress passed the Enforcement Acts in 1870 and 1871 that expanded federal authority.[129] The Acts made depriving any persons of their civil rights a federal offense and authorized the president to use the U.S. military to enforce the laws. In May 1871, Grant ordered federal troops to help marshals in arresting Klansmen. That October, on Akerman's recommendation, Grant suspended habeas corpus in part of South Carolina and sent federal troops to enforce the law there. Through Akerman's and his replacement George Henry Williams' prosecutions, the Klan's power collapsed, and by 1872, elections in the South saw African-Americans voting in record numbers.[130]
That same year, Grant signed the Amnesty Act, which restored political rights to former Confederates. After the collapse of the Klan in 1872, conservative whites formed armed groups such as the Red Shirts in South Carolina and the White League. Unlike the Ku Klux Klan, they were not secret. They used violence and intimidation against African-Americans done to take control from state governments away from Republicans.[131] The Panic of 1873 and the ensuing depression contributed to public fatigue, and the North grew less concerned with reconstructing the South.[132] Grant began to favor a more limited use of troops, lest they create the impression that he was acting as a military dictator; he was also concerned that increased military pressure in the South might cause white supremacists in the North to bolt from the Republican Party. In 1874, Grant was able by proclamation to peaceably end the Brooks-Baxter War in Arkansas.[133] However, the same year, in Louisiana Grant sent troops and three warships to New Orléans to stop violence, that included the Colfax Massacre, over the disputed election of Governor William Kellogg two years earlier.[134] By 1875, Democratic "Redeemer" politicians retook control of all but three Southern states. As violence against black Southerners escalated once more, Edwards Pierrepont (Grant's fourth attorney general) told Governor Adelbert Ames of Mississippi that the people were "tired of the autumnal outbreaks in the South," and declined to directly intervene, rather Pierrepont sent an emissary to negotiate a peaceful election.[135] Grant signed an ambitious Civil Rights Act of 1875, which expanded federal law enforcement by prohibiting discrimination on account of race in public lodging, public transportation, and jury service.[136] The law was rarely enforced, however, and it did not stop the rise of white supremacist forces in the South.[137] In the Election of 1876, the remaining three Republican governments in the South fell to Redeemers, and the ensuing Compromise of 1877 marked the end of Reconstruction.
Ely S. Parker, appointed by Grant, was the first Native American to serve as Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
Grant's attempts to give justice to Native Americans marked a radical reversal of what had long been the government's policy of Indian removal. He appointed Ely S. Parker, a Seneca Indian and member of Grant's wartime staff, as Commissioner of Indian Affairs. "My efforts in the future will be directed," Grant said in his second inaugural address, "by a humane course, to bring the aborigines of the country under the benign influences of education and civilization ... Wars of extermination ... are demoralizing and wicked." Grant's "Peace Policy" (also called the "Quaker Policy") aimed to replace entrepreneurs serving as Indian agents with missionaries.[138] In 1869, Grant signed an appropriations bill that established a Board of Indian Commissioners to oversee spending and reduce corruption in the Bureau of Indian Affairs.[139] Two years later, in 1871, Grant signed a bill ending the Indian treaty system; the law now treated individual Native Americans as wards of the federal government, and not dealing with the Indian tribes as sovereign entities.[140] Grant wished the Indian tribes be protected on reservations and educated in European-style farming and culture, abandoning their hunter-gatherer way of life.[138] Considered liberal-minded then, although unpopular today, the Peace Policy would see fulfillment years later in the Dawes Act of 1887. The Policy showed some success in reducing conflict with fewer battles between Indians and whites on the western frontier, but the increased slaughter of the buffalo, encouraged by Grant's subordinates, caused renewed conflict with the Plains Indians in a few years.[141] The Sioux and other Plains tribes accepted the reservation system, but encroachments by whites in search of gold in the Black Hills led to renewed war by the end of Grant's second term.[142] The war ended the growing understanding that had developed between Grant and Sioux Chief Red Cloud.[143]
Under Major Generals Oliver Otis Howard and George Crook, Grant's policy had greater success in the Southwest. Howard, the former head of the Freedmen's Bureau, negotiated peace with the Apache in 1872, convincing their leader, Cochise, to move the tribe to a new reservation, and ending a war started the year before. In Oregon, relations were less peaceful, however, as war with the Modocs erupted in April 1873. The Modocs refused to move to a reservation and killed the local army commander, Major General Edward Canby. Although Grant was upset over Canby's death, he ordered restraint, disregarding Sherman's advice to seek revenge or exterminate the tribe. The U.S. Army led by Sherman captured, tried, sentenced to death, and hanged the four Modoc warriors in October 1873 responsible for Canby's murder. Grant sent the rest of the Modoc tribe to the Indian Territory.[144]
During the Great Sioux War, Grant came into conflict with Colonel George Armstrong Custer after Custer testified in 1876 about corruption in the War Department under Secretary William W. Belknap. Grant had Custer arrested for breach of military protocol and barred him from leading an upcoming campaign against the Sioux. Grant finally relented and let Custer fight under Brigadier General Alfred Terry.[145] Sioux warriors led by Crazy Horse killed Custer at the Battle of the Little Big Horn, the most famous defeat for the U.S. Army in the Indian wars. Two months later, Grant castigated Custer in the press, saying "I regard Custer's massacre as a sacrifice of troops, brought on by Custer himself, that was wholly unnecessary – wholly unnecessary."[146] Custer's death shocked the nation, while Grant's Peace Policy yielded to militarism; Congress appropriated funds for 2,500 more troops, the U.S. Army constructed two more Western forts and took over the Indian agencies barring Indians from purchasing rifles and ammunition. [145]
Even before Grant became president, some annexationists in American politics desired control over the Caribbean islands. William H. Seward, Secretary of State under Lincoln and Johnson, having purchased Alaska from the Russians and attempted to buy the Danish West Indies from the Danes, began negotiations to buy the Dominican Republic and Haiti; the Republican controlled Congress, however, rejected the plan.[147] Negotiations to annex the Dominican Republic, renewed under Grant, led by Orville E. Babcock, a confidant who had served on Grant's staff during the Civil War.[148] Grant was initially skeptical, but at the urging of the Admiral Porter, who wanted a naval base at Samaná Bay, and Joseph W. Fabens, a New England business person employed by the Dominican government, Grant examined the matter and became convinced of its wisdom.[149] Grant sent Babcock to consult with Buenaventura Báez, the pro-annexation Dominican president, to see if the proposal was practical; Babcock returned with a draft treaty of annexation in December 1869.[149] Grant believed in peaceful expansion of the nation's borders and thought the majority-black island would allow new economic opportunities for freedmen. The acquisition, according to Grant, would ease race relations in the South, clear slavery from Brazil and Cuba, and increase American naval power in the Caribbean.[150] Secretary of State Hamilton Fish dismissed the idea, seeing the island as politically unstable and troublesome.[149] Senator Charles Sumner opposed annexation because that would decrease the number of autonomous nations run by Africans in the western hemisphere.[151] He and other senators also objected for another reason—they did not wish to add more blacks to the American population.[152] Grant personally lobbied Senators to pass the treaty, going so far as to visit Sumner at his home.[152] Fish added to the effort out of loyalty to the administration, but to no avail; the Senate refused to pass the treaty. Sumner's role in leading the opposition led to political enmity between him and Grant.[153] After the Dominican Republic initiative failed, Grant convinced Fish to stay in the Cabinet and gave him greater authority to run the State Department.[154]
Grant and Fish were more successful in their satisfaction of the Alabama claims, a dispute between Great Britain and the United States. The dispute stemmed from the damage done to American shipping during the Civil War by five ships built for the Confederacy in British shipyards including, most famously, CSS Alabama.[155] American claims included that Britain had violated neutrality by recognition of Confederate belligerency.[156] When the war ended, the United States demanded retribution, which the British refused to pay. Negotiations continued fitfully, a sticking point being the claims of "indirect damages" as opposed to the discussion to the harm directly caused by the five ships.[157] Sumner opposed the third-party negotiated Johnson-Clarendon Convention settlement, that was rejected by the Senate, believing that England should directly pay $2 billion in gold or, alternatively, have Canada ceded to the United States.[158] Fish convinced Grant that peaceful relations with Britain were more important than acquisition of more territory, and the two nations agreed to negotiate along those lines.[159] Grant's message to Congress averted recognition of Cuban belligerency against Spain and allowed Secretary Fish to finish negotiations with Britain.[156] A commission in Washington produced a treaty whereby an international tribunal would settle the damage amounts; the British admitted regret, but not fault.[c] The Senate approved the Treaty of Washington, which also settled disputes over fishing rights and maritime boundaries, by a 50–12 vote in 1871.[160]
In 1873, an international crisis occurred in the Caribbean that drew Grant's and Fish's attention, when a Spanish destroyer took captive a merchant ship, Virginius, flying the U.S. flag, carrying war materials and men to aid the Cuban insurrection. Cuban insurgents who owned the Virginius had secretly registered the ship in the United States through an American operative. The passengers and crew, including eight United States citizens, were trying to illegally travel to Cuba to help overthrow the government. Spanish authorities executed the prisoners, and many Americans called for war with Spain. Fish, with Grant's support, worked to reach a peaceful resolution. Spain's President, Emilio Castelar y Ripoll, expressed regret for the tragedy and agreed to decide reparations through arbitration; Spain surrendered the Virginius and paid a cash indemnity of $80,000 to the families of the executed Americans.[161] The administration's diplomacy was also at work in the Pacific as, in December 1874, Grant held a state dinner at the White House for the King of Hawaii, David Kalakaua, who was seeking Hawaiian sugar importation duty-free to the United States.[162] Grant and Fish were able to produce a successful free trade treaty in 1875 with the Kingdom of Hawaii, incorporating the Pacific islands' sugar industry into the United States' economic sphere.[162]
Cartoon depicting Grant running from the Treasury to release gold into the market and defeat the Gold Ring
Soon after taking office, Grant took steps to return the nation's currency to a more secure footing. During the Civil War, Congress had authorized the Treasury to issue banknotes that, unlike the rest of the currency, were not backed by gold or silver. The "greenback" notes, as they were known, were necessary to pay the unprecedented bills the government racked up in fighting the war, but they also caused inflation and forced gold-backed money out of circulation; Grant determined to return the national economy to pre-war monetary standards.[163] Many in Congress agreed with Grant, and they quickly passed the Public Credit Act of 1869, which guaranteed that bondholders would be repaid in gold, not greenbacks.[164] Grant charged Treasury Secretary George S. Boutwell with rationalizing the treasury Department and improving tax collection. To strengthen the dollar, Boutwell, backed by Grant, sold gold from the Treasury each month and bought back high-interest Treasury bonds issued during the war; this had the effect of reducing the deficit, but deflating the currency.[165]
These actions had a large impact on the nation's small gold market, and gold speculators tried to make a profit by anticipating how much gold Boutwell would sell in a given week.[166] Abel Corbin, Grant's brother-in-law, sought to use his connection with the president to gain inside information for himself and his associates, Jay Gould, a Wall Street trader and railroad magnate, and his partner Jim Fisk. This group of collaborators was later called the "Gold Ring."[167] Corbin convinced Grant to appoint Daniel Butterfield as assistant Treasurer, and Gould soon made Butterfield his informant.[168] Meanwhile, Gould and Fisk began to quietly stockpile gold. Gould convinced Corbin that a high gold price would be prosperous for the nation, and Corbin passed this theory on to Grant. The conspirators believed they had convinced the president, and they continued to stockpile gold, hoping to sell into a rising market. After consulting with New York business person Alexander Turney Stewart in early September, Grant stopped the sale of Treasury gold, believing a higher gold price would help Western farmers.[169] By mid September, however, Grant started to become suspicious of Corbin, particularly when Corbin tried to drive a wedge between Grant and Boutwell. The gold price continued to rise as the conspirators bought ever more. The rising price began to affect the wider economy, and Grant, seeing that the increase was unnatural, told Boutwell to sell gold, thereby reducing its price.[170] Boutwell did so the next day, on September 22, 1869, later known as Black Friday. The sale of gold from the Treasury defeated Gould's corner on the market as the gold price plummeted, relieving the growing economic tension.[171] Gould and Fisk managed to escape without much harm to themselves.[172] A New York bank collapsed, and trading dried up for months; a general recession did not follow, however, and the economy resumed its post-war recovery.[173]
In February 1873, Grant signed into law the Coinage Act of 1873, that effectively ended the legal basis for bimetallism (that is the use of both silver and gold as money), and established the gold standard in practice.[174] The Coinage Act of 1873 discontinued the standard silver dollar and established the gold dollar as the monetary standard. Angry critics who wanted more money in circulation to raise prices later denounced the move as the "Crime of 1873" claiming the law caused deflation and helped bankers while hurting farmers.[175]
Grant's personal reputation suffered from the continued scandals caused by his many corrupt appointees and personal associates. In addition to the Gold Ring, corruption in the New York Customs House added to reformers' negative impressions of the administration. The Crédit Mobilier scandal, where a railroad company bribed many members of Congress, did not involve Grant, but did ensnare Vice President Colfax and added to the general sense of dishonesty in Washington.[176] The Democrats, however, had their own Tammany Hall scandal in New York that politically helped Grant and the Republicans. [176] To reach out to reformers, Grant encouraged Congress to create the Civil Service Commission in 1871, chaired by reformer George W. Curtis, which had the power to propose reforms. [177] Grant accepted and implemented the Civil Service Commission's reform recommendations on January 1, 1872. [178] Congress, however, refused to fund the Civil Service Commission in 1875 or pass legislation to enforce its recommendations.[179] Grant remained quiet on Civil Service reform after the election.[180] There was further division within the party between the faction most concerned with the plight of the freedmen and that concerned with the growth of industry.[181] During the war, both factions' interests had aligned, and in 1868 both had supported Grant. Since his first Presidential election Grant sided with both capital and civil rights interests that alienated many intellectual party leaders. [181]
Many of such men bolted in 1872, calling themselves the Liberal Republicans. Led by Charles Francis Adams of Massachusetts and Senator Carl Schurz of Missouri, they publicly denounced the political patronage system that Sumner called "Grantism" and demanded amnesty for Confederate soldiers. The Liberal Republicans nominated Horace Greeley, another Republican who had come to dislike Grant and his policies.[182] The rest of the Republican Party nominated Grant for reelection, with Henry Wilson of Massachusetts replacing scandal-ridden Colfax as vice-presidential nominee.[183] The Democrats, seeking help from anti-Grant sentiment, quickly nominated Greeley as well.[184] The fusion effort was unsuccessful, and Grant was easily reelected. The Liberal Republicans were unable to deliver many votes, and Greeley was only successful in areas the Democrats would have carried without him.[185] A strong economy, debt reduction, lowered tariffs, repeal of the income tax, and Civil Service implementation helped Grant defeat the Liberal Republicans. [178] Grant won 56% of the poplar vote and an Electoral College landslide of 286 to 66.[186][d]
Grant congratulated for vetoing the "inflation bill" on April 22, 1874. Hamilton Fish, shown behind Grant, supported the veto.
At the end of his first term in early 1873, Grant signed the Coinage Act, making gold the only money standard in line with his hard money policy; this meant that dollars would be exchanged on demand for only gold.[187] Grant's second term saw renewed economic turmoil. In September 1873, Jay Cooke & Company, a New York brokerage house, failed to fully sell a bond issue by Cooke's railroad, the Northern Pacific Railway, and collapsed as a result.[188] The collapse sent ripples through Wall Street, and other banks and brokerages that owned railroad stocks and bonds found themselves ruined as well.[188] On September 20, the New York Stock Exchange suspended trading for ten days.[189] Grant, who knew little about finance, traveled to New York to consult leading businessmen and bankers for advice on how to curb the panic, which became known as the Panic of 1873.[190] Grant believed that, as with the collapse of the Gold Ring in 1869, the panic was merely an economic fluctuation that affected bankers and brokers.[191] He responded cautiously, instructing Treasury Secretary William Adams Richardson to buy $10 million in government bonds, thus injecting cash into the system. These purchases curbed the panic on Wall Street, but a five-year industrial depression, later called the Long Depression, nonetheless swept the nation.[190] Eighty-nine of the nation's 364 railroads went bankrupt.[192]
After the Panic, Congress debated an inflationary policy to stimulate the economy and passed what became known as the Inflation Bill on April 14, 1874. Many farmers and workingmen favored the bill, which would add $64 million in greenbacks to circulation, but some Eastern bankers opposed it because it would weaken the dollar.[193] Grant unexpectedly vetoed the bill on the grounds that it would destroy the credit of the nation.[194] Grant's veto placed him securely in the conservative faction of the Republican party, and was the beginning of the party's commitment to a strong gold-backed dollar.[194] Grant later pressured Congress for a bill to further strengthen dollar by gradually reducing the number of greenbacks in circulation. After losing the House to the Democrats in the 1874 elections, the lame-duck Republican Congress did so. On January 14, 1875, Grant signed the Specie Payment Resumption Act into law.[194] The Resumption Act required gradual reduction of the greatest value of greenbacks allowed to circulate and declared that specie payment resumption would begin in 1879. Grant appointed Richardson, himself involved in a scandal, to the Court of Claims and appointed Benjamin H. Bristow of Kentucky as his replacement. Bristow supported Grant's anti-inflationary hard money policy.[194]
Further information: Ulysses S. Grant presidential administration scandals and Ulysses S. Grant presidential administration reforms
Grant served as president during the Gilded Age, a time when the economy was open to speculation and western expansion that fueled corruption in government offices. Against the harsh public revelation of the railroad bribery scandal, which tarnished public perception, Grant also faced charges of misconduct in nearly all federal departments, especially in the Treasury and Interior departments, engaging his administration in constant conflict between corrupt associates and reformers.[195] Although personally honest with his own money matters, Grant had difficulty in spotting corruption in others.[196] He was protective of associates, whose persecutions he saw as unjust.[197] Grant's military discipline produced a loyalty that shielded associates from attack at the cost of his own reputation, unless evidence of personal misconduct was overwhelming.[197] No person linked any of the scandals together, except possibly Grant's personal secretary, Orville E. Babcock, who indirectly controlled many cabinet departments and delayed investigations.[198] During Grant's first term, in addition to the Gold Ring, Grant had to respond to Congressional investigations into the Collectors Ring at the New York Custom House.[199]
During Grant's second term in office, a congressional investigation exposed and made public corruption in the Treasury Department in the Sanborn incident, where Secretary of Treasury William A. Richardson hired John D. Sanborn (a friend of Congressman Benjamin Butler, the erstwhile Civil War general) as an independent tax collector on a percentage basis, also known as a moiety.[200] Treasury officials were then privately instructed not to press for payment, so that accounts would become delinquent and Sanborn would get paid more when he "discovered" them.[200] The Congressional investigation committee report condemned Secretary Richardson for permitting the aggressive tax collection system implemented by Sanborn but did not formally make any impeachment charges. [201] To prevent future unscrupulous actions, Grant signed the Anti-Moiety Act into law in 1874, abolishing the troublesome payment system.[202]
In 1874, on becoming Treasury Secretary, the energetic Benjamin H. Bristow immediately made a series of reforms.[203] Finding that millions of dollars in revenue were missing, Bristow discovered what became known as the Whiskey Ring—tax officials taking bribes in exchange for not taxing distillers. [204] Having obtained Grant's first endorsement, "Let no guilty man escape...", Bristow moved quickly in 1875 to raid and shut down corrupt distilleries, collapsing the Ring.[205] Bristow obtained 238 indictments, leading to 110 convictions, and restored millions of tax dollars to the Treasury. [205] When Bristow's investigation implicated Babcock was part of the Whiskey Ring, Grant became defensive, believing Babcock was the innocent victim of a witch hunt.[206] Grant denied immunity to minor Whiskey Ring conspirators in the Midwest.[205] In 1876, Babcock was found not guilty at a trial in which Grant testified through a deposition on his behalf.[205] After the trial, under public pressure, Grant dismissed Babcock from the White House.[206][e] Several convicted Whiskey Ring members were later pardoned by Grant.[205]
The scandals increased as Congress began several investigations into corruption in the administration, the most notable of which regarded profiteering at western trading posts. The scheme involved Secretary of War William Belknap granting concessions for trading posts on western army bases in exchange for a cut of the profits.[208] The accusations led to Belknap's resignation. Even after he resigned from office, the House of Representatives impeached Belknap;[209] he was only saved from conviction in the Senate because many Senators believed their jurisdiction ended when Belknap left office.[209] Congress also investigated and reprimanded Navy Secretary George M. Robeson in 1876 for taking bribes from naval contractors, but he was never formally impeached.[210]
The Civil Service reform initiative had limited success, as Grant's cabinet implemented a merit system that increased qualified candidates and relied less on Congressional patronage.[211] Grant's Secretary of Interior Columbus Delano, however, exempted the Interior Department from competitive examinations, while Congress refused to enact permanent Civil Service reform. Delano resign under pressure from the press, having allowed a spoils system of land and patent frauds and ignored Interior department officials' award of surveying contracts to his son, who got paid without doing any of the contracted work.[212] Grant appointed Zachariah Chandler, who succeeded Delano and cleaned up corruption in the Interior Department.[197][213] Grant appointed reformers Edwards Pierrepont and Marshall Jewell as Attorney General and Postmaster General, respectively, who supported Bristow's investigations. [214] In 1875, Pierrepont cleaned up corruption among the U.S. Marshals and U.S. Attorneys in the South.[215] Grant suggested other reforms as well, including a proposal that states should offer free public schooling to all children, although he also endorsed the Blaine Amendment, which would have forbidden government aid to schools that have any religious affiliation.[216]
Grant appointed Justice Ward Hunt to the Supreme Court, where he voted to uphold Reconstruction laws.
Grant appointed four Justices to the Supreme Court of the United States. In 1869, after Robert C. Grier retired from the bench and Congress's restoration of a ninth seat on the court, Grant filled the first two vacancies.[f][218] Grant first appointed former Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton and Attorney General Ebenezer R. Hoar.[217] Neither man would take his seat: Stanton was confirmed, but died before he took office; Hoar was widely disliked in the Senate, which defeated his nomination 24–33.[217] Following a cabinet discussion, Grant submitted two more names to the Senate: William Strong and Joseph P. Bradley. Strong was a former justice of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania who retired to take up a private practice in Philadelphia. Bradley, a New Jersey lawyer, also had a successful private practice. Both men were railroad lawyers, and their appointment led to accusations that Grant intended them to overturn Hepburn v. Griswold, decided on the same day Grant sent their nominations to the Senate. That case, which was unpopular with business interests, held that the federal debt incurred before 1862 be paid in gold, not greenbacks.[219] Nonetheless, the Senate confirmed both Strong and Bradley and the following year the Supreme Court reversed the Hepburn case.[219]
After Grant's reelection, Justice Samuel Nelson retired from the bench and another Supreme Court seat opened up.[220] Grant nominated Ward Hunt, a New York state judge, to replace him. The Senate confirmed Hunt in 1873 and, like Nelson, Hunt upheld Reconstruction legislation. He served on the court until 1882.[220] In May 1873, Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase died suddenly. After several months, Grant offered the seat to Conkling.[221] Conkling declined, as did Senator Timothy Howe of Wisconsin.[221] Grant unsuccessfully tried to enlist Hamilton Fish for the job and considered nominating Caleb Cushing, as well, before submitting the name of his attorney general, George Henry Williams.[220] The Senate had a lackluster view of Williams's performance at the Justice Department and refused to act on the nomination. Grant stuck to his choice, but after no action Williams asked that his name be withdrawn in January 1874.[220] Fish suggested nominating Hoar again, but Grant instead chose Cushing. Cushing was an eminent lawyer and respected in his field, but emergence of his wartime correspondence with Jefferson Davis doomed his nomination.[220] Grant finally turned to Morrison Waite, a respectable (if little-known) Ohio lawyer who had worked on the Alabama claims arbitration.[222] The Senate unanimously approved the nomination two days later, on January 21, 1874. Although uncontroversial during his tenure on the Court, Waite authored two decisions (United States v. Reese and United States v. Cruikshank) that did much to undermine Reconstruction-era laws that protected the rights of black Americans. [221]
By 1876, the collected scandals of the last eight years and the Democratic gains in the House led many in the Republican party to repudiate Grant.[223] Bristow was among the leading candidates to replace him, suggesting that a large faction desired an end to "Grantism" and feared that Grant would run for a third term.[224] Ultimately, Grant did not run, but neither was Bristow the nominee, as the convention settled on Governor Rutherford B. Hayes of Ohio, a reformer. The Democrats nominated Samuel J. Tilden of New York, however, voting irregularities in three Southern states caused the election that year to remain undecided for several months. [225] Grant told Congress to settle the matter through legislation, without blaming either party.[226] Grant mobilized troops in Louisiana and South Carolina, who kept the peace.[227] Grant assured both sides that he would not use the army to force a result, except to curb violence, and agreed to form an Electoral Commission to decide the matter.[228] The result was the Compromise of 1877: the Electoral Commission elected Hayes, but the last troops were withdrawn from Southern capitals.[229] The Republicans had won, but Reconstruction was over.
After leaving the White House, Grant and his family stayed with friends in New York, Ohio, and Philadelphia for two months, before setting out on a tour of the world.[230] The trip, which would last two years, began in Liverpool in May 1877, where enormous crowds greeted the ex-president and his entourage.[231] Travelling to London, the Grants dined with Queen Victoria at Windsor Castle, and Grant gave several speeches in the city.[232] They next traveled to Belgium, Germany, and Switzerland, before returning to England. The Grants spent a few months with their daughter Nellie, who had married an Englishman and moved to that country several years before. Returning to the continent, Grant and his wife journeyed on to France and Italy, spending Christmas 1877 aboard USS Vandalia, a warship docked in Palermo.[233] After a winter sojourn in the Holy Land, they visited Greece before returning to Italy and a meeting with Pope Leo XIII.[234] Travelling to Spain and then to Germany again, Grant met with Chancellor Otto von Bismarck, and the two men discussed military matters.[235]
After another visit to England and then to Ireland, the Grants left Europe by ship, sailing through the Suez Canal to India. They visited Bombay, Lucknow, Varanasi, and Delhi, being welcomed in each city by the colonial officials.[236] After India, they toured Burma, Siam (where Grant met King Chulalongkorn,) Singapore, and Vietnam.[237] Traveling on to Hong Kong, Grant began to change his mind on the nature of colonization, believing that the British rule was not "purely selfish" but also good for the colonial subjects.[236] Leaving Hong Kong, the Grants entered China proper, seeing the cities of Canton, Shanghai, and Peking. He declined to ask for an interview with the Guangxu Emperor, a child of seven, but did speak with the head of government, Prince Gong, and Li Hongzhang, a leading general.[238] They discussed China's dispute with Japan over the Ryukyu Islands, and Grant agreed to help bring the two sides to agreement.[239] After crossing over to Japan and meeting the Emperor Meiji, Grant convinced China to accept the Japanese annexation of the islands, and the two nations avoided war.[240]
By then the Grants had been gone two years, and were homesick. They crossed the Pacific and landed in San Francisco in September 1879, greeted by cheering crowds.[241] After a visit to Yellowstone National Park, they returned at last to Philadelphia on December 16, 1879.[242] The voyage around the world had captured popular imagination, and Republicans—especially those of the new Stalwart faction excluded from the Hayes administration—saw Grant in a new light.[243] The Republican nomination for 1880 was wide open after Hayes, the incumbent President, had forsworn a second term and many Republicans thought that Grant was the man for the job. [243]
Puck, a Democratic magazine, in 1880 lampooned Grant's support of "rings" of corruption among his associates.
The Stalwarts, led by Grant's old political ally, Roscoe Conkling, saw the ex-president's renewed popularity as a way for their faction to regain power. Opponents denounced his violation of the two-term rule that had been the norm since George Washington. Grant said nothing publicly, but privately he wanted the job and encouraged his men.[244] Elihu B. Washburne urged him to run; Grant demurred, saying he would be happy for the Republicans to win with another candidate, though he preferred James G. Blaine to John Sherman.[245] Even so, Conkling and John A. Logan began to organize delegates in Grant's favor. When the convention convened in Chicago in June, there were more delegates pledged to Grant than to any other candidate, but he was still short of a majority vote to capture the nomination.[245]
At the convention Conkling nominated Grant's name with an with an elegant speech, Conklings' most famous line being: "When asked which state he hails from, our sole reply shall be, he hails from Appomattox and its famous apple tree."[245] With 370 votes needed for nomination, the first ballot had Grant at 304, Blaine at 284, Sherman at 93, and the rest scattered to minor candidates.[246] Subsequent ballots followed, with roughly the same result; neither Grant nor Blaine could win. After thirty-six ballots, Blaine's delegates deserted him and combined with those of other candidates to nominate a compromise candidate: Representative James A. Garfield of Ohio.[247] The 306 votes Grant received on the last ballot was not enough to secure the nomination. A procedural motion made the vote unanimous for Garfield who accepted the nominition. [248]
Grant gave speeches for Garfield, but declined to criticize the Democratic nominee, Winfield Scott Hancock, a general who had served under Grant in the Army of the Potomac.[249] Garfield managed to win the popular vote by a narrow margin, however, he solidly won the Electoral College-214 to 155. After the election, Grant gave Garfield his public support, and pushed him to include Stalwarts in his administration. [250]
Grant's world tour, although successful, was costly. When he returned to America, Grant had depleted most of his savings and needed to earn money and find a new home.[251] George William Childs and Anthony Joseph Drexel, wealthy friends of Grant, bought him a home on Manhattan's Upper East Side.[252] To make an income, Grant, Jay Gould, and former Mexican Finance Secretary Matías Romero chartered the Mexican Southern Railroad, which planned to build a railroad from Oaxaca to Mexico City.[252] At the same time, Grant used his influence to convince Chester A. Arthur, who had succeeded Garfield as president in 1881, to negotiate a free trade treaty with Mexico. Arthur and the Mexican government agreed, but the United States Senate rejected the treaty in 1883.[252] The railroad was similarly unsuccessful, falling into bankruptcy the following year.[252]
At the same time, Grant's son Ulysses Jr. ("Buck") had opened a Wall Street brokerage house with Ferdinand Ward. Regarded as a rising star, Ward, and the firm, Grant & Ward, was initially successful.[253] In 1883, Grant joined the firm and invested $100,000 of his own money.[254] Success attracted more investors, who bought securities through firm, whereupon Ward used the securities as collateral to borrow money to buy more securities. Grant & Ward pledged that collateral to borrow more money to trade in securities on the firm's own account. The practice—called hypothecation—was legal and accepted; what was illegal was rehypothecation, the practice of pledging the same securities as collateral for multiple loans.[253] Ward, having colluded with the bank involved, did this for many of the firm's assets. If the trades resulted in profit, then there would be no problem; if the trades went bad, however, multiple loans would come due, all backed up by the same collateral. Historians acknowledge that Grant was likely unaware of Ward's tactics, but it is unclear how much Buck Grant knew. In May 1884, enough investments went bad to convince Ward that the firm would soon be bankrupted. Ward told Grant of the impending failure, but suggested that this was a temporary shortfall.[255] Grant approached businessman William Henry Vanderbilt, who gave Grant a personal loan of $150,000.[256] Grant invested the money in the firm, but that was not enough to save the firm from failure. Essentially penniless, but compelled by a sense of personal honor, Grant repaid Vanderbilt with his Civil War mementos. Although the market value did not cover the loan, Vanderbilt insisted the debt paid in full. The matter left Grant financially destitute.[255]
Grant had forfeited his military pension when he assumed the presidency, but Congress restored him to the rank of General of the Army with full retirement pay in March 1885.[257] Around the same time, Grant learned that he was suffering from throat cancer.[258][g] To restore his family's income, Grant wrote several articles on his Civil War campaigns for The Century Magazine at $500 each. The articles were well received by critics, and the editor, Robert Underwood Johnson, suggested Grant write a book of memoirs, as Sherman and others had successfully done.[260]
Grant took up the project and asked his former staff officer, Adam Badeau, to check his work. Grant's son Fred assisted with references and proofreading. Century offered Grant a book contract with a 10% royalty, but Grant's friend, Mark Twain, made his own offer to Grant for his memoirs, proposing a 75% royalty. Grant ultimately decided on Twain's publishing company, Charles L. Webster and Co.[261] Grant worked diligently on the memoir at his home in New York City, and then from a cottage on the slopes of Mount McGregor, finishing shortly before he died on July 23, 1885.[262] The book, entitled Personal Memoirs of Ulysses S. Grant, was a success. In the end, Julia Grant received about $450,000, suggesting a royalty of about 30%.[261] The memoir has been highly regarded by the public, military historians, and literary critics.[263] Grant was a shrewd and effective writer, portraying himself in the persona of the honorable Western hero, whose strength lies in his honesty and straightforwardness. He candidly depicts his battles against both the Confederates and internal Army foes.[264] Twain called the Memoirs a "literary masterpiece." In reviewing the favorable literary critique of Grant's book, including the analyses of Matthew Arnold and Edmund Wilson, author Mark Perry calls the Memoirs "the most significant work" of American non-fiction.[265]
Grant died on July 23, 1885, at the age of 63.[266] Sheridan, by now Commanding General of the Army, ordered a day-long tribute to Grant on all military posts, and President Grover Cleveland ordered a thirty-day nationwide period of mourning. After private services, the U.S. military in New York, under Adj. Gen. Richard C. Drum's command, placed Grant's body on a special funeral train and traveled via West Point to New York City, where a quarter of a million people viewed it in the two days before the funeral.[267] Tens of thousands of men, many of them veterans from the Grand Army of the Republic or other veterans' organizations, marched with Grant's casket drawn by two dozen horses to Riverside Park.[267] His pallbearers included Union generals Sherman and Sheridan, Confederate generals Simon Bolivar Buckner and Joseph E. Johnston, Admiral David Dixon Porter, and John A. Logan, the head of the Grand Army.[267] His body was laid to rest in Riverside Park, first in a temporary tomb, and finally in a sarcophagus in a circular atrium at the General Grant National Memorial ("Grant's Tomb"), the largest mausoleum in North America. Attendance at the New York funeral topped 1.5 million.[267] Ceremonies were held in other major cities around the country, and those who eulogized Grant in the press likened him to George Washington and Abraham Lincoln.[268]
General Grant National Memorial, known colloquially as "Grant's Tomb", is the largest mausoleum in North America, and one of the largest in the world.
Few presidents' reputations have changed as dramatically as Grant's.[269] Millions of people turned out for his funeral procession in 1885 and attended the 1897 dedication of his tomb demonstrating that at his death, Grant was popularly seen as "a symbol of the American national identity and memory."[270] At the same time, however, commentators and scholars portrayed his as the most corrupt administration in American history.[271] In the 1930s, biographer William B. Hesseltine noted that Grant's reputation deteriorated because his enemies were better writers than his friends.[272] In 1931, Paxon and Bach in the Dictionary of American Biography praised Grant's military vision and his execution of that vision in defeating the Confederacy, but of his political career, the authors were less complimentary. Speaking specifically of the scandals, they wrote that "personal scandal has not touched Grant in any plausible form, but it struck so close to him and so frequently as to necessitate the vindication of his honor by admitting his bad taste in the choice of associates."[273] William S. McFeely won the Pulitzer Prize for his critical 1981 biography that also focused on the failure of Grant's presidency to carry out lasting progress and concluded, "[h]e did not rise above limited talents or inspire others to do so in ways that make his administration a credit to American politics."[274] John Y. Simon in 1982 responded to McFeely: "Grant's failure as President ... lies in the failure of the Indian peace policy and the collapse of Reconstruction ... But if Grant tried and failed, who could have succeeded?"[275] Simon praised Grant's first term in office arguing that it should be, "remembered for his staunch enforcement of the rights of freedmen combined with conciliation of former Confederates, for reform in Indian policy and civil service, for successful negotiation of the Alabama Claims, and for delivery of peace and prosperity."[276] According to Simon, party defections, the Panic of 1873, increase of scandals, and the North's retreat from Reconstruction weakened Grant's second term in office.
Historians have taken a more favorable view since the 1990s, appreciating Grant's protection of African-Americans and his peace policy towards American Indians, even though those policies failed.[270] Bruce Catton initiated reassessment of Grant's military career in the 1960s, shifting assessments of Grant as victor by brute force to that of successful and skillful strategist and commander.[277] Grant's reputation restoration continued with Jean Edward Smith's 2001 biography, Grant. Smith argued that the same qualities that made Grant a success as a general carried over to his political life to make him, if not a successful president, than certainly an admirable one.[278] Smith wrote that "the common thread is strength of character—an indomitable will that never flagged in the face of adversity ... Sometimes he blundered badly; often he oversimplified; yet he saw his goals clearly and moved toward them relentlessly."[279] H.W. Brands, in his 2012 book, also praised Grant's skill as a general. In addition, as Eric Foner wrote, Brands gives "a sympathetic account of Grant's forceful and temporarily successful effort as president to crush the Ku Klux Klan, which had inaugurated a reign of terror against the former slaves."[269] Brands writes favorably of Grant's military and political careers, alike, saying:
As commanding general in the Civil War, he had defeated secession and destroyed slavery, secession's cause. As President during Reconstruction he had guided the South back into the Union. By the end of his public life the Union was more secure than at any previous time in the history of the nation. And no one had done more to produce the result than he.[280]
Grant has several memorials in his honor, including the General Grant National Memorial in New York and the Ulysses S. Grant Memorial in Washington. There are smaller memorials in Chicago's Lincoln Park and Philadelphia's Fairmount Park. Named in his honor are Grant Park as well as a number of counties in western and midwestern states. From 1890 to 1940, the Department of Interior and the National Park Service called part of what is now Kings Canyon National Park, General Grant National Park, named for the General Grant sequoia. Grant has appeared on the front of the United States fifty-dollar bill since 1913, and appears on several stamps.
In May 2012, the Ulysses S. Grant Foundation, on the institute's fiftieth anniversary, selected Mississippi State University as the permanent location for Ulysses S. Grant's Presidential Library. [281] Historian John Simon edited Grant's letters into a 32-volume scholarly edition published by Southern Illinois University Press.[282]
Brands, H. W. (2012). The Man Who Saved The Union Ulysses S. Grant in War and Peace. New York: Doubleday. 
Brands, H. W. (December 2012). "Presidents in Crisis Grant: Takes on the Klan". American History: 42–47. 
Hesseltine, William B. (1957) [1935]. Ulysses S. Grant: Politician. New York, New York: F. Ungar Pub. Co. ISBN 1-931313-85-7. 
Kohn, George C. (2000). The New Encyclopedia of American Scandal. New York: Facts On File, Inc. ISBN 0-8160-4420-1. 
Longacre, Edward G. (2006). General Ulysses S. Grant The Soldier And The Man. Cambridge, Massachusetts: First De Capo Press. ISBN 0-306-81269-X. 
Martinez, James Michael (2007). Carpetbaggers, Cavalry, and the Ku Klux Klan: Exposing the Invisible Empire During Reconstruction. Rowman & Littlefield. ISBN 978-0-7425-5078-0. 
McFeely, William S. (1974). Woodward, C. Vann, ed. Responses of the Presidents to Charges of Misconduct. New York, New York: Delacorte Press. ISBN 0-440-05923-2. 
Nevins, Allan (1936). Hamilton Fish: The Inner History of the Grant Administration 2. New York: Dodd, Mead. 
Paxson, Frederic Logan; Bach, Christian A. (1931). "Ulysses S. Grant". Dictionary of American Biography VII. New York: C. Scribner's Sons. pp. 492–501. 
Rable, George C. (2007). But There Was No Peace: The Role of Violence in the Politics of Reconstruction. Athens, Georgia: University of Georgia Press. 
Renehan, A; Lowry, J C (July 1995). "The oral tumours of two American presidents: what if they were alive today?". J R Soc Med. 88 (7): 377–383. PMC 1295266. PMID 7562805. 
Rhodes, James Ford (1920). History of the United States from the Compromise of 1850 to the McKinley-Bryan Campaign of 1896. 6 & 7. 
Sarna, Jonathan (2012). When General Grant Expelled the Jews. New York: Nextbook Press. ISBN 978-0-8052-4279-9. 
Simpson, Brooks D. (1991). Let Us Have Peace: Ulysses S. Grant and the Politics of War and Reconstruction, 1861–1868. Chapel Hill, North Carolina: University of North Carolina Press. 
Simpson, Brooks D. (2000). Ulysses S. Grant: Triumph Over Adversity, 1822–1865. Boston, Massachusetts: Houghton Mifflin. ISBN 0-395-65994-9. 
Simon, John Y. (2002). "Ulysses S. Grant". In Graff, Henry. The Presidents: A Reference History (7th ed.). pp. 245–260. 
Waltmann, Henry G. (Winter 1971). "Circumstantial Reformer: President Grant & the Indian Problem". Arizona and the West 13 (4): 323–342. JSTOR 40168089. 
Waugh, Joan (2009). U.S. Grant: American Hero, American Myth. The University of North Carolina Press. ISBN 978-0-8078-3317-9. 
Ballard, Michael B. (2013). Grant at Vicksburg: The General and the Siege. Southern Illinois University Press. 
Bonekemper III, Edward H. (2004). A Victor, Not a Butcher: Ulysses S. Grant's Overlooked Military Genius. Washington, DC: Regnery. ISBN 0-89526-062-X. 
Donovan, James (2008). A Terrible Glory Custer and the Little Bighorn --- The Last Great Battle of the American West. New York: Back Ray Books. ISBN 978-0-316-06747-8. 
Farina, William (2007). Ulysses S. Grant, 1861–1864: His Rise from Obscurity to Military Greatness. Jefferson, North Carolina: McFarland & Co. ISBN 978-0-7864-2977-6. 
Flood, Charles Bracelen (2005). Grant and Sherman The Friendship That Won The Civil War. New York, New York: Harper Perennial. ISBN 0-06-114871-7. 
Foote, Shelby. The Civil War: A Narrative (3 Vol. 1958-1974), comprehensive story of all the war's major campaigns and battles.
Korn, Bertram W. (1951). American Jewry and the Civil War. New York: Jewish Publication Society of America. 
McWhiney, Grady (1995). Battle in the Wilderness: Grant Meets Lee. Fort Worth, Texas: Ryan Place Publishers. 
McDonough, James Lee (1977). Shiloh: In Hell Before Night. Knoxville, Tennessee: University of Tennessee Press. 
McDonough, James Lee (1984). Chattanooga: A Death Grip on the Confederacy. Knoxville, Tennessee: University of Tennessee Press. 
McPherson, James M. (1988). Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-503863-0.  comprehensive coverage of all aspects of the war.
Maney, R. Wayne (1994). Marching to Cold Harbor. Victory and Failure, 1864. Shippensburg, Pennsylvania: White Mane Pub. Co. 
Matter, William D. (1988). If It Takes All Summer: The Battle of Spotsylvania. Chapel Hill, North Carolina: University of North Carolina Press. 
Nevins, Allan. The War for the Union (4 vol 1959-71), comprehensive coverage of all aspects of the war.
Rhea, Gordon C. (1994). The Battle of the Wilderness May 5–6, 1864. Louisiana State University Press. ISBN 0-8071-1873-7. 
Rhea, Gordon C. (1997). The Battles for Spotsylvania Court House and the Road to Yellow Tavern May 7–12, 1864. Louisiana State University Press. ISBN 0-8071-2136-3. 
Rhea, Gordon C. (2000). To the North Anna River: Grant and Lee, May 13–25, 1864. Louisiana State University Press. ISBN 0-8071-2535-0. 
Rhea, Gordon C. (2002). Cold Harbor: Grant and Lee, May 26 – June 3, 1864. Louisiana State University Press. ISBN 0-8071-2803-1. 
Schenker, Carl R. (June 2010). "Ulysses in His Tent: Halleck, Grant, Sherman, and 'The Turning Point of the War'". Civil War History 56 (2). 
Simpson, Brooks D. (2009). After Shiloh: Grant, Sherman, and Survival. Carbondale, Illinois: Southern Illinois University Press. 
Williams, Kenneth P. (1959). Lincoln Finds a General: A Military Study of the Civil War 5. New York: Macmillan. 
Williams, T. Harry (1962). McClellan, Sherman and Grant. New Brunswick, New Jersey: Rutgers University Press. 
Woodworth, Steven E. (2005). Nothing but Victory: The Army of the Tennessee, 1861 – 1865. New York: Alfred A. Knopf. ISBN 0-375-41218-2. 
John Y., Simon (1967–2009). "The Papers of Ulysses S. Grant" 1–31. Mississippi State University Online Edition. 
Grant, Ulysses S. (1885). Personal Memoirs of U.S. Grant. C.L. Webster & Co.  many editions in paper and online; ends in 1865
Bonekemper III, Edward H. (April 2011). "The butcher's bill: Ulysses S. Grant is often referred to as a 'butcher,' but does Robert E. Lee actually deserve that title?". Civil War Times 52 (1): 36–43. 
Foner, Eric (November 2, 2012). ""The Man Who Saved the Union: Ulysses Grant in War and Peace" by H. W. Brands (book review)". The Washington Post. 
Rafuse, Ethan S. (July 2007). "Still a Mystery? General Grant and the Historians, 1981–2006". Journal of Military History 71 (3): 849–74. doi:10.1353/jmh.2007.0230. 
Russell, Henry M. W. (Spring 1990). "The memoirs of Ulysses S. Grant: The rhetoric of judgment". Virginia Quarterly Review 66 (2): 189–209. 
Simon, John Y (Spring 1982). "Grant: A Biography by William S. McFeely (book review)". The Wisconsin Magazine of History 65 (3): 220–221. JSTOR 4635640.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help)
Simpson, Brooks D. (2000). "Continuous Hammering and Mere Attrition: Lost Cause Critics and the Military Reputation of Ulysses S. Grant". In Gallagher, Gary W.; Nolan, Alan T. The Myth of the Lost Cause and Civil War History. Bloomington, Indiana: Indiana University Press. ISBN 0-253-33822-0. 
Skidmore,, Max J. (February 2005). "The Presidency of Ulysses S. Grant: A Reconsideration". White House Studies 5 (2): 255–270. 
Wilson, Edmund (1962). Patriotic Gore: Studies in the Literature of the American Civil War.  evaluation of Grant's Memoirs
Weigley, Russell F. (October 2001). "Grant by Jean Edward Smith (book review)". The Journal of Military History 65 (4): 1104–1105. JSTOR 2677657.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help)
Wilentz, Sean (March 14, 2010). "Who's Buried in the History Books?". The New York Times. Retrieved 11-04-2011.  Check date values in: |accessdate= (help)
"About Ulysses S. Grant". Ulysses S. Grant Presidential Library. Ulysses S. Grant Presidential Assoc. and Mississippi State University Libraries. Retrieved 25 March 2014. 
"Ulysses S. Grant (1822–1885)". American President: A Reference Resource. Miller Center, University of Virginia. Retrieved 25 March 2014. 
Booknotes interview with Brooks D. Simpson on Ulysses S. Grant: Triumph Over Adversity, 1822–1865, July 16, 2000.
Booknotes interview with Mark Perry on Grant and Twain: The Story of a Friendship That Changed America, July 18, 2004.
						Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ulysses_S._Grant&oldid=611691758"					
Categories: Ulysses S. Grant1822 births1885 deathsAmerican memoiristsAmerican military personnel of the Mexican–American WarAmerican people of English descentAmerican people of Scottish descentCancer deaths in New YorkCongressional Gold Medal recipientsDeaths from esophageal cancerMembers of the Aztec Club of 1847People from Clermont County, OhioPeople of American ReconstructionPeople of Illinois in the American Civil WarPresidents of the National Rifle AssociationPresidents of the United StatesRepublican Party Presidents of the United StatesRepublican Party (United States) presidential nomineesUnion Army generalsUnited States presidential candidates, 1868United States presidential candidates, 1872United States presidential candidates, 1880American MethodistsHidden categories: Good articlesUse mdy dates from April 2011Wikipedia semi-protected pagesWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesPages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersCS1 errors: datesWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.
6/02 “Leadership in American Politics”	Jeffery A. Jenkins.  9:30AM 5/09 “2014 National Fellowship Conference”	The annual spring conference brings the fellows together with their mentors to present the fruits of their fellowship year.  9:15AM 5/07 “Stokely Carmichael and the Freedom Summer That Changed History”	Peniel E. Joseph.  11:00AM 5/02 “The Life of the Law”	A Symposium Commemorating the 50th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  9:00AM 
↑ Ulysses S. Grant Front PageA Life in BriefLife Before the PresidencyCampaigns and ElectionsDomestic AffairsForeign AffairsLife After the PresidencyFamily LifeImpact and LegacyView All PagesLife Before the PresidencyHiram Ulysses Grant was born on April 27, 1822, in Point Pleasant, Ohio. He was the first of six children born to religious and hard-working parents, Jesse and Hannah Grant. His father was a tanner who took animal hides and processed them into leather. He made a good living, but the work conditions were horrible—skinned and raw animal carcasses everywhere, their hides tossed into kettles of stinging, stinking chemicals. Although Grant occasionally worked in the tannery as a child, he hated the work and swore to his father that once he was an adult, he would never do it again.
Ulysses was a small, sensitive, quiet youth. The simple local schools bored him, and other children mistook his quietness for stupidity, nicknaming him "Useless." The boy, however, had an incredible knack in what was a critical skill in that time and place—horsemanship. On the family farm, his father often gave him the responsibility of taking care of the horses and the other farm animals, and he was renowned in the area for managing unruly horses. 
Grant's father supported his son's ambitious nature to go beyond the limited life of a tanner. The family had little money for college, but the United States Military Academy at West Point, then as now, offered a deal: a superior free education in return for Army service after graduating. Without telling Ulysses, Jesse Grant applied for an appointment to the Academy for his son, who was accepted. Told of his acceptance, the shy Ulysses did not want to go. His father stated that he thought his son would go, and Ulysses "thought so too, if he did." With his father's encouragement, Grant decided to go to West Point to fulfill his own desire to travel and take advantage of the education being offered to him. 
When his congressman applied for Grant's appointment to West Point, he incorrectly wrote the name as Ulysses Simpson (his mother's family name) Grant instead of Hiram Ulysses Grant. Although Ulysses tried to correct the mistake when he arrived at West Point, it was too late, and thereafter he signed his name as Ulysses S. Grant. 
West Point was difficult for the humble youth from the Midwest. He was good at math and drawing, but his prior education was limited, leaving him an otherwise unexceptional student. His skill with horses, however, was unmatched, and he amazed everyone with his riding abilities. He seemed sure to win a coveted spot in the Army's cavalry, its horse-soldier elite, but he was assigned to the infantry after graduating twenty-first in a class of thirty-nine. 
The United States Army of the 1840s was a small one. Grant was assigned to the Fourth Infantry at the Jefferson Barracks, just south of St. Louis, Missouri. His West Point roommate, Frederick Dent, had grown up nearby, and Grant often visited the Dent home, where the family's hospitality made him comfortable. One day while visiting, Grant met Frederick's sister, Julia Dent. Charming, smart, and sociable, Julia soon attracted Grant's declaration of love, although his service in the Mexican War would delay their union for several years. Their mutual devotion was deep and abiding throughout their courtship and 37 years of marriage. 
Lieutenant Grant's regiment moved further south, first to Louisiana and then Texas, to prepare for the conflict with Mexico that was brewing over the Texas territory. From 1846 to 1848, the young lieutenant fought in the Mexican War and was twice cited for his bravery. He was appointed quartermaster for the Fourth Infantry and was responsible for providing supplies and transportation as his regiment moved through the Mexican countryside. This post gave him valuable experience in the logistics of war. He also greatly admired General Zachary Taylor and his calm, confident leadership. Grant, however, did not glory in the ideals of war. He mourned his lost comrades and the waste that war created. 
When the war ended, Grant traveled back to St. Louis to marry Julia. Unbeknownst to the groom, all three of his Southern attendants, including James Longstreet, would fight against him during the Civil War. The Army then transferred the young lieutenant to Detroit and New York. At first, Julia was able to travel with him, but the Army then sent Grant to the Pacific Northwest, first to the Oregon Territory and then to California. He could not take his family to these distant locations and he hated being separated from them. He also ran into financial problems, became depressed, and, according to some accounts, began to drink to excess. In 1854, Grant resigned suddenly from the Army. It is still unclear what precipitated his resignation. 
After leaving the Army, Grant returned to his wife and children in Missouri. Julia's father had given her some land, and Grant tried to farm it, building a log house he dubbed "Hardscrabble." Working hard, Grant found it difficult to make a living. When extra labor was needed, he hired free blacks. He could have made money from selling the one slave that his father-in-law gave him but instead freed the slave. The painful reality was that Ulysses could not support his family, which eventually grew to four children. He also attempted a half-dozen other lines of work over the next several years. One bleak Christmas, he pawned his watch for $22 to buy presents for his family.
By 1860, Grant was forced appeal to his father for help, and he went to work for his younger brother in a leather shop in Galena, Illinois. Soon thereafter, the South seceded from the Union and formed the Confederate States of America. The Civil War had begun, and, suddenly, the North needed experienced Army officers like Grant. The governor of Illinois appointed the former captain to lead a volunteer regiment that no one else had been able to train. Grant instituted badly needed discipline, focusing on the regiment's main goals and overlooking minor details. He gradually won the men's respect and allegiance and was subsequently appointed to brigadier general. 
From the outset of the war, the Confederacy had the advantage of fighting on its own territory, as well as fighting a limited war for independence; in contrast, the United States needed to conquer vast territory and subdue a large population. The Confederates also enjoyed strong support from their citizens and, initially, had superior commanders. But over the years, the industrial capacity of the North proved consequential. The North had the advantage in factories, money, and manpower to fill the battleground with better weapons and more soldiers. The U.S. Navy also imposed an increasingly successful blockade that prevented the South from importing materiel (equipment and supplies).
But the Northern advantage did not translate into victories, and the war dragged on. Incompetent Northern military leadership and strong Southern fighting ability continued to fan the flames for four long years. During the early phases of the conflict, the North lacked a commander with the nerve and logistical skills to take the offensive against the outgunned Rebels. President Lincoln grew frustrated with his ineffective, overcautious commanders, especially General George B. McClellan who commanded the principal Union force of the Eastern Theater, the Army of the Potomac. McClellan was the first of many generals who fought not to win but to avoid losing. In time, Lincoln would select Grant as the man to lead the North to victory.
Grant displayed his military prowess early in the conflict. In 1861, he led 3,000 troops into his first major engagement. The clash at Belmont, Missouri, was a draw, but he showed a rare Union trait at the time—a willingness to fight. More than that in this early period Grant learned something about the enemy, and about himself. "I never forgot," he wrote, "that he had as much reason to fear my forces as I had his. The lesson was valuable." In February 1862, he captured Fort Henry and Fort Donelson, two critical Confederate fortifications in Tennessee. At Fort Donelson, he accepted the surrender of an entire Confederate force, earning a nickname, "Unconditional Surrender" Grant. Fort Donelson was the first real Union victory of the war, and Grant became known nationally overnight, earning a promotion to major general.
But the good press did not last long. That April of 1862, the press blamed Grant for massive losses at the Battle of Shiloh, also in Tennessee. He had been surprised by an early morning Confederate attack that pushed the Union line back, resulting in the capture of many Union soldiers. At the end of the day, however, Grant had managed to hold his position. Supported by reinforcements, he launched a counterattack on the second day that led to a Southern retreat. Although the battle was a strategic success for the Union, it came at great cost, and many held Grant responsible.
But Lincoln stood by his general. Grant was the first Union commander to truly take the war to the South and put the region on the defensive. His calm during battle astounded everyone who witnessed it. His strategy for securing the Western Theater was sound; while puffing cigar after cigar, he issued his commanders clear, concise orders while staying out of their way in the heat of battle. 
In 1863, Grant, now placed in command over the District of Tennessee, orchestrated the capture of Vicksburg, Mississippi, which sat high on a bluff above the Mississippi River. Grant first attempted to capture this key installation from the north, but eventually decided to march his troops down the other side of the Mississippi and cross over it. Once they landed south of Vicksburg, Grant disregarded convention and cut his supply lines, using enemy resources to feed his troops. After defeating two separate Confederate armies at Port Gibson, Raymond, Jackson, Champion Hill, and Big Black River, the Union forces settled into a siege of Vicksburg. Six weeks later, Confederate commander Lieutenant General John C. Pemberton surrendered Vicksburg and with it an army of more than 27,000 men to Grant on July 4, 1863. This federal victory ended the Rebel's stranglehold on the Mississippi River, checking Confederate momentum and dealing a devastating blow to Southern morale. "Grant is my man, and I am his" declared President Lincoln after hearing of Vicksburg's fall. 
Not long afterward, Grant was running the entire Western Theater of the war. By November 1863, Grant secured Chattanooga, Knoxville, and eastern Tennessee for the North, and left the Confederate military command in disarray and defeat. At this time, Grant emerged as the undisputed top U.S. military hero, bringing along for promotion his talented group of western generals—William T. Sherman, Philip H. Sheridan, and James B. McPherson. In early 1864, President Lincoln named Grant lieutenant general and commander of all Union forces directing strategy and planning several major campaigns simultaneously. Grant was transferred to Washington, D.C., to oversee the war effort, especially the defeat of General Robert E. Lee and his Army of Northern Virginia. Rather than stay in the capital and direct the war from afar, Grant joined General George Meade, commander of the Army of the Potomac in the field for the spring effort. In the six-week "Overland Campaign" that followed, the Union Army suffered setbacks and high casualties in the battles of the Wilderness, Spotsylvania Court House, and Cold Harbor as the titanic fight between Grant and Lee raged over the Virginia countryside. Grant's direct, relentless battle tactics led to such huge losses that the Democratic press began calling Grant, "The Butcher."
Still, Grant pressed on against Lee, and Sherman continued his relentless march to Atlanta, Georgia, then to Savannah and South Carolina, while Sheridan led a destructive campaign in Virginia's Shenandoah Valley. In late 1864 and early 1865, the invaded, decimated South lost the means and the will to fight. Union troops trapped the main Confederate Army west of Richmond and forced a surrender on April 9, 1865, at the little village crossroads of Appomattox Court House. General Lee's surrender to Grant effectively ended the war. 
In four years, Grant had gone from a leather-shop clerk to the most revered soldier in the Union. In 1866, he was named general of the armies, a rank that had been achieved by no one other than George Washington. Along with the military promotion came political opportunity, a development largely due to the war's centrality to American life. The Civil War dominated public discussion and the media for generations afterward. It was therefore far from surprising that a man widely credited with keeping the nation together was seen as a possible presidential candidate.
=======================================================
Born Hiram Ulysses Grant, in Point Pleasant, Ohio, the future General-in-Chief's name was changed due to a clerical error during his first days at the United States Military Academy at West Point.  To his friends, however, he was known simply as "Sam."  After a mediocre stint as a cadet, he graduated twenty-first out of the thirty-nine cadets in class of 1843.  Yet despite his less than exemplary school record, he performed well as a captain during the Mexican War (1846-1848), winning two citations for gallantry and one for meritorious conduct.  Only when the fighting stopped and Grant was assigned monotonous duties at remote posts far from his wife and family did he again begin neglecting his work and drinking heavily. He resigned in 1854 to avoid being drummed out of the service. 
Grant spent the next six years in St. Louis, Missouri with his wife, Julia Dent Grant. After several short-lived pursuits, including a brief episode as a farmer, he moved to Galena, Illinois to be a clerk in his family's store. When the Civil War began in 1861, he jumped at the chance to volunteer for military service in the Union army. His first command was as the colonel of the 21st Illinois Infantry, but he was quickly promoted to brigadier general in July 1861, and in September was given command of the District of Southeast Missouri.
His 1862 triumphs at Fort Henry and Fort Donelson in western Tennessee won him the nickname “Unconditional Surrender” Grant, and placed him before the public eye.  However, when a surprise attack by Confederate forces at the Battle of Shiloh yielded devastating casualties during the first day's fighting, President Abraham Lincoln received several demands for Grant's removal from command. Nevertheless, Lincoln refused, stating, “I can’t spare this man. He fights.”  The following day, Grant's Army - bolstered by troops under Maj. Gen. Don Carlos Buell - fended off Confederate advances and ultimately won the day.  
Grant’s hard-won victory at Vicksburg, Mississippi, in May of 1863 was a strategic masterpiece.  On May 1, 1863, Grant's army crossed the Mississippi River at the battle of Port Gibson.  With Confederate forces unclear of his intentions, Grant sent a portion of his army under Gen. William T. Sherman to capture the state capital, Jackson, while setting his sights on Vicksburg with a view toward permanently closing the Confederate supply base.  When initial assaults on the city demonstrated the strength of Vicksburg's defenses, the Union army was forced to lay siege to the city.  On July 4, 1863, after 46 days of digging trenches and lobbing hand grenades, Confederate general John Pemberton's 30,000-man army surrendered.  Coupled with the Northern victory at Gettysburg, the capture of Vicksburg marked the turning point in the war.  It also made Grant the premier commander in the Federal army.  Later that same year, Grant was called upon to break the stalemate at Chattanooga, further cementing his reputation as a capable and effective leader.
In March 1864, President Lincoln elevated Grant to the rank of lieutenant general, and named him general-in-chief of the Armies of the United States. Making his headquarters with the Army of the Potomac, Grant was determined to crush Robert E. Lee and his vaunted Army of Northern Virginia at any cost.  Though plagued by reticent subordinates, petty squabbles between generals and horrific casualties, the Federal host bludgeoned Lee from the Rapidan River to the James in what one participant would later describe as "unspoken, unspeakable history."  The battles of the Wilderness, Spotsylvania, Cold Harbor and the subsequent siege of Petersburg effectively destroyed the rebel army, leading to the fall of Richmond and Lee's surrender at Appomattox Court House.  Though Grant’s forces had been depleted by more than half during the last year of the war, it was Lee who surrendered in 1865. 
After the Civil War, President Andrew Johnson named Grant Secretary of War over the newly reunited nation. In 1868, running against Johnson, Ulysses S. Grant was elected eighteenth President of the United States. Unfortunately, though apparently innocent of graft himself, Grant’s administration was riddled with corruption, and scandal.
For two years following his second term in office, Grant made a triumphal tour of the world. In 1884, he lost his entire savings to a corrupt bank. To make up some of his losses, he wrote about his war experiences for Century Magazine. They proved so popular that he was inspired to write his excellent autobiography, Personal Memoirs of U.S. Grant, finishing the two-volume set only a few days before dying of cancer at the age of sixty-three.  Ulysses S. Grant is buried in New York City in the largest mausoleum of its kind in the United States.  Reminiscent of Napoleon's tomb in Paris, Grant's tomb is a National Memorial.
Edward Porter AlexanderRichard H. AndersonRobert AndersonJames Jay ArcherLewis ArmisteadWilliam W. AverellNathaniel BanksTheodore Harvey BarrettClara BartonP. G. T. BeauregardHenry W. BenhamJames Gilpatrick BluntMaria "Belle" BoydMathew BradyBraxton BraggJohn C. BreckinridgeJohn BrownFranklin BuchananSimon B. BucknerDon Carlos BuellJohn BufordAmbrose E. BurnsideBenjamin ButlerE. R. S. CanbyJoshua Lawrence ChamberlainBenjamin F. CheathamMary ChesnutJohn ChivingtonPatrick R. CleburneJohn ClemWilliam CogswellDouglas Hancock CooperJacob D. CoxGeorge Bibb CrittendenFrederick CrockerGeorge CrookSamuel R. CurtisGeorge Armstrong CusterJefferson DavisHenry Kyd DouglasFrederick DouglassRichard William DowlingJubal EarlySarah Emma EdmondsNathan G. EvansRichard S. EwellMoses EzekielJames Fleming FaganDavid G. FarragutCharles W. FieldJoseph FineganChristian FleetwoodJohn Buchanan FloydAndrew Hull FooteJohn Salmon "Rip" FordNathan Bedford ForrestWilliam Buel FranklinWilliam Henry FrenchJohn C. FrémontFranklin GardnerAlexander GardnerJohn White GearyJohn GibbonQuincy A. GillmoreJohn B. GordonJohn GreggDavid McMurtrie GreggHenry HalleckHenry W. HalleckWade HamptonWinfield Scott HancockWilliam J. HardeeWilliam Babcock HazenFrancis J. HerronHenry HethThomas Wentworth HigginsonA. P. HillThomas Carmichael HindmanJennie HodgersRobert F. HokeJohn Bell HoodJoseph HookerJedediah HotchkissOliver O. HowardA. A. HumphreysSteven A. Hurlbut T. J. "Stonewall" Jackson George S. JamesEdward "Allegheny" JohnsonJoseph E. JohnstonAlbert Sidney JohnstonPhilip KearnyJoseph B. KershawHugh J. KilpatrickNathan KimballStephen D. LeeFitzhugh LeeW.H.F. "Rooney" LeeRobert E. LeeJonathan LettermanSt. John R. LiddellAbraham LincolnJohn A. LoganLunsford Lindsay LomaxJames LongstreetThaddeus Sobieski Constantine LoweNathaniel LyonJohn Sappington MarmadukeGeorge B. McClellanAlexander M. McCookBenjamin McCullochIrvin McDowellJames B. McPhersonGeorge G. MeadeWesley MerrittDixon S. MilesRobert H. MilroyJohn Hunt MorganJohn Hunt MorganJohn Singleton MosbyWilliam NelsonRichard James OglesbyEmerson OpdyckeEdward O. C. OrdJohn Grubb ParkeJohn C. Pemberton William N. PendletonGeorge E. PickettGideon J. PillowAlfred PleasontonLeonidas PolkJohn PopeFitz John PorterDavid Dixon PorterSterling PriceJames B. RickettsWilliam S. RosecransThomas Lafayette RosserRobert C. SchenckJohn M. SchofieldWilliam R. ScurryJohn SedgwickRaphael SemmesWilliam H. SewardTruman SeymourRobert Gould ShawPhilip SheridanWilliam T. ShermanHenry H. SibleyDaniel E. SicklesFranz SigelHenry W. SlocumJohn P. SloughE. Kirby SmithAndrew J. SmithThaddeus StevensIsaac I. Stevens Charles P. StoneDavid Hunter StrotherJ. E. B. StuartSamuel D. SturgisJeremiah C. SullivanRichard TaylorAlfred H. TerryGeorge ThomasAlfred T. A. TorbertHarriet TubmanErastus B. TylerEmory UptonEarl Van DornLoreta Janeta VelazquezSarah Rosetta WakemanReuben Linsday WalkerLewis “Lew” WallaceGouverneur K. WarrenJohn T. WilderJohn L. WordenHoratio G. Wright
=======================================================
Late in the administration of Andrew Johnson, Gen. Ulysses S. Grant quarreled with the President and aligned himself with the Radical Republicans. He was, as the symbol of Union victory during the Civil War, their logical candidate for President in 1868.
When he was elected, the American people hoped for an end to turmoil. Grant provided neither vigor nor reform. Looking to Congress for direction, he seemed bewildered. One visitor to the White House noted "a puzzled pathos, as of a man with a problem before him of which he does not understand the terms."
Born in 1822, Grant was the son of an Ohio tanner. He went to West Point rather against his will and graduated in the middle of his class. In the Mexican War he fought under Gen. Zachary Taylor.
At the outbreak of the Civil War, Grant was working in his father's leather store in Galena, Illinois. He was appointed by the Governor to command an unruly volunteer regiment. Grant whipped it into shape and by September 1861 he had risen to the rank of brigadier general of volunteers.
He sought to win control of the Mississippi Valley. In February 1862 he took Fort Henry and attacked Fort Donelson. When the Confederate commander asked for terms, Grant replied, "No terms except an unconditional and immediate surrender can be accepted." The Confederates surrendered, and President Lincoln promoted Grant to major general of volunteers.
At Shiloh in April, Grant fought one of the bloodiest battles in the West and came out less well. President Lincoln fended off demands for his removal by saying, "I can't spare this man--he fights."
For his next major objective, Grant maneuvered and fought skillfully to win Vicksburg, the key city on the Mississippi, and thus cut the Confederacy in two. Then he broke the Confederate hold on Chattanooga.
Lincoln appointed him General-in-Chief in March 1864. Grant directed Sherman to drive through the South while he himself, with the Army of the Potomac, pinned down Gen. Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia.
Finally, on April 9, 1865, at Appomattox Court House, Lee surrendered. Grant wrote out magnanimous terms of surrender that would prevent treason trials.
As President, Grant presided over the Government much as he had run the Army. Indeed he brought part of his Army staff to the White House.
Although a man of scrupulous honesty, Grant as President accepted handsome presents from admirers. Worse, he allowed himself to be seen with two speculators, Jay Gould and James Fisk. When Grant realized their scheme to corner the market in gold, he authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to sell enough gold to wreck their plans, but the speculation had already wrought havoc with business.
During his campaign for re-election in 1872, Grant was attacked by Liberal Republican reformers. He called them "narrow-headed men," their eyes so close together that "they can look out of the same gimlet hole without winking." The General's friends in the Republican Party came to be known proudly as "the Old Guard."
Grant allowed Radical Reconstruction to run its course in the South, bolstering it at times with military force.
After retiring from the Presidency, Grant became a partner in a financial firm, which went bankrupt. About that time he learned that he had cancer of the throat. He started writing his recollections to pay off his debts and provide for his family, racing against death to produce a memoir that ultimately earned nearly $450,000. Soon after completing the last page, in 1885, he died.
The Presidential biographies on WhiteHouse.gov are from “The Presidents of the United States of America,” by Frank Freidel and Hugh Sidey. Copyright 2006 by the White House Historical Association.
background: url(http://www.whitehouse.gov/files/images/tout/feedback_tout_long.png) no-repeat 0px 0px;
=======================================================
General Ulysses S. Grant parlayed his celebrity after the Civil War into a successful bid for the presidency.
Ulysses Grant (1822-1885) commanded the victorious Union army during the American Civil War (1861-1865) and served as the 18th U.S. president from 1869 to 1877. An Ohio native, Grant graduated from West Point and fought in the Mexican-American War (1846-1848). During the Civil War, Grant, an aggressive and determined leader, was given command of all the U.S. armies. After the war he became a national hero, and the Republicans nominated him for president in 1868. A primary focus of Grant’s administration was Reconstruction, and he worked to reconcile the North and South while also attempting to protect the civil rights of newly freed black slaves. While Grant was personally honest, some of his associates were corrupt and his administration was tarnished by various scandals. After retiring, Grant invested in a brokerage firm that went bankrupt, costing him his life savings. He spent his final days penning his memoirs, which were published the year he died and proved a critical and financial success.
Hiram Ulysses Grant was born on April 27, 1822, in Point Pleasant, Ohio. The following year, he moved with his parents, Jesse Grant (1794-1873) and Hannah Simpson Grant (1798-1883), to Georgetown, Ohio, where his father ran a tannery.
Did You Know? Thousands of people worldwide donated at total of $600,000 for the construction of Grant's tomb in New York City. Known officially as the General Grant National Memorial, it is America's largest mausoleum and was dedicated on April 27, 1897, the 75th anniversary of Grant's birth.In 1839, Jesse Grant arranged for his son’s admission to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. The congressman who appointed Grant mistakenly believed his first name was Ulysses and his middle name was Simpson (his mother’s maiden name). Grant never amended the error and went on to accept Ulysses S. Grant as his real name, although he maintained that the “S” did not stand for anything.
In 1843, Grant graduated from West Point, where he was known as a skilled horseman but an otherwise undistinguished student. He was commissioned a brevet second lieutenant in the 4th U.S. Infantry, which was stationed at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri, near St. Louis. The following year, he met Julia Dent (1826-1902), the sister of one of his West Point classmates and the daughter of a merchant and planter.
After seeing action in the Mexican-American War, Grant returned to Missouri and married Julia in August 1848. The couple eventually had four children. In the early years of his marriage, Grant was assigned to a series of remote army posts, some of them on the West Coast, which kept him separated from his family. In 1854, he resigned from the military.
Now a civilian, Ulysses Grant was reunited with his family at White Haven, the Missouri plantation where Julia had grown up. There he made an unsuccessful attempt at farming, followed by a failed stint in a St. Louis real estate office. In 1860, the Grants moved to Galena, Illinois, where Ulysses worked in his father’s leather goods business.
After the Civil War began in April 1861, Grant became a colonel of the 21st Illinois Volunteers. Later that summer, President Abraham Lincoln (1809-1865) made Grant a brigadier general. Grant’s first major victory came in February 1862, when his troops captured Fort Donelson in Tennessee. When the Confederate general in charge of the fort asked about terms of surrender, Grant famously replied, “No terms except an unconditional and immediate surrender can be accepted.”
In July 1863, Grant’s forces captured Vicksburg, Mississippi, a Confederate stronghold. Grant, who was earning a reputation as a tenacious and determined leader, was appointed lieutenant general by Lincoln in March 1864 and given command of all U.S. armies. He led a series of campaigns that ultimately wore down the Confederate army and helped bring the deadliest conflict in U.S. history to a close. On April 9, 1865, Confederate General Robert Lee (1807-1870) surrendered to Grant at Appomattox Court House in Virginia, effectively ending the Civil War.
Five days later, on April 14, Lincoln was assassinated by Confederate sympathizer John Wilkes Booth (1838-1865) while attending a play at Ford’s Theatre in Washington, D.C. Grant and his wife had been invited to accompany the president that night but declined in order to visit family.
Following the war, Ulysses Grant became a national hero, and in 1866 was appointed America’s first four-star general at the recommendation of President Andrew Johnson (1808-1875). By the summer of 1867, tensions were running high between Johnson and the Radical Republicans in Congress, who favored a more aggressive approach to Reconstruction in the South. The president removed a vocal critic of his policies, Secretary of War Edwin Stanton (1814-1869), from the Cabinet and replaced him with Grant. Congress charged that Johnson was in violation of the Tenure of Office Act and demanded Stanton’s reinstatement. In January 1868, Grant resigned the war post, thereby breaking with Johnson, who was later impeached but acquitted by a single vote in May 1868.
That same month, the Republicans nominated Grant as their presidential candidate, selecting Schuyler Colfax (1823-1885), a U.S. congressman from Indiana, as his running mate. The Democrats chose former New York governor Horatio Seymour (1810-1886) as their presidential nominee, paired with Francis Blair (1821-1875), a U.S. congressman from Missouri. In the general election, Grant won by an electoral margin of 214-80 and received more than 52 percent of the popular vote. At age 46, he became the youngest president-elect in U.S. history up to that time.
Ulysses Grant entered the White House in the middle of the Reconstruction era, a tumultuous period in which the 11 Southern states that seceded before or at the start of the Civil War were brought back into the Union. As president, Grant tried to foster a peaceful reconciliation between the North and South. He supported pardons for former Confederate leaders while also attempting to protect the civil rights of freed slaves. In 1870, the 15th Amendment, which gave black men the right to vote, was ratified. Grant signed legislation aimed at limiting the activities of white terrorist groups like the Ku Klux Klan that used violence to intimidate blacks and prevent them from voting. At various times, the president stationed federal troops throughout the South to maintain law and order. Critics charged that Grant’s actions violated states’ rights, while others contended that the president did not do enough to protect freedmen.
In addition to focusing on Reconstruction, Grant signed legislation establishing the Department of Justice, the Weather Bureau (now known as the National Weather Service) and Yellowstone National Park, America’s first national park. He also tried, with limited success, to improve conditions for Native Americans. Grant’s administration made strides in foreign policy by negotiating the 1871 Treaty of Washington, which settled U.S. claims against England stemming from the activities of British-built Confederate warships that disrupted Northern shipping during the Civil War. The treaty resulted in improved relations between the United Kingdom and the United States. Less successful was Grant’s failed attempt to annex the Caribbean nation of Santo Domingo (present-day Dominican Republic).
In 1872, a group of Republicans who opposed Grant’s policies and believed he was corrupt formed the Liberal Republican Party. The group nominated New York newspaper editor Horace Greeley (1811-1872) as their presidential candidate. The Democrats also nominated Greeley, hoping the combined support would defeat Grant. Instead, the president and his running mate Henry Wilson (1812-1875), a U.S. senator from Massachusetts, won the general election by an electoral margin of 286-66 and received close to 56 percent of the popular vote.
During Grant’s second term, he had to contend with a lengthy and severe depression that struck the nation in 1873 as well as various scandals that plagued his administration. He also continued to grapple with issues related to Reconstruction. Grant did not seek a third term, and Republican Rutherford Hayes (1822-1893), the governor of Ohio, won the presidency in 1876.
Ulysses Grant’s time in office was marked by scandal and corruption, although he himself did not participate in or profit from the misdeeds perpetrated by some of his associates and appointees. During his first term, a group of speculators led by James Fisk (1835-1872) and Jay Gould (1836-1892) attempted to influence the government and manipulate the gold market. The failed plot resulted in a financial panic on September 24, 1869, known as Black Friday. Even though Grant was not directly involved in the scheme, his reputation suffered because he had become personally associated with Fisk and Gould prior to the scandal.
Another major scandal was the Whiskey Ring, which was exposed in 1875 and involved a network of distillers, distributors and public officials who conspired to defraud the federal government of millions in liquor tax revenue. Grant’s private secretary, Orville Babcock (1835-1884), was indicted in the scandal; however, the president defended him and he was acquitted.
Grant’s presidency occurred during an era dominated by machine politics and the patronage system of political appointments, in which politicians rewarded their supporters with government jobs and the employees, in turn, kicked back part of their salaries to the political party. In order to combat the corruption and inefficiency that resulted from this system, Grant established a civil service commission to develop more equitable methods for hiring and promoting government workers. However, civil service reform faced opposition from Congress and members of Grant’s administration, and by 1876 the commission’s funding was cut off and reform rules such as standardized exams were discontinued. Lasting reform did not take hold until 1883, when President Chester Arthur (1829-1886) signed the Pendleton Civil Service Act.
After leaving the White House in March 1877, Ulysses Grant and his family embarked on a two-year trip around the world, during which they met with dignitaries and cheering crowds in many of the countries they visited. At the 1880 Republican National Convention, a group of delegates voted to nominate Grant for president again; however, James Garfield (1831-1881), a U.S. congressman from Ohio, ultimately earned the nomination. He would go on to win the general election and become the 20th U.S. president.
In 1881, Grant bought a brownstone on New York City’s Upper East Side. He invested his savings in a financial firm in which his son was a partner; however, the firm’s other partner swindled its investors in 1884, causing the business to collapse and bankrupting Grant. To provide for his family, the former president decided to write his memoirs. In late 1884, he was diagnosed with throat cancer.
Grant died at age 63 on July 23, 1885, in Mount McGregor, New York, in the Adirondack Mountains, where he and his family were spending the summer. His memoirs, published that same year by his friend Mark Twain (1835-1910), became a major financial success.
More than a million people gathered in New York City to witness Grant’s funeral procession. The former president was laid to rest in a tomb in New York City’s Riverside Park. When Julia Grant died in 1902, she was buried beside her husband.
Fact Check We strive for accuracy and fairness. But if you see something that doesn't look right, contact us!
=======================================================
.gB{line-height:1.5}.tr #oF{margin:0;color:#666}#abc #sidebar,#abc .sb{margin-top:.5em}#tt26 .entry .gB p{margin:0}@media screen and (-webkit-min-device-pixel-ratio:0){#abc #sidebar,#abc #sb1.sb,#abc #sb2.sb{margin-top:1.5em}#tt0 #abc #sidebar{margin-top:.5em}}#abw .gB .u,#abw .gB .u:hover{display:block}#tt56 #index{margin-top: 2em}.vdNotice{color:#666;font-style: italic;}
Most Emailed ArticlesCash for College! 54 Scholarships Worth $10&#044;000 or MoreErikson's Psychosocial Stages Summary ChartHow to Control Carpenter BeesQuiz - What's Your Leadership Style? [About Psychology]College Interview Questions
Top Related Searchesjefferson barracks missourisurrender at appomattoxappomattox virginiageneral zachary taylorulysses grantgeorgetown ohio
Grant was born on April 27, 1822 in Point Pleasant, Ohio. He was raised in Georgetown, Ohio. He grew up on a farm. He went to local schools before attending the Presbyterian Academy and then being appointed to West Point. He was not necessarily the best student though he was good at math. When he graduated, he was placed in the infantry.
Father: Jesse Root Grant - tanner and merchant along with a strict abolitionist.Mother: Hannah Simpson GrantSiblings: Three sisters and two brothers.Wife: Julia Boggs Dent - daughter of a St. Louis merchant and slaveholder. The fact that her family owned slaves was a point of contention for Grant's parents.Children: Three sons and one daughter.
When Grant was graduated from West Point, he was stationed at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri. In 1846, America went to war with Mexico. Grant served with General Zachary Taylor and Winfield Scott. By the end of the war he was promoted to first lieutenant. He continued to serve in the military until 1854 when he resigned and tried farming. He had a hard time and eventually had to sell his farm. He did not rejoin the military until 1861 with the outbreak of the Civil War.
At the beginning of the Civil War, Grant rejoined the military as a colonel of the 21st Illinois Infantry. He captured Fort Donelson, Tennessee in February 1862 which was the first major Union victory. He was promoted to major general. He had other victories at Vicksburg, Lookout Mountain, and Missionary Ridge. In March 1864, he was made the commander of all Union forces. He accepted Lee's surrender at Appomattox, Virginia on April 9, 1865. After the war, he served as Secretary of War (1867-68).
Grant was unanimously nominated by the Republicans in 1868. The Republicans supported black suffrage in the south and a less lenient form of reconstruction than that espoused by Andrew Johnson. Grant was opposed by Democrat Horatio Seymour. In the end, Grant received 53% of the popular vote and 72% of the electoral vote. In 1872, Grant was easily renominated and won over Horace Greeley despite the many scandals that occurred during his administration.
After Grant retired from the presidency, he and his wife traveled throughout Europe, Asia, and Africa. He then retired to Illinois in 1880. He helped his son by borrowing money to set him up with a friend named Ferdinand Ward in a brokerage firm. When they went bankrupt, Grant lost all his money. He ended up writing his memoirs for money to help his wife before he died on July 23, 1885.
Grant is considered to be one of the worst presidents in America's history. His time in office was marked by major scandals, and therefore he was not able to accomplish much during his two terms in office.
The largest issue of Grant's presidency was Reconstruction. He continued occupying the South with federal troops. His administration fought against states who denied blacks the right to vote. In 1870, the fifteenth amendment was passed providing that no one could be denied the right to vote based on race. Further in 1875, the Civil Rights Act was passed which ensured that African Americans would have the same right to use inns, transportation, and theaters among other things. However, the law was ruled unconstitutional in 1883.
In 1873, an economic depression occurred that lasted five years. Many were unemployed, and many businesses failed.
Black Friday - September 24, 1869. Two speculators, Jay Gould and James Fisk, tried to buy up enough gold to corner the gold market while keeping Grant from dumping federal gold on the market. They drove up the price of gold quickly before Grant realized what was going on and was able to add enough gold onto the market to bring the price down. However, many investors and businesses were ruined because of this.
Credit Mobilier - 1872. In order to cover up stealing money from the Union Pacific Railroad, officers of the Credit Mobilier company sold stocks cheaply to members of Congress.
Grant's Secretary of the Treasury, William A. Richardson gave special agent John D. Sanborn the job of collecting delinquent taxes allowing Sanborn to keep 50% of what he collected.
Whiskey Ring - 1875. Many distillers and federal agents were keeping money that was being paid as liquor taxes. Grant called for punishment but protected his own personal secretary.
Belknap Bribery - 1876. Grant's Secretary of War, W. W. Belknap was taking money from traders selling at Indian posts.
However, through all of this, Grant still was able to get renominated and reelected to the presidency.
Suggested ReadingUlysses Grant QuotesUlysses Grant Fast FactsTop 10 Things to Know About Ulysses S GrantSuggested ReadingCivil WarTop 10 Presidential ScandalsTop Ten Most Influential PresidentsSuggested ReadingChart of the PresidentsPresidential Guru Quiz
Related ArticlesProfile of Ulysses S. Grant VideoUlysses S. Grant | Significant Facts and Brief BiographyUlysses S Grant - Fast Facts - Eighteenth President Ulysses S GrantCivil War Veteran PresidentsAmerican Civil War - American Civil War Eastern Theater 1863 to 1865 
13 Original ColoniesTop Causes of the Civil WarPresidents of the USWhat Caused the Great Depression?What Happened Today?
The Top 5 Causes That Led to World War I. Could...Top 5 Causes of the Great Depression5 Things That Caused the U.S. Civil WarWhat Caused the American Revolution?Chart of the Thirteen Original Colonies - Basic...
See More About:ulysses grantamerican presidentsamerican civil warcredit mobilierpresidential scandals
Civil War - History of the Civil WarColonial AmericaIndustrial RevolutionWorld War IIEras of American HistoryAmerican CultureEconomic HistoryGovernment and PoliticsHistorical FiguresWars and DiplomacyStates and TerritoriesSocial HistoryScience and TechnologyHistorical Fun & ResourcesScandals and CrimeBlog
American HistoryAbout.comEducationAmerican HistoryHistorical FiguresUS PresidentsUlysses S  GrantUlysses Grant - Eighteenth President of the United StatesAdvertise on About.comOur StoryNewsSiteMapAll TopicsReprintsHelpWrite for AboutCareers at AboutUser AgreementEthics PolicyPatent Info.Privacy PolicyYour Ad Choices and Cookie Policy©2014 About.com. All rights reserved.
=======================================================
Ulysses S. Grant is most known for being the lead general of the Union troops during the American Civil War. His fame as a war hero propelled him into the White House where his presidency was marred by scandals.
Grant grew up in Ohio the son of a tanner. He didn't want to be a tanner like his father and spent his time on the farm where he became an excellent horseman. His father suggested that he attend the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. At first Grant didn't like the idea as he had no interest in becoming a soldier, however, he realized this was his chance at a college education and eventually decided to go.
After graduating from West Point, Grant became an officer in the army. During the Mexican War (1846-1848) he served under General Zachary Taylor. Later he had various posts on the west coast. Grant was lonely for his wife and family, however, and took to drinking. He eventually left the army to return home and open a general store.
With the start of the Civil War, Grant reentered the military. He started out with the Illinois militia and soon moved up the ranks in the army to general. In 1862 Grant had his first major victory when he captured Fort Donelson in Tennessee. He became known as Unconditional Surrender (U.S.) Grant when he told the Confederate commanders "No terms except unconditional and immediate surrender".
Grant's victory at Fort Donelson was the first major victory for the Union during the Civil War. He then led his army to victory at the city of Vicksburg, a Confederate stronghold. This victory helped to split the South's forces in two and gave the Union considerable momentum. He became a famous war hero and in 1864 President Abraham Lincoln made him General-in-Chief of the entire Union Army. 
Grant then led the Union Army against Robert E. Lee in Virginia. They battled for over a year, with Grant eventually defeating Lee and the Confederate Army. Lee surrendered at Appomattox Court House, Virginia on April 9, 1865. In an effort to restore the Union, Grant offered very generous terms of surrender allowing confederate troops to return home after surrendering their weapons.
Grant's popularity soared after the Civil War, and he easily won the presidential election in 1868. He served two terms as president and even ran for a third, which he didn't win. Unfortunately, his presidency was marked by a series of scandals. Many of the people in his administration were crooks who stole from the government. In 1873, financial speculation led to a panic and the stock market crashed. Many people lost their jobs during this time.
Grant fought for the civil rights of both African Americans and Native Americans. He pushed for the passage of the 15th Amendment, giving the right of all men to vote regardless of race, color, or whether they were former slaves. He also signed a bill that allowed persons of African descent to become U.S. citizens.
His administration negotiated the Treaty of Washington with Great Britain, settling disputes over the Civil War as well as the northern borders.
Grant ran for a third term in office, but did not win. He decided to go on a tour of the world. He spent over two years traveling the world and meeting with important world leaders. He met with Queen Victoria in England, Prince Bismarck in Germany, the emperor of Japan, and the Pope at the Vatican. He also visited Russia, China, Egypt, and the Holy Land.
Upon returning from his trip, he decided to run for president again in 1880, however, he was unsuccessful. He spent the end of his days writing his own autobiography.
Grant died of throat cancer in 1885, probably as a result of smoking several cigars a day for much of his life.
Grant's real name was Hiram Ulysses Grant, but it was entered incorrectly as Ulysses S. Grant when he went to West Point. Since he was embarrassed by his real initials (H.U.G), he didn't tell anyone and ended up going by Ulysses S. Grant for the rest of his life.
According to Grant, the "S" was just an initial and didn't stand for anything. Some said it stood for Simpson, his mother's maiden name. 
When he was at West Point, his fellow Cadets called him Sam because U.S. could have stood for Uncle Sam.
When word got out that he was smoking a cigar during his famous attack on Fort Donelson, people sent him thousands of cigars to celebrate his victory.
Grant was invited to attend the play at the Ford's Theatre the night President Lincoln was assassinated. He turned down the invite and later regretted that he wasn't there to help protect Lincoln.
=======================================================
Summary and AnalysisFamily and ChildhoodWest Point and BeyondThe Mexican WarBetween BattlesGalena, IllinoisOutbreak of the Civil WarVicksburgOn to AppomattoxThe White HouseBeyond the White House
Readers' Notes allow users to add their own analysis and insights to our SparkNotes—and to discuss those ideas with one another. Have a novel take or think we left something out? Add a Readers' Note!
SparkNotes is brought to you by B&N. Visit B&N to buy and rent textbooks, and check out our award-winning tablets and ereaders, including NOOK HD+, NOOK HD, NOOK GlowLight, and NOOK Simple Touch.
