=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Dame Judith Olivia "Judi" Dench, CH DBE FRSA (born 9 December 1934[1]) is an English film, stage and television actress, occasional singer and author.[2] Dench made her professional debut in 1957 with the Old Vic Company. Over the following few years she played in several of Shakespeare's plays in such roles as Ophelia in Hamlet, Juliet in Romeo and Juliet and Lady Macbeth in Macbeth. She branched into film work, and won a BAFTA Award as Most Promising Newcomer; however, most of her work during this period was in theatre. Not generally known as a singer, she drew strong reviews for her leading role in the musical Cabaret in 1968.
Over the next two decades, she established herself as one of the most significant British theatre performers, working for the National Theatre Company and the Royal Shakespeare Company. In television, she achieved success during this period, in the series A Fine Romance from 1981 until 1984 and in 1992 began a continuing role in the television romantic comedy series As Time Goes By. Her film appearances were infrequent until she was cast as M in GoldenEye (1995), a role she continued to play in James Bond films through to Skyfall (2012). She received several notable film awards for her role as Queen Victoria in Mrs. Brown (1997), and has since been acclaimed for her work in such films as Shakespeare in Love (1998), receiving the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress, Chocolat (2000), Iris (2001), Mrs Henderson Presents (2005), Notes on a Scandal (2006), and Philomena (2013), and the television production The Last of the Blonde Bombshells (2001).
Dench has received many award nominations for her acting in theatre, film and television; her awards include eleven BAFTAs, (including the Bafta Fellowship in 2001) seven Laurence Olivier Awards, (including the Society's Special Award) two Screen Actors Guild Awards, two Golden Globes, an Academy Award, and a Tony Award. In June 2011, she received a fellowship from the British Film Institute (BFI).[3] In 1988, she was made a Dame for services to the performing arts by Queen Elizabeth II. She was married to actor Michael Williams from 1971 until his death in 2001. They are the parents of actress Finty Williams.
Dench was born in Heworth, York, England. Her mother, Eleanora Olive (née Jones), was born in Dublin, Ireland. Her father, Reginald Arthur Dench, a doctor, was born in Dorset, South West England, and later moved to Dublin, where he was raised.[4] He met Judi's mother while he was studying medicine at Trinity College, Dublin.[5][6] Dench attended the Mount School, a Quaker independent secondary school in York, and became a Quaker.[7][8] Her brothers, one of whom was actor Jeffery Dench, were born in Tyldesley, Lancashire.[7][8] Notable relatives also include her niece, Emma Dench, a Roman historian and professor previously at Birkbeck, University of London, and currently at Harvard University.[9]
In Britain, Dench has developed a reputation as one of the greatest actors of the post-war period, primarily through her work in theatre, which has been her forte throughout her career. She has more than once been named number one in polls for Britain's best actor.[10][11]
Through her parents, Dench had regular contact with the theatre. Her father, a physician, was also the GP for the York theatre, and her mother was its wardrobe mistress.[12] Actors often stayed in the Dench household. During these years, Judi Dench was involved on a non-professional basis in the first three productions of the modern revival of the York Mystery Plays in the 1950s. In 1957, in one of the last productions in which she appeared during this period, she played the role of the Virgin Mary, performed on a fixed stage in the Museum Gardens.[13] Though she initially trained as a set designer, she became interested in drama school as her brother Jeff attended the Central School of Speech and Drama.[12] She applied and was accepted, where she was a classmate of Vanessa Redgrave, graduating with a first class degree in drama and four acting prizes, one being the Gold Medal as Outstanding Student.[12]
In September 1957, she made her first professional stage appearance with the Old Vic Company, at the Royal Court Theatre, Liverpool, as Ophelia in Hamlet, then her London debut in the same production at the Old Vic. She remained a member of the company for four seasons, 1957–1961, her roles including Katherine in Henry V in 1958 (which was also her New York debut), and as Juliet in Romeo and Juliet in October 1960, directed and designed by Franco Zeffirelli. During this period, she toured the United States and Canada, and appeared in Yugoslavia and at the Edinburgh Festival. She joined the Royal Shakespeare Company in December 1961 playing Anya in The Cherry Orchard at the Aldwych Theatre in London, and made her Stratford-upon-Avon debut in April 1962 as Isabella in Measure for Measure. She subsequently spent seasons in repertory both with the Playhouse in Nottingham from January 1963 (including a West African tour as Lady Macbeth for the British Council), and with the Playhouse Company in Oxford from April 1964. That same year, she made her film debut in The Third Secret.
The 1966 BAFTA Award for Most Promising Newcomer to Leading Film Roles was made to Dench for her performance in Four in the Morning and this was followed in 1968 by a BAFTA Television Best Actress Award for her role in John Hopkins' 1966 BBC drama Talking to a Stranger.[14]
In 1968, she was offered the role of Sally Bowles in the musical Cabaret. As Sheridan Morley later reported: "At first she thought they were joking. She had never done a musical and she has an unusual croaky voice which sounds as if she has a permanent cold. So frightened was she of singing in public that she auditioned from the wings, leaving the pianists alone on stage".[15] But when it opened at the Palace Theatre in February 1968, Frank Marcus, reviewing for Plays and Players, commented that: "She sings well. The title song in particular is projected with great feeling."
After a long run in Cabaret, she rejoined the RSC making numerous appearances with the company in Stratford and London for nearly twenty years, winning several "best actress" awards. Among her roles with the RSC, she was the Duchess in John Webster's The Duchess of Malfi in 1971. In the Stratford 1976 season, and then at the Aldwych in 1977, she gave two comedy performances, first in Trevor Nunn's musical staging of The Comedy of Errors as Adriana, then partnered with Donald Sinden as Beatrice and Benedick in John Barton's "British Raj" revival of Much Ado About Nothing. As Bernard Levin wrote in The Sunday Times: "...demonstrating once more that she is a comic actress of consummate skill, perhaps the very best we have."[16] One of her most notable achievements with the RSC was her performance as Lady Macbeth in 1976. Nunn's acclaimed production of Macbeth was first staged with a minimalist design at The Other Place theatre in Stratford. Its small round stage focused attention on the psychological dynamics of the characters, and both Ian McKellen in the title role, and Dench, received exceptionally favourable notices. "If this is not great acting I don't know what is", wrote Michael Billington in The Guardian. "It will astonish me if the performance is matched by any in this actress's generation", commented J C Trewin in The Lady. The production transferred to London, opening at the Donmar Warehouse in September 1977, and was adapted for television, later released on VHS and DVD. Dench won the SWET Best Actress Award in 1977.
Dench was nominated for a BAFTA for her role as Hazel Wiles in the 1979 BBC drama On Giant's Shoulders.[17] In 1989, she was cast as Pru Forrest, the long-time silent wife of Tom Forrest, in the BBC soap opera The Archers on its 10,000th edition.[18] She had a romantic role in the BBC television film Langrishe, Go Down (1978), with Jeremy Irons and a screenplay by Harold Pinter from the Aidan Higgins novel, directed by David Jones, in which she played one of three spinster sisters living in a fading Irish mansion in the Waterford countryside. Dench made her debut as a director in 1988 with the Renaissance Theatre Company's touring season, Renaissance Shakespeare on the Road, co-produced with the Birmingham Rep, and ending with a three-month repertory programme at the Phoenix Theatre in London. Dench's contribution was a staging of Much Ado About Nothing, set in the Napoleonic era, which starred Kenneth Branagh and Samantha Bond as Benedick and Beatrice. She has made numerous appearances in the West End including the role of Miss Trant in the 1974 musical version of The Good Companions at Her Majesty's Theatre. In 1981, Dench was due to play the title role of Grizabella in the original production of Cats, but was forced to pull out due to a torn Achilles tendon, leaving Elaine Paige to play the role.[19] She has acted with the National Theatre in London where, she played an unforgettable Cleopatra in Antony and Cleopatra (1987). In September 1995, she played Desiree Armfeldt in a major revival of Stephen Sondheim's A Little Night Music, for which she won an Olivier Award.
After the long period between James Bond films Licence to Kill (1989) and GoldenEye (1995), the producers brought in Dench to take over as the role of M, James Bond's boss. Reportedly modeled on Dame Stella Rimington, the real-life head of MI5 between 1992 and 1996,[20][full citation needed][21][full citation needed] Dench became the first woman to portray the character, succeeding Robert Brown.[22][23] The seventeenth spy film in the series and the first to star Pierce Brosnan as the fictional MI6 officer, GoldenEye marked the first Bond film made after the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War, which provided the plot's back story. The film earned a worldwide gross of US$350.7 million,[24] with critics viewing the film as a modernisation of the series.[25][26]
In 1997, Dench appeared in her first starring film role as Queen Victoria in John Madden's teleplay Mrs. Brown which depicts Victoria's relationship with her personal servant and favourite John Brown, played by Billy Connolly. Filmed with the intention of being shown on BBC One and on WGBH's Masterpiece Theatre, it was eventually acquired by Miramax mogul Harvey Weinstein, who felt the drama film should receive a theatrical release after seeing it and took it from the BBC to US cinemas.[27] Released to generally positive reviews and unexpected commercial success, going on to earn more than $13 million worldwide,[28] the film was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 1997 Cannes Film Festival.[29] For her performance, Dench garnered universal acclaim by critics and was awarded her fourth BAFTA and first Best Actress nomination at the 70th Academy Awards.[30] In 2011, while accepting a British Film Institute Award in London, Dench commented that the project launched her Hollywood career and joked that "it was thanks to Harvey, whose name I have had tattooed on my bum ever since."[27]
Dench's other film of 1997 was Roger Spottiswoode's Tomorrow Never Dies, her second film in the James Bond series. The spy film follows Bond, played by Brosnan, as he tries to stop a media mogul from engineering world events and starting World War III. Shot in France, Thailand, Germany, the United Kingdom, Vietnam and the South China Sea,[31] it performed well at the box office and earned a Golden Globe nomination despite mixed reviews.[32] The same year, Dench reteamed with director John Madden to film Shakespeare in Love (1998), a romantic comedy-drama that depicts a love affair involving playwright William Shakespeare, played by Joseph Fiennes, while he was writing the play Romeo and Juliet. On her performance as Queen Elizabeth I, The New York Times commented that "Dench's shrewd, daunting Elizabeth is one of the film's utmost treats."[33] The following year, she was nominated for most of the high-profile awards, winning both the Academy Award and the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role.[30] On her Oscar win, Dench joked on-stage, "I feel for eight minutes on the screen I should only get a little bit of him."[34]
Also in 1999, Dench won the Tony Award for her 1999 Broadway performance in the role of Esme Allen in Sir David Hare's Amy's View.[30] The same year, she co-starred along with Cher, Joan Plowright, Maggie Smith, and Lily Tomlin in Franco Zeffirelli's semi-autobiographical period drama Tea with Mussolini which tells the story of young Italian boy Luca's upbringing by a circle of British and American women, before and during World War II.
In January 2001, Dench's husband Michael Williams died from lung cancer. Dench went to Nova Scotia, Canada, almost immediately after Williams's funeral to begin production on Lasse Hallström's drama film The Shipping News, a therapy she later credited as her rescue: "People, friends, kept saying, 'You are not facing up to it; you need to face up to it,' and maybe they were right, but I felt I was – in the acting. Grief supplies you with an enormous amount of energy. I needed to use that up."[35] In between, Dench finished work on Richard Eyre's film Iris (2001), in which she portrayed novelist Iris Murdoch. Dench shared her role with Kate Winslet, both actors portraying Murdoch at different phases of her life.[36] Each of them was nominated for an Academy Award the following year, earning Dench her fourth nomination within five years.[30] In addition, she was awarded both an ALFS Award and the Best Leading Actress Award at the 55th British Academy Film Awards.[30]
Following Iris, Dench immediately returned to Canada to finish The Shipping News alongside Kevin Spacey and Julianne Moore.[35] Based on the Pulitzer Prize winning novel by E. Annie Proulx, the drama revolves around a quiet and introspective typesetter (Spacey) who, after the death of his daughter's mother, moves to Newfoundland along with his daughter and his aunt, played by Dench, in hopes of starting his life anew in the small town where she grew up. The film earned mixed reviews from critics,[37] and was financially unsuccessful, taking in just US$24 million worldwide with a budget of US$35 million.[38] Dench however, received BAFTA and SAG Award nominations for her performance.[30]
In 2002, Dench was cast opposite Rupert Everett, Colin Firth and Reese Witherspoon in Oliver Parker's The Importance of Being Earnest, a comedy about mistaken identity set in English high society during the Victorian Era. Based on Oscar Wilde's classic comedy of manners of the same name, she portrayed Lady Bracknell, a role she had repeatedly played before, including a stint at the Royal National Theatre in 1982.[39] The film was released to lukewarm reactions by critics – who called it "breezy entertainment, helped by an impressive cast", but felt that it also suffered "from some peculiar directorial choices" – and earned just US$17.3 million during its limited release.[40] Dench's other film of 2002 was Die Another Day, the twentieth installment in the James Bond series. The Lee Tamahori–directed spy film marked her fourth appearance as MI6 head M and the franchise's last performance by Pierce Brosnan as Bond. Die Another Day received generally mixed reviews by critics who praised Tamahori's work on the film, but claimed the plot was damaged by excessive use of CGI.[41][42] Regardless, it became the highest-grossing James Bond film up to that time.[43]
In 2004, Dench appeared as Aereon, an ambassador of the Elemental race who helps uncover the mysterious past of Richard B. Riddick, played by Vin Diesel, in David Twohy's science fiction sequel, The Chronicles of Riddick. Selected by Diesel, who prompted writers to re-create the character to fit a female persona because he wanted to work with the actor,[44] She called filming "tremendous fun", although she "had absolutely no idea what was going on in the plot."[45] The film was a critical and box office failure.[46] In his review of the film, James Berardinelli from ReelViews remarked that he felt that Dench's character served nothing more "a useful purpose than to give [her] an opportunity to appear in a science fiction movie."[47]
She followed Riddick with a more traditional role in Charles Dance's English drama Ladies in Lavender, also starring friend Maggie Smith. In the film, Dench plays one half of a sister duo and takes it upon herself to nurse a washed up stranger to health, eventually finding herself falling for a man many decades younger than she. The specialty release garnered positive reviews from critics, with Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times calling it "perfectly sweet and civilized [and] a pleasure to watch Smith and Dench together; their acting is so natural it could be breathing."[48] Also in 2004, Dench provided her voice for several smaller projects. In Walt Disney's Home on the Range, she, along with Roseanne Barr and Jennifer Tilly, voiced a mismatched trio of dairy cows who must capture an infamous cattle rustler, for his bounty, in order to save their idyllic farm from foreclosure. The film was mildly successful for Disney.[49]
A major hit for Dench came with Joe Wright's Pride & Prejudice, a 2005 adaptation of the novel by Jane Austen, starring Keira Knightley and Donald Sutherland. Wright persuaded Dench to join the cast as Lady Catherine de Bourgh by writing her a letter that read "I love it when you play a bitch. Please come and be a bitch for me."[50][full citation needed][51][full citation needed] Dench had only one week available to shoot her scenes, forcing Wright to make them his first days of filming.[52][full citation needed][53][full citation needed] With both a worldwide gross of over US$121 million and several Academy Award and Golden Globe nominations, the film became a critical and commercial success.[54]
Dench in her role as "M" was the only cast member carried through from the Brosnan films to appear in Casino Royale (2006), Martin Campbell's reboot of the James Bond film series, starring Daniel Craig in his debut performance as the fictional MI6 agent. The thriller received largely positive critical response, with reviewers highlighting Craig's performance and the reinvention of the character of Bond.[55] It earned over US$594 million worldwide, ranking it among the highest-grossing James Bond films ever released. In April 2006, Dench returned to the West End stage in Hay Fever alongside Peter Bowles, Belinda Lang and Kim Medcalf. She finished off 2006 with the role of Mistress Quickly in the RSC's new musical The Merry Wives, a version of The Merry Wives of Windsor.[56]
Dench appeared opposite Cate Blanchett as a bitter, creepy and iron-fisted London teacher with a dedicated fondness for vulnerable women in Richard Eyre's 2006 drama film Notes on a Scandal, an adaption from the 2003 novel of the same name by Zoë Heller. A fan of Heller's book, Dench "was thrilled to be asked to ... play that woman, to try to find a humanity in that dreadful person."[57] The specialty film opened to generally positive reviews and commercial success, grossing US$50 million worldwide,[58] exceeding its £15 million budget.[59] In his review for Chicago Sun-Times film critic Roger Ebert declared the main actresses "perhaps the most impressive acting duo in any film of 2006. Dench and Blanchett are magnificent."[60] The following year, Dench earned her sixth Academy nomination and went on to win a BIFA Award and an Evening Standard Award.[30]
Dench, as Miss Matty Jenkyns, co-starred with Eileen Atkins, Michael Gambon, Imelda Staunton and Francesca Annis in the BBC One five-part series Cranford. The first season of the series began transmission in November 2007.
Dench became the voice for the narration for the updated Walt Disney World Epcot attraction Spaceship Earth in February 2008.[61] The same month, she was named as the first official patron of the York Youth Mysteries 2008, a project to allow young people to explore the York Mystery Plays through dance, film-making and circus.[62] Her only film of 2008 was Marc Forster's Quantum of Solace, the twenty-second Eon-produced James Bond film, in which she reprised her role as M along with Daniel Craig. A direct sequel to the 2006 film Casino Royale, Forster felt Dench was underused in the previous films and wanted to make her part bigger, having her interact with Bond more.[63] The project gathered generally mixed reviews by critics who mainly felt that Quantum of Solace was not as impressive as the predecessor Casino Royale,[64] but became another hit for the franchise with a worldwide gross of US$591 million.[65] For her performance, Dench was nominated for a Saturn Award the following year.[66]
Dench returned to the West End in mid-2009, playing Madame de Montreuil in Yukio Mishima's play Madame de Sade, directed by Michael Grandage as part of the Donmar season at Wyndham's Theatre.[67] The same year, she appeared in Sally Potter's experimental film Rage, a project that featured 14 actors playing fictional figures in and around the fashion world, giving monologues before a plain backdrop.[68] Attracted to the fact that it was unlike anything she had done before, Dench welcomed the opportunity to work with Potter.[68] "I like to do something that's not expected, or predictable. I had to learn to smoke a joint, and I set my trousers alight," she said about filming.[68] Her next film was Rob Marshall's musical film Nine, based on Arthur Kopit's book for the 1982 musical of the same name, itself suggested by Federico Fellini's semi-autobiographical film 8½.[69] Also starring Daniel Day-Lewis, Marion Cotillard, Penélope Cruz, and Sophia Loren, she played Lilli La Fleur, an eccentric but motherly French costume designer, who performs the song "Folies Bergères" in the film. Despite mixed to negative reviews, Nine was nominated for four Academy Awards,[70] and awarded both the Satellite Award for Best Film and Best Cast.[30]
Also in 2009, Dench reprised the role of Matilda Jenkyns in Return to Cranford, the two-part second season of a Simon Curtis television series. Critically acclaimed, Dench was nominated for a Golden Globe Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, and a Satellite Award.[30] In 2010, she renewed her collaboration with Peter Hall at the Rose Theatre in Kingston upon Thames in A Midsummer Night's Dream, which opened in February 2010; she played Titania as Queen Elizabeth I in her later years – almost 50 years after she first played the role for the Royal Shakespeare Company.[71] In July 2010, Dench performed "Send in the Clowns" at a special celebratory promenade concert from the Royal Albert Hall as part of the proms season, in honour of composer Stephen Sondheim's 80th birthday.[72][73]
In 2011, Dench starred in Jane Eyre, My Week with Marilyn and J. Edgar. In Cary Joji Fukunaga's period drama Jane Eyre, based on the 1847 novel of the same name by Charlotte Brontë, she played the short role of Alice Fairfax, housekeeper to Rochester, the aloof and brooding master of Thornfield Hall, where main character Jane, played by Mia Wasikowska, gets employed as a governess.[74] Dench reportedly signed on to the project after she had received a humorous personal note from Fukunaga, in which he "promised her that she'd be the sexiest woman on set if she did the film."[75] Acclaimed among critics,[76] it was a mediocre arthouse success at the box office, grossing US$30.5 million worldwide.[77]
In Simon Curtis' My Week with Marilyn, which depicts the making of the 1957 film The Prince and the Showgirl starring Marilyn Monroe and Laurence Olivier, Dench played actress Sybil Thorndike. The film garnered largely positive reviews,[78] and earned Dench a Best Actress in a Supporting Role nomination at the 65th BAFTA Awards.[30]
Dench's last film of 2011 was Clint Eastwood's J. Edgar, a biographical drama film about the career of FBI director J. Edgar Hoover, played by Leonardo DiCaprio, from the Palmer Raids onwards, including an examination of his private life as a closeted homosexual.[79] Hand-picked by Eastwood to play Anna Marie Hoover, Hoover's mother, Dench initially thought a friend was setting her up upon receiving Eastwood's phone call request. "I didn't take it seriously to start with. And then I realised it was really him and that was a tricky conversation," she stated.[57] Released to mixed reception, both with critics and commercially, the film went on to gross US$79 million worldwide.[80] The same year, Dench reunited with Rob Marshall and Johnny Depp for a cameo appearance in Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides, playing a noblewoman who is robbed by Captain Jack Sparrow, played by Depp. She made a second cameo that year in Ray Cooney's Run for Your Wife.[81]
In 2011, Dench reunited with director John Madden on the set of the comedy-drama The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel (2012), starring an ensemble cast also consisting of Celia Imrie, Bill Nighy, Ronald Pickup, Maggie Smith, Tom Wilkinson and Penelope Wilton as a group of British pensioners moving to a retirement hotel in India, run by the young and eager Sonny, played by Dev Patel. Released to positive reviews by critics,[82] who declared the film a "sweet story about the senior set featuring a top-notch cast of veteran actors,"[82] it became a surprise box-office hit following its international release, eventually grossing $US134 million worldwide, mostly from its domestic run.[83] Best Exotic Marigold Hotel was ranked among the highest-grossing specialty releases of the year,[84] and Dench, who Peter Travers from Rolling Stone called "resilient marvel",[85] garnered a Best Actress nod at both the British Independent Film Awards and Golden Globe Awards.[86]
Also in 2012, Friend Request Pending, an indie short film which Dench had filmed in 2011, received a wide release as part of the feature films Stars in Shorts and The Joy of Six. In the 12-minute comedy, directed by My Week with Marilyn assistant director Chris Foggin on a budget of just £5,000, she portrays a pensioner grappling with a crush on her church choirmaster and the art of cyber-flirting via social networking.[87] Dench made her seventh and final appearance as M in the twenty-third James Bond film, Skyfall (2012), directed by Sam Mendes.[88] In the film, Bond investigates an attack on MI6; it transpires that it is part of an attack on M by former MI6 operative, Raoul Silva (played by Javier Bardem) to humiliate, discredit and kill M as revenge against her for betraying him. Dench's position as M was subsequently filled by Ralph Fiennes' character. Coinciding with the 50th anniversary of the James Bond series, Skyfall was positively received by critics and at the box office, grossing over $1 billion worldwide, and became the highest-grossing film of all-time in the UK and the highest-grossing film in the James Bond series. Critics called Dench's Saturn Awards-nominated performance "compellingly luminous".[89]
In 2013, Dench starred as the title character in the Stephen Frears directed film, Philomena, a filmed inspired by true events of a woman looking for the son which the Catholic Church took from her a half-century before.[90] The film was screened in the main competition section at the 70th Venice International Film Festival, where it was very favorably received by critics.[91][92] On Dench's performance, The Times commented that "this is Dench’s triumph. At 78, she has a golden career behind her, often as queens and other frosty matriarchs. So the warmth under pressure she radiates here is nearly a surprise [...] Dench gives a performance of grace, nuance and cinematic heroism."[93] She was subsequently nominated for many major acting awards, including a seventh Academy Award nomination.[94]
On 5 February 1971, Dench married British actor Michael Williams and they had their only child, Tara Cressida Frances Williams, known professionally as "Finty" Williams, on 24 September 1972. Dench and her husband starred together in several stage productions, and the Bob Larbey British television sitcom, A Fine Romance (1981–84). Michael Williams died from lung cancer in 2001, aged 65. In early 2012, Dench discussed her macular degeneration, with one eye "dry" and the other "wet", for which she has been treated with injections into the eye. She said that she needs someone to read scripts to her.[95]
In 2013, she spoke about her personal religious faith. Dench, a Quaker, said "I think it informs everything I do ... I couldn’t be without it".[96]
Dench was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 1970[97] and made a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE) in 1988.[98] She was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Companions of Honour (CH) in 2005.[99] In June 2011, she became a fellow of the British Film Institute (BFI).[3]
Dench is a patron of the Leaveners, Friends School Saffron Walden, the Archway Theatre, Horley, Surrey and OnePlusOne Marriage and Partnership Research, London. She became president of Mountview Academy of Theatre Arts in London in 2006,[100] taking over from Sir John Mills, and is president of Questors Theatre, Ealing. In May 2006, she became an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts (FRSA). She was also patron of Ovingdean Hall School, a special day and boarding school for the deaf and hard of hearing in Brighton, which closed in 2010,[101] and Vice President of The Little Foundation.
Dench is an Honorary Fellow of Lucy Cavendish College, Cambridge. In 1996, she was awarded a DUniv degree from Surrey University[102] and in 2000–2001 she received an honorary DLitt degree from Durham University.[103] In July 2000, she was awarded a DLitt degree by Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh, where she actively supported their Drama School at the Gateway Theatre on Elm Row.[citation needed]
On 24 June 2008, she was honoured by the University of St Andrews, receiving an honorary DLitt degree at the university's graduation ceremony.[104] On 26 June 2013, she was honoured by the University of Stirling, receiving an honorary doctorate at the university's graduation ceremony in recognition of her outstanding contribution to the Arts, particularly to film.[105] She was listed as one of the fifty best-dressed over 50s by The Guardian in March 2013.[106]
Dench has worked with the non-governmental indigenous organisation, Survival International, campaigning in the defence of the tribal people, the San of Botswana and the Arhuaco of Colombia. She made a small supporting video saying the San are victims of tyranny, greed and racism. On 22 July 2010, Dench was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Letters (DLitt) by Nottingham Trent University.[107] The Dr. Hadwen Trust announced on 15 January 2011 that Dench had become a patron of the trust, joining, among others, Joanna Lumley and David Shepherd.[108] On 19 March 2012 it was announced that Dench was to become honorary patron of the charity "Everton in the Community", the official charity of Everton F.C. and it was revealed that Dench is an Everton supporter.[109]
She is an advisor to the American Shakespeare Center. She is a patron of the Shakespeare Schools Festival, a charity that enables school children across the UK to perform Shakespeare in professional theatres.[110] She is patron of East Park Riding for the Disabled, a riding school for disabled children at Newchapel, Surrey.[111] Dench is also a Vice-President of national charity Vitalise, that provides accessible holidays for those with disabilities.[112] In 2011, along with musician Sting and billionaire entrepreneur Richard Branson, she publicly urged policy makers to adopt more progressive drug policies by decriminalizing drug use.
Dame Judi Dench is also a patron of the Karuna Trust, a charity that supports work amongst some of India's poorest and most oppressed people, mainly though not exclusively Dalits[113]
Billington, Michael (1993). One Night Stands: A critic's view of British theatre from 1971–1991. London: Nick Hern Books. ISBN 1-85459-185-1. 
Herbert, Ian; Baxter, Christine; Finlay, Robert E. (1981). Who's Who in the Theatre (17th ed.). Detroit: Gale. ISBN 0-273-01717-9. 
Miller, John, ed. (2004). Darling Judi: A Celebration of Judi Dench. London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson. ISBN 0-297-84791-0. 
Trowbridge, Simon (2010). The Company: A Biographical Dictionary of the Royal Shakespeare Company. Oxford: Editions Albert Creed. ISBN 978-0-9559830-2-3. 
The Birdcage (1996) : Hank Azaria, Christine Baranski, Dan Futterman, Gene Hackman, Nathan Lane, Dianne Wiest, Robin Williams
The Full Monty (1997) : Mark Addy, Paul Barber, Robert Carlyle, Deirdre Costello, Steve Huison, Bruce Jones, Lesley Sharp, William Snape, Hugo Speer, Tom Wilkinson, Emily Woof
Shakespeare in Love (1998) : Ben Affleck, Simon Callow, Jim Carter, Martin Clunes, Judi Dench, Joseph Fiennes, Colin Firth, Gwyneth Paltrow, Geoffrey Rush, Antony Sher, Imelda Staunton
American Beauty (1999) : Annette Bening, Wes Bentley, Thora Birch, Chris Cooper, Peter Gallagher, Allison Janney, Kevin Spacey, Mena Suvari
Traffic (2000) : Steven Bauer, Benjamin Bratt, James Brolin, Don Cheadle, Erika Christensen, Clifton Collins, Jr., Benicio del Toro, Michael Douglas, Miguel Ferrer, Albert Finney, Topher Grace, Luis Guzmán, Amy Irving, Tomas Milian, D. W. Moffett, Dennis Quaid, Peter Riegert, Jacob Vargas, Catherine Zeta-Jones
Categories: 1934 births20th-century English actresses20th-century women writers21st-century English actresses21st-century women writersActresses awarded British damehoodsActresses from YorkActresses from YorkshireAlumni of the Central School of Speech and DramaBest Supporting Actress BAFTA Award winnersEuropean Film Awards winners (people)BAFTA winners (people)Best Actress BAFTA Award winnersBest Drama Actress Golden Globe (film) winnersBest Miniseries or Television Movie Actress Golden Globe winnersBest Supporting Actress Academy Award winnersBritish people of Irish descentBritish racehorse owners and breedersConverts to QuakerismCritics' Circle Theatre Award winnersDames Commander of the Order of the British EmpireEnglish autobiographersEnglish film actressesEnglish musical theatre actressesEnglish QuakersEnglish radio actressesEnglish television actressesEnglish voice actressesEnglish women writersEvening Standard Award for Best ActressFemale Fellows of the Royal Society of ArtsIndigenous rights activistsInteractive Achievement Award winnersMembers of the Order of the Companions of HonourLaurence Olivier Award winnersLiving peopleOutstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture Screen Actors Guild Award winnersOutstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role Screen Actors Guild Award winnersPeople educated at The Mount School, YorkPeople from YorkRecipients of the Praemium ImperialeRoyal National Theatre Company membersRoyal Shakespeare Company membersShakespearean actressesTony Award winnersHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from February 2014Use British English from September 2011Use dmy dates from February 2014Articles with hCardsArticles needing more detailed referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2011Commons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Attended Mount School in York, and studied at the Central School of Speech and Drama. She has performed with Royal Shakespeare Company, the National Theatre, and at Old Vic Theatre. She is a ten-time BAFTA winner including Best Actress in a Comedy Series for A Fine Romance (1981) in which she appeared with her husband, Michael Williams, and Best Supporting Actress in A Handful of Dust (1988) and A Room with a View (1985) . She received an ACE award for her performance in the television series Mr. and Mrs. Edgehill (1985). She was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in 1970, and was created Dame of Order of the British Empire in 1988.
        Known for often playing dignified, strong willed women in positions of authority who are sometimes opposed or criticised by those under her.
      When Royal Shakespeare Company Director Peter Hall asked Judi Dench to play the title role in a staged, and then later televised, production of Cleopatra, Dench refused, saying that her Cleopatra would be a "menopausal dwarf." Director Hall was later successful in coaxing Dench into the role, of which she won rave reviews from both theatre critics and TV audiences.
      She made history in 1996 as the first person to win two Laurence Olivier awards (for British theatre) for different roles.
      Her 1999 Oscar was awarded for an eight-minute performance in only four scenes as "Queen Elizabeth I" in Shakespeare in Love (1998). It is the second shortest performance ever to win a Best Supporting Actress Oscar, the only shorter one being Beatrice Straight's six-minute performance in Network (1976).
      She was to play "Grizabella" in the original "CATS" West End production, but an ailment forced her out of the play. Elaine Paige replaced her.
      Received the Film Actress Award for her role in Chocolat at The Variety Club Showbusiness Awards 2002. Unfortunately Ms Dench was in attendance at the Berlin Film Festival and couldn't attend the Awards ceremony, but was able to send a televised message congratulating the charity on its 50th anniversary.
      Was awarded an honourary Litt.D. (Doctor in Letters) from Trinity College on Friday, 11th July, 2003.
      She was awarded the Laurence Olivier Theatre Award in 1984 (1983 season) for Best Actress in a New Play for Pack of Lies.
      She was awarded the Laurence Olivier Theatre Award in 1988 (1987 season) for Best Actress in a New Play for Antony and Cleopatra.
      Presented with The Society's Special Award for her outstanding contribution to British theatre at the 2004 Laurence Olivier Awards. [February 2004]
      She was awarded the Laurence Olivier Theatre Award in 1996 (1995 season) for Best Actress in a Musical for her performance in A Little Night Music at the Royal National Theatre Olivier Stage.
      She was awarded the Laurence Olivier Theatre Award in 1996 (1995 season) for Best Actress in a Play for her performance in Absolute Hell at the Royal National Theatre Lyttleton Stage.
      She was nominated for a Laurence Olivier Theatre Award in 1999 (1998 season) for Best Actress for her performance in Filumena.
      She was nominated for a 1998 Laurence Olivier Theatre Award for Best Actress of the 1997 season for her performance in Amy's View at the Royal National Theatre: Lyttelton and then Aldwych theatres.
      She was awarded the 2004 Laurence Olivier Theatre Special Award for her Outstanding Contributions to British Theatre.
      She was awarded the 1982 London Critics' Circle Theatre Award (Drama Theatre Award) for Best Actress of 1981 for A Kind Of Alaska and The Importance of Being Earnest.
      She was awarded the 1987 London Critics Circle Theatre Award (Drama Theatre Award) for Best Actress for her performance in Anthony and Cleopatra.
      She was awarded the 1987 London Evening Standard Theatre Award for Best Actress for her performance in Anthony and Cleopatra.
      She was awarded the 1982 London Evening Standard Award for Best Actress for her performance in A Kind of Alaska and The Importance of Being Earnest.
      During the filming of As Time Goes By (1992) , she used to direct everybody to hide from the director when he left the set.
      Even after winning so many acting awards, she still admits to being insecure and wanting to improve the next performance. She admits that she prefers stage first, television second and film in third place.
      She was awarded the 1997 London Critics Circle Theatre Award (Drama) for Best Actress for her performance in Amy's View at the Royal National Theatre.
      She was awarded the 1997 London Evening Standard Theatre Award: The Patricia Rothermere Award for her contributions to theatre.
      Was listed as a potential nominee on the 2005 Razzie Award nominating ballot. She was listed as a suggestion in the Worst Supporting Actress category for her performance in the film The Chronicles of Riddick (2004), she failed to receive a nomination however.
      She was awarded a Companion of Honour in the 2005 Queen's Birthday Honours List for her services to drama.
      As of 2014, received seven Oscar nominations, all of them when she was already over the age of 60. No other actor or actress collected more nominations when older than 60, the closest runner-ups being Katharine Hepburn, Paul Newman, Laurence Olivier, Spencer Tracy, Melvyn Douglas and Edith Evans with a mere three nominations each.
      When she started training at the Central School of Speech and Drama, she admits she wasn't taking it as seriously as she ought to have done. She was caught out during an improvisation scene at which point she realised that that was what it was all about and studied harder than she had ever done in her life.
      Shares two roles with both Kate Winslet and Cate Blanchett. She and Winslet both played the title role in Iris (2001), and she and Blanchette have both played Queen Elizabeth. All three of them have played Ophelia in Hamlet.
      At the opening of the Judi Dench Theatre in London in 1986 she was introduced as "Here she is, Miss Judy Geeson'.
      She and her The Shipping News (2001) and Notes on a Scandal (2006) co-star Cate Blanchett both received Oscar-nominations for playing Queen Elizabeth I in 1999. Dench won for her supporting role in Shakespeare in Love (1998) while Blanchett was nominated for Elizabeth (1998).
      Provides the narration for Spaceship Earth at Walt Disney World's Epcot in the 4th version (soft opening December 2007, final opening scheduled for February 2008).
      Judi Dench is the new narrator of "Spaceship Earth", the dark ride at EPCOT. She replaced Jeremy Irons after Walt Disney World and Siemens decided to update the classic ride housed inside the infamous golf-ball.
      She was awarded the OBE (Officer of the Order of the British Empire) in the 1970 Queen's Honours List and awarded Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 1988 Queen's New Years Honours List for her services to drama.
      In a 2004 opinion poll of the Royal Shakespeare Company, Dame Dench's performance as "Lady Macbeth" in Trevor Nunn's 1976 production of "Macbeth" was voted the second greatest Shakespearean performance of all time. Only Paul Scofield's masterful "King Lear" was ranked higher.
      In her autobiography "And Furthermore," Dench says that she never really understood what was going on in the movie The Chronicles of Riddick (2004), but she enjoyed the experience of making the movie, and she thought the sets were great.
      Has twice been nominated for an Oscar in the same year that another actress was nominated for playing the same role. She received Best Supporting Actress for playing Queen Elizabeth I in Shakespeare in Love (1998), while Cate Blanchett was nominated for Elizabeth (1998). She was later nominated for Best Actress in Iris (2001), for which Kate Winslet was also nominated for the title role.
      Whilst training at the Old Vic Theatre in the 1950s, Dench shared a flat with Barbara Leigh-Hunt.
      Was six months pregnant with her daughter Finty Williams when she completed her run of the play "London Assurance".
      Following the birth of her daughter, Finty Williams, Dench and her husband immediately began trying for another child. However, having been unsuccessful, the couple looked into adoption when Dench was in her 40s, but they were turned down.
      Became engaged to Michael Williams during Christmas 1970 after he proposed to her on a beach in Australia.
      Has had custody of her grandson, Sammy Williams (b. 1997), since 2004 following her daughter Finty Williams's rehabilitation for alcoholism.
      Going blind due to condition called macular degeneration. Does not plan to retire [February 19, 2012].
      A lifelong animal lover, Judi is the proud owner of a racehorse named Smokey Oakey. Also owns a dog, 4 cats, 2 Guinea pigs and some fish.
      Counts Mrs Brown (1997) as the movie that became the quintessential breakthrough event of her career as a film actress, winning her her first Oscar nomination. Even though she'd performed regularly on stage in the US in Old Vic productions almost 40 years earlier, it wasn't until after this movie that Hollywood really came calling.
      Dench is a supporter of Everton Football Club and she has been named as a patron of the soccer team's official charity "Everton in the Community".
      She played a Countess in William Shakespeare's "All's Well That Ends Well" in London West End. [February 2004]
      Playing Mistress Quickly in a production of The Merry Wives of Windsor - The Musical at the Royal Shakespeare Theatre in Stratford-upon-Avon, UK. [January 2007]
      Her father, Reginald Arthur Dench, was from Hampshire, England, and her mother, Eleanora Olive (Jones), was from Dublin, Ireland.
      The longest she has gone without an Oscar nomination is the 7 years between Notes on a Scandal (2006) and Philomena (2013).
      As of 2014, has appeared in four films that were nominated for the Best Picture Oscar: A Room with a View (1985), Shakespeare in Love (1998), Chocolat (2000) and Philomena (2013). The only film to win in the category was Shakespeare in Love (1998).
      Was the 114th actress to receive an Academy Award; she won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for Shakespeare in Love (1998) at The 71st Annual Academy Awards (1999) on March 21, 1999.
      [in 1994, when asked why A Room with a View (1985) was such a success] I've never seen it, so I don't know. Florence was lovely, of course, and it's a wonderful love story. I did enjoy doing the part, because Maggie Smith and I were old friends from 1958. We both arrived in Florence on the same day and neither of us had any family with us, so we would spend all day together filming and then go out to dinner together, catching up on our Old Vic days. But I didn't enjoy working with James Ivory. I didn't feel that I was on his wavelength and I didn't feel that he wanted me in the film, I have to say that. I remember doing that scene in the middle of the square where she goes mad and attacks the man selling postcards; James went to see the rushes and told me afterwards that everyone had laughed at it, they'd thought it was very funny. "Well done", he said to me. I thought perhaps we'd turned the corner but, when I came to post-sync the film, that scene was missing. When I asked why, he told me that Helena Bonham Carter hadn't been feeling up to it that day, so he'd cut the whole sequence. I don't know if that was the real reason he cut it - I just don't know.
      I hate how people have been attacking Daniel Craig. It's despicable and it disgusts me. I have filmed with him in Prague and the Bahamas and he is a fine actor. He brings something new and edgy to the role. His critics will be proved wrong.
      And then it was working with Bob Hoskins, who I had never worked with before - except radio. It was like being given a wonderful meal - full of the things you love most.
      I don't like reading scripts very much. I like it better for someone to just explain to me what it is about this story.
      I don't think anybody can be told how to act. I think you can give advice. But you have to find your own way through it.
      The best moment of playing [William Shakespeare's] Juliet is the nanosecond when they offer you the part.
      On plastic surgery: I've considered it, but I'm too old now. Every time I go to America I wonder if there is some process where it could all be sucked out and I could be out of there in time for dinner, but I'm frightened it would all drop off under the anaesthetic.
      Of course I have a temper. Who hasn't? And the older I get the more angry I get about things. It's not sudden anger, it smoulders and then if I really let it go on for a bit the shit hits the fan. I get very angry about general injustice. I get angry about the way people say 'Tomorrow X will make a speech about X'. Just let them say it. I get furious about the whole business of not allowing conkers in school, and banning things because they are supposedly dangerous. I am riveted by the current Iraq inquiry, though angry already because I feel it will end with a report and nobody's actually going to be arraigned for what happened.
      [Celebrity culture has led to a "quick fix" mentality on the part of younger actors.] They think a big part will change their life, without any back-up. Young actors go into a run and don't do all the performances. That would have been unheard of at one time. I know I can sustain a run because of my training.
      I mourn that there are so many repertory companies that aren't around any more. I don't want the arts to take the form of a reality programme. I heard somebody say the other day that it is good if people can bring drink and food into a theatre and get up and go if they don't like the play. Well, yes, go out if you don't like it, but where do you draw the line? They tell people not to take pictures of us on stage but when you look up you see 100 red lights twinkling at you.
      When you go abroad people always talk with such love about British theatre, but the irony is it's not appreciated by the Government as it should be. The state of the arts has always been, and will always be, precarious. But there is something so alarming about the huge cuts made to companies, particularly when you read of the astronomical amounts some people are earning.
      [Does she feel fulfilled?] No, no, no, no, I hope not. Being fulfilled is closing the drawer again and I don't want to do that just yet. I'd bore myself silly. I wouldn't learn anything new. I'd just sit around and I hate wasting time. I hate waste of any kind. I love quiz programmes. I am riveted by The Weakest Link (2000) but I'd be too terrified to appear on it.
      [Could she find love with anyone else?] It's not something that's ever happened. I've loved living in the same house, in the same grounds with my family. Sammy (grandson) was 4 when Michael died and he does look extraordinarily like him sometimes.
      [Does she miss Michael Williams?] You bet. I don't expect you ever get over that. Time changes something, I suppose, but you miss the basic things. Michael was a realist, down to earth, a Lancashire man. I'm a Yorkshire woman and so that was pretty volatile, I suppose. He was Cancerian, I'm Sagittarian. He would say: 'I'm always rushing for the dark, you're always rushing for the light. If we hold in the middle, there's a kind of balance'.
      Once, a long time ago, I read some bad reviews and I made the decision not to read the reviews. You get some critics who don't like you, or the play. But they don't have to do it every night. I don't want to be affected like that. I loved doing "Madame de Sade. A friend told me not to apologise for myself or the play, and I won't. Then I cast it all off and go and put my feet up under the chimney with my family
      [on ageing.] I don't like it at all. Suddenly I get up out of a chair and can't rush across the room. But there's nothing I can do about that, alas. My energy levels are OK, but I can't see very well. People have to come up and wave at me. If a restaurant is too dark I can end up talking to the backs of chairs.
      The passion doesn't lessen over time but you get more anxious. You always worry about getting employed. But I love what I do ... You're only as good as the last thing you did. But that anxiety feeds what you're doing. It gives you energy. It's very much part of me. You know that right behind you, stretching back as far as you can see, are other people wanting to play the same part and probably better than you.
      I'd never met [Sophia Loren] and she arrived on set just as I was about to perform my number. She sat and watched. I said to Rob Marshall: 'I can't have ever been more frightened than at this moment.' It was like someone had given me an enormous injection. I suddenly had to be on the ball.
      I am very un-divaish. Very rarely in 52 years in the business have I met anyone who has behaved in a selfish way.
      I had no film career until Mrs Brown (1997), which Harvey Weinstein oversaw. He gave a lunch for me at the time and I told him I had his name tattooed on my bum. I hadn't, I had my make-up lady design something that I showed him. He's never forgotten it.
      I'm more comfortable on stage, where there is an audience to tell a story to, as opposed to a film set where you are not in charge at all. On stage you can hear an audience's reactions. Within two minutes of a play starting you know how the evening will go. On film you're more reliant on the director. The moment he leaves you, you're like a child learning to walk.
      National treasure? I hate that. Too dusty, too in a cupboard, too behind glass, too staid. I don't want to be thought of as recognisable - I always want to do the most different thing I can think of next. I don't want to be known for one thing, or as having done huge amounts of Shakespeare and the classics. I hate speaking as myself. I could never do a one-woman show. But I love being part of a company. On stage I am not trying to be myself, I'm trying to be someone else, the more unlike me the better. I remember someone who saw me in Juno and the Paycock said I was completely unrecognisable. How marvellous. I've done two sitcoms, lots of films. Look at my character [an obsessive, damaged stalker] in Notes on a Scandal. You wouldn't want to ask her around.
      I'm always fearful. Fear in you generates a huge energy. You can use it. When I feel that mounting fear, I think, 'Oh yes, there it is'. It's like petrol.
=======================================================
As if singlehandedly setting out to prove that actresses aren't necessarily finished when they reach A Certain Age, Dame Judi Dench achieved her greatest fame and loudest plaudits while in her mid-sixties. Formerly known as one of the UK's finest Shakespearians, once she'd taken to screen acting in earnest she was continually Oscar-nominated, for her roles in Mrs Brown, Shakespeare In Love, Chocolat, Iris and Mrs Henderson Presents, and this despite a general aversion to film-making. Dench has stated that, in films, people are cast primarily because they LOOK like a character, whereas on stage, in an hour and a half, she has the opportunity and ability to convince the audience she is whatever she chooses to be. THAT's acting.Judith Olivia Dench was born on December 9th, 1934, in York, England. Her mother, Olave, hailed from Dublin, while her father, Reginald, studied medicine at Trinity College and then worked as a doctor in York. Inadvertently, it was he who introduced Judi to the world of theatre, as she would accompany him backstage at York's Theatre Royal when he was busy as the company's GP. Touring performers would often be guests in the Dench household. As a child, as she is now, Judi was very vivacious, hot-tempered and loquacious, one teacher noting that she should learn to be quiet. These qualities she surely gained from her parents. Reginald was an extremely amusing fellow and a fine raconteur. This made him hugely popular, especially with children. Judi recalls how kids would run after the car, grabbing at the handles, whenever he arrived or left. That temper came from Olave, who once threw a vacuum cleaner down the stairs, aiming at a sales rep who'd called to inquire about it. Olave also made a point of often criticising her daughter, though she quietly worshipped her.Home was a sprawling Victorian house which Judi shared with her parents and two older brothers (Michael would follow his father into medicine, while Jeffrey would lead Judi into the theatre). Judi had possession of the attic room and, as daddy's favourite, was allowed to draw on the walls. Judi would later describe her young life as being "like Swallows And Amazons", playing with bikes and rollerskates, making phone systems out of string and tin cans. She'd always be dressing up and singing along with the family as her mother played piano. There'd be no TV in the house until the Coronation in 1953.Judi would later claim that she first became enthused by acting when taken to see Jeff perform Shakespeare at his boys' school, where he was Katherine in The Taming Of The Shrew, and then Cassius. She also recalls her first contact with professional theatre, an adaptation of Ben Travers' A Cuckoo In The Nest that had her laughing till she was ill. Quickly, she'd join in herself when the family became involved in the York Mystery Plays where her mother was wardrobe mistress. For the first year the kids would merely be angels and citizens, but Judi would be eternally chuffed to play Mary alongside her dad's Joseph.From 1947 to 1953, she'd be a boarder at York's Mount School (she was in the same year as novelist AS Byatt, author of Possession). Here, Dench really took to the Quaker faith (she still attends meetings, and claims it's the only time she's "still"). This religion eschews both formal doctrine and ordained priests, and encourages followers to work hard and try to find the light in others as well as in themselves. This may explain Dench's tough work ethic, a love for communal theatre life that has often seen her turn down film parts, and a desire to play to the audience that's marked by a disdain for showiness.Having as a child wanted to be a dancer or a painter, Judi later came to believe her way into theatre would be as a designer and began training at art school. Here she stayed for just one year as, demoralised by the quality of set she saw at Stratford and enthused by brother Jeffrey's tales of life at London's Central School of Speech and Drama, she decided to try acting. In truth, she wasn't sure what she wanted to be and hadn't really enjoyed stage work at Mount School, even when starring as Ariel in The Tempest (she'd made her debut as a snail in a play put on at her Quaker junior school). Indeed, AS Byatt later recalled having a conversation about Dench with English mistress Katharine MacDonald, the teacher saying "You know, Judi will probably be content to dabble her pretty feet in amateur dramatics".She had a point. Dench had no confidence in her abilities and was surprised to find herself accepted by Central School. These problems continued until her second term, and one event in particular. The pupils had been told to prepare a mime performance, and Judi had forgotten all about it. As third up, she had no time to invent anything fancy and so mimed a visit to a beautiful garden, picking and smelling flowers, tossing pebbles into a pool and playing on a swing. Her teacher, Walter Hudd, was most impressed, saying she'd looked "like a little Renoir". She was on her way.Now she had the confidence to go with that bubbling, positivist personality. Fellow pupil Vanessa Redgrave would later admit that everyone was admiring, even jealous of Judi's natural manner, how she'd be continuously skipping and hopping with pleasure and excitement. Also, she had style, wearing a polo-neck sweater and floppy ballet slippers along with the only jeans in the school. At the end of her course, she graduated with a first class degree and four acting prizes, one being the Gold Medal as Outstanding Student. A note on the honours board marked her out as the student most likely to succeed.And the success was immediate when Judi was snapped up by the Old Vic company and made her debut as an elfin Ophelia in Hamlet in Liverpool. Her rocket-like ascent was hyped heavily, to the fury of Hamlet himself, John Neville, who believed too much pressure was being put on so inexperienced an actress. Nevertheless, the damage was done. The critics' swords were out. Kenneth Tynan called her "a pleasing but terribly sane little thing", while the Sunday Dispatch dismissed her as "a piece of Danish patisserie". Come the end of the season when the production was set to tour the States, the role was taken from her, an action she later described as being like "a dagger to the heart".As this point, John Neville stepped in again, telling her to examine her heart and decide just why she was on the stage at all. She did, and re-started her career with renewed vigour, gaining vast experience in what was a golden period for British theatre. 1958 saw her Broadway debut as maid Maria in the Old Vic's Twelfth Night, as well as playing Lady Macbeth at a tribal gathering in West Africa. She shared a dressing-room with rising star Maggie Smith, the pair on one occasion having to lock themselves in a bathroom to avoid the amorous advances of comic actor Miles Malleson.At the same time, British cinema was enjoying a renaissance with the onset of the Angry Young Men and the kitchen-sink drama, but Dench was not permitted entry to this new screen elite. Not only was she turned down for the lead in A Taste Of Honey, directed by Tony Richardson (soon to marry her former classmate Vanessa Redgrave), but she was also told that she did not have "the face for film". Naturally, this rather put her off which was unfortunate as, with her close-cropped hair, strong chin and natural alertness, she would have made a fine embodiment of the new strands of feminism sweeping the western world.Instead, she concentrated on theatre and, in 1961, along with Redgrave, was asked by Peter Hall to help form the Royal Shakespeare Company. This was another extraordinary experience, and she won great praise as Titania in Hall's A Midsummer Night's Dream and as Juliet in Franco Zeffirelli's Romeo And Juliet. So pleased and protective were her parents that they attended the latter over 70 times, becoming so involved that once, when Dench delivered the line "Where is my father and my mother, nurse?", Reginald let out a thoroughly inappropriate "Here we are, darling, in Row H". The critics were taken with her, too, one claiming "You weren't quite aware of her feet touching the ground", and lauding her "extraordinary agility of body and mind". 1962 would see her in The Cherry Orchard where she met actor Ian Holm, a great friend to this day, with whom she has co-starred in many films and plays. In 1964, she'd finally make her screen debut in The Third Secret, helmed by the legendary English director Charles Crichton. The next year, she'd follow it with A Study In Terror, where former stage co-star John Neville played a young Sherlock Holmes on the trail of Jack The Ripper. Then there'd be Four In The Morning, for which she won a BAFTA as best film newcomer (she'd win another two years later, in 1968, for the TV series Talking To A Stranger). But it wasn't all po-faced thespianism. Dench has a highly advanced sense of humour, as proved back in 1965 in a production of Noel Coward's Private Lives. Co-starring with Edward Woodward, the pair were constantly playing pranks on one another, the funniest being when, during one performance, Woodward shoved Dench against a drinks trolley. The trolley was supposed to topple over with a crash, but on this occasion it stayed upright, with Dench stuck in it. Instead of helping his co-star to her feet, Woodward turned and walked away, leaving her to humiliatingly struggle free. At Nottingham Playhouse, she put a notice on the box-office saying "Judi Dench is not ill - she just talks like this" and would also send herself up in 1968, when appearing on the Morecambe & Wise Show. That same year she'd reveal her musical gifts when playing Sally Bowles in the original West End production of Cabaret. Dench is a hugely emotive singer, still devastating audiences 30-odd years later in A Little Night Music, with its classic centrepiece, Send In the Clowns. There would be more stage impropriety here when, on the show's last night, Dench, playing Desiree Armfeldt opposite American co-star Laurence Gittard, opened her dressing-gown to reveal the words "Go home Yank" written on her corset.The Sixties proved that Dench was one of the country's finest young actresses, and versatile enough to succeed on both the small and silver screens. They also showed that she was no judge of men. Her friends and peers would later say that she was always in love with the wrong guy. One of these was Leonard Rossiter, the comic legend at the time in another relationship. Judi was starring in The Promise with Ian McKellan and emotions were running high, Dench veering wildly between ecstasy and floods of tears.At the end of the Sixties, though, this all changed when happiness rode in on the back of a black tragedy. During the RSC's 1969 season, Dench was seeing a lot of actor Michael Williams. The pair had first met nearly a decade before, when Judi was Zeffirelli's Juliet and Williams was starring in In Celebration. They became friends and, during the ensuing years, would often go out for drinks. Now, with Williams in Stratford to recuperate from an injured knee, suddenly and strangely something happened. As Dench would later remember, "a small explosion erupted between us". Still they didn't accept it as serious, Dench taking off with her brother Jeff for an RSC tour of Australia with Twelfth Night. Judi was playing Viola, Orsino being Charlie Thomas, a promising young actor with a drink problem. All was fine until Thomas, who'd fallen heavily for Dench, realised his affections were not returned. Distraught, he took his own life, leaving Dench shattered. She needed help badly.. In the wake of this catastrophe, Williams flew to Australia to comfort her. He was supposed to be there for only a week, he even said his goodbyes, but when Judi returned from the theatre to the hotel he was still there. And so it went on. Every week was to be his last but he could not leave her, eventually flying home with her after the show had completed its six week run. He even proposed to her, but was turned down, Dench saying the setting was too romantic for her to make a reasonable decision. "Ask me on a rainy night in Battersea", she told him. He did, and was accepted, to the joy of many. When Trevor Nunn first saw the pair together on their return from Australia he immediately cast them (along with Jeff) in his latest, London Assurance.In some respects, it was a strange coupling. Williams was severely lacking in confidence and occasionally depressive, a situation not helped by Dench's ever-increasing succcess and her endlessly upbeat mood (a mood once described as "a little Panglossian", while Williams himself was once heard to complain "with Judi it's bloody Christmas morning every day"). Nevertheless, it was a fine romance. Williams would send her a red rose every Friday for the next 30 years, a tradition continued after his death from cancer in January 2001 by the couple's daughter Tara Cressida Frances Williams (known as Finty and also an actress) - though now the rose would be pink.With Finty born, Dench made a conscious decision to cut down her work-load and care for the child. The Seventies would see her appear just a couple of times on the big screen, in Luther (alongside Stacy Keach and old flame Leonard Rossiter) and Dead Cert. There'd be many a theatrical triumph, including her classic, Olivier award-winning Lady Macbeth, opposite Ian McKellen and directed by Trevor Nunn in 1976. And she'd make a mark in TV with the critical lauded Langrishe, Go Down, directed by David Jones. Jones, who'd dated Judi during her early career, later commented on her need to have a crowd or family of workmates and playmates around her. Often, he said, when he thought they'd planned a cosy evening for two, he'd arrive to discover she'd invited a bunch of friends and acquaintances. For 12 years she and Michael Williams had both sets of in-laws living at their house.. The Eighties would see advances in all areas of her career. The decade would begin with another Olivier for her performances as Juno Boyle in Juno And The Paycock. She'd then hit TV paydirt alongside her husband in the long-running comedy series A Fine Romance, for which she sang the theme song and won another BAFTA. 1982 saw her pick up a London Critics' Circle award for A Kind Of Alaska and The Importance Of Being Earnest. 1983 would bring a third Olivier when, again playing opposite Williams, she appeared in Pack Of Lies. In 1986 there'd be Mr And Mrs Nobody (writer and director Ned Sherrin has said he added a couple of walk-on parts to this 2-person play to satisfy Judi's need for a family of players). And 1987 saw a fourth Olivier, for Antony And Cleopatra. This last performance, as Cleopatra, was years in the coming. Peter Hall had been trying to persuade her to try it since the Sixties, but she'd always refused, saying her queen of Egypt would be no more than "a menopausal dwarf". Once she did take the part, realising now that Cleopatra's attraction lay in her emotional power and extremism, she was a smash, taking everyone aback with her sexual force. She might have brought the same power to the role of Grizabella in the original West End version of Cats, but was forced out by illness, leaving Elaine Paige to lap up the praise for her centrepiece performance of Memories.She also, for the first time in 11 years, returned to cinema in David Hare's dark debut Wetherby, and quickly followed this with appearances in several of the finest British films of the decade - A Room With A View, 84 Charing Cross Road, A Handful Of Dust and Kenneth Branagh's Henry V.Though she was one of the country's grandest and most experienced thespians, Dench was always keen to try out something new and exciting, and consequently forged a close working relationship with the theatre's new tyro, Branagh. She was a founder member of his Renaissance Theatre Company and directed him in Much Ado About Nothing and Look Back In Anger. In turn, he would direct her in his film versions of Hamlet and, as mentioned, Henry V. Beyond this, they'd appear together in an adaptation of Ibsen's Ghosts and, in 1992, she'd play Volumnia to his Coriolanus at Chichester.The Eighties ended in a spectacular blow-out when Judi rejoined director Richard Eyre for Hamlet, a production famous for the breakdown of its star, Daniel Day-Lewis who, under immense stress due to the furore surrounding My Left Foot, had terrifying visions of his own dead father backstage. Beyond this, Dench admits she just could not get to grips with the character of Gertrude, Hamlet's mother. Still, she was soon back on the up, her success in the Nineties being nothing short of astounding. She began with an acclaimed TV version of Rodney Ackland's classic play Absolute Hell, forgotten since the 50s. Then came another television smash with a second comedy series, As Time Goes By. Onstage, she maintained her form in The Plough And The Stars, Edward Bond's The Sea, The Gift Of The Gorgon and The Seagull. She stepped back into cinema with the slight romance Jack And Sarah (alongside her long-time cohort Ian McKellen) - and then came the first stage of the big breakthrough. She was already famed in the UK as a great stage actress and TV comedienne. Now, in 1995, she became world-famous as James Bond's no-nonsense boss M, her sheer authority making her the franchise's first and only strong female character. The Nineties would see her in three Bond films - Goldeneye, Tomorrow Never Dies, and The World Is Not Enough - all of them enormous hits. There was a downside, of course, as there always is. 1994 had seen her Hampstead home burn down, with a lifetime's worth of memorabilia destroyed.. Onstage, she was now unstoppable, unmatchable. 1996 saw her become the first person to win two Oliviers for two different roles in the same year, showing her range once again in A Little Night Music and Absolute Hell. The next year, she won another London Critics' Award as Esme Allen in Richard Eyre's Amy's View, the production moving from the National Theatre to the West End and then, by 1999, on to Broadway. It was Judi's first appearance there in forty years, and a triumphant return indeed. There were advance ticket sales of over $3 million, even surpassing the takings of The Blue Room, a play featuring a controversially nude Nicole Kidman, and Dench deservedly won a Tony.Could it get any better? Incredibly, yes. Dench had made a short gap in her hectic schedule to spend 30 days shooting a TV film called Mrs Brown. This saw her as Queen Victoria, grieving over her deceased Albert and retreating to seclusion at Balmoral. Here she's looked after by tough Scot Billy Connolly who encourages her to embrace life once more. As said, it wasn't supposed to be a big deal, but then Miramax's Harvey Weinstein saw it, decided it would make a great feature film and released it to cinemas. And - bang! - suddenly Judi was a film star, winning a Golden Globe and an Oscar-nomination. Weinstein wasn't finished yet. He involved both Dench and Mrs Brown's director John Madden in the upcoming Shakespeare In Love and, though she appeared onscreen for only eight minutes as Queen Elizabeth I, Judi this time took the coveted Oscar. Film-wise, she would finish the decade by reuniting with Franco Zeffirelli for Tea With Mussolini, joining a top female cast including Joan Plowright, Cher and her former Old Vic mucker Maggie Smith. She and Smith had not seen much of each other for many years after their initial theatre experiences, but became close when both were cast in A Room With A View. Now they became closer still as Dench helped Smith recover from the loss of her husband, Beverley Cross. Sadly, Smith would be returning the favour all too soon.. The new millennium brought another Oscar nomination for her role as the tetchy oldster seeking reconciliation in Chocolat. She then proceeded to win a Golden Globe and an Emmy nomination for TV's The Last Of The Blonde Bombshells, in which she played sax as a member of an all-girl band (Ian Holm, also appeared, in drag). But there was also much sadness with Michael Williams moving into the final stages of his illness. Daughter Finty would move back to Wasp Green, her parents' 5-acre estate in Surrey, bringing Judi's grandson Sammy to live in their 1680 yeoman's house. Incidentally, one of the other great emotional blows Dench suffered in these latter years was when Finty, fearing the reaction of her Catholic father, kept the news of her pregnancy from Judi till she was eight months gone. This was in 1997 when, in an odd case of life imitating art, Judi was rehearsing the part of Esme Allen in Amy's View.Once Michael had passed away, Judi threw herself into work. In the West End she played the head of a theatrical dynasty in The Royal Family, provided the voice of the giantess in the Broadway revival of Into The Woods then enjoyed a sell-out run in David Hare's The Breath Of Life, where she and Maggie Smith were two women who discover they've each had an affair with the same man. Hare has another amusing tale to tell about Dench, recalling how, knowing she was good at needlepoint, he'd asked her to make something for him to give his mum on Mother's Day. She did, the embroidery was beautiful, and it was only after he'd presented it to his beloved parent that he noticed the words "F*** off" stitched into the material. Onscreen, Judi'd earn yet ANOTHER Oscar nomination for her performance as the older, Alzheimer's-suffering version of the controversial, bisexual novelist Iris Murdoch, alongside Jim Broadbent in Richard Eyre's Iris. After this there would be The Shipping News, where Dench played the aunt of troubled Kevin Spacey, who discovers love, trust and his own history when he moves home to Newfoundland. And, of course, there was the role she was born to play - Lady Bracknell, bossing about Rupert Everett and Colin Firth in The Importance Of Being Earnest. Only Dench could match the severity and crushing observations of Edith Evans in the original version. There would be more M too, in the 20th instalment of the James Bond franchise, Die Another Day.2004 saw her return to the stage as Countess Rossillion in All's Well That End's Well for 10 weeks in Stratford then on to the West End's Gielgud Theatre. It was the first time she'd played Shakespeare in London since that ill-fated Hamlet. One evening, during the intermission, she raced to Cambridge Circus and made a two-minute appearance in Les Miserables, basically getting shot and carried off. At the flicks, she was hand-picked by Vin Diesel for The Chronicles Of Riddick, the follow-up to his barn-storming performance in Pitch Black. Diesel had seen Dench in The Breath Of Life back in 2002 and, though he was not permitted backstage, sent her flowers and chose her to be Aereon, an elemental who pops up to explain the background of the furious action on the planet Crematoria as Diesel's Riddick is chased by bounty hunters and struggles against weird undead cult the Necros. The movie was kept from US Number One only by the third instalment of the Harry Potter series.. Dench would follow this with the far less explosive but far more engaging Ladies In Lavender, the directorial debut of Charles Dance. Here Judi was reunited once more with Maggie Smith, the pair playing sisters who find shipwrecked young sailor Daniel Bruhl on the seashore. As they cannot communicate with him, the question arises as to whether he's a German spy, this being the late 1930s, and matters are further complicated by virgin spinster Dench falling for him, fooling herself that she's got a chance and suffering quiet anguish as he in turn falls for young painter Natascha McElhone. Dench would now slip back into Lady Bracknell mode for a new adaptation of Pride And Prejudice where she'd play Lady Catherine de Bourgh, the fearsome, bitter and belligerent aunt of D'Arcy who really does not approve of Keira Knightley's vulgar Bennet family. Pride And Prejudice would be released in 2005, just before Stephen Frears' Mrs Henderson Presents. Here Dench would star as Laura Henderson, the eccentric, flamboyant and headstrong lady who took over a run-down London theatre and legendarily put on London's first nude reviews, even entertaining the crowds during the Blitz and thus earning the famous sign "We Never Closed". For her efforts Dench would gain a fifth Oscar nomination in nine years. On TV there'd be a couple of special editions of As Time Goes By, and she'd also publish a photo-book reaching back to her childhood in York and her stage debut, titled Scenes From My Life. The next year would bring the more contemporary Notes On A Scandal, based on the hit novel by Zoe Heller. Reuniting her with her Iris director Richard Eyre, this would see Dench as a lonely teacher reaching out to new and younger colleague Cate Blanchett and befriending her. But serious problems arise when Blanchett engages in an affair with an underage student and her life begins to unravel, Dench now becoming her defender and witness - though it seems the older woman may have sinister motives for her behaviour. Both Dench and Blanchett would be Oscar-nominated, Dench for the sixth time. It was noted that pre-Dench only three actors had been nominated three times after their 60th birthday - Paul Newman, Katherine Hepburn and Laurence Olivier. All six of Dench's nominations had come after the Big 6-0. Beyond this glory, of course, there would be more Bond, the franchise rejuvenated by the appointment of Daniel Craig as 007 in Casino Royale.Still Dench could not keep away from the stage. 2006 would see her as a preening, hilarious Judith Bliss in Noel Coward's Hay Fever, directed by Peter Hall. Then she'd be back with the RSC, playing Mistress Quickly in a musical version of The Merry Wives Of Windsor, alongside Simon Callow and brother Jeff. She'd follow this with a small screen appearance in a BBC take on Elizabeth Gaskell's classic Cranford, starring as Miss Matty Jenkyns, a lady of the early 19th Century who reveals true humanity and decency as she faces a series of setbacks.Judi has been praised for her "volatility, insecurity, mischief and moral resilience", and for her "extraordinary access to her emotions" - skills honed, of course, over nearly 45 years of hard graft. Amazingly, she never reads the scripts sent to her, preferring someone else to give her the general gist, a job performed for many years by her beloved husband. Whilst on the subject of being loved, Dench has become one of the UK's best-loved performers. Indeed, a Youguv poll in 2002 made her second only to the Queen as Britain's best-loved PERSON. In 2001, it was Dench who was asked by the 77 British families who lost loved ones in the World Trade Centre attack to read at the memorial service in Westminster Abbey.Dench would not have liked to have beaten the Queen in that poll. A staunch Royalist, she was awarded an OBE in 1970, was made a Dame of the British Empire in 1988 and a Companion Of Honour in 2005. The Queen's respect for her was further evinced by a letter of consolation she sent when Judi's home burned down. Mind you, in keeping with that naughty streak of hers, Judi's respect for royalty did not prevent her and Ian McKellen sneaking away and sitting on the throne when both were invited to Buckingham Palace.The respect in which Judi Dench is held, and her success, has been hard won. When she was just starting out, an older player once recalled, her voice was so croaky she sounded like she had laryngitis (hence that sign at the Nottingham Playhouse). In the hard world of stage acting, he believed, she had no chance. But, as always, she worked on it, put in the hours, and made it right. She is a genuine great.Dominic Wills 
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - NOVEMBER 07: Dame Judi Dench attends the Harper's Bazaar Women Of the Year Awards 2011 at Claridges Hotel on November 7, 2011 in London, England. (Photo by Eamonn McCormack/Getty Images)
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - NOVEMBER 07: Dame Judi Dench attends the Harper's Bazaar Women Of the Year Awards 2011 at Claridges Hotel on November 7, 2011 in London, England. (Photo by Eamonn McCormack/Getty Images)
			LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM - NOVEMBER 07: Dame Judi Dench attends the Harper's Bazaar Women Of the Year Awards 2011 at Claridges Hotel on November 7, 2011 in London, England. (Photo by Eamonn McCormack/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JUNE 21:  Dame Judi Dench receives the Freedom of the City of London at the Guildhall on June 21, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Danny Martindale/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JUNE 21:  Dame Judi Dench receives the Freedom of the City of London at the Guildhall on June 21, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Danny Martindale/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JUNE 21:  Dame Judi Dench receives the Freedom of the City of London at the Guildhall on June 21, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Danny Martindale/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JUNE 21:  Dame Judi Dench receives the Freedom of the City of London at the Guildhall on June 21, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Danny Martindale/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JANUARY 25:  The Dorchester Outstanding Achievement Award winner Dame Judi Dench poses in the press room at the South Bank Sky Arts Awards at The Dorchester on January 25, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Ian Gavan/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JANUARY 25:  The Dorchester Outstanding Achievement Award winner Dame Judi Dench poses in the press room at the South Bank Sky Arts Awards at The Dorchester on January 25, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Ian Gavan/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JANUARY 25:  The Dorchester Outstanding Achievement Award winner Dame Judi Dench poses with Sir Peter Hall in the press room at the South Bank Sky Arts Awards at The Dorchester on January 25, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Ian Gavan/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JANUARY 25:  The Dorchester Outstanding Achievement Award winner Dame Judi Dench poses with Sir Peter Hall in the press room at the South Bank Sky Arts Awards at The Dorchester on January 25, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Ian Gavan/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JANUARY 25:  The Dorchester Outstanding Achievement Award winner Dame Judi Dench poses with Sir Peter Hall in the press room at the South Bank Sky Arts Awards at The Dorchester on January 25, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Ian Gavan/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JANUARY 25:  The Dorchester Outstanding Achievement Award winner Dame Judi Dench poses with Sir Peter Hall in the press room at the South Bank Sky Arts Awards at The Dorchester on January 25, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Ian Gavan/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JANUARY 25:  The Dorchester Outstanding Achievement Award winner Dame Judi Dench poses in the press room at the South Bank Sky Arts Awards at The Dorchester on January 25, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Ian Gavan/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JANUARY 25:  The Dorchester Outstanding Achievement Award winner Dame Judi Dench poses with Sir Peter Hall in the press room at the South Bank Sky Arts Awards at The Dorchester on January 25, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Ian Gavan/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JANUARY 25:  The Dorchester Outstanding Achievement Award Dame Judi Dench poses with Sir Peter Hall in the press room at the South Bank Sky Arts Awards at The Dorchester on January 25, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Ian Gavan/Getty Images)
			LONDON, ENGLAND - JANUARY 25: The Dorchester Outstanding Achievement Award Dame Judi Dench poses in the press room at the South Bank Sky Arts Awards at The Dorchester on January 25, 2011 in London, England.  (Photo by Ian Gavan/Getty Images)
			NEW YORK - DECEMBER 15:  Actress Dame Judi Dench attends  the New York premiere of "NINE" at the Ziegfeld Theatre on December 15, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images for The Weinstein Company)
			NEW YORK - DECEMBER 15:  (L-R) Actors Daniel Day-Lewis, Fergie, Kate Hudson, Penelope Cruz, Marion Cotillard, Nicole Kidman and Dame Judi Dench attend the New York screening of NINE co-hosted by Martini at Ziegfeld Theatre on December 15, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Joe Kohen/Getty Images for Martini)
			NEW YORK - DECEMBER 15:  Singer Fergie (L) and actress Judi Dench attend the New York screening of NINE co-hosted by Martini at Ziegfeld Theatre on December 15, 2009 in New York City.  (Photo by Joe Kohen/Getty Images for Martini)
Eat, Pray, LoveThe Other GuysDinner For SchmucksScott Pilgrim vs The WorldSaltThe ExpendablesThe Last AirbenderKnight and DayThe Karate KidThe A-Team
adam sandler angelina jolie colin firth daniel craig george clooney jackie chan jennifer lopez johnny depp judi dench leonardo dicaprio liam neeson mel gibson meryl streep morgan freeman penelope cruz robert de niro steven spielberg tom cruise vin diesel will smith 
	This site uses cookies. If you continue without changing your settings, you're consenting to receive the cookies set by our website.  Find out more 
=======================================================
	                Check out Dame Judi Dench's autobiographyDame Judith Olivia 'Judi' Dench is an English Oscar award-winning film, stage and television actress who has been in the limelight since 1957. She is known for often playing strong-willed and dignified women in positions of authority, such as Queen Elizabeth I.She was born on 9 December 1934 in Heworth, York to doctor Reginald Arthur Dench and his wife Eleanora Olave, who was a native of Dublin. Her parents met while her father was studying medicine at Trinity College, Dublin. A young Dench studied at Mount School in York, which is a Quaker independent secondary school.  Dench went on to study at the Central School of Speech and Drama before making her stage debut in 1957. It wasn't a surprise that she took up acting because her father was the GP for the York theatre and her mother was the venue's wardrobe mistress. This meant actors often stayed in the household. Her first stage appearance was as a snail in a school play.  She graduated from the Central School of Speech and Drama, where Vanessa Redgrave was a fellow classmate, with a first class degree in drama and four acting prizes. In September 1957, Dench made her professional stage debut with the Old Vic Company at the Royal Court Theatre, Liverpool as Ophelia in Hamlet. She then made her London debut in the same production at the Old Vic.  Her career started on-stage and remained a member of the Old Vic Company for four seasons between 1957 and 1961. Dench's notable roles were Katherine in Henry V (1958), for which she made her New York debut, and as Juliet in Romeo and Juliet in October 1960.  In December 1961, Dench joined the Royal Shakespeare Company and played Anya in The Cherry Orchard before making her Stratford-Upon-Avon debut in April 1962 as Isabella in Measure for Measure. Dench then enjoyed seasons with the Playhouse in Nottingham and with the Playhouse Company in Oxford from April 1964. She then made her film debut in The Third Secret.  The role that helped launch her career occurred in 1968 when she was offered the role of Sally Bowles in the musical Cabaret despite never having sung before. It opened at the Palace Theatre in February 1968 and earned the actress rave reviews. After a long run in this play, she has enjoyed a long career alternating between the theatre, film and TV.  She rejoined the Royal Shakespeare company appearing as the duchess in The Duchess of Malfi in 1971, The Comedy of Errors in 1976, Much Ado About Nothing in 1977. She then acted alongside Sir Ian McKellen as Lady Macbeth in Macbeth in 1976. The production transferred to London in 1977 and was adapted for television. For this role she won the SWET Best Actress Award in 1977. During this period, she met and married actor Michael Williams. They had their only child Tara Cressida Frances William, known as Finty, on 24 September 1972.  Dench was also appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in 1970 before being made a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1988.  Going back to her career, she returned to the TV screen in 1980 in the mini-series Love In A Cold Climate before acting alongside her husband in the show A Fine Romance between 1981 and 1984. She then featured in The Browning Version (1985), A Room With A View (1985), 84 Charing Cross Road and A Handful of Dust in 1988.  Dench made her directorial debut in 1988 with the Renaissance Theatre Company's touring season Renaissance Shakespeare on The Road.  She staged Much Ado About Nothing set in the Napoleonic era.  In 1989, Dench starred in Behaving Badly and took on one of her most well-known roles in 1992 - Jean - in As Time Goes By with one of her close friends Geoffrey Palmer. This show was popular and ran on and off until 2005.  She then took on the role of agent 'M' in the James Bond film Goldeneye in 1995. She became the first female 'M' and has reprised this role in Tomorrow Never Dies (1997), The World is Not Enough (1999), Die Another Day (2002), Casino Royale (2006), Quantum of Solace (2008) and Skyfall, which will be released later this year.  In 1997, Dench took on the role of powerful female monarch Queen Victoria in Mrs Brown and then played Queen Elizabeth I in Shakespeare in Love in 1998. For the latter role she won the Best Supporting Actress award at the Oscars and Baftas. She spent just four scenes on-screen.  Dench then enjoyed roles in Tea With Mussolini (1999), The Last of the Blonde Bombshells (2000), Chocolat (2000), Iris (2001), The Shipping News (2001) and The Importance of Being Earnest in 2002.  In 2001 her husband Michael died from lung cancer at the age of 65 and Dench has since stated that she regrets not having more children with him.  As a result, she slowed down before voicing a character in the children's animation Angelina Ballerina between 2001 and 2002. Dench then appeared in The Chronicles of Riddick and Ladies in Lavender in 2004. In 2005, she played Lady Catherine de Bourg in the film adaptation of Pride & Prejudice and Mrs Laura Henderson in Mrs Henderson Presents.  Dench then gave a star turn as a creepy secondary school teacher who ends up obsessed with a fellow educator who is having an affair with a pupil in 2006's Notes On A Scandal with Cate Blanchett. In 2007, she returned to TV playing the matriarch Miss Matty Jenkins in the BBC's period drama Cranford. A role she enjoyed until 2009.  During this time, she returned to James Bond and enjoyed roles in Rage and the musical Nine. She also took over the care of her grandson Sammy Williams and has custody of him since 2004 when her daughter Finty went into rehabilitation for alcoholism.  Following a break in 2010, Dench returned in 2011 with roles in Jane Eyre, Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides, My Week With Marilyn, Friend Request Pending, the blockbuster J.Edgar and the hit The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel.  It seems that 2012 is set to be as busy a year as 2011 with appearances in Run For Your Wife, and a reprisal of her role as 'M' in Skyfall. Next year, she will be appearing in Better Living Through Chemistry followed by Philomena in 2014.  She is, perhaps, slowing down as it was revealed in February 2012 that the actress is coping with age-related macular degeneration, which is an eye condition that can lead to blindness if it is not treated. At the time, she revealed she now has to ask friends and relatives to help her read scripts but she has no intention of retiring.  We hope the actress who has been nominated for 11 Baftas, including the Bafta fellowship in 2001, seven Laurence Olivier Awards for her theatre work, two Screen Actors Guild Awards, two Golden Globes, an Oscar and a Tony Award continues her good work.
                Learn about usAbout UsContact UsFAQsJobsPrivacy PolicySite MapTerms and ConditionsAdvertise with UsInternationalChoose...AustraliaCanadaGermanyIsraelLatin AmericaPortugalSpainSouth East AsiaUnited StatesAll Rights Reserved © AETN UK 2005 - 2011We need your helpWe're improving the Bio site all over! Your opinions are really important to us because they'll help us to make Bio a simpler, more useful and more entertaining site for you to use. So please take part in our survey. It will only take five minutes, and you might win a prize!
=======================================================
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
Judi Dench has found solace in constant work since the death of her husband, and her latest role is destined to be one of her greatest. The straight-talking British dame speaks about life, loss and ageing.
A woman searches for her adult son who was taken away from her decades ago when she was forced to live in a convent.
A few years ago, a British poll found that the Queen was no longer the most popular and respected woman in Britain. She had been bumped to the No. 2 spot by Judi Dench, who, having played several queens, many Shakespearean roles and James Bond's M, is almost as much of a British institution as the monarch herself.
I want to play an Afghan woman who learns to walk the tightrope and in the last act turns into a dragon. Where's that play? I want to do something different. 
Dench, who turns 79 on December 9, has been labelled a national treasure, which doesn't please her. "It sounds pretty dusty to me," she told an interviewer who mentioned the T-word. "It's Alan Bennett and I behind glass in some forgotten old cupboard. I don't like it at all."
As time goes by … though she turns 79 tomorrow, Judi Dench shows no sign of slowing down. Photo: trunkarchive.com/Snapper Media
Dame Judi Dench is actually quite scary, as befits a woman of multiple queendoms. One of her favoured responses to questions is "Are you joking?", when you clearly aren't.
We meet at the Venice Film Festival, where her latest film Philomena has just screened to huge acclaim. In it she plays the real-life figure of Philomena Lee, a strong-minded Irish woman searching for the son she was forced to give up as an unmarried mother 50 years earlier. Both the film and her performance veer almost magically between tough emotions and surprisingly zippy comedy; it should win a slew of Oscars.
An interview, of course, is its own kind of performance. One rather green reporter asks if she worries about the process of getting older. "You're joking! You're joking!" she interrupts him mid-sentence. "Just don't use the word! Next you're going to ask me when I'm going to retire. How dare you!
"Of course I do. I fear not being able to learn the lines. I've got to go and have a knee operation on Friday and have my whole knee replaced. I worry about walking from here to there. I worry continually."
It is notable that even the famously funny Steve Coogan, who wrote Philomena and stars alongside Dench, is prepared to defer to her in every comic scene; he lets her be the funny one.
"I hadn't thought about it, but yes," agrees Stephen Frears, the director. "Well, you behave yourself if Judi's there. He wasn't going to get ticked off [by her] for trying to hog the limelight."
Judi Dench has been in that limelight practically since the day she left the Central School of Speech and Drama in 1957. From the start, she set new benchmarks for Shakespeare's women, but she wasn't all about the classics: her Sally Bowles in the 1968 West End production of Cabaret was the performance that made her a star, despite the fact she can't really sing.
Her television work ranged from the truly cutting-edge – John Hopkins' landmark television drama Talking to a Stranger, bits of which are on YouTube, remains revelatory almost 50 years after it was broadcast – to the comfortable sitcom A Fine Romance, made with her late husband Michael Williams in the early '80s. The Shakespeare fans were sniffily surprised when she did that, but Dench just said: "I think it is our business to do as many things as we can."
She still feels like that. "Someone the other day asked, 'What kind of play do you want to do?' I said, 'I want to play an Afghan woman who learns to walk the tightrope and in the last act turns into a dragon,' " she recalls with the hint of a chuckle. "I said, 'Where's that play? I want to do something different'."
There is no question of her slowing down as her ninth decade approaches; bizarrely, she is still so nervous about where the next job is coming from that she can't even discuss it. "I don't take any of it for granted, ever."
Work is her rock. Her husband Michael Williams died of cancer in 2001 – they had been famously devoted for almost 40 years – and the day after his funeral she went to Canada to film The Shipping News with Kevin Spacey. Then, the day after she got home, she started filming Iris.
"I am working harder since Michael died," she said later. "You see, we always made sure that we made time for each other. People, friends, kept saying, 'You are not facing up to it; you need to face up to it.' And maybe they were right, but I felt I was – in the acting. Grief supplies you with an enormous amount of energy. I needed to use that up."
Dench never expected to have a career in film. She first auditioned for a movie when she was flying high at the Old Vic theatre company; it was a hard landing. "Well, Miss Dench, I have to tell you," said the director she does not name, "you have every single thing wrong with your face."
At that point, she decided she wasn't made for the movies. She was 60 when she was cast as M in GoldenEye, the first of her seven Bond films, which came as a complete surprise to her. Then American film mogul Harvey Weinstein spotted the potential of a film she had made for television with Billy Connolly, Mrs Brown. It was a turning point that led her to a series of extraordinary performances in films such as Iris and Notes on a Scandal (and rather less extraordinary roles in films such as The Chronicles of Riddick) and six Oscar nominations. Weinstein's name, she sometimes jokes, "is tattooed on my bum".
Not such a queenly remark, that. That's the thing about Dench: her reputation is formidable, but she is just as often described as cosy or suburban. A British Board of Film Classification report a few years ago noted that protests rolled in if she was heard to swear on film, no matter the role.
She lives with her daughter Finty, her grandson and a menagerie ranging from dogs to goldfish; she does crosswords and sudoku – "It's bloody difficult, isn't it?" – and plays cards.
"I love betting on things," she says on the day after the Philomena premiere. "I didn't win last night. I had a bet with my friend David, who said, 'Everyone will stand up at the end of this.' And I said, 'Oh, David, nobody stands up at the end of things, nobody!' So then I said, 'Are you ready to bet on it?' And he said OK. I said, 'I'll bet you a return visit to Venice; if they stand up, we'll come back.' And he said, 'You're on'."
It is this sympathetic, jolly side that is to the fore in Philomena; we notice the wrinkles and dumpiness normally obscured by the Dame's regal radiance.
"She is a naive, funny person and I don't mean that in any kind of rude way. I said to her, 'Your hair, Philomena, it's so dark!' And she said, 'Oh yes, I always have the tint bottle near me.' Well, you know, that is such an endearing thing to say. And she's very Irish, which my mother was. Not that she was like my mother in any way, but I have many Irish friends and there was a familiarity."
More than liking her, however, Dench was in awe of Philomena Lee's generosity of spirit, that she was able to say truthfully that she forgave the nuns who took her child.
"I couldn't do that. For 50 years she must have looked at his photograph and thought, 'It's his birthday today'. The whole thing must have played over and over in her mind like a film and yet, after all that, she is able to turn around and say, 'I forgive you'. I don't think there are many people whose story that could possibly be. We all hold grudges, don't we, about things? Terrible grudges."
We never discover what terrible grudges Dench may hold. Bereavement has hit her hard, but she recognises that "you feel fantastically lucky you had what we had".
And, of course, she has her work. She says she has never wanted out of a play, never disliked a theatre company. Working with Steve Coogan was such fun, she says: "He made me laugh every single day."
She will miss Bond, but she has had 17 "hugely enjoyable" years. She says she feels about 29. That probably isn't quite true, but she says it with such conviction and sheer panache you absolutely believe her.
Convent girl Philomena Lee didn't know how babies were made at the point when, aged 18, she discovered she was pregnant. Disowned by her family, she was sent to give birth at a country convent in Roscrea, County Tipperary, where she was allowed to see her baby for an hour a day while she worked for no wages in the convent's laundries.
At the end of three years, she was obliged to sign away her son Anthony for adoption by one of many American families prepared to "donate" two to three thousand dollars – a huge sum in 1952 – for an Irish baby. Philomena was then released under threat of eternal damnation if she told anyone her "shameful secret".
She did tell the man she subsequently married, but they never spoke of it again. It was only after 50 years that she told her adult daughter Jane that she had another child. Jane then doggedly pursued adoption boards and contemporary records and eventually discovered that her brother Anthony had become Michael Hess, at one stage a high-flying lawyer working for the Republican Party in America.
What they did not know was that Michael had visited the convent several times in an attempt to trace his mother, leaving his contact details with the nuns, while Philomena had been trying to find him. Their respective searches almost crossed paths – they both visited the convent in 1977 – but the resident sisters said nothing.
It was Jane who asked former BBC Washington correspondent Martin Sixsmith to help her mother find out what happened to her son; his book about that search was called The Lost Child of Philomena Lee.
Steve Coogan was inspired by the book to write the script for Philomena, which he then produced. He says the story has been shuffled for dramatic effect and he has injected a good deal of himself into the role of Sixsmith, but that there is no doubt that the convent was effectively selling children, despite church denials. "And there is anecdotal evidence that they had a big fire and burned lots of records," Coogan says. "It is not something I can confirm, but we didn't invent that."
How nice those Convent Nuns were to those in desperate need of help and assistance . . . . Sounds like a noble life, being a nun . . . NOT.
I understand that submission of this content is covered by the Conditions of Use by which I am bound and Commenting Guidelines are available for my reference.
=======================================================
Birth Name: Judith Olivia DenchBirth Place: York, EnglandDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 12/09/1934, SagittariusProfession: Actor
2014 Oscar Predictions: Who Will Win?Feb 28, 2014 04:52 PM ETby Joyce Eng12 Years a Slave or Gravity? Or something else? Oscars' tightest race for the top prize in years will come down to a photo finish Sunday (8:30 p.m. ET / 5:30 p.m. PT, ABC). In the meantime, let's make some predictions. Check out the nominees here, make your picks and compare them to ours below.American Hustle, Gravity lead Oscar nominationsPictureWho will win: 12 Years a SlaveThis one is coming down to the wire between 12 Years and Gravity, with an outside shot for ...read moreWeekend TV Review: Give These Shows a Medal!Feb 14, 2014 10:34 AM ETby Matt RoushWhile the Olympians continue to dominate the TV spotlight in Sochi, another gathering of championship talent takes a bow in the weekend's other gold-medal event: PBS's Great Performances presentation of National Theatre: 50 Years on Stage (Friday, 9/8c, check tvguide.com listings).Laurence Olivier led the National Theatre upon its founding in 1963, and he and other luminaries are seen in vintage clips from past productions, interspersed throughout a dazzling evening of live re-enactments and tantalizing excerpts from landmark plays, including Angels in America, Stuff Happens, The History Boys and War Horse. Fans of Downton Abbey will delight to see the Dowager Countess Maggie Smith in her 1964 prime, vamping in ...read moreJudi Dench Walks Red Carpet Six Weeks After Knee SurgeryOct 28, 2013 06:21 PM ETby Kate StanhopeAgent James Bond has nothing on Dame Judi Dench!
The Skyfall star and Oscar winner impressed at the Oct. 16 premiere of her new film Philomena and not just because of her fashionable attire. She walked the red carpet without a cane just...read more
"J. Edgar" explores the public and private life of one of the most powerful, controversial and enigmatic figures of the 20th century. As the face of law enforcement in America for almost fifty years, J. Edgar Hoover (DiCaprio) was feared and admired, reviled and revered. But behind closed doors, he held secrets that would have destroyed his image, his career and his life.
The iron curtain has fallen and the cold war has melted away, but thanks to a ruthless gang of renegade Russians threatening to commit high-tech terrorism, Agent 007 is still in business.
Bond's loyalty to M is tested as her past comes back to haunt her.As MI6 comes under attack, 007 must track down and destroy the threat, no matter how personal the cost.
Pregnant, unmarried teenagers were not well-regarded in Philomena Lee’s 1950’s Irish Catholic community in England. Forced to give her son up for adoption in the United States, Philomena (Academy Award®-Winner Judi Dench) was also made to sign a contract forbidding her from any inquiry into his whereabouts. Years later, after starting a family in England and for the most part moving on with her life, Lee meets Sixsmith (Steve Coogan of TROPIC THUNDER), a BBC reporter with whom she decides to journey to America to finally discover her long-lost son. Based on the 2009 investigative book by BBC correspondent Martin Sixsmith, “The Lost Child of Philomena Lee,” PHILOMENA takes you along on that emotional trip.
Academy Award-Winner Judi Dench stars as Philomena, a woman who alongside a grumpy reporter (Steve Coogan) journeys to America to find the child she put up for adoption so many years ago.
Academy Award-Winner Judi Dench stars as Philomena, a woman who alongside a grumpy reporter (Steve Coogan) journeys to America to find the child she put up for adoption so many years ago.
Railway construction is thwarted when Mr. Buxton refuses to sell land that the railway must cross. Matty urges Mr. Buxton to test the railway's influence and drastically changes the future of Cranford.
Miss Matty's house is full of life with the addition of the daughter of her maid Martha. The new railway looms, five miles outside Cranford, to Captain Brown's great displeasure. Tragedy strikes Cranford when two prominent local figures pass away.
Miss Matty's house is full of life and bustle with the addition of baby Tilly, daughter of her maid Martha. The new railway looms, five miles outside Cranford, to Captain Brown's great displeasure. Meanwhile, Harry Gregson is sent away to school, and set on a course that will test him severely. Tragedy strikes Cranford when two prominent local figures pass away.
                                                                                                 TV Listings
"Ben Affleck got robbed."That's what newly minted Oscar nominee Bradley Cooper said on Thursday's Today show after the Argo director was shockingly left off the Best Director lineup. Cooper isn't the only one who feels that way, nor is Affleck the only major shocker of Thursday's Oscar nominations. Here are our top surprises and snubs:
For once, Saturday Night Live's cold opening was no laughing matter. A day after the Sandy Hook Elementary massacre — which killed 20 children and six adults — the show opened with the New York City Children's Chorus performing a moving version of "Silent Night"...
Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted debuted at No. 1 in the weekend's box office, with an impressive $60.4 million, according to Box Office Mojo. 
Dame Judi Dench has been diagnosed with macular degeneration, an eye condition, but she assures that it will not lead to blindness.In an interview published in the Daily Mirror Saturday, the 77-year-old Oscar winner, whose mother had macular degeneration as well, says that she needs help memorizing lines because of the condition, which is characterized by damage to the retina.Check out photos of Judi Dench"I can't read scripts anymore because of the trouble with my eyes," she says. "And so somebody comes in and ...
At a press conference for Skyfall, the 23rd installment in the James Bond franchise, the French actress was named as the next Bond Girl. 
Buy Charlie Rose with Judi Dench & Stephen Fears; Grover Norquist (December 6, 2005) from Amazon.comFrom "Charlie Rose, Inc." (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $24.95 (as of 5:47 AM EST - more info)Buy Ladies in Lavender DVD & Her Majesty, Mrs. Brown  Judi Dench & Maggie Smith 2-Movie Pack from Amazon.comFrom Miscellaneous (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $27.27 (as of 5:47 AM EST - more info)
=======================================================
Birth Name: Judith Olivia DenchBirth Place: York, EnglandDate of Birth / Zodiac Sign: 12/09/1934, SagittariusProfession: Actor
Although she had long been a revered stage and screen star in her native England, this remarkable actress didn't come to prominence stateside until well past middle age, when she appeared in a string of art-house hits in the '90s. Beginning her career on the British stage in the '50s, Dench tackled some of theater's most iconic roles over the next few decades, such as Ophelia in Hamlet, the titlular Egyptian queen in Antony and Cleopatra, Lady Bracknell in The Importance of Being Earnest and decadent diva Sally Bowles in Cabaret. Dench invariably earned raves for her work and in the '60s began adding TV roles to her résumé, proving that she was just as adept at comedy as classics by starring in two popular Britcoms: A Fine Romance, alongside her real-life husband Michael Williams; and As Time Goes By, opposite longtime friend Geoffrey Palmer. Throughout her lauded career, she earned practically every accolade possible in her homeland: a record seven Olivier Awards for her stage work; 24 BAFTA nominations (and 10 wins) for her TV and film performances; the title of Officer of the British Empire in 1970; and a promotion to dame in 1988. She appeared in a number of supporting movie roles in the '90s, notably as the first female incarnation of M, James Bond's boss, beginning with 1995's GoldenEye. Two years later, she snagged her very first leading film role when she played Queen Victoria in the biopic Mrs. Brown, which earned Dench her first Academy Award nomination. But it was her turn as another monarch, Queen Elizabeth I in 1998's Shakespeare in Love, that would finally win her an Oscar. Although she only had eight minutes of screen time, she left an indelible impression as the headstrong leader. A few months after taking home the statuette, she netted another American award, the Tony, for her performance in Amy's View, her first Broadway appearance in 40 years. At an age when most people would opt for retirement, Dench is still in high demand, garnering praise and nominations for practically every project she tackles. Outside of acting, she has an avid interest in horse racing. Her own horse, Smokey Oakey, won the 2008 Brigadier Gerard Stakes race.Judi Dench Fast Facts:
Became a member of the Order of the British Empire in 1970; was named Dame Commander of the British Empire in 1998, the female equivalent of being knighted. 
Made history in 1996 by becoming the first person to win two Olivier awards in the same season: Best Actress for Absolute Hell and Best Actress in a Musical for A Little Night Music.  
Provides the narration for Epcot's Spaceship Earth attraction at Walt Disney World.Judi Dench Relationships: Rebekah Elmaloglou - CousinSebastian Elmaloglou - CousinPeter Dench - BrotherJeffrey Dench - BrotherFinty Williams - DaughterMichael Williams - Husband (deceased)Olave Dench - MotherReginald Arthur Dench - FatherJudi Dench Awards: 2011 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Supporting Actress - Nominee1987 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Supporting Role - Nominee2006 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role - Nominee2014 Irish Film & Television Awards:  Best International Actress - Winner2000 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role - Winner1998 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture - Winner2014 Olivier Awards:  Best Actress - Nominee2013 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role - Nominee2005 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Leading Role - Nominee2001 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Supporting Role - Nominee1998 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Supporting Role - Winner2002 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Drama - Nominee2000 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Supporting Role - Nominee1965 BAFTA Film Awards:  Most Promising Newcomer to Leading Film Roles - Winner2000 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture - Nominee2012 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture - Nominee2014 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Drama - Nominee2006 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Leading Role - Nominee2005 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role - Nominee2005 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role - Nominee2001 Emmy:  Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie - Nominee2006 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy - Nominee1999 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Motion Picture - Nominee1997 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Leading Role - Winner2013 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Leading Actress - Nominee1997 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role - Nominee2001 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Motion Picture - Nominee1986 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Supporting Role - Winner2007 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Drama - Nominee2001 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Leading Role - Winner1988 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Supporting Role - Winner1985 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Actress in a Supporting Role - Nominee2013 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Comedy or Musical - Nominee2012 BAFTA Film Awards:  Best Supporting Actress - Nominee2001 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Miniseries or Motion Picture Made for Television - Winner1998 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Drama - Winner2001 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role - Nominee2001 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role - Nominee2013 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role - Nominee2006 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role - Nominee1998 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role - Winner2000 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role - Nominee2009 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture - Nominee2001 Oscar:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role - Nominee2009 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Miniseries or Motion Picture Made for Television - Nominee2008 Emmy:  Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie - Nominee1999 Tony:  Actress (Play) - Winner2000 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Television Movie or Miniseries - Nominee1997 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role - Nominee2011 Golden Globe:  Best Performance by an Actress in a Miniseries or Motion Picture Made for Television - Nominee1998 Screen Actors Guild Awards:  Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role - Nominee2010 Emmy:  Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie - NomineeCollege: Central School of Speech and Drama, London, England
Buy Ladies in Lavender DVD & Her Majesty, Mrs. Brown  Judi Dench & Maggie Smith 2-Movie Pack from Amazon.comFrom Miscellaneous (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $27.27 (as of 5:47 AM EST - more info)Buy Charlie Rose with Judi Dench & Stephen Fears; Grover Norquist (December 6, 2005) from Amazon.comFrom "Charlie Rose, Inc." (DVD)Usually ships in 24 hoursBuy New: $24.95 (as of 5:47 AM EST - more info)
=======================================================
