=======================================================
    [ng\:cloak], [ng-cloak], [data-ng-cloak], [x-ng-cloak], .ng-cloak, .x-ng-cloak {display: none !important;}
=======================================================
Megan Denise Fox (born May 16, 1986) is an American actress and model. She began her acting career in 2001, with several minor television and film roles, and played a regular role on the Hope & Faith television show. In 2004, she made her film debut with a role in Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen. In 2007, she co-starred as Mikaela Banes, the love interest of Shia LaBeouf's character, in the blockbuster film, Transformers, which became her breakout role. Fox reprised her role in the 2009 sequel, Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen. Later in 2009, she starred as the eponymous lead in the film Jennifer's Body. Fox is also considered one of the modern female sex symbols and has appeared in magazines such as Maxim, Rolling Stone and FHM.[2][3][4]
Fox was born in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, the daughter of Gloria Darlene (née Cisson) and Franklin Thomas Fox.[5] She is mostly of English ancestry, with smaller amounts of ancestry from elsewhere in Europe.[6] She was raised "very strictly Pentecostal", but later attended Catholic school for twelve years.[7][8] Fox's parents divorced when she was young. Fox's mother later remarried, and she and her sister[9] were raised by her mother and her stepfather, Tony Tonachio.[10][11][12] She said that the two were "very strict" and that she was not allowed to have a boyfriend[13] or invite friends to her house.[9] She lived with her mother until she made enough money to support herself.[13]
Fox began her training in drama and dance at age five, in Kingston, Tennessee.[14] She attended a dance class at the community center there and was involved in Kingston Elementary School's chorus and the Kingston Clippers swim team. At 10 years of age, after moving to St. Petersburg, Florida, Fox continued her training.[15][16] When she was 13 years old, Fox began modeling after winning several awards at the 1999 American Modeling and Talent Convention in Hilton Head, South Carolina.[17] At age 17, she tested out of school via correspondence in order to move to Los Angeles, California.[9][13]
Fox has spoken extensively of her time in education; that in middle school she was bullied and picked on and she ate lunch in the bathroom to avoid being "pelted with ketchup packets". She said that the problem was not her looks, but that she had "always gotten along better with boys" and that "rubbed some people the wrong way".[18] Fox also said of high school that she was never popular and that "everyone hated me, and I was a total outcast, my friends were always guys, I have a very aggressive personality, and girls didn’t like me for that. I’ve had only one great girlfriend my whole life".[18] In the same interview, she mentions that she hated school and has never been "a big believer in formal education" and that "the education I was getting seemed irrelevant. So, I was sort of checked out on that part of it".[18]
At 15, Fox made her acting debut in the 2001 film Holiday in the Sun, as spoiled heiress Brianna Wallace and rival of Alex Stewart (Ashley Olsen), which was released direct-to-DVD on November 20, 2001. In the next several years she guest-starred on What I Like About You and Two and a Half Men, as well as being an uncredited extra in Bad Boys II (2003). In 2004, she made her film debut in Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen co-starring opposite Lindsay Lohan, playing the supporting role of Carla Santini, a rival of Lola (Lohan). Fox was also cast in a regular role on the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith, in which she portrayed Sydney Shanowski, replacing Nicole Paggi. Fox appeared in seasons 2 to 3, until the show was cancelled by ABC in May 2006.[19]
In 2007, Fox won the lead female role of Mikaela Banes in the 2007 live-action film Transformers, based on the toy and cartoon saga of the same name. Fox played the love interest of Shia LaBeouf's character Sam Witwicky. Fox was nominated for an MTV Movie Award in the category of "Breakthrough Performance", and was also nominated for three Teen Choice Awards.[19] Fox had signed on for two more Transformers sequels.[19][20]
Fox reprised her role as Mikaela Banes in the Transformer sequel, Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen. There was some controversy surrounding Fox's appearance while filming the sequel of Transformers when Michael Bay, the film's director, ordered the actress to gain 10 pounds.[21] The film was released worldwide on June 24, 2009.[22] Fox was to star in the third installment, Transformers: Dark of the Moon, but was not included because of her statements comparing working under director Bay to working for Hitler (see below). Co-star Shia LaBeouf said, "Criticism is one thing. Then there's public name-calling, which turns into high-school bashing. Which you can't do."[23] Bay similarly amended his previous statements of support of Fox, and told GQ in June that Fox was fired on orders of executive producer Steven Spielberg.[24]
After departing the Transformers franchise, Fox had her first lead role playing the title character in Jennifer's Body, written by Academy Award-winning screenwriter Diablo Cody.[25]
Fox with Friends with Kids co-stars Jennifer Westfeldt, Adam Scott, and Jon Hamm at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival.
In April 2009, Fox began filming Jonah Hex, in which she portrayed Leila, a gun-wielding beauty and Jonah Hex's (Josh Brolin) love interest. The film was released on June 18, 2010.[26] Despite receiving top billing, Fox described her role in the film as being a cameo.[27] Jonah Hex was a critical and commercial failure in the U.S., with its international distribution cancelled after its poor performance.[28] The film was named the "worst picture of the year" by the Houston Film Critics Society.[29] Fox next starred alongside Mickey Rourke in Passion Play. The film's poor reception at the Toronto Film festival led to its conventional theatrical distribution being bypassed for a direct-to-video release, with only two screens briefly showing the film to fulfill contractual obligations.[30] Mickey Rourke remarked that Passion Play was "terrible. Another terrible movie."[31][32] Fox was the voice of the Hawaiian Spinner Dolphins in the Na Nai'a Legend of the Dolphins, a 3D documentary film. The story is told by a cast including Kate Winslet, Ellen Page, Gerard Butler, James Franco, Julian Lennon, Diego Luna, Cheech Marin, Whoopi Goldberg, Isabella Rossellini and Daryl Hannah.[33]
In March 2009, Variety reported that Fox was set to star as the lead role of Aspen Matthews in the film adaptation of the comic book Fathom which she will also co-produce with Brian Austin Green.[34] Fox appeared with Dominic Monaghan in the music video for Eminem and Rihanna's single "Love the Way You Lie".[35]
In 2012, she appeared briefly in Sacha Baron Cohen's comedy The Dictator and in a featured role Judd Apatow's comedy This Is 40. She was the voice of Lois Lane in the film Robot Chicken DC Comics Special,[36] an episode of the television comedy series Robot Chicken, and it aired as a one-off special during Cartoon Network's Adult Swim on September 9, 2012.
In January 2013, Fox was featured in a Brazilian television commercial for Brahma beer.[37] In February 2013, Fox set aside her differences with her former director Michael Bay when it was confirmed that she would work again with him on his upcoming reboot of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.[38] Prior to the beginning of filming, she colored her hair red for the portrayal of a red-headed April O'Neil. Photos of her at location set in New York City emerged in early May marked her first official day of filming, slated to be released on August 8, 2014.
Fox, at the Seventh Annual Hollywood Life magazine "Breakthrough of the Year" Awards, December 9, 2007
During an interview with The Times, on the topic of being a role model, Fox stated: "It depends on what your idea of a role model is," and continued with, "If your idea of a role model is somebody who’s gonna preach to your kids that sex before marriage is wrong and cursing is wrong and women should be this and be that, then I’m not a role model. But if you want your girls to feel strong and intelligent and be outspoken and fight for what they think is right, then I want to be that type of role model, yeah."[39] In the same interview, Fox spoke of being typecast. "Getting typecast as what? Attractive? How bad is that?" she stated, feeling that it is not a bad thing to be typecast in this way. She said that she considers it flattering, and believes that it gives her an advantage to surprise people when she does give a good performance because they will not be expecting her to be more than simply attractive.[39] Fox has shown interest in portraying a character less sexualized than that of Mikaela Banes, whom she portrayed in the Transformers film series.[40]
Fox said of being a popular media topic that, though she is not on the same level as Jennifer Aniston, Britney Spears, or Lindsay Lohan, she does find it difficult and that there have been times when people have avoided being around her because they do not want to end up in the media's spotlight. "I need to behave in a way and handle myself in a way that will cause people to take me seriously," she said, "[and] you can be sexy and be intelligent and be taken seriously, or you can be sexy and you can be out at clubs every night and not be [taken seriously]" but that she has not gone "completely insane".[40] Fox also said of going from being "relatively unknown" to her current celebrity status that: "I definitely feel ill-prepared; I mean, I don't know if anyone ever sits back and goes, 'Now is the moment that I think I should be a famous celebrity,' – but I definitely feel it's premature. I mean, I was in one movie that people have seen."[40]
Fox has appeared on the covers of many magazines. In 2007, she appeared in Maxim;[41] in 2008, the list had grown to include Cosmo Girl,[42][43] Paw Print,[44] Jack (ITALY),[45] FHM (UK),[46] and GQ.[47][48] In 2009, the list includes, USA Weekend,[49] Esquire,[50] Empire,[51] Maxim,[52] GQ (UK),[53] Entertainment Weekly[54] and ELLE.[13] Fox was ranked No.17 on interview magazines Hollywood faces to watch "Future Stars of Tomorrow", ranked No.16 on the Maxim magazine Hot 100 of 2008 list, named No.68 in FHM magazine's "100 Sexiest Women in the World 2006" supplement, ranked No.18 on the Maxim magazine Hot 100 of 2007 list, she was ranked No.1 on Moviefone's 'The 25 Hottest Actors Under 25' in 2008, and was ranked No.2 on the Maxim magazine Hot 100 of 2009 list in 2009. FHM readers voted her the "Sexiest Woman in the World" in 2008.[4][55] In 2011, Men's Health named her one of the "100 Hottest Women of All-Time", ranking her at No. 14.[56] People named her one of 2012's Most Beautiful at Every Age.[57] In 2012, Fox revealed that making "most beautiful woman" lists is just a part of the job in Hollywood, and stated "You know, lists like this – and there are plenty – generally, we elect the girl who plays in the biggest blockbuster of the year."[58]
In late July 2009, Fox's alleged overexposure in parts of the media caused several men's websites to boycott her.[59] AOL's man-blog Asylum dubbed August 4, 2009 "A Day Without Megan Fox" with the promise that the site would not mention or feature her on this day; they asked other men's sites to copy this stance, and several (such as AskMen.com, Just a Guy Thing, and Banned in Hollywood) complied. "Listen, we love Megan," Eric Rogell of TheBachelorGuy.com told New York Daily News. "She's responsible for driving more eyeballs to our sites – just by getting photographed walking down the street in a white T-shirt – than any other celeb alive. [But] it's time to give another young actress a shot at the attention."[59] Other sites, however, refused to boycott Fox, with Asylum's sister site PopEater declaring "we're posting things about Megan Fox that aren't even news, just because we know you want it, whether you'll admit it or not"[60] and Coedmagazine calling the boycott a "publicity stunt" and "hypocritical", saying that they were the home of "The Megan Fox Boycott Boycott".[61] The British newspaper The Sun declared August 4 to be "Megan Fox Day", saying that "She deserves a day dedicated to her".[62] In response to the boycott, Fox told magazine Nylon, in a September 2009 interview, that "the media blitz" for Transformers resulted in an over-extension of her welcome in the media. "I was part of a movie that [the studio] wanted to make sure would make $700 million, so they oversaturated the media with their stars," she said.[63] "I don't want to have people get completely sick of me before I’ve ever even done something legitimate."[63]
On September 11, 2009, an unsigned letter from three crew members of Transformers defended Michael Bay against accusations reportedly made by Fox about his on-set behavior, including a comparison with Adolf Hitler. The letter alleges that Fox is unpleasant to work with on set and makes several accusations of ungracious behavior that are at variance with her public persona. Bay defended Fox and said that he does not "condone" the letter. Anthony Steinhart, a production assistant who worked on Transformers, also came out in her defense, stating that he had never "...witnessed Ms. Fox being rude or inconsiderate of people’s feelings or the work to be done".[24][64] By 2010, Fox became much less prominent in the media, after starring in the less commercially successful films Jonah Hex and Passion Play. Before working with Bay again in 2014, recent reports suggested that it felt like it had "been years since we've heard about [Megan Fox]"; however, her first pregnancy and her role in Friends with Kids brought her some attention in 2012.[65]
The media often comparing Fox to actress Angelina Jolie, dubbing her the "next Angelina Jolie," also affected Fox's image.[66][67][68] The actresses have been compared partly because they each have a "tattoo collection", status as a "built in sex-symbol" and "share exotic, sultry looks."[66][67] Fox commented that the comparisons indicate a lack of creativity on the part of the media, and are simply due to the dark hair and tattoos that she and Jolie have, and that both have been in action movies.[66][68] There were additionally unconfirmed reports that Fox was to replace Jolie in the next Lara Croft film and that Jolie was displeased by this development, but Fox indicated that they were only rumors and said that she did not want to portray the character.[69][70][71] io9 went to a spokesperson for Fox, who said the rumors were untrue.[70] Fox added of the comparisons: "I am a brunette with tattoos, I curse and I have made mention of sex before. I joked about it which people find outrageous so they want to constantly compare that to her."[68] She further remarked, "I'm sure [Jolie] has no idea who I am. But if I were her, I'd be like, 'Who the fuck is this little bullshit brat who was in Transformers that's going to be the next me?' I don't want to meet her. I'd be embarrassed."[66][72]
Fox has eight known tattoos,[73] including her husband's name "Brian" on her lower hip, a picture of Marilyn Monroe's face on her right forearm, which she reportedly has gotten removed,[74][75] and a crescent moon overlapping a five-pointed star above her right ankle.[76] This tattoo is the only known colored tattoo that Fox has.[77]
Fox began dating actor Brian Austin Green in 2004, after meeting on the set of Hope & Faith; she was 18 years old, while he was 30.[78][79] They became engaged in November 2006.[80] In February 2009, it was reported that they had ended their engagement,[80] before becoming engaged again on June 1, 2010.[81] Fox later denied these reports, stating that they had been continuously engaged since 2006.[82] The couple married on June 24, 2010 in a private ceremony at the Four Seasons Resort on Maui.[83][84] They have two sons: Noah Shannon Green (born September 27, 2012)[85][86] and Bodhi Ransom Green (born February 12, 2014).[87] Through her marriage, Fox is also a stepmother to Green's son Kassius (born March 2002), from his past relationship with actress Vanessa Marcil Giovinazzo.[86] In 2009, Fox was targeted by a group of fashion-motivated criminals known as "The Bling Ring", who robbed Green's home because she was living with him.[88]
Fox stated of drugs: "I've done drugs, and that's how I know I don't like them." She said that she supports the legalization of marijuana, stating that she smokes it, does not consider it a drug and would be first in line to buy a pack of joints.[89] She has expressed a distrust and dislike of "all boys-slash-men" in general,[90] stating of young men in particular, "Boys in their twenties are a waste of time. They have nothing to offer conversationally; they're immature. I feel like I have a better shot with someone in his thirties."[90][91] She has also expressed distrust with regard to women: "I especially don’t trust girls in this industry, because it’s incredibly competitive, and I’m just not interested."[92]
In September 2008, Fox alluded to being bisexual in an interview with GQ magazine. She said that, when she was 18 years old, she fell in love with and sought to establish a relationship with a female stripper. She used this experience to illustrate her belief that "all humans are born with the ability to be attracted to both sexes" and additionally showed interest in Olivia Wilde and Jenna Jameson.[93][94] In May 2009, she confirmed her bisexuality, stating: "I have no question in my mind about being bisexual. But I'm also a hypocrite: I would never date a girl who was bisexual, because that means they also sleep with men, and men are so dirty that I'd never want to sleep with a girl who had slept with a man."[91][95] In the June 2009 issue of ELLE, she revealed that she somewhat distorted the events of her relationship with the stripper, saying she has given certain male writers "an amped-up version" of her past – "They’re boys; they’re easily toyed with. I tell stories and have them eating out of my hand. Not all of it is true. In fact, most of it is bullshit."[90] Fox said, "I never said she was my girlfriend! I just said that I loved her, and I did love her. The real story is more sobering. It’s not a sexy, fun-time, fantasy story. But that's not the story you tell GQ."[90]
Fox said that she is not particularly social, stating, "You won’t believe this, but I never go out. I don’t like drunk, sweaty people whose only goal is to have sex. I stay home and play computer backgammon. Every once in a while, I go to Color Me Mine to do pottery."[96] She said, "I could go days, weeks, without talking to another human being."[97] She further commented, "I've never really socialized, I've always been anti-social and preferred to be at home. I was never, even my late teens and early twenties, into clubs and parties and stuff like that."[98] She has also stated that she has only been sexually intimate with two men her entire life – "My childhood sweetheart and Brian. I can never have sex with someone that I don't love, ever. The idea makes me sick. I've never even come close to having a one-night stand."[99]
Fox developed a fear of flying at the age of 20 and said that she listens to Britney Spears songs while flying to overcome the fear.[100] She also has a form of brachydactyly called clubbed thumb,[101] and has additionally been open about her OCD, insecurities and self-harming, acknowledging that she has low self-esteem:
... I don't want to elaborate. I would never call myself a cutter. Girls go through different phases when they're growing up, when they're miserable and do different things, whether it's an eating disorder or they dabble in cutting. I'm really insecure about everything. I see what I look like, but there are things that I like and things that I dislike. My hair is good. The color of my eyes is good, obviously. I'm too short. But overall, I'm not super excited about the whole thing. I never think I'm worthy of anything... I have a sick feeling of being mocked all the time. I have a lot of self-loathing. Self-loathing doesn't keep me from being happy. But that doesn't mean I don't struggle. I am very vulnerable. But I can be aggressive, hurtful, domineering and selfish, too. I'm emotionally unpredictable and all over the place. I'm a control freak.[102]
Fox told Esquire in January 2013 that her Christian faith is still very important to her, and she turns to it to keep from going the same route as Marilyn Monroe, Lindsay Lohan and Britney Spears. She also said that she still speaks in tongues. "I have to feel like I'm in control of my body," she said. "And I know what you're thinking, Then why would I want to go to church and speak in tongues? You have to understand, there I feel safe. I was raised to believe that you're safe in God's hands. But I don't feel safe with myself."[103]
Categories: 1986 births21st-century American actressesActresses from FloridaActresses from TennesseeAmerican child actressesAmerican child modelsAmerican ChristiansAmerican female modelsAmerican film actressesAmerican people of French descentAmerican people of Irish descentAmerican people of Native American descentAmerican television actressesAmerican voice actressesBisexual actorsBisexual womenLGBT ChristiansLGBT entertainers from the United StatesLGBT modelsLGBT people from FloridaLGBT people from TennesseeLiving peoplePeople from Oak Ridge, TennesseePeople from St. Petersburg, FloridaFemale models from FloridaAmerican people of English descentHidden categories: Pages using citations with accessdate and no URLPages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from June 2011Pages containing links to subscription-only contentArticles with dead external links from September 2010Articles with dead external links from November 2010Articles with dead external links from February 2012Articles with dead external links from March 2012Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesWikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleArticles with hCardsCommons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
=======================================================
 Evan Rachel Wood Sued for $30 Million for Leaving '10 Things I Hate About Life,’ Calls Suit ‘Preposterous’
          Megan Denise Fox was born May 16, 1986 in Rockwood, Tennessee. Megan began her training in drama and dance at age 5 and, at age 10, moved to St. Petersburg, Florida where she continued her training and finished school. Megan began acting and modeling at age 13 after winning several awards at the 1999 American Modeling and Talent Convention in Hilton Head, South Carolina. At age 17, she tested out of school using correspondence and eventually moved to Los Angeles, California. Megan made her film debut as Brianna Wallace in the Mary-Kate Olsen and Ashley Olsen film, Holiday in the Sun (2001). Her best known role is as Sam Witwicky's love interest Mikaela Banes in the first two installments of the Transformers series: Transformers (2007) and Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen (2009).
      Her ancestry includes English, as well as smaller amounts of French, German, Scottish, Northern Irish (Scots-Irish), and Powhatan Native American. Megan's six times great-grandmother, Mary Powhatan, was said to be of the Powhatan tribe.
      Is a huge fan of both comic books and video games. Her favorite artist is the recently deceased Michael Turner.
      She has a quote from William Shakespeare's "King Lear" tattooed on her right shoulder that reads: "We will all laugh at gilded butterflies.".
      Married Brian Austin Green in a sunset ceremony on a beach in Hawaii with his son Kassius as their only witness.
      Has approximately 9-10 tattoos so far, including her husband's name "Brian" on her hip. Although she is removing the tattoo of Marilyn Monroe on her right forearm (2011).
      Ranked #14 in the 2011 Men's Health 100 Hottest Women of All Time list, she placed behind Angelina Jolie, Sharon Stone, Scarlett Johansson and Catherine Deneuve.
      (June 9, 2009) Attended the world premiere of Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen (2009) at Roppongi Hills in Tokyo, Japan.
      Her favorite movies are The Wizard of Oz (1939), the Lord of the Rings trilogy, How to Train Your Dragon (2010), Kung Fu Panda 2 (2011) and the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles trilogy.
      (June 24, 2010) Married her boyfriend of 6 years Brian Austin Green following a 3-year-long engagement.
      Gave birth to her 1st child at age 26, a son Noah Shannon Green on September 27, 2012. Child's father is her husband, Brian Austin Green.
      Gave birth to her 2nd child at age 27, a son Bodhi Ransom Green on February 12, 2014. Child's father is her husband, Brian Austin Green.
      Was 3 months pregnant with her son Bodhi when she completed filming Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2014).
      Her father, Franklin Thomas Fox, is a parole officer. Her mother is Gloria Darlene, and her older sister by 13 years is named Kristie.
      Her parents divorced when she was several years old. Her mother remarried and moved Megan and Kristie to St. Petersburg, Florida.
      Returned to work 7 weeks after giving birth to her son Bodhi in order to complete filming Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2014).
      [on working with Michael Bay] Michael Bay's name, if it's attached to a script, you know it's going to be a huge blockbuster released in the summer, with jets flying over at the premiere and all that kind of stuff. So, I knew it was going to be a huge movie.
      [on George Clooney] He's sarcastic, and he has a different girlfriend constantly. It's considered charismatic. He's like this James Bond, sexy dude. The older he gets, the better he gets. It's a double standard. To be outspoken, or different at all, is a problem for women. As soon as you curse or, God forbid, make some sort of sexual reference that's a joke, you're labeled a party girl. They don't do that with men, so I feel it would be a lot easier.
      [Director Michael Bay] doesn't like really skinny actresses. He's been traumatized by them for some reason in the past. So I always try to put on eight to ten pounds before [filming], and I'm always the fattest I've ever been when making a Transformers (2007) movie.
      [on her Marilyn Monroe tattoo] I committed to having her face on my arm for the rest of my life, so I have to be a pretty big fan.
      Wonder Woman is lame. She flies around in an invisible jet, but she's not invisible. I don't get it.
      Look, I'm not a lesbian, I just think that all humans are born with the ability to be attracted to both sexes. I mean, I could see myself in a relationship with a girl. Olivia Wilde is so sexy she makes me want to strangle a mountain ox with my bare hands. She's mesmerizing.
Zac Efron is my obsession, we're the same person. We're not actually here, it's like [Janet Jackson] and Michael Jackson. He just puts on his wig and a dress, and it's me, and you don't know that. It's one of the greatest mysteries of all time.
      Boys in their twenties are a waste of time. They have nothing to offer conversationally; they're immature. I feel like I have a better shot with someone in his thirties.
      When I go to a party, I always feel like I'm chum. Like my agent is just chumming the waters until I'm circled by all these dudes.
      People assume that I'm really promiscuous. There's a difference between being very sexual and being promiscuous. I'm not promiscuous. I'm extraordinarily sexual within a monogamous relationship. Nothing's off-limits. But that has nothing to do with experiencing a lot of people. I've only had two boyfriends my whole life.
      [on Shia LaBeouf] He probably is my favourite person in the entire world. Shia makes me laugh harder than anybody I've ever known in my life. I end up crying or almost peeing myself every time I'm with him. So he's just my favourite - I love you, Shia! And he's really super-handsome!
      [on Angelina Jolie] I'm actually frightened of her, I haven't had the opportunity to meet her and I try to avoid that because I'm afraid. Angelina's a powerful person and I bet she would eat me alive. I guess that is why I'm afraid of her. There have been a lot of films I've had to pass on because I don't want people thinking I'm trying to emulate her.
      When I moved to Los Angeles I had no money. I remember needing to shave my legs, and I didn't even have enough money to buy disposable razors. So I'd wear pants all the time.
      Women are expected to be conformist automatons in L.A. but in Britain you can be more yourself and people will take you on face value.
      I don't trust male intentions, usually, because they don't approach me for intellectual conversation.
      Hollywood is the most superficial thing you could possibly be a part of and if I weren't attractive I wouldn't be working at all.
      I'm definitely labelled in the pin-up category. I haven't given people a reason to take my work seriously yet, which is my responsibility. I think the expectation for me, as far as my ability as an actress goes, is very low. I feel like that means I can only ever be an over-achiever when people expect so little from me.
      I was with someone from the time I was 18 and I've never been my own independent adult. Right now there's no space in my head for who's going to be next or how I need to fill my time. I'm trying to expand myself and grow and be comfortable with who I am before I get into another relationship where I'll just repeat a cycle. Otherwise I will have ten failed relationships. I will be Elizabeth Taylor by the time I am 60 and I don't want that.
      I'm kind of a recluse. I'm a hermit and it's because I do have a great fear of Hollywood, just watching what it does to people. You have to be a really strong human being to survive it, as a girl especially. So I try to avoid the Hollywood scene as much as possible and people who enjoy the Hollywood scene -- that's usually a red flag to me. Some people might think my life is boring, but I haven't been to rehab yet, so I think I'm doing something right!
      [on Marilyn Monroe] I just had an incredible amount of empathy for her my whole life. I cry when I see her on camera.
      I worked at a Tropical Smoothie in Florida when I was 15. I would sometimes have to go out by the street in a gigantic banana costume and dance to try to get customers to come in. There was no anonymity - the costume had a big hole cut out so that everyone could see your face. My friends from school would drive back and forth and yell all kinds of awesome obscenities at me.
      I grew up craving the spotlight and once it happened I immediately recoiled. It just always seemed really glamorous. As a child you think everyone who's famous is very wealthy and powerful. I thought my internal issues would be solved and I would be this really confident person. And I'm not.
      [on giving male writers an amped-up version of her past] They're boys; they're easily toyed with. I tell stories and have them eating out of my hand.
Sex and the City (2008), the movie, was so tragic. Costume dramas bore me and Hollywood comedies are total garbage, not funny at all. Fame doesn't mean anything because anyone can be famous, and TV news is mindless.
      I have no friends and I never leave my house. You just have to make a choice to just refuse to be involved with things that could get you in trouble. It's easy when you feel upset or depressed about something to want to go to a club and want to drink, but instead I just force myself to sit and feel it and deal with it, and try to grow from it, because I don't want to go down that path. I'm one of the most isolated people in existence right now, but it's worth it because if I wasn't making that decision I would be throwing away my career.
      [on Angelina Jolie] She always seems otherworldly in her power and her confidence. I'm sure she has no idea who I am.
      [on Transformers (2007)] I'm terrible in it. It's my first real movie and it's not honest and not realistic. The movie wasn't bad, I just wasn't proud about what I did.
      [on being asked if she had a crush on Angelina Jolie] Absolutely. Every time a relationship ends, I say, 'If I could just be Angelina's girlfriend, I would be so happy.' I love Angelina Jolie. She's someone I admire and look up to. She's my favorite actress in Hollywood. I just love that she's incredibly honest, and I feel that she's not afraid to be herself. She tells you exactly what's on her mind.
      I am not a Jennifer Aniston or a Britney Spears or even a Lindsay Lohan, you know? My pictures don't sell for that kind of money. But [of] the small level that I do deal with it, it is hard and there have been times [when] people don't want to hang out with me because they don't want to end up on the Internet. I sometimes just turn around and go back home and don't do anything and have to have someone go do my grocery shopping.
      [on her childhood playtime] I played with Barbies but I used to decapitate them. I used to take their heads off then dye their hair and do weird things.
      [on rumours that she will star in a new Lara Croft movie] I think that's a role that Angelina Jolie mastered, and I would never attempt to take that over from her.
      When you think about it, we actors are kind of prostitutes. We get paid to feign attraction and love. Other people are paying to watch us kissing someone, touching someone, doing things people in a normal monogamous relationship would never do with anyone who's not their partner. It's really kind of gross.
      [on her role in Jonah Hex (2010)] I'm sort of a tough, no-nonsense prostitute, like, she'll shoot you in the head if she has to. And she does. Actually not in the head but I get to shoot someone somewhere. It's a lot of fun.
      I like to cut through the BS. I don't like small talk and I don't like to have to be a cookie cutter. That's a quality I started to develop as a kid in middle school. You know how everybody goes into cliques and you all talk behind everyone's back? I thought it was so ignorant. So I just really started being completely honest with everybody all of the time. It gets me into trouble often, but, at the end of the day, I think it's a good quality to have. I have become a little more aware of the media's tendency to twist things that I say.
      If you know how to take control of being a sex symbol, then it can be powerful. But I have no idea how to handle it yet, how to deal with it.
      If your idea of a role model is somebody who's gonna preach to your kids that sex before marriage is wrong and cursing is wrong and women should be this and be that, then I'm not a role model. But if you want your girls to feel strong and intelligent and be outspoken and fight for what they think is right, then I want to be that type of role model, yeah.
      [on rumors she turned down the role of the girl in the 23rd James Bond movie] No one ever talked to me about doing that movie. I would never turn something like that down.
      [on getting down to 99 pounds while shooting Jennifer's Body (2009)] I decided I would turn myself into a zombie. I got super, super skinny, stayed out of the sun for four months, and got to where I was losing my eyelashes and my eyebrows.
      [on the possibility of making a sex tape] Ugh, never! That's the last thing I want to see - what I look like having sex. It would take one shot of me not looking good and I would not be able to have sex ever again, as I would always just see myself looking like a hippo having sex. It lives forever, especially now, with the Internet. I just can't. I just can't. Everything you say gets judged, everything you do gets judged. Literally all I have left are my private parts and I don't want to also share them with the world. I'd like to keep them private. That's why they're called that.
      I was never a bad girl and still not. I challenged authority in school a little bit. Now I just speak my mind openly. That's who I am.
      I like someone who has a super gentle spirit and energy, who's funny and has a good sense of humour - I'm really gentle, and so I like a boy who will treat me that way. I don't like boys who are mean to their mummies. That's a real turn off for me. And I don't like boys who aren't chivalrous. To me, not being respectful is a big deal.
      I think that God or the universe, or whatever you believe in, gave men brute physical strength and gave women their sexuality. It's so easy to control men with it, so I don't know why I wouldn't embrace it and allow myself to be empowered by it.
      I personally always find something really scary about watching little girls learning to manipulate their dads by baby talking. Then they grow up and use the same technique on their boyfriends or husbands. That scares me because it's just so sick on so many levels.
      My sense of humor doesn't translate well into print, some of the things I say can be offensive or found offensive even though I don't mean them that way. So I have been told to try and censor myself here and there. I'm trying, but I'm not really succeeding at it.
      I have no idea about my future career. I just hope that I can still be working in 10 years. When you're in something as successful as Transformers (2007), you can't use it as a sales piece for your ability as an actress because it's all about the special effects.
      I am very vulnerable. But I can be aggressive, hurtful, domineering and selfish, too. I'm emotionally unpredictable and all over the place. I'm a control freak.
      I was not 'the slut' in high school. I was not an outcast but I didn't have a ton of friends. I got picked on, and I ate lunch in the bathroom because I was afraid of being picked on in the cafeteria. I was a loner, and I think that's okay. I think it's perfectly acceptable not to run with cliques.
      Little girls are very much exposed to sexuality through the media and the entertainment industry and advertisements. So when you realise that you have the same power that you've watched women who've come before you have, it is frightening and you don't know what to do with it. I don't think you ever get comfortable with it. It's a strange, almost supernatural thing.
      I have nine tattoos. All my boyfriends are required to have one and if they don't have one yet, I make them get a tattoo of my name or my face.
      I don't like dry paper. Scripts, newspapers or anything that's not laminated, I have to keep licking my fingers. If I'm reading I have a cup of water to dip my fingers in. I'm really neurotic.
      I've been afraid of the dark all my life. I leave the lights on all the time and if the light is off, I have to run across the room to get to the switch. I can't walk through a dark room. I'm afraid of what I can't see.
      There were some evil girls in my school and I went to Christian high school. I was fifteen and everybody knew that my aspiration in life was to become an actress. One girl came to school on Halloween in a black leather catsuit and everyone thought she was Catwoman. She answered, 'No I am 'Megan Fox.' She was making fun of me. I didn't say anything to her. I was really shy. I've always gotten along better with boys. That rubbed some people the wrong way. I was not, ever for a second, popular. Everyone hated me, and I was a total outcast, my friends were always guys, I have a very aggressive personality, and girls didn't like me for that. I've had only one great girlfriend my whole life.
      There are those who have a Google Alert on themselves and read everything everyone says and then there are those who pretend it isn't happening. I'm one of the latter. I could never pore over what's said about me. It wouldn't work. I'd be a complete lunatic, drug-addled and out of my mind. Instead I stay in and ignore it all. I'm actually kind of a recluse.
      ... I've learned that being a celebrity is like being a sacrificial lamb. At some point, no matter how high the pedestal that they put you on, they're going to tear you down. And I created a character as an offering for the sacrifice. I'm not willing to give my true self up. It's a testament to my real personality that I would go so far as to make up another personality to give to the world. The reality is, I'm hidden amongst all the insanity. Nobody can find me.
      If I had been a typical starlet and said all the right things, I wouldn't have escalated to this level. I sit down and do an interview and I talk like a person and that, for some reason, is shocking. All women in Hollywood are known as sex symbols. You're sold, and it's based on sex. That's O.K., if you know how to use it.
      Sometimes I so desperately want to clarify. I recently had an urge to get a Twitter account to explain myself. But me contradicting a news story is not going to make my words fact. It will just create a new news story. There's no solving this: it's completely its own monster. You have to come up with clever ways of getting your control back.
      I know that the things they said about me in the crew letter were not true, but Michael Bay is not happy with some of the things I've said about him. I was waiting for someone to defend me, to say, "That's not accurate", but nobody did. I think it's because I'm a girl. They left me out there to be bludgeoned to death -- on the letter that some of the crew of Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen (2009) sent out.
      When I sit down to talk to men's magazines, there's a certain character that I play. She's not fully fleshed out -- she doesn't have her own name -- but she shows up to do men's magazine interviews. There's something so ridiculous about always being in your underwear in those magazines, and you know the interview is going to run opposite those pictures. So, there's a character that talks to all of them.
      People compare me to Angelina Jolie, and she's so serious and stoic. I'm the opposite. When I do interviews, I say things that I think are hysterical. But because we live in a world of sound bites, you're not allowed to have a sense of humor. Sarcasm doesn't translate in print at all. And neither does self-deprecating humor. I'm not a tigress like Angelina. Of course, people want me to be. But I want to be the contradiction of that.
      I feel like that's my purpose in life, to do charity work and help people around the world on a global level. Being part of this business, you have so much influence and you can really make a difference. I'm drawn towards the idea of somehow helping children.
      [on her classic red 1966 Mustang Fastback Christmas present from Brian Austin Green] We were going through cars on eBay and I found one in really good condition that was beautiful and for a good price.
      [on her height] I'm tiny, and people think that I'm 5' 10" or that I'm big. They think celebrities are larger than life, and I'm really short. I'm 5' 4".
      [on her dream role] I like playing psychos, so any kind of mentally-disturbed female is fun for me.
      There are some women you could put in underwear and photograph them, and it looks really classy and it doesn't necessarily provoke a pinup image. But with me it does, immediately, as soon as I'm in underwear. I'm a Vargas girl.
      I don't trust people in this industry. But I especially don't trust girls in this industry, because it's incredibly competitive, and I'm just not interested.
      No one believes me when I talk about this, but I'm really maternal. I worry that because I've always wanted [kids] so much, as the world goes sometimes, I won't be able to have them. Even though I would be able to provide them with such an amazing environment.
      I am a stepmother to the fullest extent. I have looked after Kassius since he was three and he has no memory of life without me. For some reason, no one wants to look at me that way, but I am responsible for him and I've never struggled with that, from bedtime stories to the school run.
      I've only been with two men my entire life. My childhood sweetheart and Brian. I can never have sex with someone that I don't love, ever. The idea makes me sick. I've never even come close to having a one-night stand.
      I think people are born bisexual and they make subconscious choices based on the pressures of society. I have no question in my mind about being bisexual. But I'm also a hypocrite. I would never date a girl who was bisexual, because that means they also sleep with men, and men are so dirty that I'd never want to sleep with a girl who had slept with a man.
      I've lived the life of a 35-year-old since I was 18. I'm so suspicious of boys-slash-men. I just don't like them or trust them.
Daniel Day-Lewis is incredibly successful, and he's not being followed by the paparazzi. You put yourself in that position. You never see Nicole Kidman in the tabloids like you see Britney Spears and Jessica Simpson. If I were to go out and make a scene in every club in New York and L.A., eventually I would start getting a lot of press in the tabloids. But is that something I want?
      [on her fear of flying] I developed that when I turned 20. All of a sudden I got really afraid to get on airplanes. I had to come up with a way to deal with it because I didn't want to have panic attacks every time I get on a plane. I know for a fact it's not in my destiny to die listening to a Britney Spears album, so I always put that on when I'm flying because I know it won't crash if I've got Britney on.
      [on her skin tone in Transformers (2007)] I had been tanning a lot so that [director Michael Bay] would be happy with my skin tone. Every spare moment of sun that was outside, I had to be in it. It's not going to happen again because of the damage and the possible skin cancer.
      I'm wary of doing romantic comedies; you could end up doing them all the time. Business-wise, those movies are very safe. They're tailored to Middle America. But I'm 24, I don't belong in a romantic comedy yet. A black comedy like Jennifer's Body (2009) maybe, but I don't know if I could do The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants (2005) or something.
      [on what movie she would remake] Well, they couldn't remake it because it would destroy it, but I've always loved The Lost Boys (1987). The female character in it is not really amazing, but if you were to turn one of the male characters into a female, I would love to do that. That movie has stuck with me my whole life. There's something magic about it to me.
      When I talk about my husband, I feel as if people roll their eyes. It's like when you're 16 and order a martini, and the waiter says, 'Do you think I'm stupid?' They can't grasp that I'm old enough to be married.
      I've been a stepmother for six years and it's amazing...I really enjoy it. It's a lot of work but I like it. It grounds me. I like being domestic. I would love to be a biological mommy some day. That would make me very happy.
      I have a really offbeat, weird, dark sense of humor. My sense of humor doesn't really mesh well with sitcom television.
      I've done drugs, and that's how I know I don't like them. I tried several things in order to make an informed decision, but I didn't enjoy anything other than marijuana.
      I've met endless so-called beautiful people who don't seem to have personalities or a direction in life. They've never been forced to develop their characters because they're viewed as being so attractive. So I think beauty can be a mask.
      I'm horrible to live with. I don't clean. My clothes end up wherever I take them off. I forget to flush the toilet. Friends will tell me, "Megan, you totally pinched a loaf in my toilet and didn't flush."
      You won't believe this, but I never go out. I don't like drunk, sweaty people whose only goal is to have sex. I stay home and play computer backgammon. Every once in a while, I go to Color Me Mine to do pottery.
      I've worked with people who have been difficult to work with, but have been male. And there is never a complaint made about them. There is never an issue made about them. I have friends who are actresses, who if they go to work one day and they show up on set and they don't have a smile on their face they're tagged a bitch and that is really unfortunate. But I can't single-handedly change that process, but I'm trying.
      [on director Michael Bay]: He's like Napoleon and he wants to create this insane, infamous madman reputation. He wants to be like Hitler on his sets, and he is.
      I always wanted to be blonde when I was little, like Barbie and Pamela Anderson, but it would really damage my hair. It was exotic to me, as my entire family has dark hair. If I did it, I would go white blonde - really platinum.
      I try to keep my make-up fresh, clean and pretty on the red carpet. My signature look is red lipstick worn with plain eyes, so I apply a light foundation, then on my cheeks I use blush or sometimes the same lipstick that I'm wearing. Giorgio Armani Rouge d'Armani Lipstick in 400, contrasts well with my pale complexion and dark hair.
      [on her naval piercing] I did it when I was 16-years-old because I was a fan of Britney Spears. The only time I tried to imitate someone else. But then I thought it was tacky and so I removed it when I turned 20.
      Mickey [Mickey Rourke] is such a beautiful, wonderful human being. He's so genuine and so sweet and so talented. I just love him to death. I actually got a tattoo that is sort of in honor of him. It's on my ribs. (The tattoo is on the right side of her rib cage and reads: 'Those who danced were thought to be insane by those who could not hear the music').
      [on her Marilyn Monroe tattoo] I'm removing it. It is a negative character, as she suffered from personality disorders and was bipolar. I do not want to attract this kind of negative energy in my life.
      [When asked on what she would say to Transformer Megatron to keep him from destroying the world] I'd barter with him and say, "Instead of the entire planet, can you just take out all of the white trash, hillbilly, anti-gay, super bible-beating people in Middle America?"
      I think that I'm so psychotic and so mentally ill that if I could tap into that I could do something really interesting.
      I'm not kidding when I say that if I ever lose a role because of my tattoos, I'll quit Hollywood and go to work at Costco.
      I absolutely want biological children. I've always wanted kids. It's just about the timing. I have it in my mind about what amount of money I want in the bank so that I can protect that child's future, and really protect it, so that kid never struggles. Once I feel safe with that, then I'll have kids.
      I don't want to have to be like a Scarlett Johansson - who I have nothing against - but I don't want to have to go on talk shows and pull out every SAT word I've ever learned to prove, like, "Take me seriously, I am intelligent, I can speak. I don't want to have to do that. I resent having to prove that I'm not a retard - but I do. And part of it is my own fault.
      If you eat Chinese food, your farts come out like Chinese food. If you eat Mexican food, your farts come out like Mexican food. And milk, it's like - you can smell the warmth in the fart.
      [In the 2009 September/October issue of Wonderland on mental illness] I basically read every book ever written about Marilyn Monroe. I could end up like that because I constantly struggle with the idea that I think I'm a borderline personality - or that I have bouts of mild schizophrenia. I definitely have some kind of mental problem and I haven't pinpointed what it is.
      I have a really badass personality. I'm smart and I can be really funny and interesting and I can go toe-to-toe with anybody in a conversation. So I'm not afraid to speak, and I think that's what people read as this überconfidence. I have a mouth and I'm not afraid to use it.
      [on being fired from Transformers and on Shia LaBeouf] I didn't want to talk about it while they're on the press tour because I didn't want to try to throw mud at them. I didn't want that movie to suffer. Especially because I love Shia. I wanted that movie to do well for him. I didn't want to have this big media war over something that really was so silly and it would have just been my ego needing to engage in a war, at that point. Of course, there will be a time when I want to tell my side of the story. I just don't feel it was appropriate while they were promoting the movie.
      I'm so suspicious of all boys-slash-men. I just don't like them or trust them. They're boys, they're easily toyed with. I tell stories and have them eating out of my hand. Not all of it is true. In fact, most of it is bullshit.
      [on removing her Marilyn Monroe tattoo] You outgrow things that you love when you were a child. I got it when I was 18 and now I'm 25 and it just doesn't make sense anymore. [The removal process] is a hundred times worse than the tattoo itself. I've only done one [session] so I probably have three or four left. I think it will come off completely because I have the right skin type to remove ink. The more fair-skinned you are, the easier it is to remove dark ink, and I'm as fair as it gets.
      I would really love to go on an archaeological dig. I have an offer to go somewhere in England but I would rather go to Egypt or Syria or some place like that.
      I hate receiving compliments; I hate being told I'm talented or people think I'm going to be a movie star. I always feel that it's forced and fake.
      I'll starve to death before I'll cook for myself. I think I could survive a week without eating.
      [on Rosie Huntington-Whiteley who appeared in Transformers: Dark of the Moon (2011)] I haven't seen it so I don't know what she's like in it but I think, having seen her around, she's a very likable girl and I don't think she did anything wrong by taking that part. I mean Mike (Michael Bay) wanted her in the movie. She was a model and she was like, 'Yeah, I'll be in Transformers 3'. And I've only heard good things about her so I have nothing negative to say.
      [on guys she liked] I've always gone for skinny, tattooed musician-types who wear women's pants and nail polish. That's because I grew up obsessed with Nirvana and Motley Crue.
      [on having an obsessive compulsive disorder] This is a sickness, I have an illness, this is not O.K. anymore.
      My temper is ridiculously bad. I've had to say to Brian, 'You have to go and stop talking to me, because I'm going to kill you. I'm going to stab you with something, please leave.' I'd never own a gun for that reason. I wouldn't shoot to kill. But I would shoot him in the leg, for sure.
      Boys in their twenties are a waste of time. They have nothing to offer conversationally; they're immature. I feel like I have a better shot with someone in his thirties. I've lived the life of a 35-year-old since I was 18. I'm so suspicious of boys-slash-men. I just don't like them or trust them.
      I have no question in my mind about being bisexual. But I'm also a hypocrite: I would never date a girl who was bisexual, because that means they also sleep with men, and men are so dirty that I'd never want to sleep with a girl who had slept with a man.
      [on her favorite movie] I mean that's such a hard question to answer but if you're talking about a movie that I'll watch a million times, The Lord of the Rings series I will watch over and over again. And also the recent Kung Fu Panda 2 (2011), I feel like that is an excellent movie. I watch it all the time and I cry every time I watch it. I love it. It's funny, you cry, it's beautifully shot, I love everyone in it.
      [on parenting] (It) is definitely the most difficult. There is the most reward in it, but there is also the most pressure, guilt and worry. I've never really socialized, I've always been antisocial and preferred to be at home. I was never, even my late teens and early twenties, into clubs and parties and stuff like that. So I feel like the transition will be fairly easy, in that sense, for me.
      I feel like if you are with someone through the process of pregnancy and delivery, if nothing else, there is such an incredible amount of respect that would lead into some sort of love in one way or another.
      [on lists ranking the most beautiful women in Hollywood] You know, lists like this - and there are plenty - generally, we elect the girl who plays in the biggest blockbuster of the year.
      [2008] Some of the women considered to be the sexiest women alive look that way only because they've had three nose jobs and their jaw lines shaved down. Sure, they're perfect now, but they didn't start out that way.
      I'm not pretentious enough to just sit around and think about how I'm a tool for the whole Hollywood machine. But it has crossed my mind.
      I did take baton-twirling lessons for a while. I was on a jump-rope team when I was in 10th grade. We were called the Jumping Jackets.
      I don't want to open my mouth or speak anymore, because everything I say becomes scandalous. It wears you out... so I'm a bit jaded.
      I mean, I don't sit around and say, "Gosh, I have to do this movie with this person." I really, honestly, am much more focused on my personal life.
      It feels like a lot of energy coming through the top of your head - I'm going to sound like such a lunatic - and then your whole body is filled with this electric current. And you just start speaking, but you're not thinking because you have no idea what you're saying. Words are coming out of your mouth, and you can't control it. The idea is that it's a language that only God understands. It's the language that's spoken in heaven. It's called 'getting the Holy Ghost'. I have to feel like I'm in control of my body. And I know what you're thinking: Then why would I want to go to church and speak in tongues? You have to understand, there I feel safe. I was raised to believe that you're safe in God's hands. But I don't feel safe with myself.
      I believe he's (Brian Austin Green) my soul mate. But that doesn't mean it doesn't take work, because we are very, very different.
      [on the media and not watching news] Everything makes me cry. Because everyone is someone's child, every woman seems like someone's mother. I have so much more patience for people and women in general.
      I'm going to be more cautious about choosing films because I'm already thinking about when he's in school and his friends are going to be showing him my photo shoots with me in a bikini and he's (her son) going to be horrified. So that will deter me from making some of the choices I made before.
      I can't stand pills. I don't like drinking. I don't like feeling out of control. I have to feel like I'm in control of my body. And I know what you're thinking: Then why would I want to go to church and speak in tongues? You have to understand, there I feel safe.
      It's very hard for me to do this stuff because I feel like this isn't my job anymore. My job is to be with him. All I wanted to do my whole, whole life was have a baby and, now, I've finally done it. I just want to give Noah as much of myself as I can. Maybe it's just because I don't know any different. I've never been validated by work or fame of Hollywood or any of that.
      [on her 'bombshell' image] I felt powerless in that image. I didn't feel powerful. It ate every other part of my personality, not for me but for how people saw me, because there was nothing else to see or know. That devalued me. Because I wasn't anything. I was an image. I was a picture. I was a pose.
      I've never really socialized, I've always been anti-social and preferred to be at home. I was never, even my late teens and early twenties, into clubs and parties and stuff like that.
      I don't think people understand. They all think we should shut the fuck up and stop complaining because you live in a big house or you drive a Bentley. So your life must be so great. What people don't realize is that fame, whatever your worst experience in high school, when you were being bullied by those ten kids in high school, fame is that, but on a global scale, where you're being bullied by millions of people constantly.
      [on Michael Bay] I've always loved Michael. We've had our battles in the past but even when I've been really outspoken about difficulties we've had, I've always followed up by saying that I have a particular affinity to him. He can be very vulnerable, and he's very likeable and loveable. I've always been very vocal about that as well. But, sometimes we clash because we both have very willful, powerful personalities.
      [on her "trademark pin-up appeal"] I don't really mind. It's actually a large part of my personality. I think you can be that and you can also be intelligent and strong. I don't think they're in opposition to one another - at least in my life.
=======================================================
2001Mean GirlAfter winning several awards in the 1999 American Modeling and Talent Convention in South Carolina, Fox makes her film debut in the Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen flick Holiday in the Sun. The straight-to-DVD release pegs Ashley's character against Fox's for the affections of a local boy. Though Fox works mostly with Ashley on the film, she says, "Mary-Kate's more my speed–she's into rock."2004FebruaryTeen QueenFox lands her first major movie role opposite Lindsay Lohan in Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen. As queen bee of the drama club Carla Santini, Fox battles Lohan to maintain her rule. On set, "Lindsay and I weren’t the best of friends," Fox tells FHM. "Because I looked older than her, she’d be nice to my face so I would buy her cigarettes." OctoberSitcom StarFox joins ABC's Hope & Faith as the 16-year old niece of show star Kelly Ripa. While on the sitcom, Fox appears in a provocative shoot for FHM and brazenly discusses her sex life: "I have the libido of a 15-year-old boy." After three seasons, Hope & Faith is canceled in 2006.90210 LoveFox and former Beverly Hills, 90210 heartthrob Brian Austin Green, who is 13 years her senior, meet on the set of Hope & Faith. "We've lived together for three years," Green, who proposes to Fox in 2006, tells TV Guide in 2008. "We have tattoos of each other's names." In February 2009, they call off their engagement, but remain close.2007July 03Megan Meets MegatronFox shoots to fame with her scantily-clad role in Transformers, wth Shia LaBeouf and Josh Duhamel. The film grosses $700 million worldwide, and spawns the sequel, Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen. "If I get stuck doing comic-book films for the rest of my life, I’ll be really happy," Fox tells GQ. "I love those types of movies. And I don’t mind being sexy–if it’s a character with a backstory and an arc and something progresses."2008OctoberFox Covers GQAfter being crowned FHM's Sexiest Woman in the World, Fox sets tongues wagging (including her own!) with her GQ cover. The starlet, who reveals that she had a lesbian relationship with a stripper, also passionately defends Disney star Vanessa Hudgens, who endured a nude photo scandal in 2007. "You shouldn’t have to apologize," says Fox. "Someone betrayed Vanessa, but no one’s angry at that person. She had to apologize. I hate Disney for making her do that. F--k Disney."2009June 24Summer's Surefire HitAfter trotting around the world promoting Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, the blockbuster sequel earns an astounding $60.6 million in its opening day, and goes on to bank over $200 million in its first five days. "It's a badass popcorn summer movie," Fox tells EW – before leaving the franchise in 2010. September 19Megan's Blood WorkFox takes the title role in Jennifer's Body, a girl-gore flick (and sure-to-be cult classic) written by Juno scribe Diablo Cody. Although Fox calls it the "best script I've ever read," not even her kiss with costar Amanda Seyfried can save the film from tanking at the box office.2010JuneEngaged…and Married!After calling off their first engagement, Fox and longtime beau Brian Austin Green, 36, get engaged a second time and make it official while vacationing on the big island of Hawaii in June. "Yes they are married," a rep for the 24-year-old actress confirms to PEOPLE.2012June 26Bump, There It Is!After remaining mum on pregnancy reports, Fox, 26, debuts her burgeoning belly alongside Green during a couples retreat to Hawaii, the same place where they tied the knot two years before. Already stepmom to Green's 10-year-old son Kassius, Fox told PEOPLE, "I've always really loved kids. I was a good babysitter. I've always loved babies." 
Photo CreditsBIOGRAPHY (top to bottom): Everett; Everett; Todd Williamson/WireImage; Paramount Pictures; Paramount Pictures; Doane Gregory/FOX; GSI Media; AKM-GSI 
   Jul 23, 2013 EYES HAVE IT  Here's looking at you, Megan! Fox takes a breather Monday while waiting to film a scene for her new movie,… See Photo   May 10, 2013 WINDOW DRESSING  Megan Fox takes in the view from the passenger side while filming scenes for Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles… See Photo
=======================================================
Megan Fox is undoubtedly one of Hollywood’s Hottest sex sirens of the past few years, labelled as a modern Marilyn Monroe, Fox has created a following of men wanting to bed her and women wanting to be her.
Actress. Born Megan Denise Fox on 16 May 1986, in Memphis, Tennessee. At the age of five, Megan Fox began taking singing and dancing lessons, which continued when she and her family moved to St. Petersburg, Florida, when she was 10. At the age of 13, she also added modelling classes to her repertoire.
In 1999, Fox won multiple awards at the American Modelling and Talent Convention. This success convinced her to drop out of high school and move to Los Angeles, California just a few years later, at the age of 16. That year, Fox landed her first big break when she was cast as a bratty heiress in the 2001 Olsen twins comedy film, Holiday in the Sun. The film, which had a large cult fan base, went straight to DVD.
Over the next few years, Fox continued to appear in guest-spot television roles. Her next role was in 2002, when she appeared in the Swedish-produced soap opera, Ocean Ave. That same year, Fox also appeared in a guest-starring role on the WB network show, What I Like About You, starring Amanda Bynes.
The year 2004 was a big one for Megan Fox. She made an appearance in the CBS hit comedy Two and a Half Men, starring Charlie Sheen and Jon Cryer, and was a series regular on the short-lived WB sitcom, The Help. She also began appearing on the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith, in which she played the daughter of Faith Ford's character in the second and third seasons. Her performance earned her a Young Artists Award nomination in 2005. Fox also returned to film work that year when she won the role as Carla Santi, a rival of Lindsay Lohan's character, in Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen.
But Fox landed her biggest break in 2007 when she was cast across from Shia LeBouef in the Steven Spielberg-produced blockbuster, Transformers. Fox played romantic lead Mikaela Banes in the film. She was nominated for the 2008 MTV Movie Award for Breakthrough Performance. The next year, Fox joined the cast of the comedy How to Lose Friends and Alienate People. The movie did well in England because of the presence of lead comedian Simon Pegg, but did not achieve much commercial success in the United States. In 2009, Megan reprised her role as Mikaela Banes in the sequel to the hit Transformers in Transformers: Rise of the Fallen. The sequel was again a box office success, and kept Fox in the media spotlight. She signed on to do the third instalment of the franchise, which is tentatively titled Transformers 3, but later left the project. Rumours swirling around the sudden casting change suggest that Fox was released from the film after making several disparaging remarks about director Michael Bay to prominent media outlets. Both parties deny the allegation. In 2009, Fox appeared in the horror film, Jennifer's Body, which opened to minor success. She also has several other projects in the works. She has filmed the role of Leila, a gun-toting mistress, in the Wild West film, Jonah Hex, which is slated for release in 2010. She also signed on as the star of the 2011 film The Crossing, the Marvel Comics action-film Fathom.
Fox has appeared in several "Sexiest" lists in recent years, including "Sexiest Woman Alive" by FHM and No. 2 on Maxim's "Hot 100" for 2009. She has also been ranked in the Top 20 on multiple "Rising Star" lists, including No. 1 on Moviefone's list of "The 25 Hottest Actors Under 25" and No. 17 on Interview magazine's "Future Stars of Tomorrow."
In 2010, she became engaged to actor Brian Austin Green, formerly of Beverly Hills: 90210 fame. The couple had been engaged previously, after a two year relationship, but cancelled their wedding in 2009. The couple reaffirmed their commitment to each other in June of 2010, while on a vacation in Hawaii. Shortly after their second engagement, Fox made headlines for losing her two-carat diamond ring on the beach. The couple has not disclosed details of their upcoming nuptials.
=======================================================
                BUY TICKETS, GET MUSIC. Buy any ticket on Fandango this month and get a free Amazon Music code for two songs!
            Within 48 hours of your ticket purchase, you’ll receive an email from Fandango with your Amazon Music promotional code. You’ll receive one promotional code per ticket transaction, limit one per Amazon account. Offer is valid through 9:00 AM PDT 6/30/2014, while supplies last. Amazon.com account required. Amazon Music promotional code expires 11:59pm PDT, 7/30/14. This is a promotional code and is not to be shared, is not for resale, has no cash value, and will not be replaced if lost or stolen. Terms and conditions apply. See www.amazon.com/fandangoMP3 for details.
                                                        News Bites: Disney is making a live-action 'Beauty and the Beast'
                                                        Watch how Emily Blunt almost killed Tom Cruise on the set of 'Edge of Tomorrow'
                                                        J.J. Abrams tweets 'Star Wars' photo from onboard the Millennium Falcon
A slender, olive-skinned actress whose elegant beauty is somewhat offset by a collection of vivid tattoos (including a portrait of Marilyn Monroe on her right forearm and the King Lear quote "We all laugh at gilded butterflies" on her right shoulder blade), Megan Fox knew she wanted to be an actress from age three, and never once considered another line of work. A native of Memphis, TN, Fox began taking dance lessons when she was five years old and continued perfecting her graceful movements even after her family relocated to Florida five years later. At 13, the aspiring starlet enrolled in modeling and acting classes. It didn't take long for all of Fox's hard work to pay off, with a role in the 2001 Olsen twins comedy Holiday in the Sun marking the ambitious actress' official screen debut.  Over the course of the next few years, Fox became a frequent fixture on television thanks to roles on What I Like About You, Two and a Half Men, and Hope & Faith. In 2004, Fox would torment a fledgling Lindsay Lohan in Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen, though it was Fox's performance as a human caught in the middle of an epic robot battle that would truly prove her calling card to Hollywood. Cast as the love interest of Shia LaBeouf in Michael Bay's 2007 blockbuster Transformers, Fox turned more than a few heads while fighting for the future of the human race. In 2008, Fox could be spotted opposite Kirsten Dunst, Simon Pegg, Jeff Bridges, and Gillian Anderson in the Robert B. Weide-directed comedy How to Lose Friends and Alienate People, before returning to the action franchise that launched her career in 2009 with the sequel, Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen. Next, Fox would take a stab at something quirkier, showing up in the Diablo Cody penned satirical horror flick Jennifer's Body and the fantasy-Western Jonah Hex in 2010, the same year she married Brian Austin Green. The next year she had a small but crucial part in the indie comedy Friends with Kids . She spoofed her own image as an international sex symbol with a cameo in 2012's The Dictator. ~ Jason Buchanan, Rovi
						and authorize Fandango and its service providers to deliver FanTexts and other promotional texts to your mobile phone. 
                    You can unsubscribe at any time by texting "STOP" or seek help by texting "HELP" to "FNDGO" (36346).
=======================================================
Height: 5'4" Hometown: Oakridge, Tennessee, United States In a Relationship With:Brian Austin Green Best Quotes:“My sense of humor doesn't translate well into print, some of the things I say can be offensive or found offensive even though I don't mean them that way. So I have been told to try and censor myself here and there. I'm trying, but I'm not really succeeding at it.” 
Megan Denise Fox (born May 16, 1986 in Oak Ridge, Tennessee) is an American actress and model. She began her acting career in 2001 in several minor TV and film roles, and played a regular role on the TV show Hope & Faith. In 2004, she went into film starring opposite Lindsay Lohan in the film Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen. Her breakout role was in 2007 when she starred alongside Shia LaBeouf in the blockbuster film Transformers and its sequel Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen in 2009. She was considered a sex symbol and frequently appeared in magazines, including Maxim and FHM. She has also starred in a number of films, including Jennifer’s Body, Jonah Hex, and Passion Play.
The stunning actress is known for her sex appeal, her many tattoos, and her outspoken tongue that sometimes gets her in trouble – like when she compared her Transformers director Michael Bay to Hitler, which led to her being fired from the third film.
Megan Fox began dating Brian Austin Green in 2004. They first got engaged in Nov. 2006, though they announced that they broke up in Feb. 2009. In June 2010, they announced that their engagement was back on, and they got married that same month. They had their first son, Noah, in Sept. 2012.
Kim Kardashian, Jessica Simpson, & More Celeb Moms' Post-Baby Bodiesmore…Mila Kunis, Megan Fox, & More Celeb's Red Carpet Baby Bumpsmore…Megan Fox Struggled Through 'TNMT' Stunt Scenes While Pregnantmore…Megan Fox Debuts First Photos Of Adorable Son Bodhi, 2 Monthsmore…'Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles' Trailer: All Four Turtles Revealed -- Watchmore…Megan Fox Shows Off Post-Baby Body On 'Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles' Setmore…'Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles' Movie: Why It Will Be Awesomemore…'Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles' Trailer: Watch Megan Fox Kick Buttmore…Megan Fox & Brian Austin Green -- Strange New Baby Name Revealedmore…Megan Fox & Brian Austin Green Welcome Second Child — Congratsmore…'Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles': New Look For 2014 Movie Revealedmore…Megan Fox Shows Off Baby Bump On Family Outing With Cute Son Noahmore…
=======================================================
Biography:Born Megan Denise Fox in Rockwood, TN on May 16, 1986, she was the daughter of a former tourism director for Roane County, and though a self-confessed tomboy, began exploring acting and dance at the age of five. After relocating to St. Petersburg, FL, she continued her training throughout high school, and soon added modeling to her list of endeavor... Continue Bio >>Photo Gallery:
